
Queensland's economic forecast is looking better than predicted since this year's budget with strong coal royalties giving treasury coffers good news this Christmas.

The mid-year economic review shows the state's debt won't be as high as predicted this year but is still on track to hit $81 billion by 2020.
After taking over the portfolio from Curtis Pitt in a cabinet reshuffle, new Treasurer Jackie Trad's first Mid Year Fiscal and Economic Review (MYFER) is forecasting a net surplus of $485 million, three times higher than the budget forecast.
It comes off the back of record export figures, and strong resources royalties with the price of coal not dropping as expected.
Coal royalties for the year are now expected to be $3.164 billion, which is $414 million higher than forecast six months ago.
"The price of coal is up which means royalties are up and as a result the Queensland budget has done much better," Ms Trad said.
However, while Queensland's budget bottom line is looking rosier in the short term, thanks mainly to coal royalties, surpluses will remain relatively modest and there'll be no major reduction in debt.
Surpluses ranging from $165 million to $531 million are also predicted for the following years.
"These surpluses are working for Queensland, reducing the need for borrowing and going towards our growing infrastructure program," Ms Trad said.
Total government debt in 2017-18 is now expected to reach $71.2 billion — almost $800 million less than the June forecast.
However, the MYFER shows that debt is still on track to reach nearly $81 billion by 2020-21.
"The borrowings are down, we are predicting less borrowings over the forward estimates than we were in the June budget," Ms Trad said.
"Clearly our debt reduction plan has worked and worked quite significantly and we will continue to follow through with that and adhere to our principles.
"But there is further work that we are going to be doing from this time until the next budget to look at our debt position."
Taxation revenue will grow as expected after Labor announced four new taxes during the recent election campaign.
The increases in land tax, foreign duty, premium car duty and online betting will earn an extra $491 million over three years from 2018-19.
Another billion dollars in public sector savings will go towards Labor's election promises.
"Where there are duplicate programs all with the same intention, amalgamating them, finding efficiencies, is particularly a good way of reprioritising some of the excesses within government," Ms Trad said.
Economic growth forecasts are unchanged in the MYFER: 2.75 per cent for 2017-18 and 3 per cent for 2018-19.
But the 1 per cent growth in employment has been upgraded to 2.25 per cent.
"In summary the MYFER shows that we have fully funded our election commitments, that surpluses are up, that debt is down and we will continue to lead the nation in strong jobs growth," Ms Trad said.
But opposition spokesman for treasury Tim Mander said it was a typical Labor budget document.
"Spending is up, taxes are up and the debt continues to increase," Mr Mander said.
"This government has benefited by good luck rather than good management, by the increase in coal royalties."


With less than a week to go, a number of ASX-listed companies have scrambled to finalise their deals before Christmas.
One of them is construction software business Aconex, which is due to be taken-over by US software giant Oracle.
The other is Kogan.com, which is branching out of its online retail business to offer pet insurance.
Aconex was, by far, the best-performing stock on the Australian share market on Monday — jumping 44.2 per cent to $7.63.
Its value surged after Oracle made a $1.56 billion offer to purchase the company, which works out to be $7.80 per share.
This was 47.4 per cent premium to what it was worth last Friday ($5.29).
The Melbourne-based software company specialises in web-based project management software that allows input from different teams.
In a statement, Aconex said its directors — who collectively control 13.6 per cent of the company — had unanimously recommended that its shareholders accept the offer.
"Oracle's offer of $7.80 per share represents a significant premium and a high degree of certainty of value to shareholders through the cash offer and limited conditionality," Aconex chairman Adam Lewis said.
The next step in the process is for Aconex shareholders to vote on this deal at a meeting in March next year.
The company expects the deal to close in the first half of next year — provided it gets approved by the Federal Court and Foreign Investment Review Board.
Shares in Kogan.com were the eighth-best performing stock on the local bourse, lifting 10.3 per cent to a record-high of $5.46.
This was after the online retailer announced it had signed an agreement with pet insurance company PetSure, a subsidiary of the South-African based Hollard Insurance Company.
From the first half of next year, Kogan will sell "affordable pet insurance products" under a new brand, Kogan Pet Insurance.
Kogan will also earn commission from each pet insurance policy issued — but did not say how much it would be.
"Pet insurance is a growing insurance category in Australia," Kogan's executive director David Shafter said.
"We are very happy to have reached another win-win partnership, enabling us to deliver great value and a variety of pet insurance products to our community."
This also marks the company's second attempt to enter the insurance market.
Kogan will also start selling health insurance under the banner Kogan Health, beginning in 2018 for the next three years.
This was the result of a deal it signed with Medibank last week, under which Kogan will also earn an undisclosed commission for each policy sold.


The Greens are using their parliamentary entitlements to try to improve their public image, spending $150,000 in taxpayer funds on media-monitoring service Meltwater.

Meltwater is a Norwegian company that promises to "grow and build brand" and "spark a genuine conversation that's on target", and is a rival to established Australian media-monitoring company Isentia, which is already available to all MPs.
Each of the nine Greens senators and one MP in Parliament contributed money for access to the Meltwater platform, according to analysis of the latest entitlements reporting from the Independent Parliamentary Expenses Authority.
A spokesperson for Greens leader Richard Di Natale described the expenditure as a "major upgrade to the Australian Greens' suite of media management and communications database software" that allowed their staff to work more efficiently.
Although the spending is within the broad entitlement rules, all MPs already receive media-monitoring services provided by Isentia, managed through Parliament.
Senator Di Natale's spokesperson described the media-monitoring service provided by Parliament as "limited and outdated, providing no transcripts or analytics, none of the online-only media outlets and no broadcast media clips in real time".
"In this 24-hour news cycle political news often breaks first online via social media and online outlets are just as important as print and radio, which is why we've opted for this service," he said.
"We don't have the staffing resources that the Liberal and Labor parties have, but this software allows us to quickly complete work that used to take our entire media team a full day to do."
Professor John Wanna, Sir John Bunting Chair of Public Administration at the Australian National University, questioned the value of politicians spending any extra money on media monitoring.
"If they're media monitoring they're looking in the rear vision mirror," he said.
"Where's the value in that? They should be setting the agenda, saying 'this is what we'll do, this is how we'll make Australia better, how we'll improve wellbeing'."
Australian Conservatives Party senator Cory Bernardi said the Greens "enjoy spending other people's money without regard to costs or benefits" and argued an "inability to manage public money" was a "disease" within the party.
Senator Di Natale's spokesperson said the spending represented "just 14 per cent of each MP's office budget" and allowed them to better manage media in "real time" as well as access a stable media database that all offices and staff could access.
"We see this spend as just as important as spending our printing and communications budget on office stationery and printer ink, if not more so," they said.
Professor Wanna said it was difficult for rule-makers to be prescriptive about what entitlements could and could not be used for, but also that "politicians play around with the flexibility enormously".
"When they're given a limited entitlement they see that as a formal entitlement to claim all that money," he said.
Senator Di Natale spent approximately $3,300 on software in 2015/16, compared to more than $25,000 in 2016/17 following the decision to purchase access to Meltwater.
Liberal MPs have recently been in the spotlight for similar spending, following revelations last year that much of their software expenditure was going to campaigning company — and Liberal donor — Parakeelia.
Forty-nine MPs declared expenditure on software for the period between April and June this year.
Former senator Malcolm Roberts and outgoing senator Sam Dastyari both billed around $3,000, while dozens more MPs on all sides of Parliament declared amounts between $900 and $2,500.
Recent clients include the Clean Energy Regulator, the Australian Building and Construction Commission and the ATO.


The Federal Government was forced to come up with a new plan for university funding because it couldn't get its original version through the Senate.
The plan announced today will save the Government $2.2 billion and is mostly based on changes that don't have to get through Parliament.
From next year, the money the Commonwealth pays to universities for students in bachelor courses will be capped at 2017 levels.
The freeze will stay in place for two years.
That means if universities want to accept more students into HELP or VET-funded positions, they'll have to figure out how to divide up the money they're already getting to accommodate any increased intake.
Yes, according to Universities Australia.
Catriona Jackson is the organisation's acting chief and she says it will be harder to get a university place from next year.
"Let's be absolutely clear a freeze is a cut and this is $2.2 billion worth of cuts to universities," she said.
"They are freezing funding for student places. If they are not funding a place it is very, very, very difficult for a university to offer a place, this is the way it's always been.
"This is a freeze on places, so if universities want to expand numbers — and a number of regional universities do want to because they're in an area of growing need for university degrees — then they will not be able to do that next year."
But the Government says it's all about being efficient and that universities have room in their budgets to increase enrolments if they want to.
Originally, the Government wanted to increase student fees from next year but that idea has now been dumped.
So, no fee increases.

The Government still wants students to pay back their loans sooner (once they start earning $45,000 a year).
That's higher than the original plan which was for repayments to kick in when income reached $42,000.
There will be a lifetime limit on how much students can borrow from the Government as part of their HELP or VET loans.
Those limits are:
Under the original plan New Zealanders were going to face higher fees for university in Australia because they wouldn't be allowed to access government subsidies.
That's no longer happening. So, the arrangements for New Zealanders stay the same.


Universities and new migrants are among those being targeted for savings to help the Government improve its budget position.
The Mid-Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook (MYEFO) shows this year's federal deficit has improved by $5.8 billion compared to forecasts in the May budget, but it is still going to hit more than $23 billion.

The savings measures include finding $2.1 billion by capping funds for universities.
The Senate has refused to pass the original higher education savings, outlined in the May budget, which aimed to cut $2.7 billion
To get around the Senate roadblock, the Government has tweaked its approach.
Students will be asked to start paying back their loans when they earn $45,000 a year — $10,000 less than the current threshold of $55,000.

MYEFO also has a two-year freeze on the Commonwealth Grants Scheme to universities and a cap on funding for student places.
That could force universities to put a limit on the number of places they offer prospective students.
Treasurer Scott Morrison said the freeze did not need to be approved by the Senate, but the new limit for paying back student loans and the lifetime limit both need Senate support.
A lifetime limit on student loans will also be imposed.
The maximum will be about $104,000 for most students and $150,000 for medical, dentistry and veterinary courses.
Labor's Treasury spokesman Chris Bowen called the higher education cuts an attack on one of the "sources of Australia's long-term prosperity".
Mr Bowen criticised the plan for hitting students from lower socio-economic backgrounds.
"The Labor Party in office opened the door to opportunity to thousands of Australians to attend university. Malcolm Turnbull appears intent on slamming the university door shut," he said.
The other big new savings measure in today's announcement is that new migrants will have to wait an extra year to be eligible for welfare.
The Government is factoring in a $1.2 billion saving by making new migrants wait three years for payments like family tax, parental leave and carers' allowance.
Mr Bowen said Labor had concerns about the change and would be examining it closely.
"We obviously are deeply concerned about any impacts on those who can least afford it," he said.
There is also a big crackdown on family daycare integrity, aimed at saving around $1 billion over the next four years, after a number of rorts in the sector.
The budget update revealed that the forecast for wage growth has been downgraded across the next four years and growth will also be slower.
But the Federal Government said it would still deliver lower deficits this year and every year through to the end of the 2020/21 financial year — the first year a surplus is forecast.
Labor attacked the Government's economic management, saying the $23.6 billion deficit was eight times worse than the $2.8 billion deficit in its 2014 budget.



When Jennifer Fletcher bought her luxury apartment in Melbourne, she never thought it would lead to a battle with one of the country's biggest building management companies.

Upon buying into the Tiara development at Melbourne's Southbank two years ago, she had to join Tiara's owners corporation and pay fees of $4,300 a year.
"I thought it would be simple. Everything would be looked after for me, but unfortunately that wasn't the case," she told 7.30.
The luxury apartment building proved to be anything but.
Problems in the building included graffiti, urine and bloodstains that weren't cleaned up, cracks in the plaster from level nine to level 30, fire escapes that didn't seal and firefighting equipment that didn't meet the code.
There was even an illegal dumpling restaurant operating out of one of the apartments.
Ms Fletcher discovered that all major services at Tiara were contracted to companies in the Network Pacific group, including Essential Services Compliance Pty Ltd and 24 Seven Maintenance Solutions.
With a number of those contracts set to expire, the Tiara owners committee — with Ms Fletcher at the helm — decided to appoint new contractors in their place.
Engineer Jason Kerr took over the maintenance contract and compiled a list of about 400 problems at Tiara that needed fixing.
He said some of the firefighting equipment at Tiara had not been checked in up to 18 months.
"Things like extinguishers, hose reels, things that fight fires in the building, they are there to protect the residents and the owners' assets, so there were deficiencies there," he said.
Network Pacific's managing director and chief executive officer, Stephen Briffa, said everything required under the contracts to service the Tiara building was done.
He rejects what Mr Kerr said he found at Tiara.
"That particular contract was for a three-year period, at the end of that contract every fire asset in that building was completely compliant," he told 7.30.
He also said Ms Fletcher's account of numerous problems in the building is simply wrong.


With the Tiara owners' committee determined to sign up new contractors, Network Pacific faced losing contracts worth nearly half a million dollars.
Then something curious happened. Network Pacific called a special owners' meeting.
Dozens of investor owners who live interstate or overseas were emailed by their property managers — Ray White Southbank — and an investment firm called Ironfish Real Estate.
Those emails sought investors' proxy votes.
Both companies told 7.30 they thought Network Pacific was doing a good job, they were concerned about the loss of its contracts, and they were acting in the best interests of their clients.
The emails sent by Ray White contained claims, initially made by Network Pacific, that Ms Fletcher was related to Mr Kerr, planting the idea that the Tiara committee had a conflict of interest in dumping its services.
Both Ms Fletcher and Mr Kerr said they are not related and the allegations made by Network Pacific are false.
"I thought it was incredible they were making such an assumption based on no information at all. They didn't even investigate any allegations," Mr Kerr said.
"And to be honest it was only being done, from my point of view, to discredit myself."
Stephen Briffa said Network Pacific had concerns about Tiara's new maintenance contractor, and had been told by another contractor that Ms Fletcher and Mr Kerr were related.
But he denied that spreading these claims had given investors the idea that there was a conflict of interest on the Tiara committee.
"Our concern was with the quality of the building management at that building by the building manager, and that's all we were interested in," he told 7.30.
In a statement, Ray White told 7.30 it had looked into the actions of a Ray White representative who attended the meeting, and found that he acted fairly and with integrity.
Ironfish Real Estate said it had received numerous complaints from its clients after National Pacific's contracts expired.

The proxy votes obtained by Ray White and Ironfish turned out to be decisive in reinstating Network Pacific's valuable contracts.
Network Pacific called an owners' meeting at its Melbourne office for Tuesday 11th October 2016, where Jennifer Fletcher, and other owners who opposed Network Pacific, were ultimately outvoted.
Using the sheer number of investor proxy votes, Ms Fletcher and other residential owners were voted off the Tiara owners' committee, and representatives of Network Pacific, Ray White and Ironfish were elected instead.
Then the meeting voted to reinstate Network Pacific companies as strata and building managers. In a final vote, its contracts were extended for three years.
Network Pacific says it at all times acted in the best interests of all property owners.
Stephen Briffa says the owners at Tiara each had an opportunity to find out for themselves what was happening.
"They investigated and they reached their own conclusions. Now, that conclusion happened to be the reengagement of the building manager," he said.
After the meeting, one Tiara owner challenged Network Pacific at the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT).
But he lost, because in the eyes of the Tribunal, a large majority of owners had exercised their proxies in support of the company.
Put simply, the few owners at Tiara who were residents, rather than investors, had been outmanoeuvred and outvoted.
Despite their firsthand knowledge of the problems in their building, they had found it impossible to end their contracts with the Network Pacific group.

Zinc, a high-end development in Port Melbourne, is another apartment complex managed by Network Pacific.
One of the owners at Zinc, Megan Gourlay, said after Network Pacific signed on as a contractor, she and other owners encountered a series of problems — including a security system that repeatedly locked them out of their own building.
"We were paying for a service, and we didn't feel we were getting what we were paying for," Ms Gourlay told 730.
Zinc's owners' committee tried to end its contract with the property management company.
"They were not happy to entertain the idea of their services being terminated. They were not happy about it at all," she told 730.
As with Tiara, Network Pacific accused the residential owners at Zinc of having a conflict of interest.
Once again, it obtained proxies, and called a meeting of owners, in order to reinstate its own contracts.
Mr Briffa rejects the claim that the company responded to the prospect of losing the Zinc contract by attacking the integrity of the owners on the Zinc committee.
"We didn't do that," he said.
"We provided information to owners what our concerns were."

In the case of Zinc's owners, they eventually managed to send Network Pacific packing, but not before they faced extra legal charges.
And all the problems have caused Ms Gourlay to move out.
"It created a lot of stress on my fellow neighbours, who were on the committee," she said.
"And we don't want that in our lives."
For Ms Fletcher, the dealings have left her exhausted and frustrated.
"We're just devastated," she said.
"We haven't done anything wrong, we just wanted to live in our home.
"We don't know what to do and, yes, I have suffered and my family have suffered."


The Federal Government and consumer groups have slammed a "dud" voluntary and non-binding industry code that was intended to introduce greater transparency around life insurance premiums that are automatically packaged into superannuation.
The weakened and voluntary code may force the Federal Government's hand in regulating a sector that draws life insurance premiums from people's superannuation, often without the customer realising it.
Financial Services Minister Kelly O'Dwyer is considering "an appropriate regulatory response" after the voluntary code was slammed as being watered-down and unenforceable within hours of its release.
"The Government is concerned that the superannuation industry has walked away from a commitment to a more robust, mandatory code of practice that had been the subject of earlier consultation," Ms O'Dwyer said in a statement to the ABC.
"Australians should not be sacrificing their superannuation contributions and earnings for insurance they do not need or cannot claim on.
"The Government will consider an appropriate regulatory response in light of the industry's position."

The code released today by the Insurance In Superannuation Working Group (ISWG) claims to provide greater transparency and protection for super members, including simpler and clearer processes for members to opt out of automatic life insurance in their superannuation.
However, the code quickly sparked a backlash from consumer groups, after a year-long review into how the $2.3 billion sector manages insurance premiums within superannuation.
Choice policy advisor Xavier O'Halloran told the ABC that self-interest from insurers about potentially losing some of their revenue from premiums saw the code watered down from a harder draft code released earlier this year.
"It's a wasted effort. After a year of working with consumer groups and others, the industry has delivered a dud code," Mr O'Halloran said.
"It's unenforceable, it's stripped out a lot of the protections that were originally built into it.
"Once it became apparent that the effect on the bottom line of insurers was going to be significant, we saw industry back away from some of the more bold measures that were in the original draft code."
Government concerns and a potential consumer backlash come as large swathes of the financial services sector brace for a Royal Commission into bad and unethical behaviour in the banks and insurance companies.

A key objective of the voluntary code, according to the ISWG, is to ensure that automatic insurance in superannuation "is appropriate and affordable" and does not inappropriately erode retirement income.
Insurers are also required to communicate in "clear, timely and in plain language" when dealing with fund members about insurance in their superannuation.
The review was headed by insurance industry veteran Jim Minto, who maintains that, despite improved protections under the voluntary code, automatic life insurance in superannuation remains valuable for many Australians.
"It delivers enormous benefits without underwriting and must be preserved as a unique aspect of our superannuation system," Mr Minto said.
"This code helps automatic insurance function even better for members, as well as providing enhanced protections where members have decided to acquire 'opt in' life insurance cover through superannuation."
The Insurance in Superannuation Working Group (ISWG) was formed in November 2016 to review automatic insurance premiums within superannuation comprising the Australian Institute of Superannuation Trustees (AIST), the Association of Superannuation Funds of Australia (ASFA), the Financial Services Council (FSC) and Industry Super Australia.
Earlier this year, Australian Super became the first major super fund to make insurance an "opt-in" for younger workers rather an an automatic inclusion.
The decision followed concerns put to the ISWG inquiry, which showed that an overload of unnecessary insurance within superannuation risks a "rapid erosion" of some retirement nest eggs.
Follow Peter Ryan @peter_f_ryan.


Embattled Indian miner Adani says it will build and run Australia's biggest coal venture in central Queensland's Galilee Basin on its own after parting ways with mining services giant Downer.
Adani released a statement today revealing both parties had cancelled a conditional $2.6 billion contract as part of Adani's cost-cutting drive spurred on by the Queensland Government's veto of its $1 billion Commonwealth loan bid.
The split comes after Downer was the target of a nationwide activist campaign pressuring them to quit the Carmichael project in central Queensland.
The move raises further questions about the fate of the massive project, with Downer one of only two mine contractors — along with Thiess — considered capable of handling an operation producing up to 60 million tonnes of coal a year.
It is the latest in a long series of project hiccups for the Carmichael mine, including the veto of Adani's application for a Northern Australia Infrastructure Facility (NAIF) loan last week, and its so far unsuccessful attempts to raise finance in China.
Adani said in a statement it remained committed to the project and the split with Downer was "simply a change in management structure".

"Following on from the NAIF veto last week, and in line with its vision to achieve the lowest quartile cost of production by ensuring flexibility and efficiencies in the supply chain, Adani has decided to develop and operate the mine on an owner operator basis," the statement said.
"Adani and Downer have mutually agreed to cancel all Letter of Awards and Downer will provide transitional assistance until March 31, 2018.
"Adani remains committed to develop the Carmichael project and will ensure the highest level of standards and governance.
"This will not affect our commitment or the number of local jobs across Queensland.
"This is simply a change in management structure and ensures that the mine will ultimately be run out of our Adani Australia offices in Townsville."

The split, which Downer also announced via the Australian Stock Exchange, ends three years of negotiations between Adani and the mine contractor.

Downer has been operating mines for almost a century.
Adani had already shifted its deadline for financial close on the project from the end of 2017 to the end of March 2018.
The Galilee Blockade activist group had targeted Downer for a year, including by purchasing a large parcel of shares to confront management at its annual general meeting.
The group had also agitated among local councils in Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland to boycott Downer for road contracts over its role in the mine.
Galilee Blockade spokesman Ben Pennings hailed Downer's departure as "the biggest nail in the coffin for the Carmichael mine thus far".
He said it was a testament to "all the Australians who bought Downer shares, protested, blockaded and even got arrested to get Downer out of bed with Adani".
"Adani are unlikely to find another Australian company willing to risk building and operating such a controversial mine," Mr Pennings said.
"Adani have never operated a mine of this scale and have absolutely no experience operating mines in Australia — building Carmichael mine themselves would take years longer and significantly increase risks for investors."
Adani clinched most of its government approvals, including mining and environmental licences, as well as an Indigenous mine site access agreement that remains subject to a Federal Court challenge in March.
But with Adani having swept aside a series of legal challenges by conservation groups, financial close on the $22 billion project remained its main hurdle.
The company said it employed more than 800 people and had invested more than $3.3 billion in Queensland, saying it was "the biggest investment by an Indian company in Australia".
Just over $2 billion of that was to purchase the existing Abbot Point coal port at Bowen in north Queensland.



Flights have been delayed at the world's busiest airport after a partial power outage, leaving passengers stranded in dimly lit terminals or in aircraft idling on tarmacs.
The partial shutdown at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport forced the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to hold back flights bound for Atlanta.

Departures were delayed as well because equipment inside terminals was inoperative, the agency said, although the FAA flight control tower was operating normally.
The cause of the outage, which occurred just after 1:00pm (local time), was not immediately known, the airport said in a statement.
In response, United Air Lines, American Airlines and Southwest Airlines suspended operations to and from Hartsfield for the rest of the day.
"We know that today has been challenging to all of our customers traveling in and out of Atlanta, and we regret your disappointment," Southwest said in a statement.
The airport was working with Georgia Power to identify the problem and fix it. The utility had crews at the airport, spokesman John Kraft said.
Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed told reporters the airport was expected to be fully operational again by midnight.
Airports in Chicago were also affected, with dozens of Atlanta flights to and from O'Hare International Airport and Midway International Airport listed as cancelled heading into the evening.
Information posted on the website of the Chicago aviation department said 25 flights had been cancelled at O'Hare and 13 at Midway. It did not say if all those flights were cancelled because of what is happening in Atlanta.
On its website, Hartsfield-Jackson says it averages 275,000 passengers a day and, on average, almost 2,500 planes arrive and depart each day.
Photos posted on social media showed passengers sitting in partial darkness in one crowded terminal.
"Stuck on a plane at Atlanta Airport as the power is out there … bedlam inside and boredom out here!" Twitter user Jack Harris wrote.

Delta Air Lines said on Twitter it was working to allow customers to deplane as quickly as possible, with only a limited number of open gates available.
By 5:30pm (local time), 338 flights out of Hartsfield, or 32 per cent, were cancelled, and 238 were delayed, according to FlightAware, an airline tracking service.
For flights bound for the airport, 333, or 28 per cent, were cancelled and 284, or 23 per cent, were delayed.
Departure delays at Hartsfield were averaging about an hour and 40 minutes on Sunday afternoon, according to FlightAware.
In response to a question from a customer, the Atlanta-based carrier said it expected service to be restored by Sunday night (local time), although it cautioned that the airport had not yet identified the cause.
A Delta pilot told passengers a construction crew cut a power line, causing the outage, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported.
Delta officials could not be immediately reached for comment on the report.
But in a tweet, the airport wrote that this had not been confirmed.

International flights to Hartsfield were diverted to other Atlanta-area airports, US Customs and Border Protection said on Twitter.
ABC/wires


It can often seem like news that makes us sad and angry is filling our lives and, more specifically, our Facebook feeds.
But is that really the case?
To find out, we analysed the reactions — the "loves", "hahas", "sads", "angry" and "wows" — to more than 150,000 Facebook posts from 11 of Australia's most popular online news outlets to see if we could make sense of what is making people tick (or ticked off) on Facebook.
That's more than 24 million emotional reactions since January 1, 2017. If you've reacted to a news story on Facebook in the past year, chances are we've tallied that up in these results.
The timeline below shows the most common reaction for the day, as well as the stories that provoked the biggest reactions over the year.


Aside from showing the sheer mass of content that organisations, like ABC News, 7 News, the Sydney Morning Herald, and others put on Facebook, the data gives us a few clues as to the most common reactions.
If anyone was counting, Anger was the most popular reaction on 169 of the 343 days captured in our data.
Sad came in second with 132 days, followed by Haha with just 20 days, then Love with 16 and Wow with four.
But overall, if you combine all the reactions to all the posts for the year, Sad was the biggest emotional reaction to news posts, followed by Angry, Haha, Love and, finally, Wow.
We've excluded Likes — all 40 million — because we wanted to find out what was making audiences go the extra step to express an emotion.


It's not hard to see why Sadness came out on top when you look at total reactions over the year.
Sadness generated seven of the top 10 biggest reactions in a day over the course of the year.
As you can see in the second chart below, the biggest day was January 23, in the wake of the Bourke Street car attack in the heart of Melbourne. There was an outpouring of emotion when the family of the youngest victim spoke of their loss.
We asked how the news in your Facebook feed made you feel. Read the discussion in the comments.


Many of the peaks in Sadness were driven by deaths of prominent people. You can see some of those peaks on September 8, with the death of cancer campaigner Connie Johnson; April 10, with satirist John Clarke's death; and May 8, with Soundgarden frontman Chris Cornell's death.
These huge reactions tie in with the way we know audiences respond to the deaths of celebrities.
"News about celebrities circulates as cultural texts that carry shared social experience and grief is a powerful personal experience that can have a collective social dimension," Glen Fuller, a co-author of the University of Canberra's 2017 Digital News Report, said.
What's interesting is that, according to Facebook's own data, Love is by far the most popular emotional reaction on the site. Love accounts for more than half of all Facebook emotional reactions since the reaction feature launched in early 2016.
To find out we looked at the keywords behind some of the most popular posts of each reaction.

The posts you found most upsetting largely appear driven by death and tragic events.
The word "died" was mentioned three times more than the next top keyword, "killed".
For Angry, "warning", "children" and "died" were all top words. But we also started to see divisive topics, such as same-sex marriage and Donald Trump fall under this emotion.
That's not the only place the US President pops up, Trump is the top keyword for the Haha reaction.
In fact, this is where we find many of our politicians, including Tony Abbott, Malcolm Turnbull and Pauline Hanson.
If we drill down even further, we see how key people or topics compare against the average post or even against each other.
Take our Prime Minister, for example. Audiences were 21 per cent more likely to laugh at a post about Malcolm Turnbull than at the average post.
There was 15 per cent more love for posts about same-sex marriage than the average.
And stories mentioning the Indian mining giant Adani triggered 46 per cent more anger than the average.
It's worth noting reactions aren't necessarily a direct reflection of how people feel about a subject. For example, one of the top posts mentioning Donald Trump was about Justin Trudeau welcoming refugees to Canada in the face of the US immigration ban on some Muslim-majority countries. That post got a lot of love — in contrast to most Donald Trump posts, which tended to provoke anger and laughter.
So how did Mr Turnbull stack up against Bill Shorten or Tony Abbott… or even against posts about cats?


Notes about the story



Overweight and self-conscious 31-year-old Leigh Aiple paid more than $35,000 for a plastic surgery package in Malaysia.

Less than 24 hours after he flew back to Melbourne, he was dead.
At the request of his grieving mother, Grace Westworth, a Victorian coroner investigated the care and treatment Mr Aiple received at the Beverly Wilshire Clinic in Kuala Lumpur, and found it fell well below Australian standards.
"I don't want anyone else to risk it," Ms Westworth told the ABC.
"It was totally dangerous. He was high-risk and they didn't stop."
Coroner Caitlin English found the case illustrated the need for people to be aware of the risks they are taking when they travel overseas for medical treatment.
"The Australian medical tourist will not necessarily be aware of the difference in standards of medical practice and management of patient care," she said.
New Zealand-based medical travel agency Gorgeous Getaways advertised the Malaysian clinic as "a boutique medical centre" with "highly skilled specialists".
Mr Aiple wanted the extreme makeover to be life-changing.
In 2014, he underwent two marathon surgeries at the clinic in the space of five days.
He had a 360 degree tummy tuck, extensive liposuction, an upper eye lift, a chin tuck, a thigh lift, chest sculpting and lip filler, with the first surgery alone lasting between 8-10 hours.
"He couldn't move, he couldn't stand or roll out of bed after the first surgery," Ms Westworth said.


In emails to his mother, Mr Aiple complained of being short of breath, a rapid heartbeat, and fainting spells.
"He told me he was vomiting and his heart was rapidly beating," Ms Westworth said.
Yet five days later, he was given the all clear to fly home after his wounds, which had burst open, were treated.
"He came off that plane in a wheelchair, I said: 'How are you Leigh?' He said: 'Horrid — I am in so much pain, I can't describe the pain'," she said.
"When I saw the gaping holes I couldn't believe what I was seeing. I could see inside."
Ms Westworth found her son collapsed in his bedroom the next morning. He died a short time later.

The president of the Australian Society of Plastic Surgeons and former head of plastic surgery at the Royal Melbourne Hospital, Professor Mark Ashton, reviewed the treatment and care Mr Aiple received in Malaysia for the coronial investigation.
He said the multiple surgeries Mr Aiple had would never have been performed in Australia, and the care he received afterwards was grossly inadequate.
The Coroner's report states Mr Aiple had several open wounds that were oozing fluid, and carers found him in pain in his hotel room, with his bedsheets covered in blood.
Professor Ashton told the coroner Mr Aiple would have been treated as a "high-risk" patient in Australia, not as a moderate risk as noted by the Malaysian surgeon, Dr Nasir Zahari, due to being 124 kilograms and morbidly obese.
The review also noted the level of anti-blood clotting treatment administrated was below Australia's recommended levels.
Mr Aiple died after suffering deep vein thrombosis (DVT), when a blood clot moved from his legs to his lung. DVT is often associated with flying.
However, Professor Ashton noted the autopsy showed the clots had occurred weeks before his plane trip, while he was at the clinic.
It is estimated 15,000 Australians each year travel overseas for cosmetic and dental work.

The drawcard for most is the cost of overseas surgery is cheap. Mr Aiple paid an estimated third of what it would have cost him in Australia.
"The obvious question how much is your life worth. Leigh was only 31 and he is dead," Professor Ashton said.
Professor Ashton said there was no regulation of medical tourism, with bundle packages designed for patients to have maximum surgeries in the shortest period of time, irrespective of risk.
"Having surgery overseas comes with significant risk as it comes with no guarantee as to the standard of care you will receive," Professor Ashton said.
He said there was no such thing as international standards, despite what was advertised.
"You are taking a bet. There is no such thing as an international standard," Professor Ashton said.
"When you go to these clinics they all look professional and when you try to research the standard of care and the level of expertise they have it's very difficult to find out."

He said surgeries were often done "sight unseen", as in Mr Aiple's case, where he only had one consultation with the surgeon five days before his surgery.
In Australia, a surgeon would require up to four pre-surgery consultations.
Emily Hart, a medical negligence lawyer with Maurice Blackburn, said other people contemplating cosmetic surgery overseas could learn from Mr Aiple's death.
"The standards in Malaysia were met in this case, but they come nowhere near the standards here in Australia," Ms Hart said.
"These companies are putting profit over patient safety."
Professor Ashton said patients who had endured "botched" operations returned to Australia to have fix-ups, often at the expense of the public purse.
"We see three or four a month in Melbourne, but in Perth and Brisbane it's more," Professor Ashton said.
In a recent case a 19-year-old lost a breast and a nipple after having botched surgery overseas.
The coroner has recommended Victoria's Chief Health Officer publish a health advisory warning medical tourism patients that overseas standards of care can differ to medical care in Australia.
International manager with Gorgeous Getaways Paula Vernon said the doctors and facilities the company partners with are of world class standard.
"The doctors and facilities that we work with are amongst the top for each of the countries (sic)," she told the ABC.
"Meeting, and in some cases, exceeding international standards."
The company still partners with the Beverly Wilshire Clinic in Kuala Lumper and noted that the BMWC won International Medical Travel Journal Awards in 2015 and 2016.
"In all honesty, I've experienced medical standards in both Australia and Malaysia, where I underwent several big body procedures, and I have to say that hand on heart I did, and will continue to, actively select Elective Cosmetic Surgery in Malaysia," Ms Vernon said.
The surgeon who treated Mr Aiple, Dr Nasir Zahari, said that while he has not seen the coroner's review of the treatment the 31 year old received, staff at the Beverly Wilshire Medical Centre gave Mr Aiple the best medical and surgical care.
Dr Zahari said Mr Aiple was given a full explanation prior to surgery with regards to procedures, post-operative care and the possible risks and complications.
"Necessary steps to prevent and minimise possible risks had been taken including the prevention of Deep Vein Thrombosis," Dr Nasir said.


The big switch is on in the mortgage market.

In just the past six months the amount of interest-only (IO) loans held by the banks have dropped by around $36 billion, according the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
APRA can feel pretty chuffed with the result. It is exactly what it wanted in its push to de-risk banks' balance sheet by quelling the speculative bravado of investors.
But there are obvious side effects in targeting interest-only loans.
They are the instrument of choice for not only investors biding their time in the tax haven provided by negative gearing to make a windfall gain on capital appreciation.
They are also used by maxed-out borrowers repaying as little as possible, hoping for a bit of financial headroom if wages pick up.
Unfortunately wages show no sign of picking up.
As the 19th century Prussian Field Marshall Helmuth Graf von Moltke once noted, "No battle plan survives first contact with the enemy", and APRA's insurgency has the IO brigade scampering in retreat.
It is a retreat that will further cripple the spending power of cash-strapped households and has profound implications for the Australian economy, according to the big Swiss investment bank, UBS.
Already household wealth built up by years of rising house prices shows signs of peaking as the market cools.
At the same time savings are being eroded just to pay for the essentials — such as utility bills and mortgages — leaving many households at a financial breaking point.

So far the switch from IO to principal and interest (P&I) has been small, but momentum is building.
"We estimate that the additional household cash-flow hit from switching to P&I was only around $1-$2 billion, or just 0.1-0.2 per cent of total household sector income," UBS chief economist George Tharanou said.
However, Mr Tharanou said there is likely to be a notable and increasingly negative impact over time.
"Those individuals switching from IO to P&I do face a material 'shock' with scheduled mortgage repayments jumping — effectively overnight — by 35-to-50 per cent," he said.
For those with little or no headroom at the moment, a 50 per cent jump in repayments may simply be impossible to finance.

On figures put together by the UBS banking analysts, the potential expiry of IO loans in coming years will surge up to more than $100 billion in the 2018 financial year.
Assuming the typical five-year maturity and no rollover to another IO term, almost $140 billion of IO loans will have wound up by 2019, a figure which jumps to $153 billion in 2020.

A survey by UBS of borrowers found that the majority under financial stress from higher interest rates would cut consumption, while a significant share would sell their property.
But that might be just the start, as "Phase 3" of APRA's macroprudential tightening may well start next year.
Phase 1 put a speed limit on the Big Four banks investment lending, capping growth at below 10 per cent a year.
Earlier this year Phase 2 was enforced limiting IO loans to 30 per cent of new residential mortgage loans.
Before that tightening, IO loans accounted for up to 40 per cent of the banks' mortgage portfolios, which APRA noted at the time was "quite high" by international and historical standards.
Phase 3 is expected to zero-in on the net income surplus (NIS) — or a lender's assessment of surplus income borrowers have left over after living expenses, debt repayments as well as some "pocket money" — as well as loan-to-income valuations.

APRA's concern is that many new borrowers have very little surplus income to deal with souring conditions, including higher interest rate charges.
The APRA survey found almost 20 per cent of new loans were made to borrowers with a NIS of less than $200 a month, while 3 per cent of lending had nothing left over, or in fact had a "negative" NIS.
"For now, household cash flow in 2017 has been crunched down to a record low of only around 1.5 per cent year-on-year," Mr Tharanou said.
"In addition to weak wages income, there has also been significant drags on household cash flow from the combination of higher taxes — mainly via 'bracket creep' of higher average tax rates — as well as a surge in both utilities and petrol, almost entirely driven by higher prices rather than volumes."
Mr Tharanou noted that despite households struggling to pay their bills, no additional RBA rate cuts meant a smaller fall in interest payments compared with prior years.
The overall picture is fairly bleak with a collapsing saving rate unlikely to fund household consumption much longer.
"So unless there is a surprisingly strong surge in wages, or a further drop in inflation, then real consumer spending will likely slow ahead," Mr Tharanou argued.
"But we continue to worry that if the RBA hikes too much and, or too early, they risk turning an orderly housing correction/soft landing — as appears to be unfolding at the moment — into a housing collapse."
And that would be a whole step up in the level of household pain.
Unemployment would most probably rise, as would bad debts and perhaps foreclosures.
As Mr Tharanou noted that could potentially lead to "a self-reinforcing negative feedback loop between asset prices and the real economy".
And that would not be pretty.


Electricity prices are set to fall across the country over the next two years, offsetting this year's price increase.

The Australian Energy Market Commission said the price drop will happen as variable wind and solar generation comes online, which is paid for by the Government's Renewable Energy Target.
Nationally, prices rose almost 11 per cent this year, but with the extra supply from wind and solar, the commission predicts that will be offset by a 12 per cent fall over the following two years.
The AEMC's annual report on price trends provides an overall picture of factors driving electricity prices for households in each state and territory.
AEMC chairman John Pierce said this year's report showed wholesale electricity costs were now the single biggest driver of change in residential electricity bills, unlike earlier price trends reports which found network costs were the main driver.
"Prices rose sharply this year by almost 11 per cent on a national basis as consumers felt the impact of Hazelwood and Northern coal-fired plants retiring and the lack of replacement investment, combined with high gas prices," Mr Pierce said.
"But we expect these price rises will be reversed over the next two years as wind and solar generation enters the system."

The report also found that over time, low wholesale prices contributed to the closure of coal-fired plants.
"Without investment in replacement dispatchable capacity, wholesale prices will go up again and remain volatile," Mr Pierce said.
"And the rollercoaster will be repeated."
The AEMC also warned of instability and blackouts if the new systems were not managed efficiently.
The commission said the price fall will begin from mid-2018.


The mid-year budget update will show Australia's gross debt will be $23 billion lower by the end of the 2020-21 financial year, compared to the forecasts in the May budget.
Treasurer Scott Morrison will unveil the latest budget data in Canberra on Monday.
The updated figures could give more room to accommodate income tax cuts, which have been foreshadowed but not detailed by Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull.
Gross debt was slated to hit $606 billion by the 2020-21 financial year.
Instead, it will now be $23 billion less — forecast at $583 billion.
The Mid-Year Economic and Fiscal Outlook (MYEFO) is also expected to provide more detail on the Government's plans to claw back $2 billion from the university sector.
Key to that effort will be a proposal to cap the number of university student places.
The Senate blocked Education Minister Simon Birmingham's original plan earlier in the year, which included a proposal to introduce higher student fees and make graduates pay back their loans sooner.
Labor has, unsurprisingly, already been predicting and criticising Monday's update — saying any cuts to the university sector and continued focus on company tax cuts will show the Coalition is "out of touch".


Gavin Myers runs a seafood export business at Port Lincoln on SA's west coast. He has customers in Australia, and around the world, eagerly awaiting his wares.
Guess who gets their dinner first?
"The people in Singapore get their product before anyone in Sydney will," Mr Myers said.
"That's because we are using predominantly road transport within Australia ... but the Singapore guys are getting to it within 36 hours of most of the goods coming out of the water in Lincoln."
That somewhat surprising fact speaks to two things — firstly, the vast distances in this country, and the transport cost structure faced by primary producers in regional Australia.
And secondly, the importance of relatively inexpensive, reliable international flights out of Adelaide.

Without those planes, Mr Myers said he'd lose 30 per cent of his business.
"We wouldn't be dealing with too many of our exports clients at all," he said.
"The direct flight out of Adelaide is certainly the secret to getting produce out of this region," he said.
Most of the attention surrounding new carriers is what it means for tourists, both incoming and outbound.
The SA Government recently touted that over the past six years, there had been a 67 per cent increase in the number of international seats.
But while bums on seats are important, the CEO of Adelaide Airport, Brenton Cox, said it's what's beneath those bottoms that's been crucial for high quality perishable exports: lots of cargo space.
"It wasn't that long ago that 30 to 40 per cent of our exports had to make the long haul on a truck to Sydney or Melbourne, predominantly to then go out to reach our international markets," Mr Cox said.
"Now we've got farmers in Victoria sending their produce for export out of Adelaide.
"Twenty per cent of the profit of an airline on those passenger services comes from freight."
But while it's first class, and clear skies, for exporters targeting the Middle East and north Asian markets, companies that rely on the US are stuck in economy.
That's because there's no direct flight from Adelaide to any destination in the US.

Yet for manufacturers like Tom Spurling, the US is a business lifeline.
"It is fundamental. Our business here in Adelaide would not exist without the United States market," Mr Spurling said.
In a year that's been defined by the loss of Holden, Mr Spurling is keen for people to remember that "we still make stuff here".
As one of life's curious asides, Mr Spurling's father, Graham, once ran Mitsubishi Australia — back in the days when the company made Magnas and money.
Manufacturing is, so to speak, the family business.

Mr Spurling's company makes ophthalmic lasers, which are used to treat eye diseases such as glaucoma.
Every time the company sends either its products or people to the US, it faces extra time and cost.
"Not having a direct route adds a day or two to everything," Mr Spurling said.
"Whenever you do anything with a bunch of people involved, and you're adding Adelaide and Sydney and Los Angeles, you end up with complexity and risk of it not happening.
"We have had stuff go missing — not often, but it is a very painful process.
"So long as it's sustainable, so long as there's a good business case for the carrier, it would be fantastic, just fantastic to have a direct service."

Whether a direct Adelaide-US flight is on any airline's radar isn't clear. But it's certainly a priority for Mr Cox.
"Historically Adelaide has been quite strong with medical exports, but it has to go out of the eastern ports," he said.
"The real opportunity we need in this state is a direct US carrier, not just for people to come here and visit, but to create that direct channel for exporters."


First, the good news. Gerard Minack, one of the most astute, if bearish, of market strategists has significantly dialled down his odds of an Australian recession next year.

The bad news?
"Australia seems set for another year of desultory growth, avoiding a statistical recession but experiencing per capita pain," Mr Minack said.
However, that is positively upbeat compared to his half-year report card on the Australian economy.
"Six months ago I was very gloomy about the outlook for Australia in 2018," he said.

"My base case was weak growth, but I saw a one-in-three chance of recession, and almost no upside risk."
Mr Minack said the recession risk was now, "probably no higher than 20 per cent".
Mr Minack made his name as one of Wall Street's leading strategists with the big investment bank Morgan Stanley, before setting up shop in Sydney with his own eponymous, boutique advisory business, Minack Advisors.
He famously predicted Wall Street and ASX were well primed to halve in value well before the GFC broke in late 2007.
Mr Minack argued on one hand a fading housing sector and weak wages remained headwinds to the economy, while improved corporate sentiment may mean things turn out better than expected.
"But the most likely outcome is unchanged monetary policy, moderate Australian dollar declines and domestic equities continuing to lag global markets," he said.

The negatives:
The positives:
The wildcard for the recession scenario is a steeper-than-expected fall in house prices.
"The big, double-barrelled uncertainty, however, is wealth effects: both, how far house prices fall, and how any fall will affect household saving," Mr Minack said.
"I expect single-digit house price declines next year but it's not clear how such a wealth setback will affect saving.
"Recession is not my base case, but is a risk if there is an out-sized consumer reaction to falling house prices," he said.
The other buffer against a shrinking economy is Australia's solid population growth.
"It's difficult to have a statistical recession when population growth is running at 1.5-to-1.75 per cent — even if trend-per-capita income growth is weaker now than the period that included the 1990s recession."

Just how much things have turned around since Mr Minack's gloomier view six months ago is likely to be reflected in the Federal Government's Mid-Year Fiscal and Economic Outlook (MYEFO).
The punditry suggests the deficit should narrow from the $29.4 billion forecast in the May budget to around $26 billion.
The improvement can be attributed to a generally stronger-than-expected global economy driving stronger commodity prices and a windfall from corporate tax receipts, while better-than-forecast unemployment results should keep a lid on welfare payments.
Operating in the opposite direction are slower wage growth and consumption dragging treasury revenues down.
A roughly 10 per cent narrowing in the projected deficit this year should provide a platform for Treasurer Scott Morrison to remain upbeat in his promise to deliver a surplus, or at least a balanced budget, by 2021.

UBS chief economist George Tharanou said the strongest starting point suggests the cumulative deficits — over the forecast profile of the four years to 2020/21 — could also be better by around $10 billion.
Mr Tharanou is not so bullish on Mr Morrison's plans to slash government debt.
"However, for total public sector gross debt we don't expect as much improvement," Mr Tharanou said.
NAB's Ivan Colhoun said the Government's policy priority remains to negotiate through the Senate the company tax cuts.
Those cuts are intended to help businesses with more than $50 million a year in annual turnover, but Mr Colhoun said there is increasing political pressure to announce some modest income tax cuts ahead of the next election as well.
Mr Morrison may look at a fiscal window opening and cut and run, but that will be for another day.
For the markets, with little in it to suggest a downgrade from the credit rating agencies, MYEFO may well be a bit of one-day wonder.
"Bottom line, budgets rarely have a significant impact on Australian markets," Mr Colhoun said. He could have added, MYEFOs even less so.
However, if Wall Street's close is anything to go by, markets certainly take notice of big tax changes.

All three key indices climbed to fresh records on indications that while the Republicans may not be totally unified, there were enough votes to get the tax bill over the line next week.
ASX trading over the weekend was buoyed by this and looks set for a sprightly opening session.
If everything goes to plan for Mr Trump, his tax bill will clear the House on Tuesday and the Senate on Wednesday.
Waiting in the congressional wings is the prospect of a partial government shutdown just before Christmas as the Government hits its spending limits.
A deal authorising another $US700 billion in defence spending is expected, otherwise it will be a less-than-merry Christmas for US public servants.
Wall Street is unlikely to be too concerned as, perhaps oddly, traders tend to turn a blind eye to US administrations running out of money.
Friday's surge kicked US share prices almost 1 per cent higher over the week, while the ASX was relatively flat. Europe and Japan had poor weeks, both down around 1 per cent, while China slipped 0.6 per cent.
Oil hung near a two-year high, but sentiment is weaker with forecasts from the International Energy Agency that a step up in US shale oil production could push the market back into surplus, just as the glut was starting to drain.
The spot price of iron slipped a bit, although futures contracts edged up on news that steel stockpiles were now at the their lowest level since 2011.
However, the feeling is the good times for steel may be over once the winter production cuts are lifted, prices may slip once again.
The data front is fairly quiet leading up to Christmas.
Indeed, there is now not much macro-fodder to ruminate on until well into January.
In the US there is bundle of housing figures, GDP and a key inflation measure, while Europe's attention is likely to be captured by the Catalan election (Thursday) where the separatist parties are just ahead in the opinion polls.
The RBA minutes (Tuesday) will tell us nothing we don't already know. As the RBA's former boss Glenn Stevens would advise, everyone should chill and head to the beach for summer.
Monday
18/12/2017
Tuesday
19/12/2018
Wednesday
20/12/2017
Thursday
21/12/2017
Friday
22/12/2017
Monday
18/12/2017
Tuesday
19/12/2018
Wednesday
20/12/2017
Thursday
21/12/2017
Friday
22/12/2017


Standing up to the forces of the Southern Ocean for 82 years finally took its toll on the Esperance timber jetty on a Saturday afternoon in September this year.
About 1:30pm picnickers heard an almighty crash and turned around to see a six-metre stretch of the jetty had disappeared, the wood left floating in the ocean.
The 512-metre Esperance timber jetty is just one of three that remain in Western Australia, along with Carnavon's One Mile Jetty and the refurbished Busselton Jetty, which stretches almost two kilometres into Geographe Bay.
For many, the partial collapse was the final death knell for the jetty in a saga that has stretched years and divided the community.

The Esperance community is split — the shire wants to replace it with something more durable where ongoing costs do not become a drain on ratepayers.
"We don't want any other council in the future to be going through what this council and this community is going through," Esperance Shire President Victoria Brown said.
"Because it has, it's driven a massive wedge in there."
But Friends of the Esperance Tanker Jetty Chairman Tony Bright said the timber structure could be restored and its history retained, without being a burden on ratepayers.
"Our research has shown that the methods and the cost of materials and the people who would be involved in doing it would lead to a much more reasonable result than what was previously projected," he said.
The Shire believes those claims don't stack up.

Carnarvon Heritage Group has the licence for the One Mile Jetty and estimates a full restoration, including a functioning rail line, would cost up to $40 million.
The Group's Chairman Tom Day conceded they would need a financial white knight to see that full restoration.
"We'll probably never run the train again, but we're looking at a walk — and fishing — only structure," Mr Day said.
The Busselton community fought to save its 152-year-old jetty and in 2009 they won.
But it cost $27 million for the initial works and has an ongoing maintenance bill of $800,000 each year.
Busselton Jetty Chief Executive Officer Lisa Shreeve said they had managed to turn a profit, carving out a position in the tourism landscape as the longest timber jetty in the southern hemisphere and home to one of the world's five
underwater observatories.
"The Busselton Jetty has about 470,000 visitors a year," Ms Shreeve said.
"Without the jetty there would be 110 fewer jobs in Busselton and $10 million is indirectly injected into the economy from the jetty."
She had some advice for communities trying to retain their timber jetties.
"They need to work out a business case, will whatever they do make money?" Ms Shreeve said.
"What's their competitive advantage, what can they do that can add to what's already there and grow on that competitive advantage."
Further complicating matters, the Western Australian Government has slapped a conservation order on the Esperance jetty.
That means any renovation must retain the heritage value and "tell the story" of the structure.
How exactly that is reflected in construction is still not quite known.
The Shire is in the process of obtaining the services of a heritage architect to help them meet that stipulation.
The Friends of the Esperance Tanker jetty are also pinning their hopes on the Heritage Council intervention.
For many in the community they just want to cast a line in the deep waters of Esperance Bay.
"Eventually you will have a recreational fishing jetty," Mrs Brown assured them.
But it'll be beach fishing for some time yet.


What is claimed to be the world's first fully solar-powered train is operating on the New South Wales North Coast.
A refurbished 70-year-old 'red rattler' is running on a three-kilometre stretch of disused rail line at the popular tourist destination of Byron Bay.
It made its maiden trip yesterday with almost 100 passengers on board.
The $4-million project is the brainchild of multi-millionaire businessman Brian Flannery, who owns a resort in the area.
"Hopefully it attracts people to Byron Bay," Mr Flannery said.
"I think international tourists will come here to have a look at this world's first solar train.
"So let's see, in five years' time they'll probably still say I'm mad, but it's a bit of fun."
Tim Elderton, from the Lithgow Railway Workshop, was tasked with building curved solar panels and a battery system to power the train.
"Basically it's electric bus technology that we've re-engineered to adapt to a train," he said.
"Of course the major difference is it's got solar panels on the roof so it can recharge itself.
"For those cloudy days we've also got 30 kilowatts of solar panels in this [station's] roof here so we can also plug it in.
"On a sunny day like today we can do about four or five trips before we have to plug it in."
It has been 13 years since a train has run on the disused track between Casino and Murwillumbah.
The New South Wales Government closed the North Coast line in 2004, citing low passenger numbers.
But the Byron Bay Railroad Company's Jeremy Holmes said the alternative lifestyle haven was an ideal place for a project that combined modern solar technology with the old-world charm of a heritage train.
"I think everyone knows that Byron's very conscious about anything to do with the environment," he said.
"It's really nice to be able to run a train that's zero emissions and powered by the sun."
But it might be premature to call this the dawn of an new era in rail travel.
Longer trips than this one — 10 minutes to cover three kilometres or so — would require regular recharging stations along the route, but Mr Flannery said the technology might be suited to inner-city trams.

"A lot of the tram networks of course have overhead wires and they're electric but they're powered off the grid from overhead," he said.
"But in a case where you want to build a tramline without that infrastructure, I think you could.
"At various stations you could top the train [or tram] up."


Canadian police are investigating the mysterious deaths of Barry Sherman, founder of Canadian pharmaceutical firm Apotex Inc, and his wife Honey, one of the nation's wealthiest couples whose bodies were found in their mansion.
Police said they learned of the deaths after responding to a midday (local time) medical call at the Sherman's home in an affluent section of north-east Toronto.
Two bodies covered in blankets were removed from the home and loaded into an unmarked van on Friday evening.
"The circumstances of their death appear suspicious and we are treating it that way," Constable David Hopkinson said.
Homicide detectives later told reporters gathered outside the home that there were no signs of forced entry.
Their neighbours, business associates and some of Canada's most powerful politicians, including Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, said they were saddened by the deaths.

Toronto Mayor John Tory said in statement he was "shocked and heartbroken" to learn of the deaths, noting that the couple had made extensive contributions to the city.
"I hope that investigation will be able to provide answers for all of us who are mourning this tremendous loss," Mr Tory said.
The Shermans recently listed their home for sale for nearly $C7 million ($7.1 million). A real estate agent discovered the bodies in the basement while preparing for an open house, the Toronto Globe and Mail reported, citing a relative.
Mr Sherman, 75, founded privately held Apotex in 1974, growing it by introducing large numbers of low-cost generic drugs that took market share from branded pharmaceuticals.
He stepped down as chief executive in 2012 but remained executive chairman. Forbes has estimated his fortune at $US3.2 billion.
Apotex is the world's seventh-largest generic drugmaker with 11,000 employees and annual sales of more than $C2 billion in more than 45 countries, according to its website.
The couple was known for their philanthropy, giving tens of millions of dollars to hospitals, universities and Jewish organisations, CBC reported.
"They were extremely successful in business, but also very, very giving people," former Ontario Premier Bob Rae told CBC.
"It's going to be a very, very big loss."
Reuters


Commuters who use Claisebrook and McIver train stations in East Perth are today getting a taste of the inconvenience that is to come once Perth Stadium opens.
A full-scale simulation of the stadium's transport systems will see the stations closed, as will be the case every time there is an AFL game or large concert at the venue.
In order to get people to and from the stadium quickly, trains will not stop at Claisebrook or McIver stations with commuters instead offered much slower replacement buses or the choice to walk.
For the many staff and patients at Royal Perth Hospital who use nearby McIver Station every day, a journey home using public transport will now include the one kilometre walk to Perth Station.
Moore Street in East Perth will also be closed during events to avoid frustrating drivers as the extra trains will see the level-crossing rarely open.

The tests have been deliberately timed to coincide with several major events in Perth today — including Symphony in the City, a Wildcats game and an Ashes test to ensure conditions are as realistic as possible for train and bus operations.
"It will make sure we refine all our processes and get our ducks in a row for the opening of the stadium proper when things really start to happen," Public Transport Authority spokesman David Hynes said.
With limited parking around the stadium the Government hoped 80 per cent of people would use public transport to get to and from events.
Mr Hynes said that in order to get 28,000 fans out of the venue within an hour of an event finishing there was no time for trains to stop at Claisebrook or McIver.
This would disrupt a number of services on the Thornlie, Midland and Armadale lines.
"It will be something of an inconvenience for people but the complexity of having to run so many trains through those stations and mix them up with timetable services means for operational purposes we'll just bypass those stations," he said.
"It's designed to minimise the impact and maximise efficiency, we have to strike the balance between those two things."

Mr Hynes explained most events would be held at times when the stations were scarcely used.
However, he said Friday night football and weekday concerts could affect thousands of people who take trains from McIver or Claisebrook to get home from work.
"The way the AFL schedules games on Friday and Thursday evenings in Perth to suit television audiences in the eastern states, starting around 6:00pm, does not suit us because we are still trying to look after our core duty, which is getting people to and from work," he said.
"The great majority of events will be either in the evenings or in the weekends when the pressure on Claisebrook, McIver and Moore Street Level crossing are at their lowest."
He said today's test will see if the plan is actually viable and if there could be room to run limited train services to the stations during events.
Mr Hynes said logistics had been complicated by delays in building the Swan River pedestrian footbridge, which he said was a vital cog in transport plans for the stadium with up to 14,000 fans expected to use it during AFL games.
The Government asked the AFL not to schedule any Friday night matches in Perth until March, when they expect the footbridge to be completed and extra buses would be used to compensate for it during events in the meantime.
Hundreds of staff will take part in today's test, which will replicate as close to reality as possible an ordinary event in order to identify any faults in the system.
"We will have security, customer service staff and other staff in place and recreate conditions as much as we can to test all aspects of our operations and make sure they're top notch for the start of play as it were," Mr Hynes said.



Land "rarer than hen's teeth" might be part of an auctioneer's spiel, but the lack of available property to develop in Hobart saw hundreds of bidders at an auction in the eastern shore suburb of Bellerive.
Nine blocks of Crown land all sold under the hammer for between $375,000 and $501,000 on Saturday.

Real estate Greg Gottschalk said the auction crowd was unprecedented in Tasmania.
"I have never seen an auction that size in Tasmania before," he said.
"This is the best auction I have seen in 30 years of selling real estate."
Auctioneer Jerome Thiessen said land in Bellerive was "rarer than hen's teeth".
"The market is on fire in Hobart at the moment, we have got the most exciting real estate market in the country," he said.
"This is probably the biggest auction I have done.
"This is super rare. To have flat land near the water, it just does not come up. As rare as it gets.
"We were expecting good results, the vendor will be very pleased, perhaps a little higher than we thought, which is great."

Real Estate Institute of Tasmania president Tony Collidge said the state's real estate market was unlike anything he had seen before.
"I have been doing real estate for 26 years and I have never seen a market like this, where there is such a shortage of stock," he said.
"We believe we are somewhere between 3,000 and 5,000 properties short in the Hobart market place.
"It has just been an explosion. This year we look like breaking the record for the highest amount of value of property sold in Tasmania ever.
"It will be the best result that we have had in 10 years for the number of sales."

He said councils had a responsibility to help developers.
"We have 48 major commercial projects in the city sitting there on the drawing boards about to happen and councils are sitting there twiddling their fingers," he said.
"The system should be much more streamlined so that things can happen."


Building a $14 million solar farm is an expensive way to send a message about electricity prices, but Doug and Lyn Scouller said they were left with few options.
In Normanton, 500 kilometres north of Mount Isa in north-west Queensland, the Scoullers built a solar farm big enough to power an area almost twice the size of Tasmania, in a move to prove to stakeholders the benefit of positioning power generation sites at the end of the grid.
"We suffer from an unusual amount of blackouts out here. Sometimes I've experienced it in Karumba up to 13 times a day ... and it's purely because of the losses," Mr Scouller said.
"The power actually comes from Rockhampton up the coast to Townsville and up to us, and it's the old story the longer the extension lead, the less power you get at the end."
The five-megawatt, 16,000-panel farm produces electricity that is fed back into the grid at Normanton.
By producing power locally, Mr Scouller said he believed he would save on the losses, and subsequently put a downward pressure on electricity prices.
"I just believe we've got a lot of losses in the network and if we start to produce power where the power is used, we will reduce those networks and it will ease the pressure on increasing power prices," he said.


In 2016, the Normanton Solar Farm received an $8.5 million grant from The Australian Renewable Energy Agency (AREA), and is now being used as a test case to generate data about fringe-of-grid energy investment.
Calculations made before the plants construction will be compared with new data to determine whether the Scouller's planned reduction in transmission loss will eventuate.
But not everybody is convinced.

Greg Elkins, the Ergon Energy engineer who led the commissioning, said his preliminary research showed that end-of-line power generation might increase the transmission loss.
"The requirement of very long transmission lines means that there are a lot of losses in just having the line turned on," Mr Elkins said.
"Putting energy at the remote end can actually cause that amount of [required] power flow to have the line online ... to increase.
"It's kind of like a freight train - the amount of energy required to take the freight train from Townsville to Normanton is travelling every minute, and whether the power is supplied in Normanton or Townsville, that freight train still needs to run every time."
While there are plans for expansion, the Normanton Solar Farm does not yet have a battery system. Another reason why Mr Elkins said he believed changes in transmission loss would be limited.
"Most of the generation from the solar farm is during the day where consumers typically use it during the night, so the excess solar generation has to flow back to Townsville — that's one of the reasons why the losses will be minimal," he said.
Mr Elkins said the only way to remove the losses entirely would be to turn off the Townsville to Normanton line, which he said might cause more problems.
"The only way to remove those losses would be to turn that line off which would then produce more unreliable power," he said.

Despite the difference in opinion, the Scoullers are adamant their business will work, even if it does take eight years to secure a return.
"[I'm] extremely confident — we did a lot of pre-planning, a lot of calculations, a lot of engineers — no doubt at all," Mrs Scouller said.
Mr Scouller agreed.
"It's just pure mathematics and physics — if you generate out of here, you reduce those losses almost to zero," Mr Scouller said.
The project bought no shortage of challenges.
In February, a stand-off with Ergon Energy delayed the switch-on of the farm, and about the same time Mr Scouller was diagnosed with cancer.
But at the weekend the couple hosted the ultimate celebration, and were married on the same day the farm was fully commissioned.
"We had family travelling from all over, so we wanted to celebrate with a bang," Mr Scouller laughed.
And the newlyweds said Normanton would not be their last solar farm.
"I think it's a bit like a marathon runner — you forget how hard you were hurting halfway through the race. Once you're finished, you want to have another go," Mr Scouller said.



The European Union has agreed to move Brexit talks with the UK onto a second phase focused on trade and a transition pact, but some leaders cautioned that the final year of divorce negotiations before Britain's exit could be fraught with peril.
EU leaders, who had offered British Prime Minister Theresa May a rare summit round of applause over dinner in Brussels the night before, took just 10 minutes to agree that she had made "sufficient progress" on divorce terms last week and to give negotiators a mandate to move on to the main phase of talks.
"This is an important step on the road to delivering the smooth and orderly Brexit that people voted for in June of last year," Mrs May said outside her home in Berkshire, southern England.
"There is still more to do but we're well on the road to delivering a Brexit that will make Britain prosperous, strong and secure."
The UK Prime Minister reassured her party's ardent Brexit supporters that departure is certain on March 29, 2019.
The head of the EU executive, Jean-Claude Juncker, cast her as a "tough, smart, polite and friendly negotiator," a polite nod to a woman facing ferocious and complex pressures at home, whose downfall Brussels fears would complicate talks further.

Summit chair Donald Tusk said the world's biggest trading bloc would start "exploratory contacts" with Britain on what London wants in a future trade relationship, as well as starting discussions on the immediate post-Brexit transition.
A transition period is crucial for investors and businesses who fear that a "cliff-edge" Brexit would disrupt trade flows and sow chaos through financial markets.
While there was a "sigh of relief" at the summit table that Brexit talks can move forward, EU leaders said talks on a future free trade pact would not begin until after March.
This was a date underlined by "guidelines" that set out how to proceed as Britain seeks to unravel more than 40 years of membership.
"We have made good progress, the second phase of talks can start," German Chancellor Angela Merkel said.
"But this will mean even tougher work — that was clear today in the discussion — than we have experienced so far."
Reuters


When the cost of manufacturing a surfboard in Australia became too high to compete with factories overseas, many independent workshops simply closed their doors.
But in coastal towns across regional Australia, a growing demand for locally made surfboards is helping board shapers bounce back in the face of a flood of imported products.
In Denmark, in WA's Great Southern region, Ben Rufus has launched his own business after he began making boards for himself and a few mates.
Eight years later his handmade boards — complete with striking art work — are in high demand.
"The problem was the [imported] boards were bad shapes. People would buy them to save money, but they weren't any good," Mr Rufus said.
"I didn't expect to be able to make surfboards for a living, I didn't think there would be a future in it."

Surfboard manufacturers across Australia are tailoring their services towards a niche market of surfers in their local towns and beaches.
Many workshops that continue to survive have had to downsize and relocate to regional towns with strong cultures of surfing.
"They come because people want good service and high quality work," Albany surf shop owner Adrian Shepard said.
"People come to me because they want a custom board, they want to do something specific on a wave. They're not walking into a shop and grabbing something generic off the wall."

When it comes to the ebb and flow of surfing trends on the west coast of Australia, Wayne Winchester has seen it all.
He was once one of Perth's sought-after board makers and has been making, collecting and restoring surfboards for more than 40 years.
Like many others, he turned his back on the industry amid the slump and relocated to the beaches of southern Western Australia to practise his craft alongside a smaller band of surfers.
"In the early 1970s, surfers were loyal to certain shapers. I had my surfers who would get all their boards from me, and there were others up and down the coast in WA, who had their loyal band of surfers as well," Mr Winchester said.
Competition from factories overseas spelled doom for Australian surfboard manufacturing, but it would not be the end.

Mr Winchester remains as passionate about the art and science of making a surfboard as he has ever been.
For him, the revival of the local surfboard making industry in regional WA is the latest chapter in the rich history of surfboard design.
From the early surfboards of western Polynesia more than 3,000 years ago to the legend of Hawaiian Duke Kahanamoku and the interventions of Tom Blake, the surfboard of the 20th century evolved into a streamlined piece of wave riding technology following centuries of experimentation.
But it was during the 1960s that the art and science of surfboard making underwent its most dramatic shift.
"The mid 1960s to the early 1970s was called the transitional-psychedelic era of surfboard design," Mr Winchester said.
"Basically, there was a massive revolution in what surfboards looked like. They went from being 10 feet long to less than 6 feet long in a very short space of time."

The shorter boards were easier to manoeuvre and change direction on waves, as surfers demanded more performance-orientated boards.
"Surfers were just doing very radical things and the design of the surfboard allowed them to do it," Mr Winchester said.
Next came the addition of leg ropes, three-fin thrusters, and the rise of competition surfing.
By the early 2000s, the use of computer technology and weighted boards became so sophisticated that intrepid surfers could be towed into monster waves of serious consequence.
But competition from mass produced, imported surfboards forced many independent manufacturers in Australia out of business.
"The surfboard was rapidly becoming a commodity and the soul of surfing seemed destined to end," Mr Winchester said.

Today, visitors to the many beaches along WA's south coast can see a kaleidoscope of surfboard shapes, designs and artwork, many of them handcrafted by local board makers.
For Wayne Winchester the story of surfboard design evolution, a story that seemed doomed over a decade ago, now promises a bright future.
"What we see in the current era, is almost a return to the bohemian lifestyle of surfing. It was all about the journey, it wasn't necessarily just about the act of riding the wave," he said.
"It was about how you got there, and doing stuff with your mates, looking at designs and colours of boards — that whole bohemian lifestyle of travel and freedom."
It is that trinity between the surf, surfboard and surfer that Mr Winchester says is at the heart of the changing fortunes of Australia's independent surfboard production industry.
"The feel and the lines of a surfboard as you run your hands down the rail, is just a beautiful thing. You actually feel the flow of the board and how it will fit in the water," he said.
"I know they're inanimate objects, but they've got a soul".



Rupert Murdoch has called sexual misconduct allegations within Fox News "nonsense" and "largely political".
Speaking to Sky News after Disney struck a deal to buy 21st Century Fox, Mr Murdoch said there had been no sexual misconduct allegations at Fox News since chief executive Roger Ailes left in 2016, despite two high profile Fox News hosts being ousted this year.
When asked how the allegations had harmed Fox News, Mr Murdoch said it was "all nonsense".
"There was a problem with our chief executive [Roger Ailes], sort of, over the years, isolated incidents," he said.
"As soon as we investigated it he was out of the place in hours, well, three or four days.
"And there's been nothing else since then. That was largely political because we're conservative.
"Now of course the liberals are going down the drain — NBC is in deep trouble. CBS, their stars.
"I mean there are really bad cases and people should be moved aside. There are other things which probably amount to a bit of flirting."
Several high-profile men at Fox News have faced sexual misconduct accusations within the last two years, including Mr Ailes.

Fox News reportedly paid $US20 million in damages to a former anchor who alleges she was fired after refusing to have sex with Mr Ailes.
Former anchor Gretchen Carlson filed suit against Mr Ailes in July 2016, alleging he took her off a popular show and cut her pay because she refused to have a sexual relationship with him.
Mr Ailes always denied the allegations, but left Fox less than three weeks after the suit was filed, taking a $US40 million ($52 million) severance package.
Mr Ailes said Ms Carlson's suit was in retaliation for the network's decision not to renew her contract after disappointing ratings for her show.
Fox cut ties with news host Bill O'Reilly in April, after the firebrand conservative host was accused of sexually harassing multiple women.
And fellow host Eric Bolling left the network in September after he was accused of texting photos of his genitals to female staff members.
In recent months, sexual harassment claims have plagued other US networks, ones Mr Murdoch referred to as "the liberals".
In November, NBC fired Today host Matt Lauer just a week after CBS fired Charlie Rose over sexual misconduct allegations.



A remote island off Tasmania's north-west coast could become one of the largest wind farms in the Southern Hemisphere, but only if Tasmania gets a second Bass Strait power interconnector.
The Australian arm of UPC Renewables, an American company, has set up 110-metre-high wind monitoring towers to gather data on where to place the turbines.
It has entered into an agreement with the island's private landowners to build a wind farm on their property.

UPC Renewables Australia plans to build as many as 300 turbines on the island and nearby Jims Plains, which is on the Tasmanian mainland.
The $850 million project will generate about 450 megawatts, making it the largest of its kind in the state.
At full capacity they could generate enough energy for 250,000 homes, more homes than there are in Tasmania.
"We have a world-class wind resource here which means when we install our power we'll be making power at what we believe will be a very low cost to everyday Australians," UPC Renewables Australia CEO Anton Rohner said.
UPC said its long-term goal was to get approval to develop a second Bass Strait interconnector, enabling the company to double the size of the project.
At 1,000 megawatts, it would produce enough power for half a million homes — or nearly the size of the city of Adelaide.
"The wind farm we're proposing is going to be, we believe, one of the largest in the southern hemispheres if not Australia," Mr Rohner said.
Building a second interconnector requires regulatory approval which could push back the prospect of such an expansion of the farm well into the next decade.
Energy Minister Guy Barnett said he hoped the second interconnector received approval.
"The second interconnector will be essential to maximising the investment of up to $1.6 billion here in Tasmania to make this work and work to its capacity," he said.

In November, the State Government committed $20 million on a business case study into developing a second interconnector.
The results of that study are not expected for at least a year.
Concerns have been raised about the potential costs of building an interconnector.
UPC Renewables has said it would fund the building of such an interconnector through third party private investment if it was granted approval.
The existing undersea cable failed in 2016, which when combined with low dam levels, cause an energy crisis in the state and sparked a parliamentary inquiry.
Robbins Island is synonymous with Wagyu beef cattle, which cross the saltwater gap that separates the patch of earth from mainland Tasmania.
The 10,000 hectare island is owned by the Hammond family, who have been cattle farming for four generations.
John Hammond said the towers brought the family's 17-year dream of having a wind farm on their land one step closer, and that a nearby project near Woolnorth inspired them.
"Seventeen years ago we were watching what was happening at Woolnorth when Hydro Tasmania started to put the first turbines in there," he said.

"We realised the same wind that blows over that wind farm blows over this island.
"We see this as another way to farm, and another way to diversify, another way to sort of help keep the property in the next generation.
"This project will probably help us keep the island in the family for next four or five generations."
UPC Renewables said it expected the first wind turbine to be built and ready on the island in about two years, and that the entire site would be operational around 2023.


South Australia's Spring Gully Foods has cleared its multi-million-dollar debt, with the help of the public, after entering voluntary administration four and a half years ago.
The brand, known for its pickled onions and chutneys, today dispatched its final cheques to creditors, paying them 102 cents in the dollar as a gesture of goodwill.
The family-owned company entered voluntary administration in April 2013, after a downturn in sales left them with debts of close to $5 million.
The announcement prompted a huge community response, with South Australians buying the products in bulk and the brand entirely selling out of stock in the state.
Spring Gully managing director Kevin Webb, who is the third generation of his family to run the business, said it was an "overwhelming time".
"We are still humbled by what happened, we never thought the people would buy out South Australia in 24 hours," he said.
"All I can do is say thank you."

Supervisor Maria Dente has worked at Spring Gully for 30 years, and said she was relieved to still have a job at the company.
"It's not just a job, the company is fantastic to work for, the bosses are awesome," she said.
"We are very appreciative, and thank the public for all their support."

Mr Webb said the company has emerged tougher and more innovative.
He said putting a "strong advisory board" in place was crucial to the turnaround.
"Obviously in some of my own private moments I may have felt this is impossible, but we have had the support of our families, and our business and our advisory [board]," he said.
During the process he said the company had struggled through a honey drought but had managed to keep "roughly" the same number of staff, which now sits at 45.
The company is looking to hire a dozen more people over the next five years, as it renews its ageing plant and releases 13 new lines of pickled vegetables, chutneys and sauces.


President Donald Trump has thanked his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin for remarks he made  "acknowledging America's strong economic performance", the White House says.
The two presidents spoke by phone following Mr Putin's annual press conference in Moscow, where Mr Putin was asked to assess Mr Trump's first year in office.
He said Mr Trump had made "some fairly serious achievements", pointing specifically to the sharp rise in US stock markets.
"I'm not the one to evaluate the President's work. That needs to be done by the voters, the American people," Mr Putin said.
"[But] we are objectively seeing that there have been some major accomplishments, even in the short time he has been working.
"Look at how the markets have grown. This speaks to investors' trust in the American economy.
"This indicates the confidence of investors in the American economy. This indicates they have confidence in what President Trump is doing in this sphere.
"With all due respect to those in opposition to President Trump in the United States, these are objective factors."
The White House said Mr Trump spoke with Mr Putin by phone, and thanked him "for acknowledging America's strong economic performance in his annual press conference".
The Kremlin made a point of noting that Mr Trump initiated the call.

In his press conference Mr Putin accused those investigating potential collusion between Russia and Mr Trump's 2016 presidential campaign of damaging the US political situation, "incapacitating the President and showing a lack of respect to voters who cast their ballots for him".
Mr Putin dismissed those allegations and the idea of a Russia connection as "fabricated".
"What did someone see that was egregious about this? Why does it all have to take on some tint of spymania?" he said.
"All of it was invented by people who oppose President Trump to undermine his legitimacy."
During their call, Mr Trump and Mr Putin also discussed ways to work together to address North Korea's nuclear and ballistic weapons program, the White House said.
Mr Putin had earlier warned the US against using force against North Korea.
He emphasised that Russia opposes Pyongyang's nuclear bid, but added the US had "provoked" Pyongyang into developing its nuclear and missile programs by spiking a 2005 deal under which North Korea agreed to halt them.
Mr Trump has repeatedly said all options remain on the table.
AP


Students at Wirrabara Primary School will today be dismissed for the final time as it prepares for closure after 138 years, leaving the town without a school.
Amid nostalgic reflections and celebration, there has been a growing sense of unease about what the closure of the school might mean for the town's future.
Teagan Hollitt, 8, is one of the only 11 students left at the school in the tiny town in South Australia's mid north.
Her ancestor Josiah Hollitt opened the school at its current site in 1921, and she is disappointed that the school board had voted to close it down.
"I feel very cross because the parents who voted yes to close it down [did so] because they didn't have enough money to pay for the school to be open," Teagan said.
The remaining students will have to go to other schools in Laura and Booleroo Centre — both a 20 kilometre bus journey away.
"I haven't been here very long, but I've made quite a bit of friends and I'm sad because I like this school. I don't want it to close," said another remaining student, Crispin Harness.

Teacher Jayne Mainprize Potter came from England to begin her career in education at Wirrabara.
Her career took her to other schools, but she returned this year to take up the principal's job and oversee the school's closure.
"I'm quite sad in the sense that I had really good memories of the school when I taught here in 2005," she said.
"So to see the numbers decline to the stage where the school is going to close is pretty sad."
Ms Mainprize Potter said the closure would be felt by the whole community.

"I think the students have realised that because of the numbers it was inevitable," she said.
"They have been really sad, but they also are quite pleased at going to the new schools and making new friends. So it's sort of a bittersweet experience."
For former students like Kevin Sizer, there are plenty of memories left behind.
"The proximity of the church to the cricket pitch on the oval was such that there were some lads capable of heaving a ball through the church window, which was one of the targets," he said.
Mr Sizer said the school's closure dealt a serious blow to a town still recovering from the 2014 Bangor bushfires.
"It's just another nail in the coffin of a small country town," he said.
"We are a declining population, we are an ageing population, [we] struggle to encourage young people to stay, young families to move in.
"If you haven't got a school it's just going to make it a whole lot more difficult."
Across town, convenience store and post office owner Vicki Morley said business owners were trying their best to remain positive.

"It's never good for a school to close, but it's progress unfortunately. There are just not enough students to keep the school open," Ms Morley said.
"However, the parents still have to bring the students in to catch the bus to whichever school they're going to, so I don't think it's going to impact on us a great deal."
The State Government said it was working with the local tourism and development group to allow use of the community garden and kitchen at the site until it is sold.
Wirrabara locals said they would like to see a new caravan park or movie theatre built using the old school facilities.
But any future plans will depend on how much money can be raised for the projects, and who buys the site.
"They've been very proactive in trying to work out what to do with the school, you know the main thing is the students don't suffer," Ms Morley said.


Optus has been taken to court for allegedly misleading and pressuring 20,000 of its customers to sign up to the National Broadband Network (NBN) — sooner than they were required to.
The Australian Competition & Consumer Commission (ACCC) commenced proceedings against the telco in the Federal Court on Friday.
The regulator claimed that Optus told these customers that the NBN was coming into their area, and existing internet plans — delivered through its Hybrid Fibre Coaxial (HFC) network — would be disconnected.
But the timeframes the telco quoted to their customers were sooner than what was contractually allowed to cancel their services.
Optus even told customers their services would be disconnected in as little as 30 days, the ACCC said.
"This is particularly concerning as Optus received a significant financial payment from NBN Co for each customer that moved from its cable network to the NBN," ACCC chairman Rod Sims said.
The regulator said this conduct occurred during an 18-month period between October 2015 and March 2017.
However, that is not the only complaint the ACCC has against Optus.
It also alleged Optus misled customers, between October 2015 and September 2016, into thinking they could not sign up to NBN services from its competitors.
"Optus created the impression that its customers were required to obtain NBN services from Optus, when they could have chosen to switch to any internet service provider," Mr Sims said.
"We are also concerned that Optus cut off some of its customers' internet services when it had no contractual right to do so.
"Telephone and internet are essential utilities and it is unacceptable for Optus to treat its customers this way."
In response to these allegations, an Optus spokesperson said the company was "working cooperatively" with the regulator.
"The ACCC’s action today relates to past processes that we have successfully addressed."
"We also compensated customers who had been disconnected without sufficient notice."
This is the second time this week that the telco has been in trouble with the ACCC.
On Monday, Optus admitted that it misled more than 8,700 customers about the speed of their NBN plans, and agreed to compensate them.


You've probably heard the hype about bitcoin or ethereum, but what about cryptocurrencies like neo, dash or ripple?

From next year, Coinbase — one of the world's biggest cryptocurrency exchanges — has announced that a swathe of new altcoins will be added to its platform.
It has come as welcome news for Australian investors who, until now, have been paying a premium on local exchanges.
The interest in bitcoin has exploded as much as its price, with one bitcoin now worth $25,000 and Australians cannot get enough.
Coinbase currently lists three of the world's most popular coins: bitcoin, litecoin and ethereum.
There are thousands of cryptocurrencies available — almost everyone has heard of bitcoin and ethereum — altcoins are all of those other currencies.
"[Altcoins] actually often have a lot more functionality, but also they're a lot more specific," said Professor Jason Potts from RMIT University.
The Australian peer-to-peer blockchain-based energy trading platform Power Ledger is a good example of what altcoins are.
Buyers and sellers are able to trade renewable energy, dispensing with the need of a middleperson.

"If you want to trade energy peer to peer you use a particular token for that," Professor Potts said.
While there are Australian exchanges that sell altcoins, they charge a premium price.
So Australian investors who want a better price often have to sign up to a US-exchange and learn how to trade coins like shares.
But now, with Coinbase's decision, investing will become accessible to anyone with a credit card and a phone.
"What it does is it makes it easier to access a wider variety of crypto assets, in the sense that you're not just constrained to the big two or three — like litecoin, ethereum and bitcoin," Professor Potts said.
"You've now got the same level of access to a much wider range of these."
While Coinbase has yet to announce which currencies they will be adding, Professor Potts said the result would likely see more Australian cash flowing into the cryptocurrency world.
"It will happen everywhere and I think we can just see this as a reallocation of Australian households investment portfolios," he said.

Alex Saunders made so much money in cryptocurrencies that he decided to quit his job to work full time as an investor.
But he also helps other investors through his Youtube channel Nugget's News Australia, which is dedicated to answering cryptocurrency questions.

Mr Saunders said at any time of the day or night, he has someone asking him about bitcoin.
"I'm getting tagged in hundreds of things a day now, and messages to my Facebook, comments on YouTube, questions left right and centre," he said.
And he said Australian investors were excited about Coinbase's announcement.
"For the average investor that's not too tech savvy, downloading that app on their phone is just going to be such an easy way to get into these new coins," he said.
"Rather than having to sign up with different websites and manage more passwords and having the stress of all those different options to get your head around."


A gloomy night in overseas stock trading is likely to flow towards the Australian share market today.
Investor sentiment stumbled over potential roadblocks to the Republicans' tax overhaul.
This was despite Congressional Republicans reaching a deal on the final form of the tax bill on Wednesday.

Republican Senators Marco Rubio and Mike Lee said they do not support the bill in its current form.
Mr Rubio told reporters that if the bill's proposed tax refunds related to the child tax credit is not expanded: "I'm a no...It has to be higher than $1,100."
The child tax credit in the US tax code is meant to lower the tax bills of working families with children.
Mr Lee's spokesman, Conn Carroll, said in an interview with Reuters that the senator is now "undecided on the tax bill as currently written".
Equity investors are concerned that stocks could tumble if the bill, which includes slashing corporate taxes, fails.
However, some of the best performing stocks on the S&P were 21st Century Fox and Disney.
Fox's share price jumped by 5.8 per cent after Disney struck a deal to buy the film and TV businesses of Rupert Murdoch's media empire for $68 billion ($US52.4 billion) in stock.
This deal would strengthen Disney's plans to create its own streaming service, potentially making it an even bigger threat to Netflix.
Disney shares rose by 2.7 per cent following this development.
The lift in the two media giants' stock values made consumer cyclicals the best performing S&P sector (+0.3pc).
The only other sector to post gains was technology, which rose by a tepid 0.04 per cent.
The Australian dollar has continued to surge, and has lifted by 0.5 per cent to 76.7 US cents.
It has also lifted against the British pound (+0.4pc), euro (+0.8pc), Japanese yen (+0.2pc) and New Zealand dollar (+1pc).
The local currency lifted ahead of the Federal Reserve's decision to lift US interest rates, and continued to soar following Thursday's stronger-than-expected job figures from the ABS.
Overnight, the Australian dollar was particularly strong against European currencies.
The Bank of England and European Central Bank held their respective policy meetings overnight, and decided to keep interest rates on hold.
However, the ECB sent mixed signals — pledging to keep printing more money for as long as necessary, yet upgrading its economic growth forecasts.
The ECB now expects the eurozone's economy to grow 2.4 per cent this year, but admitted it would not hit its inflation target by 2020.


Melbourne-based developer Pelligra Group has been revealed as the buyer of the Holden plant in Adelaide's north, but the site is expected to remain mostly vacant to commercial development for another 18 months.
Holden would not reveal the sale price but said the Elizabeth site would be renamed the Lionsgate Business Park in a nod to the carmaker's emblematic red lion.
Weeks before the last car rolled off the production line in October, Holden indicated it had found a buyer but refused to say who it was.
But the carmaker now said Pelligra was committed to turning the site into a hub for "industrial, manufacturing, construction engineering, automotive and commercial uses".
"Our wish for the future of the site has always been that it continues to create jobs for Elizabeth and the surrounding area," Holden facilities director Matthew Goodwins said in a statement.
"We believe that Pelligra's master plan for the site is positioned to achieve this."
The site will not be formally handed over to Pelligra until after decommissioning, which is expected to continue until mid-2019.
"[Holden] will remain in control of the site until that process is completed," the carmaker said.
It will also continue with a site contamination assessment, which began after chemical contamination of groundwater was discovered in 2011.
SA Premier Jay Weatherill said the sale would create hundreds of jobs.
"Mr Pelligra and his company are planning to spend hundreds of millions of dollars in developing the site, creating many hundreds of jobs, so this is fantastic news for the northern suburbs, indeed for the whole of SA," he said.

Family-run Pelligra was established in 1960 and describes itself as a third-generation company with a property portfolio including industrial and residential projects.
"South Australia has an exciting future before it, based on its major role in the defence industry; its significant mining and resources portfolio; its strength in food and agriculture; its geographically central location; advanced renewable energy position and its affordability," chairman Ross Pelligra said.
"We see enormous potential in the Holden site based on partnering with businesses operating in these sectors but also in keeping the site's automotive heritage alive through the development of a cluster of complimentary industries which tap into the significant residual skills of former Holden workers."

Holden said that even after the site changes hands it would remain as a tenant to store spare parts and also wants to establish a museum at the site commemorating its automotive heritage.
Diesel generators temporarily installed as part of a State Government energy plan are only occupying a relatively small area, Holden said, and will be transferred to a new home to create a new back-up power station.


Disney is buying a large part of the Murdoch family's 21st Century Fox in a $68 billion ($US52.4 billion) deal, including film and television studios, cable and international TV businesses as it tries to meet competition from technology companies in the entertainment business.

Before the buyout, 21st Century Fox will separate the Fox Broadcasting network and stations, Fox News Channel, Fox Business Network, FS1, FS2 and Big Ten Network into a newly listed company that will be spun off to its shareholders.
Fox assets that will be sold to Disney, include the Twentieth Century Fox movie and cable networks.
Fox currently owns the rights to the X-Men and the Fantastic Four and has mixed success with both.
Under the mega-merger, Marvel (which is owned by Disney) will gain back the rights to two of its biggest properties from the comic books.

Disney will also assume about $18 billion ($US13.7 billion) of net debt of 21st Century Fox.
Disney Chief Executive Bob Iger, 66, will extend his tenure through the end of 2021 to oversee the integration of the Fox businesses.
He has already postponed his retirement from Disney three times. In March, he said he was committed to leaving the company in July 2019.
Mr Iger said he would work with Fox CEO James Murdoch on integrating the two companies, but he did not know what Mr Murdoch's role would be over the long term.
After integrating the companies, he said he would "continue to discuss with him whether there's a role for him here or not".
Rupert Murdoch said selling much of the 21st Century Fox entertainment businesses to Disney allowed what remained of his family's business to focus on American news and sports.
During a call with investors on Thursday, Mr Murdoch described the move as a return to the company's lean and aggressive roots.
Mr Murdoch, calling himself a "newsman with a competitive spirit", said Fox was "probably the strongest brand in all of television" and had not been hurt by losing some of its stars.
He said the new company would focus on live news and sports brands and the strength of the Fox network.
"I know a lot of you are wondering, 'Why did the Murdochs come to such a momentous decision?'" he said.
"Are we retreating? Absolutely not. We are pivoting at a pivotal moment."

James Murdoch is the son of Rupert Murdoch, who built 21st Century Fox and News Corp out of an inheritance from his father in Australia.
Rupert Murdoch has ostensibly already handed the reins over to a new generation at Fox.
His son James is CEO, while his other son, Lachlan, like Rupert, has the title of executive chairman.
The entertainment business is going through big changes with tech companies building video divisions and advertisers following consumer attention to the internet.
Disney is launching new streaming services, which could be helped with the addition of the Fox assets.
Having its own services will allow Disney to bypass the likes of Netflix and charge consumers directly for access to its massive content library.
ABC/wires


Ride-booking will become available in the Northern Territory early in the new year, after Hi Oscar secured approval from the Government.
The Perth-based company said it expected to have drivers on the road in Darwin and Alice Springs from February 1.
It comes after lengthy debate in the Territory, which ultimately saw rival company Uber abandon plans to set up shop, citing restrictive government regulations.
Hi Oscar founder Daniel Broughton said his company could meet the NT's requirements.
"Myself and the team behind me, we've worked really hard for a number of months at this," he said.
"To have it finally become a reality, we're super excited."

Minister for Infrastructure, Planning and Logistics Nicole Manison said the advent of ride-booking would bring the Territory in line with the rest of the country.
"We are are delivering on our promise to bring ride-sharing to the Territory," she said.
"For the public, our ride-sharing regulations provide Territorians with an additional safe and convenient transport option.
"For jobseekers or those wishing to supplement their income, ride-sharing is a great option to make some extra cash."
She said reduced taxi license fees taking effect from the start of February would help the industry remain competitive.
Hi Oscar drivers will have to apply for approval from the NT Government and pass police and medical checks.
The drivers will pay about $600 in license and insurance fees in the Territory, which Uber said would deter would-be ride-bookers.
But long-term taxi driver Les Whittaker said the cost did not compare to overheads for commercial operators.
"They're going to reduce [a Darwin taxi license] from $20,000 to $5,000 when ride-sharing comes in but it's still $5,000 that ride-share drivers don't have to pay," he said.
"And also they're going to bring in a $1 levy for every taxi fare and every ride-share trip, which the customer is going to have to pay.
"That's their way of recouping the money that they're losing from the license fees."
Hi Oscar's app is not able to process payments from Basics cards, which would prevent some people on income management from using the service.
"We need to implement that functionality," Mr Broughton said.
"It is something he envisage being able to accommodate in the future."
He said there were 23 drivers currently going through the registration process in Darwin and Alice Springs, two of whom are female.
Hi Oscar promotes the option of selecting a woman driver as an added safety consideration for female passengers.
The company said it hoped to have between 40 and 50 drivers registered by the time of launch in February.


Developers of a $20 million eco-tourism development on the Tasman Peninsula say the time is right to proceed, more than a decade after the idea was first floated.
The Remarkable Lodge at Crescent Bay received approval in 2008, but developer entrepreneur Dick Smith later shelved the project because of community opposition and a lack of State Government support.
He sold it to his daughter and son-in-law Hayley and James Baillie last year.
Mr Baillie said the 20-suite boutique accommodation would create more than 30 jobs.
"Tasmania has changed in terms of a destination considerably and so has the whole luxury lodge market," he said.
"It has been a long journey for us.
"If we go back in time luxury lodges really didn't exist in Australia and yet now they're probably the hottest part of the tourism sector."
The State Government has committed $1 million toward the project.
Premier Will Hodgman said the money was for infrastructure upgrades to get the project up and running.
"It will be contribution to the roadway, to water, sewerage infrastructure, for power," he said.
"We're prepared to back this exciting vision.
"It will add another jewel in the crown that is Tasmania's tourism industry."
Tasman Council Mayor Roseanne Heyward said it was exciting to see the project, which has council approval, move forward.
"It will be something that people can come to the region and find work or school leavers and young people to actually stay home if they want to and get work," she said.

Cr Heyward said State Government support had helped to revive the development.
"I think it has tipped James and Hayley Baillie over the line and it has just been the impetus they require to keep going," she said.
Mr and Mrs Baillie already run three luxury lodges across the country.
"It's full steam ahead from here," Mr Baillie said.
"The project is fully approved and we're now moving forward with fine tuning of the interior elements.
"We have had quite a lot of opposition in other places that we've developed.
"But I think we very much look forward to proving those people wrong and really showcasing what will be a sensitive development."


The car dealing industry needs an overhaul, the competition watchdog says, following its investigation into what it calls "systemic problems".

The Australian Competition & Consumer Commission (ACCC) released the findings of its 18-month investigation today, and said car manufacturers had a lot to answer for.
Its concerns included honouring warranties, accuracy around fuel consumption, and lack of information provided to independent repairers in order for them to do their job.
"In the past, these complaints have been raised. There's been a voluntary code. Our judgement is the voluntary code just has not worked," ACCC chairman Rod Sims said.
"In some categories, some manufacturers are better than others but then they fall down in other categories. But these are systemic problems."
Dishonest or inaccurate fuel-consumption and fuel-emission information was also highlighted in the investigation's findings.
"It can vary from 50 per cent for some vehicles or 5 per cent for others so consumers can't even rely on the relative fuel economy performance from the lab tests," Mr Sims said.
"They could be buying a car thinking it has low fuel economy when in fact it doesn't."
Mr Sims said the ACCC also found some manufacturers imposed unnecessarily complex warranty claim processes, often leading to car dealerships footing the bill.
"It is an issue we will be pursuing with governments, and we're very hopeful we can get change," he said.
George Moraitis runs an independent repair shop in Sydney's eastern suburbs, where over the past two years he has seen four local garages go out of business.
He attributes this to car manufacturers deliberately withholding technical information about their cars.

"Whether it's Holden, Ford, Toyota, they all withhold information," Mr Moraitis said.
"Obviously the dealers and manufacturers … want to keep the work in house.
"They don't want to release it to the after market. It's just their business strategy."
Mr Moraitis said he was frustrated all repair businesses in America and Europe were given the information, while the Australian industry was left in the dark.
"We need to follow the European or American model, where an independent workshop pays an annual fee and they get the same access to the same information and programming facilities that a dealer would," he said.
The ACCC report recommended the creation of a compulsory system for manufacturers to share such information with repairers.
"Now is the time for some form of regulation or legislation," Mr Sims said.
But Tony Weber, chief executive of the Federal Chamber of Automobile Industries, was dismissive of the ACCC's findings.
"I think after 18 months [the ACCC] still don't clearly understand the nuances of the automotive industry," Mr Weber said.
"I think this report's all predicated on a low level of concerns amongst consumers.
"There are 1.2 million cars sold in this country every year, and our understanding is there is an extremely low level of concern about those sales."


Westpac has committed to pay a total of $11 million in compensation to customers who held one of 13,000 owner-occupier, interest-only home loans affected by a mortgage processing error.
The error led to those customers continuing to make interest-only repayments on their loans, instead of being switched to principal and interest repayments at the end of their interest-only period.
The bank said the mistake predominantly affects loans with an interest-only period that expired between 2009 and 2016.
Westpac said it will start contacting affected owner-occupier customers from today and it expects the remediation process will take about 12 months to complete.
In a statement to the Australian Securities Exchange, Westpac revealed it notified the corporate regulator, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC), when the error was identified and worked closely with it on how to respond to the mistake.
The bank said loans through its subsidiaries — St George, Bank of Melbourne, Bank SA and RAMS — are not affected.
Westpac has apologised for the glitch.
"We want our customers to have confidence that if we get something wrong, we acknowledge it and put it right," the bank's chief executive of consumer banking, George Frazis, said.
"We apologise unreservedly for the error and have now automated the switching process to ensure it does not happen again.
"Importantly, customers don't need to do anything. We are contacting customers proactively and will provide compensation to anyone who we believe has been financially disadvantaged."
Accounting firm Deloitte has been engaged to assess Westpac's approach.
The bank has established a dedicated customer service line for customers with any queries on 1300 132 925.


South Australia's headline unemployment rate has risen above 6 per cent for the first time since July, despite the creation of 2,000 additional jobs in November.
The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose from 5.8 pre cent to 6.1 pre cent on the back of a sizable increase in the number of people looking for work.
Only Western Australia recorded a higher seasonally adjusted unemployment rate.
But on more stable trend figures, South Australia remained amid the pack with an unchanged unemployment rate of 5.8 pre cent — equal to Queensland, and marginally higher than Victoria.
Despite the closure of Adelaide's car industry in October, growth in full-time work continued, with more than 8,000 new full-time positions created, on a seasonally-adjusted basis.
Employment Minister Kyam Maher said the trend rate was comparable to other states.
"We are in a better position than I think a lot of people thought we were going to be in with the closure of Holden," he said.
"But there is still a lot more work to be done, what it does indicate though that we're heading in the right direction is over the last 12 months, South Australia's recorded a bigger drop in its unemployment rate than anywhere else."
In October, South Australia's unemployment rate settled below 6 per cent for the first time in four years, a day ahead of the loss of nearly 1,000 Holden jobs.
With the carmaker's closure imminent, the Government pointed to strong investment across the state, including the sale of steelmaker Arrium to the GFC Alliance, $900 million invested into the Carrapateena copper mine by OZ Minerals, and Solar Reserve's $650 million solar thermal investment at Port Augusta.
The Liberal Opposition highlighted there were 10,200 fewer full-time jobs than there were in February 2010.


The Commonwealth Bank's ongoing woes around alleged systematic money laundering operations by criminal gangs and terrorists have deepened, with fresh claims the contraventions are continuing.

The allegations were raised as AUSTRAC filed a further 100 alleged breaches of Anti-Money Laundering/Counter Terrorism Financing (AML/CTF) as part of the existing Federal Court proceeding being run by the Government's financial transactions watchdog.
The damning new evidence alleges the CBA's breaches of AML/CTF laws have continued longer than first thought and AUSTRAC still was not being told about suspicious matter transactions well into this year.
The investigation centres on CBA's ATM network, or "intelligent deposit machines" (IDMs), and the bank's failure to monitor risks within the system.
In one case, a client who had been convicted of terrorism charges in Lebanon, and was known to have tried to organise funding for terrorist acts in Australia, was given 30 days' notice of the closure of his CBA account before AUSTRAC was even alerted.
He also managed to withdraw funds from the account more than a week after it was supposedly closed.
"On 20 July 2017, CommBank erroneously processed a transfer of $5,000 from CommBank Account 184 [the alleged terrorist funder] to an account held by Person 138 [his brother] in Lebanon in spite of suspecting terrorism financing in relation to an identical attempted transfer on 19 June 2017," AUSTRAC's new court statement alleged.
"Even though this was the second attempted international money transfer to Beirut that was suspected to be linked to terrorism financing, CommBank did not put a stop on CommBank Account 184 at this point.
"In spite of concluding on 26 June 2017, that potential terrorism financing was being conducted on CommBank Account 184, a stop was not put on CommBank Account 184 until 9 August 2017."
Even after that, nine days after the account was supposedly closed, $6,225 was withdrawn from the account of 184 at CBA's Bankstown Central branch.
In another instance, CBA failed to notify AUSTRAC about the actions of a drugs and firearms syndicate, which allegedly laundered $42 million through CBA ATMs and IDMs between 9 March 2016 and 8 August 2016.
NSW Police allege that the money mules would launder the money by making cash deposits into numerous bank accounts through branches, ATMs and IDMs.
"The money mules made structured cash deposits into the CommBank accounts identified ... to launder the funds of the drug and firearms syndicate," AUSTRAC alleged.
Under the act, CBA is required to alert AUSTRAC's chief executive within three days of any suspicious transactions brought to its attention.
The police received the details of the suspicious transactions on May 3. AUSTRAC is still waiting.
"At no time has CommBank given the AUSTRAC CEO an SMR [suspicious matter report] in relation to the matters," the statement noted.
The 100 new alleged contraventions take the total number of breaches under scrutiny to 53,800.
While not a big percentage increase, the worry for the bank is AUSTRAC's very dim view of work being done to remedy the systemic problem.
"After IDMs were first rolled out in May 2012 there were at least six periods of time within which CommBank should have, but did not, follow the procedures set out [for money laundering/terrorism funding risk management]," AUSTRAC's statement argued.
"The contravention is ongoing."

The new statement of claim also highlights a number of new instances where AUSTRAC was not informed of suspicious transactions, despite demands from state police for details of a number of suspicious transactions and red flags being raised within the bank itself.
That was in June this year.
"These allegations are very serious and reflect systemic non-compliance over approximately six years", AUSTRAC chief executive Nicole Rose said.
The fresh allegations follow many of the themes pursued in the original 600 page statement of claim, but are distilled down to four key points according to AUSTRAC:
The maximum penalty for each individual contravention alleged in the amended statement of claim is up to $21 million.
CBA said it will review the amended statement of claim and update the market as appropriate.
"We will file an amended defence in due course," CBA said in a statement released to stock exchange.
Despite AUSTRAC's assertions that breaches were ongoing, the bank said it had significantly upgraded and expanded its operations to ensure compliance with the AML/CTF Act.
"During 2017 we have stepped up the rigour and intensity of the program and extended it across all aspects of financial crime obligations and all business units to further strengthen regulatory compliance," CBA said.
In its response to AUSTRAC's initial allegations, the bank admitted it had failed to properly assess money laundering and terrorist funding risk adequately and issue suspicious matter reports in a timely matter before October 2015.
"CBA will submit that the extent of that harm should be assessed in the context of the significant number of SMRs issued in respect of the customers in question above and the fact that a number of the SMR contraventions relate to information itself derived from law enforcement," the bank said in a submission filed with the Federal Court.
AML/CTF law specialist and Latrobe University professor Louis de Koker said it was dangerous to speculate about what CBA should have done or what AUSTRAC would do.
"[However] some of CBA's risk management failures were basic and serious," Professor de Koker said.
He said CBA's admissions it failed to comply with an agreed program to manage and mitigate ML/TF risk were a particular concern.
"Those admissions are extraordinary," he said.
Thomson Reuters regional head of regulatory intelligence Nathan Lynch said the latest allegations around terrorist funding were a large escalation of the issue for the CBA.
"These are the most important issues to report under the AML/CTF regime and businesses have to file these with AUSTRAC within 24 hours," Mr Lynch said.
He argued the expansion of AUSTRAC's claim would ratchet up the pressure on CBA to settle.
"It's highly likely that both parties are already in discussions about the appropriate penalty and any other remedies the bank might have to undertake," he said.
"CBA has already admitted to the vast majority of the breaches, so there would be little to be gained for either side by taking this to trial.
"Any settlement with AUSTRAC would be dependent on the board overhauling the ambivalent risk culture that it believes had permeated the bank.
"Reading the claim, the regulator seems to think that culture built up over a period of years."
Editor's Note: While the CBA does not dispute a convicted terrorist used its accounts on two occasions to transfer money to Beirut, Lebanon, the transaction was reversed a week later after a CBA search revealed the potential terrorism link.


Don't get too excited just yet over the National Broadband Network's price drop — some experts say it might not make much of a difference to your current internet speeds.

The announcement today was part of a push to improve the reputation of the troubled NBN project.
Philippa Perry, spokeswoman for NBN Co, said they expected it would help improve the experience of people on the NBN network.
"Obviously there are a lot of other factors that can influence people's speeds and experiences — this is one way," she said.
"It's not a silver bullet by any means. But we believe that it will go some way to improving that experience for people."
The NBN Co will drop the price of internet plans it sells to service providers.
The intention is to encourage service providers to offer faster speeds to customers at a reasonable price.
However NBN Co could not guarantee customers would get cheaper or faster internet, saying the responsibility for any price cut fell to the providers themselves.
"It's really up to the retailers as to whether they choose to take on these packages," Ms Perry said.
"One question that I would suggest consumers ask their retailer is are they going to buy these products from NBN, and if so, what are the savings going to be and what sort of retail prices are they going to be put on to them.
"Already a couple of the retailers have taken up the immediate bandwidth boost and that's really positive to see from our perspective."

Ms Perry denied the announcement was an acknowledgment the previous pricing system was flawed.
"We've been selling packages on the NBN [since] 2010, I guess we've now reached volume and scale and we've really seen the way that the market is operating," she said.
Ms Perry said so far 85 per cent of NBN consumers had chosen packages of 25 mbps or less.
"We want to really unleash the capabilities of the NBN network and show them what it's capable of, so this is one way of incentivising them to buy higher-speed packages," she said.
"And also to incentivise the retailer to provide them with more bandwidth at peak hours when internet speeds can slow down a fair bit."
Rachel Thomas, senior policy adviser for the Australian Communications Consumer Action Network (ACCAN), said she supported the NBN price drop.
However, she warned consumers already on a contract not to wait to be offered the cheaper deal by their providers.
"That'll depend on each retailer, they don't have to offer these plans," she said.

"Some may not offer them at all, some may do a mixture of both the old and the new.
"So we do encourage consumers to check regularly that the plan that they are on suits their need."
She suggested consumers keep an eye out during 2018 for any new plans on offer.
And she said consumers should speak to their retailer to find out whether they were on the best plan.
"There are a lot of providers out there, so if you see a plan that has better prices or better speed then there are a lot of options for consumers to choose from," Ms Thomas said.
Nicholas Demos, the CEO of internet service provider My Republic, said while he was glad for the price drop, he doubted it would flow on to customers.
"I don't feel it's going to make for cheaper internet, but what it will make for is better service for customers," he said.
"So what the NBN have done is made the price for the 50 [mbps] speed for you the same as the 25.
"So instead for customers when they buy the price point of the 25, they'll now be getting the 50 speed. So it's better-level services at a better speed."
Service providers would still be able to buy the slower, more expensive plans from the NBN, even when the new pricing structure is brought in midway through next year.
Mr Demos said he was unsure whether his fellow service providers would choose to take up the NBN's new offer.
"We need to wait and see what all the existing service providers do — whether or not they give their customers a free speed boost," he said.
Major internet retailers Optus and Telstra have released statements saying they were reviewing the new pricing model, and would provide feedback to NBN Co.


The Australian dollar has jumped to 76.66 US cents, following the US Federal Reserve's rate hike and strong Australian job figures.
The local currency has surged by 1.2 per cent in the last 24 hours.
The dollar rally is understandable in the context of the ABS's latest job numbers, which blew the market's expectations out of the water.
The data showed that 62,000 new jobs were created in November when only 18,000 were expected.
What's more surprising is why the US dollar dropped against a basket of currencies (including the Australian dollar).
After all, the Fed's decision to lift interest rates by 25 basis points for the third time this year was meant to signify its vote of confidence in the US economy and makes the US a more attractive destination for investors.
One reason why the US dollar dropped is persistently weak inflation in America, said NAB currency strategist Rodrigo Catril.
He said this was evident in the weaker-than-expected US consumer price index overnight.

According to the Department of Labor, headline inflation was in-line with market expectations, up by 0.4 per cent last month (which translates to 2.2 per cent annual growth).
But core inflation (which excludes food and energy from its calculation) disappointed the market, lifting by only 0.1 per cent in November (instead of the expected 0.2 per cent).
This takes annual core inflation to 1.7 per cent, which undershoots the Fed's 2 per cent target.
The Fed attributes low inflation to one-off factors.
"Hurricane-related disruptions and rebuilding have affected economic activity, employment and inflation in recent months but have not materially altered the outlook for the national economy," it noted in its post-meeting statement.
But there was a hint of caution in its language, when it said the "near-term risks to the economic outlook appear roughly balanced, but the committee is monitoring inflation developments closely."
Another reason Mr Catril suggested for the greenback's slide was the "dovish rate hike" by the Federal Reserve.
"Many were expecting the Fed to announce its expectation of four interest rate hikes next year," he explained.
However, the US central bank simply stuck to its previous forecast — three more hikes in each of 2018 and 2019.

It is almost as if the market did not believe the Fed's message when it said (in its post-meeting statement): "Economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and labour market conditions will remain strong".
"The Fed appears to lack a certain credibility with the market," said Axitrader's chief market strategist said Greg McKenna.
He also noted the greenback's weakness "makes little sense when taken against a backdrop of a US Fed tightening, a strong signal of more, and a positive outlook for the economy in the year and years ahead".
"Market pricing suggests they [traders] don't believe the Fed's outlook nor its rate projections".
Tonight's monetary policy decisions from the Bank of England and European Central Bank could be the next triggers for the Australian dollar's movements.
The BOE is not expected to announce a rate hike, as it only lifted UK interest rates last month (for the first time in more than a decade).
As for the ECB, the market will be paying close attention to whether it revises next year's European inflation forecast.
"In September, the ECB forecast that inflation would decline next year," NAB's Mr Catril said.
"But, since then, there has been buoyant economic data and expectations that the 2018-2020 inflation forecasts might be revised upwards."
He believes that, if that upgrade happens, it would put downward pressure on the Australian dollar.
"Our forecast is that the Australian dollar will will trade between 70 and 75 US cents next year," Mr Catril said.
"In the first quarter, we expect it to trend lower towards 73 cents, and then 72 cents later in the year."
He said NAB's forecast is downbeat because it isn't expecting "a very strong start of the year for commodities, which may not get much support from China compared to the past".

But a lot of the currency movements may be dictated by improving foreign economies — particularly the United States.
If the Republicans are able to enact President Donald Trump's much-touted tax reforms, it could potentially boost the greenback.
The Federal Reserve expects the corporate tax cuts may boost the economy in 2018, but leave no lasting impact.
But if the Fed continues to lift interest rates next year, it would make US currency investment more attractive than Australia's.
Australia's official interest rate is currently at a record low 1.5 per cent — and has been that way for more than a year.
In comparison, the US rate rose to 1.25-1.5 per cent with today's Fed hike.
All it would take is one more Fed rate hike before investors get equal or better returns from US investments.


Clare Sheng was determined to stay out of her family's clothing alteration business.
She can still recall every detail about the chores she endured inside the busy Rose Arcade workshop throughout her school years.
On a good day she would get to help her mum deliver mended clothes to some of Brisbane's finest retailers.

On other days she'd find herself elbow deep in dirty dish water, scrubbing tea, coffee and noodles off mugs and bowls piled high in the shop's only sink.
Almost 20 years later — and after vowing to never find work there — the young pharmacist is taking her mother's alteration business to new heights.
Ms Sheng is the director of The Fitting Room, Queensland's largest independent clothing alteration business.
Since joining her mother's business in 2011, she has doubled its revenue, changed its name, relocated the workshop, and attracted an impressive list of high-end clients.
This year she also took home awards recognising her business acumen, multiculturalism and contribution to the fashion industry.
"Every garment that you're fixing is like a problem you're solving for someone, and every solution is different," she told ABC Radio Brisbane.
"When people leave in their perfectly fitting garments they feel really good about themselves and they're very grateful to you."
Ms Cheng looks at ease inside the latest incarnation of the shop, darting between the front-of-house styling rooms and a white-walled workshop in the back; a cordless phone is glued to one ear.
But this isn't where she envisioned she would be after finishing her studies at the University of Queensland.
"As a Chinese girl everyone says, 'Go do pharmacy. It's a good job, it's stable, you can go have a baby and come back, you'll always have a job'.
"But when I started working I found I didn't actually enjoy it.
"You were either a pharmacist or a pharmacy owner and that's it — there's nowhere else to go."

Despite promising to never return, she found herself back at the family business after putting her pharmacy career on hold to start a family.
"As soon as I left pharmacy I knew I was never going back," Ms Sheng said.
"There was a eureka moment when I thought, 'Actually, I really like this and I can turn this business into something quite big', and that's when I started to take on the business role fully."
Ms Sheng said the clothing alteration industry had a better reputation now than it did when her mother arrived in Australia in 1999.
Wei Ping Yu grew up in China during the Cultural Revolution and migrated to Australia with her 11-year-old daughter in search of a better life.

Despite having limited English and struggling to make ends meet as a single mother, Ms Yu made a name for herself in the clothing alteration industry and started Brisbane City Clothing Alterations in 2008.
"Back then not everyone was used to having non-English speakers around," Ms Sheng said.
"There were a lot of difficult situations at school, in public and especially for my mum at work ... especially being in the clothing alterations trade which is quite low on the social ladder."
While Ms Sheng said she struggled with bullying at school, her mother faced it in the workplace.
"I have seen with my own eyes people treating her really badly," she said.
"We worked with a lot of high-end retailers and they would close the door in my mum's face while opening the door for a rich customer."
When Ms Sheng took a more active role in the business she realised her mother's attention to detail and relationships with clients were the qualities destined to turn its image around.
"She was the best at what she does but she devalued herself because clients have always treated her badly.
"She would only tell people, 'I can do this cheaper, I can do this faster', which is putting herself down when she can provide the best service and the best quality work."

Now she is committed to giving other marginalised workers an opportunity to join the industry.
"A lot of the staff we hire are from overseas; we have refugees and women who are coming back after staying at home for a number of years.
"There is no class system and there is no need to think someone is better than someone else."
Ms Sheng will release a book in 2018 advising men how to wear, style and care for suits.
She also launched a men's styling service this month to show clients how to improve their clothing and business etiquette.
Creating these new ventures was a matter of necessity.
Ms Sheng said she was forced to look for other income streams when fashion retail sales started to suffer three years ago.
"A lot of our clients were closing down, they were selling a lot less clothing, and that directly affected our business," she said.
"That's when I started to take more proactive action to try and get more clients by teaching them the value of dressing well."
The business's founder, Ms Yu, has stepped back from day-to-day alteration work and is now a part-time consultant who, conveniently, lives around the corner from her daughter.
And, bucking the trend of second-generation succession etiquette, Ms Sheng said her advice was always welcome.
"If I'm ever scared of trying something new she would say, 'Well I started the business with no money, no English and no education. If I can do it, you can do it'."


The competition watchdog will oppose the sale of more than 500 Woolworths-owned service stations to rival BP, amid concerns it would push up petrol prices.
BP currently supplies fuel to 1,400 BP-branded service stations around Australia, setting prices at about 350 of them.
It had planned to acquire the 531 service stations currently operated by Woolworths to add to that network.
However, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) said BP service stations currently averaged higher prices than Woolworths ones, and the acquisition would lessen that competition from the supermarket giant and probably push prices higher.
"BP prices at premium levels, whereas Woolworths is a strong price competitor," ACCC chairman Rod Sims told ABC News.
"So you find that BP's prices in the major capital cities are anywhere between 1.5 and 3 cents a litre greater than Woolworths.


"Fuel is such an important component of people's income and welfare that even a 1 to 2 cent a litre increase does matter," he said.
"So we think that is substantial and therefore meets the hurdle of a substantial lessening of competition."
However, Mr Sims said the difference in prices between Woolworths and BP could be even bigger at certain times in certain areas.
"It could be larger when you get the interplay of those [discounting] cycles," he added.
One of the reasons that BP has higher prices is that it supplies fuel to more than 1,000 independently operated service stations and does not want its own outlets to be seen to be consistently undercutting its wholesale customers.
"We believe it makes them a little more constrained in lowering prices because they would be seen then to compete with entities that are selling their fuel," Mr Sims explained.


Despite strong signals that the US economy is on the mend, Wall Street had a mixed day.

While the Dow Jones (+0.3pc) closed at a fresh record, the S&P 500 (-0.1pc) fell slightly below its breakeven point.
The S&P was dragged down by the financials sector (-1.3pc), which had its worst day since early-November.
The Nasdaq traded 0.2 per cent higher, driven by stocks in the healthcare sector (+0.3pc).
The Federal Reserve raised interest rates by 0.25 per cent on Thursday morning.
This is the third US rate hike this year, with the Federal Funds Rate now at 1.25-1.5 per cent.
The Fed projected three more hikes in each of 2018 and 2019 before a long-run level of 2.8 percent is reached — which is unchanged from the last round of forecasts in September.
"Economic activity has been rising at a solid rate...job gains have been solid," the Fed's policy-setting committee said in a statement.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen, in her last press conference before her four-year term ends early next year, pointed to the Trump administration's proposed tax overhaul as the impetus for an upgrade of policymakers' economic growth forecasts.
The Fed now sees gross domestic product growing 2.5 per cent in 2018, up from the 2.1 percent forecast in September.
"Most of my colleagues factored in the prospect of fiscal stimulus, along the lines of what is contemplated by Congress, into their projections," she said.
But Dr Yellen said the precise impact of the tax plan, which includes a sharp reduction in corporate income taxes, depended on various factors.
"While changes in tax policy will likely provide some lift to economic activity in coming years, the magnitude and timing of the macroeconomic effects of any tax package remain uncertain," she said.
The US Senate and House of Representatives have made progress with reconciling their competing tax reform bills.
Congressional Republicans reached a deal on the final form of the bill, the US Senate's top Republican tax writer said on Wednesday.
"I think we've got a pretty good deal," Senate Finance Committee chairman Orrin Hatch told reporters.
This would see the corporate tax cut would be slashed to 21 per cent — far below the present headline rate of 35 per cent.
Further details of the agreed legislation were not yet available, and a final bill could be formally unveiled as soon as Friday.
If President Donald Trump can sign the bill before year's end, it would be the first major legislative victory for him and the Republicans since they took control of the White House.
The ASX is expected to track Wall Street's solid performance, and open higher today.
The Australian dollar is considerably stronger, having risen 1 per cent to 76.33 US cents.
This is due to "broad‑based US dollar weakness", said Commonwealth Bank's Elias Haddad.
Mr Haddad believes there is room for the local currency to make further gains due to "favourable Australian employment conditions" and "encouraging Chinese November economic activity".
According to economists polled by Reuters, 18,000 new jobs will be created in November, the participation rate will remain steady at 65.1 per cent, and unemployment will be unchanged at 5.4 per cent.
Also out today is China's latest retail sales, fixed asset investment and industrial production figures.
with Reuters


The New South Wales Treasurer's attempt to sell his mid-year budget update has been overshadowed by questions about the Government's $2-billion stadiums plan.
The surplus for this financial year is now predicted to grow more than $600 million to $3.3 billion despite plummeting stamp duty revenue projections.
But Treasurer Dominic Perrottet was peppered with questions from journalists about whether spending $2 billion rebuilding both the Sydney Olympic and Sydney Football stadiums was the right move.
It is understood Mr Perrottet was among a number of senior Cabinet ministers who previously opposed the size of the stadium spend, but this morning he defended the plan.
"We have an Opposition that talks about schools before stadiums. But what I say is schools and stadiums," he said.
"And what you'll get under Labor is no schools and no hospitals, no stadiums because they left NSW with a $35 million infrastructure backlog."
Unveiling the surplus projections at a business breakfast in Sydney, Mr Perrottet said transfer duties were now predicted to bring in $461 million less this financial year than was forecast in the June budget.

He said the drop was driven by the large number of first home buyers taking advantage of the stamp duty exemptions announced just before the budget.
In the five months since the scheme began, 13,672 people have received stamp duty concessions, the Treasurer said.
"I am very happy to lose money to achieve that policy objective of getting young families into the market for the first time," he said.
Mr Perrottet also acknowledged the cooling property market was having an impact, noting that the average price of residential properties sold in 2017-18 was forecast to be only about 1.8 per cent higher than the average price for 2016-17.
But he said that had largely been factored into the budget projections in June.
"There is no doubt there are significant challenges and the best thing we can do is keep our fiscal discipline," Mr Perrottet said.
However, the projected drop in transfer duty revenue has been partly offset by higher-than-forecast payroll and land tax revenue due to an increase in full-time jobs and land values.
GST revenue is now predicted to be $119 million higher than forecast.
But overall, the Government is now expecting to make $149 million less in taxation revenue this financial year than it was predicting in June.
At the same time it has slashed its expenditure forecast for the year by $676.8 million for the financial year, largely by shifting the timing of expenditure across the forward estimates.


For hundreds of years, people have described showy or insubstantial schemes using a foamy metaphor: Jonathan Swift described the doomed South Sea Company as a "mighty bubble", Victorian-era slang dictionaries call fraudulent assurance promoters "bubble-men".

In the strictly economic sense, though, bubbles are attested from the late 19th century. There's just one problem: even today, economists can't agree on what constitutes one.
"Most people think they know it when they see it," says Timo Henckel, lecturer at the Australian National University's research school of economics.
Even, he says, if they can't describe it to you.
Experts generally agree that a bubble is created whenever any asset sees an extraordinary increase in price over a relatively short time span.
After that definitions get tricky: for a bubble to exist, the price of an asset must be divorced from its real value.
"Now the question is, what is that benchmark? No one can really agree," Dr Henckel says.
Sally Auld, chief economist at JP Morgan, says bubbles can occur in just about any asset, though they're more likely to occur when the asset itself is novel or poorly understood.
"The [1990s] tech bubble was a good example, because it started with new technology … people were unsure about what would happen in the future, and so rules around valuation went out the window," she says.
Easy access to credit from banks can further assist the creation of bubbles, Ms Auld says.
In her view, bubbles are most often found at the end of economic expansions, once people have lived through a period of sustained market optimism.
"Humans being what they are, they're conditioned to almost believe that the good times will last forever," she says.
Asset bubbles aren't unprecedented in history — the Dutch experienced tulipmania in the 16th century, and the Great Depression of the 1920s was caused by inflated stock prices.
For a while, though, it seemed the latter half of the 20th century might have overcome the asset volatility, high inflation and cycles of booms and crashes that had characterised previous eras.
"This belief has been shattered over the past 30 years," says Preston Teeter, a lecturer of international business at the University of South Australia.
In the 1980s Japan experienced one of the largest bubbles the world had ever seen, Dr Teeter says.
When it popped, house prices dropped by about 70 per cent.
"Their stock market, 30 years later almost, still has not recovered," Dr Teeter says.
Similar examples abound: in the early 2000s, the NASDAQ, a tech-heavy stock index in the United States, dropped by about 80 per cent over a two-year period following the dot com boom.
Some years later, the global financial crisis was itself precipitated by an asset bubble, in this case US housing.
"We've seen enormous bubbles in real estate, stocks and bonds," Dr Teeter says.
"What we've seen over the past 15 years is unprecedented in terms of scale and scope."
People expect economic theory to behave like Newtonian physics: clearly articulated forces operating in a defined manner to produce an expected outcome.
But Dr Henckel says a more fitting scientific parallel might be plate tectonics.

"A geologist would be able to point out where there is friction between two tectonic plates," he says, which is of no help to those trying to predict when the bubble might burst.
"Is the next earthquake going to be the one that relieves all the pressure?"
Even if people mange to identify when a bubble will burst, they aren't always listened to. Pundits looking at US tech stock valuations had doubts early as 1994, Dr Teeter says.
"You had sceptics in the media saying that this was a bubble," he says.
The market climbed exponentially before crashing, with the NASDAQ index returning to its pre-bubble value by 2003.
"A lot of these early sceptics look quite foolish on the way up," Dr Teeter says.
"These early sceptics are often right, but they're usually right much too early."
When a bubble does arrive, nations face an unenviable task. To extend the bubbly metaphor: banks, regulators and governments must take some of the air out of the bubble (reducing overvaluation of an asset) without popping it completely (destroying the stock and/or housing markets).
Ms Auld says central banks essentially have two levers to pull: raising interest rates, and tightening lending conditions.

"When you hike rates, that affects everyone with a floating rate mortgage. When you use macroprudential tools, what you're trying to do is affect the marginal borrower — the next person that walks into a bank and wants to borrow," she says.
But Ms Auld says neither lever is particularly easy to pull.
"You can't totally choke off credit to the system ... [and] the macroeconomy is just not robust enough to withstand a couple of great hikes," she says.
In Australia, the Reserve Bank has held interest rates steady for 13 consecutive ratings periods, which Ms Auld isn't surprised by.
"I don't really think they had much other option," she says.
For the Dr Henckel, prevention beats the cure.
"I would like to see more debate about possible policies to limit the build up of bubbles in the first place," he says.
That means countries taking a closer look at what kind of assets are likely to be targets of speculative behaviour, and whether that might affect the economy more broadly.
"Anyone who's followed the price activity in Bitcoin at the moment cannot help but think that this is a bubble," Dr Henckel says.
"Does this mean that the government should do something about Bitcoin? No, it's too small, it's too contained — but if you've got bubbles in the wider stock market or the housing market in particular then that should be a concern to policy makers."


The Salvation Army is defending its decision to back a Coca-Cola marketing campaign slammed by health groups as "cynical".
Last month a Coca-Cola truck embarked on a tour of regional Queensland and New South Wales, handing out gifts along the way as part of a Christmas-themed promotion.
Health groups have criticised the campaign as nothing more than a marketing exercise targeting communities with already-high obesity rates.
"It's actually using people who are on hard times, communities who are on hard times to sell their product, and I actually think it stinks," Michael Moore, the chief executive of the Public Health Association of Australia, said.
"The notion you would have sugary soft drinks supporting Christmas greetings and targeting children really is pushing the barrel too far."
But Salvation Army communications and fundraising director Leigh Cleave said the organisation was satisfied with the benefits of its relationship.
"The connections and the legacies that [Coca-Cola] left in each community, be they sporting equipment, community halls being done up, was really quite significant," Mr Cleave said.

"At one of the events that I was at, they had a feast on the beach with families and beautiful, wonderful healthy food and salads, and some people that we work with who struggle during the year were at this feast.
"We know that things like this don't solve people's problems, but at times like this at Christmas, when they can feel that someone's done something quite magical and special for them, that's something that is important to us."
Mount Isa Mayor Joyce McCulloch, said she did not have a problem when it visited her community.
"I think it's a wonderful initiative, considering that it's actually a European initiative and Coca-Cola have opted to bring their truck to Australia," Councillor McCulloch said.
Responding to health and parents' group's concerns, she said she had only had positive feedback about the tour.

"It's up to parents to control the negative side of what Coca-Cola actually does do, but it's not for me as a parent to tell other parents how to raise their children," she said.
In a statement, a Coca-Cola spokesperson said the locations the truck visited, which included Tamworth and Townsville, were independently identified as deserving communities.
They also said Coke had strict protocols about not marketing its products to children and served low-sugar drinks at Christmas truck events.
But the Public Health Association's Mr Moore said that did not allay his overall concerns.
"The reality is when we see Coke, people think of the normal Coke — the one they've been selling for a century — which has such a high content of sugar," he said.
"So I think that's the real concern. It's not as much what [Coca-Cola] are doing on the spot as their constant marketing and targeting of children."
So far, 14 health promotion organisations, including the Australian Dental Association, have signed a petition to stop the truck's tour.


Investors are bracing for a share market reaction after the Commonwealth Bank (CBA) admitted it breached Australia's money laundering and counter-terrorism regulations and indicated more charges could be brought against it.
Months after Australia's money laundering regulator, AUSTRAC, launched legal action against CBA, Australia's biggest bank has admitted it breached statutory disclosure laws more than 53,000 times.
AUSTRAC has indicated  it proposes to file an amended statement of claim containing additional alleged contraventions, CBA said in a statement to the ASX.
CBA said it would defend more than 100 more serious allegations regarding its alleged failure to disclose suspicious transactions.
The bank potentially faces multi-million-dollar fines. The matter is next due in court on March 16 next year.
AUSTRAC accused the CBA of failing to flag more than 53,000 transactions which exceeded a $10,000 limit and passed through its smart ATMs between November 2012 and September 2015.

In October, law firm Maurice Blackburn and litigation funder IMF Bentham filed a statement of claim in the Federal Court in Melbourne saying the CBA board knew of the potential breaches in the second half of 2015 and failed to inform shareholders for two years.
The class action is on behalf of all shareholders who bought CBA shares between July 2015 and August 3, 2017.
Top executives at the bank, including outgoing chief executive Ian Narev and current board chairwoman Catherine Livingstone, have been singled out in the class action as knowing about the compliance issues but failing to act.


Australia's energy market operator has today come close to triggering one of its emergency measures to prevent summer blackouts.
With high temperatures forecast for Adelaide, the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) contacted at least one South Australian company to tell it to be prepared to temporarily shut down.
A cool change, which arrived earlier than expected, meant that the company didn't need to follow through.

South Australian metal foundry Intercast and Forge is an electricity hungry business, with a power bill of about $8 million a year.
It's a key part of AEMO's plan.
Today it was contacted by AEMO and asked if it was "ready and willing to turn off this afternoon".
Intercast and Forge could get as little as 10 minutes notice from the AEMO.
"The regulator will give us a call or a text message, they will ask us to turn off at least 10 megawatts of power," foundry general manager Brett Lawrence told 7.30.
"What will happen then, for our factory, is it will shut down for up to four hours.
"What that will mean for the rest of the grid is there's far less likely to have rolling blackouts through the grid."
The foundry will be paid about $350,000 to shut down.
It is one of eight companies taking part in a $36-million so-called demand response trial.
"It's really going to be a bag of tricks that enables the system to be far more secure," Mr Lawrence said.
"So I think it's not a band-aid, it's actually a good way in which all the parties in the market can work together."

AEMO is on high alert after criticism of its management last summer, particularly after South Australia's statewide blackout and when power was deliberately cut to homes during a February heatwave.
The situation became even more acute when Victoria's 1,600-megawatt Hazelwood power station closed in March.
Apart from industry shut-downs, AEMO is bringing on new gas generation.
"We've gone out and gotten additionally, essentially close to 2,000 megawatts extra of resources that are going to be available to us," chief executive Audrey Zibelman said .
"It's those resources that are going to be replacing Hazelwood.
"Compared to last summer we feel like we've done everything we can and have done all the right things to make sure the system is ready."


The South Australian Government claims $700 million worth of water, transport and hospital infrastructure projects could be delayed because of a political stand-off over the cost of creating a state-owned power station.
The Liberal Opposition is seeking to use Parliament's Public Works Committee to force the Government to reveal the cost of buying nine turbine generators, which the Government intends to use to build a 276 megawatt back-up power plant.
The Government is refusing to outline the precise cost of the generators — which are currently installed under a lease agreement at Elizabeth and Lonsdale — citing the terms of its contract with the generators' owner APR Energy.
Liberal MPs David Pisoni and Peter Treloar staged a walk out of last week's Public Works Committee meeting after Labor committee members rejected the Liberals' push to bring the power plant project back before the committee.
Mr Pisoni, the shadow infrastructure minister, has flagged his intention to recall the power plant project when the committee meets again on Thursday.
"It's critical that I as a member of Parliament use the mechanisms available to me to force this Government to be open and transparent," he said.
"We know that they are hostile to transparency, and even more so in the lead up to [the March] election. The facts are that South Australians need to know."
But Infrastructure Minister Stephen Mullighan said another walk-out by Liberal committee members would mean more than a dozen government projects would not be approved.
"This is completely unacceptable. We've got a dozen projects worth $700 million together which will support hundreds of South Australian jobs, dozens of South Australian businesses," he said.
"The Liberal Party once again is showing they don't believe in investment in infrastructure in South Australia."

Mr Mullighan said the projects included the State 3 redevelopment of the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, the Northern Irrigation Scheme, Gawler Rail Electrification Project and a number of metropolitan intersection upgrades.
"These elected members are refusing to do their job, refusing to turn up to a parliamentary committee meeting and approve these projects."
Mr Pisoni said walking out of a committee meeting was a legitimate method of forcing the Government to release costing details.
"If the Government thinks secrecy ... and a lack of transparency are much more important than building these projects — we will build them if there's a change of government come March."
Mr Mullighan branded the Opposition's move as a stunt, adding that details of the cost of the power plant had been provided to committee members on a confidential basis back in August.
"They know what the cost is. They know we're going to release these costs publicly. This is only a stunt by the Liberal Party so that they don't have to back investment in infrastructure around South Australia," he said.

But Mr Pisoni said the figures given to the committee in August did not square with Premier Jay Weatherill's recent pronouncements that the cost of the generators would be met from within the budgeted cost of his Government's $550 million energy plan.
"That is not the information that we received in camera back in August. So this is why it's critical that this project be returned to the Public Works Committee," Mr Pisoni said.
Mr Mullighan said the full cost of the generators would be revealed in "a matter of weeks" once APR Energy had concluded tendering processes for a number of other projects interstate.


Although consumer confidence has jumped to a four-year high in the lead-up to Christmas, there are no guarantees this will translate into more spending.

This is due to slow wages growth, a low savings rate and high household debt levels, according to Westpac and the Melbourne Institute in their latest monthly consumer report.
Sentiment rose 3.6 per cent to 103.3 points in December — a result which improves on its November result (99.7) and a slump in consumer spending during the September quarter.
A result above 100 points means, out of the 1,200 people surveyed for the report, there were more optimists than pessimists.
"This is a surprisingly strong result and confirms the lift we have seen in the index over the last three months," said Westpac's chief economist Bill Evans.
These findings come after NAB's business survey out yesterday revealed a sharp drop in business conditions.
Mr Evans believes a "less threatening outlook for interest rates" is one reason behind the boost in confidence.

"During that September quarter households were spooked by media and many commentators saying that interest rates were likely to start rising in the new year," he said.
"That effect has now calmed down significantly."
In fact, Westpac's position is that the Reserve Bank is unlikely to raise interest rates until 2019.
Mr Evans suggested recent developments in Australian politics are other reasons behind the bounce in consumer confidence.
In particular, he said there was probably a "feelgood effect" for consumers after the Federal Government passed marriage equality legislation last week.
This was in addition to the speculation that the Government may introduce personal and business tax cuts next year.
The Commonwealth Bank welcomed the latest consumer confidence results.
"Household spending accounts for around 60 per cent of the economy," said CBA senior economist Kristina Clifton.
"So households being able to maintain a decent rate of spending growth is a key requirement for the economy to be able to meet our and the RBA's forecasts for GDP growth of 3 per cent over the coming years."
Another area of improvement was the "time to buy a dwelling" index, which has risen slightly over 100 (by just 0.6 points), a one-year high.
In this case, a result above 100 means consumers think it is a good time to buy real estate.
But the results varied significant from state to state — with Queenslanders (121) and Western Australians (122) being the most optimistic.
On the other end of the spectrum were NSW (90) and Victoria (88), the nation's most expensive property markets.

Also, despite the well-known issues of low wage growth in Australia and a recent surge in petrol prices, confidence in family finances rose to 89.6 this month (up from 84.8 in November).
Capital Economics economist Kate Hickie believes this may be due to "the continued strength of the labour market".
After all, the "unemployment index" within the Westpac-Melbourne Institute report fell from 130.8 to 127.6.
This appears to be "consistent with the unemployment rate nudging down from 5.4 per cent to closer to 5 per cent," Ms Hickie said.
So what is the key take-out from all of this?
"The leap in the Westpac measure of consumer confidence in December will be a welcome sight for retailers in the middle of the all-important Christmas shopping period," she said.
"Nonetheless, with household budgets still tight, we remain cautious about the outlook for consumption growth."


There will be only one airline flying from Darwin to Bali, after budget airline AirAsia announced it will cut its services in Darwin.
The Bali-Darwin route will be suspended from January 28, 2018, with Jetstar the only airline to fly between Darwin and the popular island destination.
In a statement, AirAsia said the suspension was part of broader restructuring plan.
"AirAsia Indonesia will suspend its service connecting Bali with Darwin as part of a network restructuring aimed at improving operational efficiency," the company said.
"AirAsia Indonesia would like to sincerely apologise for any inconvenience caused by the suspension of this route."
The spokesman said guests who held bookings for after January 28 would be entitled to change their travelling date, a credit or a full refund.
Opposition Leader Garry Higgins has called on the NT Government to take action on the airline's decision.
"The Indonesian market presents a unique opportunity for the Territory for business and trade, and it is vital we have direct access via as many flights as possible," he said.
"It is particularly disappointing that AirAsia has opted to withdraw its direct services to Bali from Darwin.
"I call on the Government to pursue this issue with AirAsia accordingly."
The loss comes when government representatives, including Tourism Minister Lauren Moss, are in China trying to secure direct flights from one of China's major cities, Shenzhen to Darwin.
From China, Ms Moss said the Government was disappointed AirAsia had suspended four international routes into Bali, including Darwin and that the recent eruption of Mt Agung was a contributing factor.
"Uncertainty created by the imminent eruption of Mt Agung has had a significant impact on holiday demand into Bali and has disrupted flights over the month," she said.
"These factors underpin AirAsia's commercial decision to suspend flights."
Despite healthy numbers of Darwinites travelling to Bali, AirAsia needed to recover from the losses it incurred when thousands of travellers were stranded for weeks after ash from Mt Agung closed Bali's Ngurah Rai Airport, according the Head of Aviation Development at NT Airports, Matthew Findlay.
Mr Findlay thinks there is a possibility the AirAsia service could return to Darwin.
"If you were a recent traveller on AirAsia you would have seen that the number of seats filled on their flights were quite high and that's certainly what we've seen in the last few months," he said.
"In the last six months, load factors have increased from 77 per cent to 84 per cent.
"The benchmark for any airline is anything above 80 per cent means you're doing well."
Mr Findlay said the suspension was part of AirAsia's restructure after taking a hit in the wake of the chaos at Bali international airport.
"It's a complicated activity, running an airline and when volcanic activity occurs, and they can't predict that, obviously, they need to build some fat into the system," he said.
"So whenever you have instances where you need to recover from a delay elsewhere, and you don't have any fat in the system, something has got to give.
"It's been a bit of a disappointment for us.
"We've seen this great improvement in connectivity and load factors but they [AirAsia] need to somehow allow so capacity can get back into the system, which is why they're suspending flights in Darwin, two places in India and in Kuala Lumpur."


Holiday units in the Palmer Coolum Resort, which has been mothballed since March 2015, have been listed on Airbnb in time for the school holidays.
Once regarded as one of south-east Queensland's most prestigious resorts, the site is a shadow of its former self and has been the centre of a legal battle between retirees who own villa shares and Clive Palmer.
A range of listings for units in the resort, owned by the eccentric billionaire and former politician, have appeared up on the popular online booking accommodation service.

But Maree Frecklington, who has owned a villa share in the resort since 2004 and regularly stays in it even though it has no water and electricity, warned the main pool was brown.
She said the mosquitoes were bad and blamed the stagnant pool, fearing it was a health issue for workers on site.
However the tennis pool, a smaller pool located near the tennis courts, was clean and in good condition, Ms Frecklington said.
Ms Frecklington, the mother-in-law of newly elected Opposition Leader Deb Frecklington, visited the resort this week.
Other images appeared to show damage to the site from recent thunderstorms.
"The village pool is getting ... the water level is higher and higher and its getting greener and greener," she said.

She said she still did not have running water or electricity connected to her villa, although other villas and resort rooms in the complex did and workers had been on site cleaning those areas.
The Airbnb listing advises the properties are located "within Palmer Coolum Resort" and include use of the tennis court, golf course and the tennis court swimming pool.
Units range in price from $142 a night for ground-floor studio to $415 a night for a two-bedroom villa.
"Take advantage of playing one of Queensland's most iconic golf courses during your stay. The magnificent Palmer Coolum Resort golf course is located less than 5 mins walk from your studio. Guests have use of Tennis Court and Pool," the listing reads.
Ms Frecklington said she had kept ownership of her share of the resort villa as it had been a place her son, Jason and his wife Deb, had enjoyed visiting.
Neither Mr Palmer or the resort manager could be reached for comment.


The Northern Territory should "get on with the job" of lifting its hydraulic fracturing moratorium now that it has a draft report on the industry which says the risks can be mitigated, says the Minister for Northern Australia.
The draft report, released on Tuesday, found that with more "robust and rigorous" regulation, the risks of fracking could be reduced, and that provided that the recommendations were adopted and implemented, "not only should the risk of any harm be minimised to an acceptable level, in some instances, it can be avoided altogether".
But among its 120 recommendations, it says that before any production takes place, the NT Government conduct baseline groundwater studies, which could take two to three years to complete.
The inquiry, which is under pressure from industry to speed up its work, is in its final stages and will hold consultations with communities next month before handing down a final report in March next year.
Fracking was a highly contentious issue during last year's NT election and the Labor Government took power in part due to its promise to allay community concerns by putting a moratorium in place until the controversial practice could be reviewed.
In October, the ABC reported that remote Aboriginal residents said they had been pressured by consultants working for the inquiry to exploit the benefits from an "inevitable" industry.
Northern Australia Minister Matt Canavan said on Wednesday that the sooner the onshore fracking industry could get going in the NT, the better.
He said it could potentially boost the NT economy by $17 billion and create 10,000 new jobs over an unspecified time period.
"Jobs is what you need, investment is what you need, and this gas opportunity is really the next step for Darwin and the Northern Territory," Senator Canavan said.
"I hope there's no further delays because I think the Northern Territory needs an economic shot in the arm."

But despite urging the NT Government to permit the industry to operate, Senator Canavan said that any development needed to be taken forward with robust environmental controls, and that he would be happy to wait until groundwater studies were completed.
"That includes, in the case of gas, ensuring that groundwater is not damaged … so if we need to do those sorts of studies that our groundwater resources are protected, that's what we have to do," he said.
"It just underlines how important it is to get moving as soon as possible because these things do take time … no-one here is saying that we should fast-track a project and put environmental standards at risk.
"You can't compromise the environment for the economy, that is absolutely fundamental."
Senator Canavan said there had been several reports on the issue in the NT over the past few years, and that he didn't think another review had been necessary.
"It seems to have come to similar conclusions as others which is good, but we've really got to get on with the job now," he said.

The Lock The Gate Alliance environmental group said it was happy with the draft report; spokeswoman Naomi Hogan said the number of recommendations was too exhaustive for fracking to go ahead.
"The ability of the Territory Government and regulators to put in place those 120 stringent regulations, and to face all of the further work that's required — the question is, is it worth putting water at risk and communities in gas fields?" she said.
She said the list of recommendations also identified areas where there was insufficient data, and questioned whether the NT Government would be able to deal with "all of those uncertainties that are still not been dealt through the report".
"Water quality and surface and groundwater quality were not able to be determined at this point," she said.
Lock the Gate also said January's consultation phase would have a significant impact on the final outcome of the inquiry.
"The communities living on the frontline of these proposed gas fields should be able to have their say on whether or not they want to live on a gas field and whether the risks are appropriate for their community," Ms Hogan said.
"I expect them to have a strong say in the next phase."

The gas industry has continued its sustained pressure on the Government to make a decision and give it certainty.
The NT branch of Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association (APPEA) agreed with the finding that there were no risks that could not be managed by an effective regulatory regime.
"We've got some concerns here that the panel is drawing on the regulatory approach of jurisdictions which effectively have no industry such as NSW, whereby a moratorium is removed … but the regulatory system is so burdensome, inefficient and costly that it effectively kills investment in our sector," director Matt Doman said.
He supported the collection of groundwater baseline samples, saying "we can gather the science as we go".
"We absolutely support the gathering of information before we move to production and full-scale development," Mr Doman said.

"If we can resume exploration drilling and the fracking that is involved in exploration at a very small and limited scale to continue to conduct water studies, methane studies, look at every aspect of the environmental performance and impact of our industry, [then] we'll do that on an ongoing basis."
Mr Doman urged the NT Government to act decisively.
"This has been a 12-month inquiry that is now entering into its second year; it is time for the inquiry to be brought to a conclusion and for the Government to make a decision about the development of the NT resources and the manner and in which that will or won't proceed," he said.


The Australian dollar is headed for a drop towards 68 US cents in the next year-and-a-half — if the nation's economy continues to remain stuck in the slow lane.
That is according to Westpac's forecast, which factors in a continued rebound for foreign economies including the US, UK and Canada, as they are likely to announce rate hikes over the next year.
Furthermore, the European Central Bank is in the process of "quantitative tightening" as it plans to slash its monthly bond purchases in half — to €30 billion ($45.6 billion).
Westpac expects the Aussie dollar to fall to 74 US cents within half a year (June 2018).
By the end of next year (December 2018) it is expected to slip further to 70 US cents, and then 68 US cents (by June 2019).
With higher interest yields overseas, the case for buying the Australia dollar may become less attractive, according to AxiTrader's chief market strategist Greg McKenna.
"Forex traders have a predisposition to sell Aussie on rallies at the moment and to take any bearish news — data — as an excuse to hit the sell button," Mr McKenna said.
"That the Aussie is languishing at the moment ... is kind of remarkable given that the global growth outlook is so positive for the year ahead."
The US interest rate decision on Thursday morning (5:00am AEDT) could be the next trigger for the local currency's dip.

It is all but certain the Federal Reserve will raise the Federal Funds Rate to 1.25-1.5 per cent, its third increase this year.
Apart from the rate hike, the market will be paying close attention to the Fed's forecasts for 2018 — in particular, how many times it expects to lift interest rates next year.
"The prospect of a Fed rate hike in December is 100 per cent priced in," said Westpac's senior currency strategist Sean Callow.
"So far, we have predicted the Fed will raise interest rates twice next year.
"But if the Fed surprises us and says it wants to lift rates three times in 2018, we're inclined to think the greenback will benefit from higher yields, which may knock the Australian dollar down to 75 US cents."
The Australian dollar is currently sitting at 75.72 US cents (1:20pm AEDT).
The other economic news which could affect the local currency is the Australian Bureau of Statistics' jobs report (out on Thursday at 11:30am AEDT).
According to economists polled by Reuters, 18,000 new jobs will be created in November, the participation rate will remain steady at 65.1 per cent, and unemployment will be unchanged at 5.4 per cent.
But if the jobs report falls below those expectations, the impact is not expected to be so significant.
"If the Australian jobs report is softer than expected, the market won't get freaked out, given 2017 has been a strong year for employment," Mr Callow said.
Westpac expects Australia's official interest rate to stay at the record low 1.5 per cent for the whole of next year.

If the Fed lifts interest rates twice next year, as expected, that would bring its rate to 1.75-2 per cent.
It would be a rare occurrence if Australia's rates fall below US rates, as this not happened in almost two decades.
In fact, the last time this occurred was between 1997 and 2001, when the Australian dollar was buying between 48 and 74 US cents.
As for the forces which weakened the local currency back then, they included the introduction of the GST (in 2000), and the influx of capital into the US economy due to the dotcom boom.
"Things are different now with Australia's terms of trade," an optimistic Mr Callow said.
"Back then, Australia wasn't getting as much demand from China as it is now, so commodity prices will provide some cushion for the Aussie dollar."
"The dollar will likely be stable in the first half of 2018, even with softness in the nation's bulk commodity exports, driven by increased supply rather than a drop-off in Chinese demand."


Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull has levelled fresh criticism at Sam Dastyari for continuing to pocket his parliamentary income despite announcing his resignation.

Senator Dastyari revealed on Tuesday that he was quitting the Upper House over his links with China, but the New South Wales powerbroker has not provided any clarity about his official departure date.
The wording of his statement yesterday was unclear, only confirming he would "not return to the Senate in 2018".
The basic wage for senators is $199,040 a year, handing him at least $30,000 if he does not make his resignation official until the New South Wales Parliament resumes in February and endorses his replacement.
Mr Turnbull has called on the outgoing senator to make his resignation official now, and relinquish any claim to further Commonwealth funds.
"Sam Dastyari should get out of the Senate right now," he said.
"He hasn't resigned yet.
"He's still taking money from the taxpayers of the country that he put second."

But Opposition Leader Bill Shorten said Senator Dastyari should be given time to deal with electorate issues and organise his office and his staff.
"What I expect Senator Dastyari will do is that sooner rather than later he will wrap up his matters," he said.
"But let's be clear, there is electorate work, you can't just leave punters in the lurch."
Mr Shorten highlighted a number of cases where Liberal senators left a lag between announcing their exit and officially leaving.
Former Coalition Senator Brett Mason stayed on for 23 days, Michael Ronaldson for 73 days and Chris Back for 46 days.
Mr Shorten said it was also "sensible" to allow Senator Dastyari to give his staff appropriate notice.

Mr Turnbull called on the Opposition Leader to intervene and force Senator Dastyari to exit straight away.
"Sam Dastyari has behaved shockingly but it is Bill Shorten who wants to be prime minister," he said.
"He wants to have my job. If you want to be prime minister you've got to show that you always put Australia first.
"Shorten has not done that."
In delivering his resignation statement yesterday, Senator Dastyari said he had decided to stand down to "spare the party any further distraction", but he also defended his actions as a senator.
"Reflecting on the events which led to my decision, I leave knowing that I have always honoured my parliamentary oath, I have always acted with integrity, and I remain a loyal, patriotic Australian," he said.
For more than a year the Government has been calling for Senator Dastyari to quit his Senate post over his dealings with Chinese businessman and political donor Huang Xiangmo.
The senator originally stepped down from the Labor frontbench when it emerged he had allowed the donor to pay a legal bill on his behalf.
Critics strengthened their attacks last month when Fairfax reported Senator Dastyari warned Mr Huang that his phone was probably being tapped by US agencies.
Explosive leaked audio has also shown the senator went against Labor policy and defended China's stance on the South China Sea at a media event standing side by side with Mr Huang.
Further clouding his reputation was another Fairfax report that Senator Dastyari tried to convince deputy Labor leader Tanya Plibersek not to meet a Chinese political activist.
On Wednesday, Ms Plibersek said her colleague had made mistakes.
"I think Sam Dastyari has paid a very high price for some poor judgement," she said.
"I really think that hounding a guy who's already said he's leaving is a bit rich."



They have been encouraged to tell their stories following the sexual abuse allegations engulfing Hollywood and producer Harvey Weinstein.
Over 360 women, including high-profile artists Tina Arena, Missy Higgins and The Veronicas, have signed an open letter demanding change in the music industry.
When Sydney electronic artist Phebe Starr first started performing at gigs, she was playing with other bands to learn the ropes.
But there was one performance she said she would never forget.
"I was playing a show at Oxford Arts Factory supporting an electronic band full of guys, and when I was playing my set there was a big crowd there and it was a really good atmosphere," she said.
But the atmosphere soon turned ugly when a male in the crowd grabbed her and pulled her offstage and into the throng.
"His friends touched me inappropriately. One of the guys whispered something very explicit, and then the main guy who pulled me into the crowd licked all up my arm and my face," Starr said.
"I just stood in the crowd completely shocked and the security guard pulled this guy off me.
"I ran off the stage and I went side of stage and kind of had a bit of a panic attack, I didn't finish the rest of my set.
"I went backstage and I told the band that I was supporting what had happened. The guys were like, 'Oh yeah, that happens to all of our female colleagues'."

"Then they just turned their backs on me and started drinking. I was just standing there, shocked.
"I'd just been abused and I guess my expectations were [that] I would tell this band who were older, more knowledgeable, wiser and in a position of power to do something, and they kind of just dismissed it as normal."

It has been this kind of reaction to sexist comments and sexual harassment in the music scene that has led women like Starr to demand it stop.
She has joined close to 400 women speaking out about the discrimination, harassment, violence, and sexist jargon that plagues their industry.
"I signed the open letter because I felt like it was a really good way of starting a conversation about the cultural aspects of the music industry which are very damaging to women," Starr said.
"Which people in power may not actually understand or acknowledge."

Jessica Veronica tweeted about signing the letter:

Sydney band The Preatures wrote:

Last month almost 2,000 women working in the Swedish music business also signed an open letter condemning widespread sexual abuse and harassment.
Starr said now her hope was for more people in the music scene to come forward and feel supported when they do.
"There's enough voices to say this isn't just one or two people, this is a whole group of people who have had this same experience," she said.
Australian musician Rowan Dix, known as Joyride, said he was happy that more voices were finally being heard within the industry.

He said it was now a crucial time for the industry to take a hard look at itself.
"When things like this happen it's important to remember it's a time for people like me — who are straight, white and middle class — time to listen, rather than to add another voice into the equation," he said.
"It's time to listen, take things on board."


The Reserve Bank governor has talked down the chances of a Government-issued cryptocurrency, despite a massive increase in electronic transactions.
In a speech in Sydney, Dr Philip Lowe said the major cryptocurrencies are not very effective as a way to pay for things, with high transaction costs, including the massive amounts of energy needed to "mine" them.
"When thought of purely as a payment instrument, it seems more likely to be attractive to those who want to make transactions in the black or illegal economy, rather than everyday transactions," he said.
"So the current fascination with these currencies feels more like a speculative mania than it has to do with their use as an efficient and convenient form of electronic payment."

These views echo weekend comments by Dr Lowe's counterpart in New Zealand, who said bitcoin's rapid ascent to $US17,369 ($22,987) — a more than 2,000 per cent increase over the past year — showed all the signs of pure speculation.
"It looks remarkably like a bubble forming to me," Reserve Bank of New Zealand acting governor Grant Spencer told TVNZ.
"Over the centuries we've seen bubbles, and this appears to be a bit of a classic case.
"With a bubble, you never know how far it's going to go before it comes down."
Investment bank JP Morgan's boss Jamie Dimon has gone further, calling bitcoin a "fraud" that will eventually "blow up".
Dr Lowe said previous experiments with privately-issued currencies showed that they were not reliable and stable.
"Experience cautions that there are significant difficulties and dangers associated with privately issued fiat money," he said.
"The history of private issuance is one of periodic panic and instability. In times of uncertainty and stress, people don't want to hold privately issued fiat money.
"This suggests that if there were to be an electronic form of banknotes that was widely used by the community, it is probably better and more likely for it to be issued by the central bank."

However, Dr Lowe said the Reserve Bank currently saw no need for an electronic currency, given advances currently underway in the electronic payments system.
"Our current working hypothesis is that with the NPP [New Payments Platform] there is likely to be little additional benefit from electronic banknotes," he went on to say.
"Having less of an electronic fingerprint hardly seems the basis for building a public policy case to issue an electronic form of the currency. So there would need to be more than this."
Dr Lowe said that the introduction of the NPP, which will allow near real time electronic payments to be made through the banking system, dramatically reduced the need for separate electronic payment methods.
"There is a certain attraction of being able to make payments from funds held in prudentially regulated accounts that can earn interest," he added.
Reserve Bank figures show that the overwhelming majority of payments are already made electronically, with cash now accounting for less than 40 per cent of transactions.

Physical cash only makes up about 3.5 per cent of the total money in Australia, with the rest held as deposits in private banks.
"So the vast majority of what we know today as money is a liability of the private sector, and not the central bank, and is already electronic," Dr Lowe said.
However, despite most payments being done electronically, RBA figures also show that there have been more banknotes on issue over the past few years than at any other point over the past five decades.

Dr Lowe also warned that an official electronic currency issued by the Reserve Bank on behalf of the Australian Government could carry risks to the banking system.
"If we were to issue electronic banknotes, it is possible that in times of banking system stress, people might seek to exchange their deposits in commercial banks for these banknotes, which are a claim on the central bank," he explained.
"It is likely that the process of switching from commercial bank deposits to digital banknotes would be easier than switching to physical banknotes.
"In other words, it might be easier to run on the banking system."
Dr Lowe said there would be similar problems if people had electronic transaction accounts at the RBA.
"In times of stress, it is highly likely that people might want to run from what funds they still hold in commercial bank accounts to their account at the RBA," he said.


US stocks reached fresh record closing highs again, as the US central bank began its two-day meeting to discuss interest rates.

Bank stocks rose on the prospect of the Federal Reserve's third rate rise this year, a 0.25-percentage-point increase to 1.25-1.5 per cent is expected when the Fed's policy meeting committee hands down its decision tomorrow.
ANZ economists think the writing is on the wall.
"The FOMC is widely expected to raise rates, but the tone [of the statement] may be dovish," they wrote.
"Focus will also be on developments in tax reform and US CPI [inflation], although neither is expected to provide much impetus to the US dollar."
Spot gold fell to its lowest level in six months on the expected rise in US interest rates.
Oil prices jumped to $US65 a barrel because of a shutdown in the UK's biggest North Sea oil pipeline and an explosion at a major gas pipeline hub in Austria, which left one person dead and more than twenty people injured.
Aircraft maker Boeing jumped more than 3 per cent after it said it would increase its quarterly dividend by 20 per cent and replace its existing share buyback program with a new $US18 billion program.
US shopping centre stocks increased following the announcement that Australian retail landlord Westfield Corporation will sell its international shopping centres to French retail giant Unibail-Rodamco.
Westfield Corporation runs 45 shopping centres and airport retail precincts in the US, UK and Italy, including the retail space in the new World Trade Centre in New York.
The nearly $33 billion ($US24.7 billion) deal is the biggest takeover of an Australian company on record and will create one of the largest retail real estate companies globally.
But investors questioned Unibail's judgment in expanding in the struggling world of bricks and mortar retail in the face of the online sales juggernaut.
Unibail-Rodamco shares fell 4 per cent in European trade.
Analysts from Citi think it appears to be a good value deal on the face of it.
"We believe Unibail-Rodamco are acquiring the best in the business," they wrote.
"However, while pricing appears favourable, our broader concern is the reason why one of the most successful pioneers of shopping centres are selling to Unibail-Rodamco."
Westfield founder Frank Lowy and his sons, Peter and Steven, are excellent business people with supreme timing. In other words they know when to get out.
The Lowy family will maintain a substantial investment in Unibail-Rodamco.
The shares will trade as one stock on Euronext Amsterdam and in Paris and will have a secondary listing on the Australian stock exchange.
In economic news, US producer prices rose a stronger than expected 0.4 per cent in November and by 3.1 per cent over the year, which points to firmer inflation, something that will please the Fed.
Small business confidence in the US is at its highest level in 34 years.
Inflation also gained in the UK with the consumer price index rising to 3.1 per cent on an annual basis, boosted by airfares and computer games. That is the highest level since March 2012.
On the calendar today locally is the latest survey from Westpac on consumer confidence ahead of tomorrow's official employment numbers.
Reserve Bank governor Dr Philip Lowe will give a speech today looking at the possibility of a digital Australian currency at the Australian Payment Summit in Sydney.


Australia's domestic gas supplies are increasing, but prices are still too expensive.
Those are the key findings of the latest report by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) into the nation's gas market.
In September, the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) and the ACCC warned the east coast of Australia would face a gas shortfall in the first half of 2018 if gas producers failed to boost supply.
The Federal Government threatened to impose export restrictions on producers to ensure Australian consumers were prioritised before international markets.
The gas companies later agreed to boost supply.
ACCC chairman Rod Sims said the gas supply shortage had had "a catastrophic effect on the Australian economy".
"It's meant that gas prices have gone up a lot — doubled, tripled, quadrupled for some businesses and some consumers," he told AM.
"And it meant that some companies just could not get gas, there just wasn't enough gas."
But Mr Sims said the deal struck between the Federal Government and gas producers two months ago had already been felt, even though prices were still above the levels the ACCC wanted to see.
"What we've seen is LNG producers have reduced exports to provide more gas to the domestic market, and that has overcome the shortfall, and that has seen prices for many companies fall from around $16 [per gigajoule] to around $8 to $12," he said.
"So we no longer have a shortfall and prices have come off somewhat.
"It's certainly a better picture, the market still has some problems, but it's a much better picture now than we had a couple of months ago."
The Australian Industry Group's Tennant Reed warned against celebrating too soon, suggesting businesses were still facing high gas costs.
"Rather than getting absolutely hammered on their next contract, they will instead be pained, or at best peeved."
Chief executive of the Australian Meat Industry Council Patrick Hutchinson was encouraged by the findings.

However he argued his members were yet to see their power bills drop in regional Australia.
"It is a massive issue that is showing no signs of abatement," Mr Hutchinson told AM.
"It may well be manufacturing may be getting an increase in gas, or opportunities for gas. But unfortunately that may be starting at metro first."
In a swipe at the Federal Government's priorities, Mr Hutchinson sought to remind the Coalition that his sector was among those most exposed to power prices.
He argued more attention was being focused on recent by-elections in key seats than on the plight of his members.
"How about you get out there and see what's happening in rural and regional Australia?"
The ACCC report also warned that the southern states were still having to rely on Queensland gas production to meet demand.
Unsurprisingly, the Federal Energy Minister took a swipe at some states' opposition to gas exploration in spruiking the ACCC's findings.
"We are encouraging the states to undertake geological surveys of the resources that they have, and to provide more incentives to the landowners and to the farmers to develop these gas fields," Josh Frydenberg told AM.
"The experience overseas, particularly in the United States, is if the landowners can get more of a reward for the development of gas on their land, then they will do it, and you will overcome some of the objections that we've seen to date."
Mr Frydenberg said it was the Government's intention to keep the gas supply deal with producers in place.



The Northern Territory's inquiry into hydraulic fracturing has found that with more "robust and rigorous" regulation, the risks of fracking can be mitigated.
"It is the panel's opinion that, provided that the recommendations made in this report are adopted and implemented, not only should the risk of any harm be minimised to an acceptable level, in some instances, it can be avoided altogether," the draft report states.
But the inquiry panel's draft final report also recommends that before any production takes place, the Government must conduct baseline groundwater studies, which could take two to three years to complete.
Launching the inquiry's draft final report today, panel chairwoman Rachel Pepper said the inquiry would now hold more consultations before releasing its final report in March next year.
"The draft final report is as its title indicates — a draft. As such it may be expected to change following our next and final round of consultations," she said.
The Northern Territory Labor Government commissioned the inquiry as part of its moratorium on fracking.
The Government said it will use the inquiry's final report to decide whether to lift or keep its fracking ban.
Fracking has divided the Northern Territory Labor party and the issue is likely to be hotly debated at the party's NT annual conference due to be held early next year before the Government makes its decision on the moratorium.
Justice Pepper said it was not the inquiry's role to make a recommendation to the Government on the future of the moratorium.
"It is a matter for the Government to decide whether or not to lift the current moratorium, this report makes no such recommendation and will not do so," she said.
The inquiry's draft report makes almost 120 recommendations including changes to regulation, more environmental studies and a system for industry to fund the improved regulatory systems.
"If the recommendations are implemented and adopted in full, then the risks we have identified and analysed can be mitigated to acceptable levels," Justice Pepper said.

Justice Pepper said the recommendations for baseline groundwater studies and increased independence for the regulator were the most significant recommendations in the report.
In the Beetaloo Basin — one of the most prospective areas for shale gas in the Northern territory — there was currently not enough information on groundwater resources to assess the risk of excessive use of groundwater from fracking, the report revealed.
The inquiry recommends a Strategic Regional Environmental Baseline Assessment be done to provide more information on groundwater resources before any production can begin, although exploration would still be allowed during this phase.
Justice Pepper said baseline groundwater studies were critical.

"The community constantly told us that they were very concerned that those studies weren't in place and didn't exist and they do need to be in place and they do need to exist, and you need to know what you're dealing before you go forward," she said.
The draft report also recommends responsibility for regulating the industry be moved from the NT's Department of Primary Industry and Resources, which is also involved in industry promotion.
The panel said the dual roles appeared to be fuelling public concern the department was not independent.
"The panel has concluded that these two responsibilities must be separated to ensure that decision-making is independent," the report stated.
The inquiry has not calculated how much it would cost to implement the recommendations in full, but there would be some cost to industry.
The panel said it was recommending a "full cost recovery system", similar to South Australia's, where industry would contribute to the cost of better regulation such as the long-term monitoring of wells.
"Reforms cost money and it's the panel's very strong view that it ought not be the taxpayer who foots the bill for that, it should be industry," Justice Pepper said.


Whichever way you look at it — forward or backwards — Australia's housing boom is well and truly off the boil.

The latest evidence comes from the rear vision mirror of the Australian Bureau of Statistics' house price index which fell in the September quarter.
The slowdown was most marked in the investor hotspot of Sydney, while price inflation also appears to have peaked in Melbourne.
Looking forward there are obvious speed humps in the shape of further regulatory tightening on investor loans and weak wages growth.
On top of that, new apartments are banking up like a multi-car prang at peak hour, while a pull back in Chinese investment and falling auction clearance rates are hardly supportive of prices re-accelerating either.

Sydney house prices fell 1.4 per cent, while Melbourne eked out a modest gain — but well off the growth of recent years.
Hobart, which joined the housing express lane late, reported the strongest quarterly rise (+3.4 per cent), while Brisbane also accelerated modestly. Other markets were relatively flat over the quarter.
Nationally, the residential property price index was down 0.2 per cent.
"For anyone in doubt, the weakening in house prices in the third quarter all but confirms that Australia's housing boom is over," Capital Economics' Paul Dales said.
Mr Dales said more up-to-date indicators —such as monthly price series compiled by CoreLogic — suggested prices fell further in the fourth quarter and may decline next year.
That, as Mr Dales noted, represented a big change from a year ago when house prices were rising by around 3 per cent a quarter.
"The cut in the supply of credit to investors and the rises in investor loan rates caused by APRA's new rules in March that triggered this slowdown will probably continue to weigh on the market next year," Mr Dales said.
"They [the housing markets] are also more exposed to further falls in prices, as our house price to income ratios suggest prices there are well above their sustainable level."

However, while the brakes are being applied, does it mean a crash is imminent?
HSBC's Paul Bloxham argued national housing price growth would merely throttle-back from the double-digit rates of recent years to somewhere between 3 and 6 per cent next year.
"We do not expect a sharp decline in housing prices and expect only a modest decline in construction activity, as both are likely to be supported by strong population growth and low interest rates," Mr Bloxham said.
"A hard landing is possible, but we believe this would require a negative shock from abroad and a sharp rise in unemployment rate."
The view at Capital Economics was that rapid population growth may provide some comfort for those worried about a market crash, although it was unlikely to prevent prices doing anything much but going sideways for the next couple of years.
Mr Dales noted population growth only boosts house prices if extra demand is not met by additional construction.
"However, in recent years the number of new homes built has far exceeded the number required by the growing population. This overbuilding is much greater for apartments than houses," he said.

Mr Dales forecasted home building would continue to outstrip underlying demand for the next four years.
But more importantly, Mr Dales argued the cost and availability of credit, as well as the overall health of the economy, were bigger influences on house prices than population growth.
"Overall, population growth is unlikely to be strong enough over the next few years to absorb all the additional supply being built," he said.
"And with higher interest rates set to restrain demand from 2020, population growth may not prevent house prices from eventually falling, perhaps by around 10 per cent."
That might sound alarming, but then again it is more like a dint in the double-digit rises over recent years in Sydney and Melbourne markets than a calamitous write-off.


The Lowy family that made its fortune through Westfield shopping centres is selling out for $32.7 billion.

French property giant Unibail-Rodamco is acquiring the shopping mall juggernaut.
Westfield shareholders will receive $10.01 in cash and shares, per share — representing a huge premium to Westfield's shares, which last traded at $8.50.
Unibail-Rodamco will maintain the Westfield brand and the Lowy family will "remain committed to the success of the Group" and intends "to maintain a substantial investment in the Group."
Westfield chairman Frank Lowy said the deal was the result of the company's restructure that started in 2014.
An emotional Mr Lowy, speaking from Milan, said it was a day of mixed emotion but that he was certain he and his sons Peter and Steven had taken the right course.
"Why now? Why now because it is appropriate to do it now," Mr Lowy said.
"Firstly because it's a very good price for our shareholders and also from our point of view and the company I think we want to change our roles in the world … we would rather be investors than executives."
"As Peter said earlier, we have worked at Westfield for a combined 145 years," he said.
Unibail-Rodamco boss Christophe Cuvillier said the deal would create significant value for all shareholders.
"The acquisition of Westfield is a natural extension of Unibail-Rodamco's strategy of concentration, differentiation and innovation. It adds a number of new attractive retail markets in London and the wealthiest catchment areas in the United States."
The Lowy family will retain control of Westfield's retail technology platform, OneMarket, which will be spun off into a new company on the ASX, with Steven Lowy remaining as chairman.
Under the terms of the deal, the Lowy family will retain a significant holding in the merged operation, given two thirds of their $2.7 billion windfall will be delivered in stock.
Mr Lowy has engineered several major reshuffles of his corporate empire in the past decade, the most recent one his controversial move to hive off the Australasian assets into a separate listed company called Scentre in 2014.
Scentre, which is not in a trading halt, closed up 4.1 per cent at $4.35.
Mr Lowy and his two sons Steven and Peter, who are joint chief executives, abandoned most of their investment in the Australian malls, to concentrate on the international corporation.
Westfield Corporation runs 45 shopping centres and airport retail precincts in the US, UK and Italy, including the retail space in the new World Trade Centre in New York.
Westfield shares were worth $8.50 when they last traded, valuing the company at $17.6 billion on the ASX.
Joint chief executive Peter Lowy explained that real estate investment trusts globally had been treated harshly by investors in the past year and all were trading at a discount.
Given the large premium offered by Unibail, Peter Lowy said this deal allowed Westfield investors to make up that shortfall.
"When you look at the transaction and you look at the price that Unibail has agreed to pay, we have taken that gap from where the stock was trading back to the value of the company," he said.
Mr Lowy injected close to $180 million of his family's cash to top up his Westfield Corporation stake during the demerger, taking the family holding in the international group to a little under 10 per cent.
Since then, its shares have gyrated, recovering through 2015 and 2016 as the US economy began to improve.
But its stock has fallen nearly 10 per cent so far this year, leaving it with only modest gains since it split from the Australian operations.
Retailers across the United States are in what appears to be terminal decline as shoppers abandon traditional bricks and mortar while the digital revolution lays waste to traditional shopping.
That, in turn, has begun to harm shopping malls as retailers have struggled to pay rents with many closing down their outlets.
Thousands of mall-based stores have shut their doors across the US this year, including stalwarts such as JC Penney, Macy's, Sears and K-Mart reducing their physical footprint.
Smaller retailers such as Payless and RadioShack have been among the hardest hit.
That, in turn, has begun to affect employment. Until as recently as two years ago, shopping malls were providing America with 200,000 extra jobs a year, but that trend has now suddenly reversed.
According to the latest Bureau of Labour Statistics, the retail industry has lost an average of 9,000 jobs a month this year. This time last year, malls provided jobs growth of around 17,000 a month.


Unionists have been ordered to abandon a blockade at a major Melbourne port, after a court found the maritime union "outsourced" industrial action when it was ordered to stay away from the site.
A picket at Webb Dock has been blocking truck access for two weeks, forcing 1,000 shipping containers to remain stranded.
The Maritime Union of Australia (MUA) argues its members have been complying with a previous court order to stay 100 metres away from the site, and that the ongoing picket has been manned by community supporters.
But Supreme Court Justice Michael McDonald found the "balance of convenience" overwhelmingly proved that the strike action had been coordinated and encouraged by union officials.
"This is a self-styled group of 'hard' campaign activists coordinated by the Victorian Trades Council," Justice McDonald said.
He ordered the MUA, Construction Forestry Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU) and Trades Hall secretary Luke Hilakari to stay 100 metres from the site, and to allow free passage at the port until a future trial.
He said there was a strong inference that the "MUA has outsourced to other unions, coordinated by the Victorian Trades Hall Council, the task of maintaining an illegal picket".
"The conduct of the picket has been characterised by a high degree of organisation," Justice McDonald said.

The court heard strike action began after a casual worker had their employment terminated because the worker did not have mandatory clearance.
But the MUA argued the worker had been targeted because he was a union member.
The MUA had previously been ordered to stay away from the site from December 1.
Justice McDonald has now extended that order, pointing to the prevalence of union flags and memorabilia at the picket line as evidence of union influence.
The court also heard video footage showed CFMEU organiser John Sekta, accompanied by other union officials, telling picketers on December 8, "everything we have here today is by breaking the law and taking industrial action".
"There's no question that members of the public have the right to peaceful assembly," Justice McDonald told the court.
"What they do not have the right to do and what has been occurring … is to prevent the plaintiff going about its lawful business.
"There has been an intention to injure the plaintiff.
"The plaintiff has suffered loss or damage."
VICT is suing the MUA for economic loss and damages as a result of the strike.
The court heard the MUA had a longstanding dispute with VICT about an enterprise bargaining agreement.
In State Parliament today, the Opposition tried to attack the Andrews Government for failing to reign in union allies.
But Premier Daniel Andrews said his Government had offered to act as a mediator between the union and VICT, but had been rebuffed by the company.
Mr Andrews also lashed out at the Coalition for running a fear campaign about medical supplies being left languishing on the docks.
It had been reported that EpiPens, which are used to treat allergy sufferers for anaphylactic shock, were among the goods that were unable to be unloaded from shipping containers.
Mr Andrews said advice provided to the Government from EpiPen manufacturers said that they were actually flown into Victoria, and did not come via the port.


It might not be a crisis in confidence yet, but Australian business is becoming increasingly pessimistic about its immediate future.

The respected NAB monthly business survey reported a sharp decline in both conditions and confidence in November.
While the fall in conditions index was expected after a surprise surge in October, the NAB survey noted business confidence has experienced a "notable downward trend … since around the middle of the year".
"We expected to see last month's spike in business conditions unwound fairly quickly as it both came as a bit of a surprise, and was also out of sorts with what we were seeing in some of the other leading indicators from the survey, such as forward orders," NAB chief economist Alan Oster.
"We are paying close attention to what now appears to be a downward trend in business confidence as that could naturally have some implications for decisions around hiring and investment."
The deterioration in conditions was widespread across industries, although most are still at fairly elevated levels.
Retail is the obvious exception, slipping back into negative territory in November.
"The subdued conditions in retail have been a major concern for some time now, and that was manifested in a very disappointing outcome for household consumption in the third quarter national accounts," Mr Oster said.
"We may see a bit of a rebound in the fourth quarter, but retailers do not appear to be seeing it."
While retail's spirits are sinking, the construction sector continues to be buoyant and was the only industry where conditions did not fall last month.
Mr Oster said the large residential property pipeline was still supporting the sector, but there was evidence of increased infrastructure spending and a lift in non-residential construction activity as well.
The gains in sales and profitability made in October were largely reversed last month, while measures relating to employment remained steady.
With concerns about rising energy costs easing in importance, businesses reported rising wages as now being their primary concern.
"We saw some tentative signs of higher wages in the survey, although that does appear to be weighing on the confidence of some firms as well," Mr Oster said.
The survey evidence stands in contrast to official measures of wages, which have yet to show much improvement from multi-decade lows.

Wages were up just 2 per cent over the year to September according to the most recent figures from ABS.
The leading indicator of forward orders was generally positive across all sectors, including retail.
On the negative side, final product prices slipped further behind input costs which points to another weak quarter of inflation coming up.
"Prices are rising the most in mining, while retail and personal services prices are the softest — a reflection of the cautious spending behaviour by consumers," the survey noted.
Across the states, New South Wales continues to enjoy the most upbeat business conditions, while Western Australia remains the most subdued.



SA Best leader Nick Xenophon has blasted the SA Government's newly opened O-Bahn bus tunnel, declaring the $160 million spent on the project would have been better used on grade separation of roads.
The bus tunnel, which opened yesterday, is designed to save three-and-a-half minutes for bus commuters travelling between the north-eastern suburbs and the CBD.
Mr Xenophon is running as a candidate in the north-eastern suburbs seat of Hartley, which straddles the O-Bahn at Campbelltown.
But this morning, he told a business breakfast he was no fan of the project, which was announced in the lead-up to the 2014 election.
"I live in the north-eastern suburbs. I'm within walking distance of the Paradise Interchange and catch the O-Bahn, but I cannot understand or accept the thinking or the processes that went behind this $160 million project," Mr Xenophon said.
Mr Xenophon said Labor's commitment to build the tunnel was a highly political decision which did not undergo even a veneer of appropriate process.
"Talk about tunnel vision," he said.
"It's not just the cost, or the ripping up of the parklands that has concerned so many. It is the almost wilful blindness to alternatives that could have delivered an equivalent outcome at vastly reduced costs that really irks me.
"For $160 million I suggest many more commuters could have benefited from reduced congestion and improved traffic flow through, for instance, grade separation of roads."

Mr Xenophon said the Government should also have considered other solutions, such as gated bus stops along Grenfell Street in the city, which would save time by allowing commuters to pre-validate their bus tickets.
"Whatever cost benefit analysis the Government did for the tunnel seems to ignore that reality that all O-Bahn buses now have to travel along Grenfell Street," he said.
"The one-third of buses that went down North Terrace will have those passengers inconvenienced, taking more time to get to their destination, more time in many cases than the savings the tunnel delivered."
Mr Xenophon said the O-Bahn tunnel decision was emblematic of a broken system, and that his party SA Best would push for the creation of a new independent body to plan infrastructure projects.
The Liberal Party has already pledged to create such a body, to be known as Infrastructure South Australia.
But while the Liberal proposal would see the body report to Government, SA Best's policy would require the Government of the day to seek parliamentary approval to over-rule Infrastructure SA on projects.
"SA Best would demand that Infrastructure SA would have more teeth, that it would be a statutory authority, not a mere advisory board as the opposition proposes," he said.

The state's Civil Contractors Federation also supported the idea, rejecting suggestions an independent authority would hold up building projects.
"Infrastructure South Australia would be the body to review projects to see if they could have been done better, more economically, and indeed deliver productivity for South Australia," CEO Phillip Sutherland said.
"If the agency is properly resourced, they could get through the work. At the end of the day, what South Australia needs is a long-term infrastructure plan of 10 or 20 years."
Mr Sutherland said the current situation meant the state could find itself with "no shovel-ready projects when money becomes available, including from the Federal Government — which has been the case on more than one occasion".
Mr Xenophon said his party would push for Infrastructure SA to make public recommendations on the cost-benefit of projects, procurement methods and industry participation.
"At a cost of $10 million a year for a well-resourced watchdog, this would be a tiny premium to pay for what would in effect be an insurance policy against future infrastructure debacles," he said.
Mr Xenophon ridiculed the Opposition Leader Steven Marshall's pronouncement that the Liberal Party would not enter an agreement with his party to form government.
"Steven's vehement denials that he would work with SA Best remind me of that immortal line from Shakespeare from no less than Hamlet — he 'doth protest too much, methinks'."


Apple has confirmed it's reached a deal to buy Shazam, the UK-based app that lets people use the microphone on their mobile to identify songs.
No price has been given for the acquisition, but technology news website TechCrunch reported on Friday that a deal could be worth as much as $US400 million ($531.1 million).
However, that's far short of the most recent $1 billion valuation for the privately held company.
Apple said Shazam would be a "natural fit" with its Apple Music streaming service and it would help users discover new songs.
Apple Music has 27 million users and competes against Spotify, which has 60 million users.
Apple said Shazam's team would be joining its company.
In a statement, Apple spokesman Tom Neumayr said Shazam "is used by hundreds of millions of people around the world, across multiple platforms".
"We have exciting plans in store, and we look forward to combining with Shazam upon approval of today's agreement," he said.
According to tech journalist Micah Singleton, writing at The Verge, Shazam can help Apple in a number of ways — not just by improving Apple Music, but also by stopping Shazam from referring its users to Spotify.
"Also, Shazam's music and sound recognition, which is already integrated with Siri, could gain a deeper integration with iOS, much like Google has done with its song recognition feature on the Pixel," he wrote.
Larry Dignan agrees Apple has bought knowledge that goes beyond its music service.
"What Apple really bought with Shazam is a team that's expert at training models, developing algorithms and managing data," he wrote at ZDNet.
"Shazam is about music — for now. However, that same modelling expertise could apply to many other tasks."
Apple did not elaborate on its plans, but the company will not be able to make any major changes to Shazam until it secures regulatory approval.
Shazam is also available on Android-based devices, but Apple did not say whether it would keep the Android version available.
Shazam ended support for a version of its software that runs on Microsoft Windows PCs earlier this year.
ABC/Reuters


The Dow Jones and S&P 500 ended its day at record highs, boosted by gains in the energy and technology sectors.

Apple shares jumped 1.8 per cent after the company confirmed it had reached a deal to acquire Shazam Entertainment.
Shazam is a music-recognition app which allows users to identify which song is playing — by pointing their smartphones at the radio, speakers or other audio source.
Although Apple did not give a price for its takeover, technology news website TechCrunch reported the deal on Friday with a price of as much as $US400 million ($531.1 million).
Apple said Shazam would be a "natural fit" with its Apple Music streaming service and it would help users discover new songs.
Currently, Apple Music has 27 million users and competes against Spotify, which has 60 million users.
In a statement, Apple spokesman Tom Neumayr said Shazam "is used by hundreds of millions of people around the world, across multiple platforms".
"We have exciting plans in store, and we look forward to combining with Shazam upon approval of today's agreement."
Apple did not elaborate on its plans, but the company will not be able to make any major changes to Shazam until it secures regulatory approval.
Shazam is also available on Android-based devices, but Apple did not say whether it would keep the Android version available.
Seven of the 11 major S&P sectors traded higher, led by technology and energy stocks.
However, financial, consumer staple, and industrial stocks were the weakest performers.
Cryptocurrency-related stocks rose sharply as interest in bitcoin continues to rise.
For example, shares of Marathon Patent and Riot Blockchain rose 42.9 and 45.5 per cent respectively.
Meanwhile, the likelihood of the Federal Reserve announcing a US interest rate hike (for the third time this year) is all but certain.
The Fed is due to announce its decision on Thursday, and the likelihood of a rate increase is 90 per cent, according to CME Group's Fedwatch tool.
The Australian share market is expected to open higher today.
Oil and copper prices gained overnight, which helped to boost US-listed shares of BHP and Rio Tinto — and should bode well for their ASX-listed shares.
In local economic news, NAB will release its monthly business survey, which will reveal how business conditions and confidence performed in November.
The Australian dollar has risen against the US dollar (+0.3pc), British pound (+0.7pc), euro (+0.1pc) and Japanese yen (+0.4pc)
However, the local currency has slipped considerably against the New Zealand dollar (-0.8pc).
with Reuters


An Australian chemical manufacturer has rejected calls for a ban or tightening of restrictions around the use of a highly toxic herbicide which poisoned a young man with autism on the New South Wales Central Coast.
Damien Terry, 21, accidently drank the commercial weedkiller — known as paraquat — from a soft drink bottle he found in a disabled toilet at the Mangrove Mountain sports complex in August.
Doctors initially gave him about 12 hours to live but he "miraculously" recovered after two weeks in Gosford Hospital and his family now wants the deadly chemical banned.
Kendon Chemical is one of many Australian companies that use paraquat, an imported chemical, in their herbicide products.
Kendon's managing director Chris Storey has defended the safeguards around its use, provided all instructions are followed properly.
"There are controls — it's an S7 which means the poison must be kept under lock and key," he said.
Mr Storey also expressed surprise when he was told how easy it was for the ABC to get access to a large bottle of the substance.
"I'm surprised that happened  — the reseller would have asked for a permit if the purchaser was not known to them," he said.
"To purchase it you need an agricultural chemical users permit for which you have had to do a day's training unless you're known to the seller.
"It has to contain an emetic, a stench agent and a blue dye. An emetic make you vomit and this gentleman who ingested the product from a coke bottle, mind you — he was vomiting … it obviously was working there and maybe that's why he survived."

Paraquat has been under review for 20 years by the Australian regulator, with a determination due next year.
Mr Storey has acknowledged it was banned in more than 30 countries worldwide but is adamant Australia should not go down this path.
"I'm not sure the countries that have been banned have the broadacre farming we have here in Australia, noting that Australian agricultural grain growing is one of the most efficient in the world and these products help that efficiency," he said.
He has also rejected warnings by Newcastle University environmental contamination expert Professor Ravi Naidu that people should stay away from an area for between 15 to 20 days after being sprayed with the weedkiller.
"Paraquat breaks down when it's exposed to the dirt because it binds the clay very tightly … so 20 days — he doesn't know what he's talking about," he said.
"I wouldn't have children playing on it the same day.
"You'd wait until the next day because by that time it's been absorbed by the plant and or it's dripped into the dirt."
But he admitted it should only be used for commercial farming purposes — not in public areas.


Aboriginal groups are demanding concrete quotas for Indigenous employment on the Federal Government's $10 billion inland rail project, saying it's "not good enough" no targets have been set.

The Melbourne-to-Brisbane freight rail line has been touted as "nation building" and is expected to create 5,500 direct jobs in the construction phase, which will begin early next year.
One-fifth of the shire's population is Aboriginal.
"We've been burnt too many times … if it is in writing, well, they've got to do it," Mr Munro said.
"They generally come with workers themselves instead of employing locals."
"We would welcome that number and support that number, if not a little bit higher, depending on the communities that this corridor is going through," said Roy Ah-See, chairman of the NSW Aboriginal Land Council.

However, the Government-owned builder of the multi-billion-dollar project, the Australian Rail Track Corporation (ARTC), has told the ABC it has no targets for Aboriginal employment.
"We have not set any targets at all but we are very keen to make sure we get maximum participation from the local communities, and in particular Aboriginal communities, on the [rail] corridor," ARTC CEO John Fullerton said.
Mr Fullerton said the ARTC already employed about 50 Indigenous people nationwide, which was 2.7 per cent of its workforce.
"We are a large employer of Indigenous people in the company today and it's certainly going to be our priority to employ as many as we can in those local communities," he said.
Mr Ah-See said that wasn't good enough.

"They need to set some targets … council would be looking for a briefing sooner rather than later," he said.
"For far too long now Aboriginal people have been the last people to go to when it comes to employment or economic development opportunities."
He said the percentage employed was, "a bit small at the moment" and his council would reach out to the ARTC in the near future.
"[We want to] basically encourage the ARTC to not see us as a barrier, but rather a solution … and forming a relationship and a partnership," Mr Ah-See said.

One of those people is Jason Saunders. The 22-year-old A-grade football player has been looking for work since last November.
His last job was on the construction of a solar farm, and he's very keen to get work on the inland rail project.
He said any new jobs for local people would be a major boost.
"It would be really good for them [locals] to get out of town, do work, instead of messing around," he said. "Construction … anything would be good."

The manager of the north-west branch of the AES, Cathy Duncan, a Gomeroi woman, agreed targets were crucial.
Ms Duncan, who is also a founder of the national agency, which is funded by Prime Minister and Cabinet, said "warm and fluffy" rhetoric didn't cut it.

"I think Aboriginal people are sick of the tick-a-box in government contracts, or the goodwill around, 'We are going to employ Indigenous people'," Ms Duncan said.
"I think into the future it is about having quotas, having agreements, and then having monitoring of and accountability within those agreements."
But she said forewarning and consultation with the ARTC was crucial to ensuring local Aboriginal people had time to attain skills.
"If we plan and have those consultations and conversations a lot earlier in the piece, it gives us the opportunity to be able to train and develop our own people to be able to take up opportunities that could be given to them," she said.
Ms Duncan said there were already courses available that could be used to start training people, including specific rail courses her organisation had been involved with in Dubbo and Tamworth.
Inland rail's advocates have labelled it a "nation-building project" and "the Snowy Hydro Scheme for the modern era".
"No way in the world it's a nation-building program if they're not talking to the Aboriginal people," Mr Munro said.
Ms Duncan agreed, adding: "I think that what would have to happen to make it truly nation building is see the inclusion, see real outcomes, and see the Aboriginal people participating in the workforce and on job sites.
"If not, it is a nice fluffy word, and it makes everybody feel good, but part of the nation is making sure we include first-nation people if we're going to build a nation."


A controversial hazardous waste storage facility and salt mine planned for Central Australia has been given the tick of approval by the NT's Environment Protection Authority.

If built, the Chandler facility would be the first repository of its kind in Australia and the nation's largest hazardous waste surface storage facility, storing up to 9 per cent of Australia's 5.6 million tonnes of hazardous waste.
EPA NT chairman Paul Vogel said Australia had a waste storage problem and the size of this project could make it a safer option for storing hazardous waste.
"Having hazardous waste stored in a deep geological repository and subject to stringent regulation is a better environmental solution for hazardous waste than storing it in all sorts of facilities around Australia subject to unknown and perhaps inadequate regulation," he said.
"So I think it's better to have it in one spot that we all know about and tightly regulated and well managed."
The company behind the proposed facility, Tellus Holdings, wants to build about 120 kilometres south of Alice Springs.
But the nearby Indigenous community of Titjikala — about 15 kilometres from the proposed site — remains divided about the benefit and risks of such a project.
Some residents fear the toxic waste could leak and poison the land and its water supply, whereas some support the project, its proposed job creation for Aboriginal people and the paving of the dirt road between Alice Springs and Titjikala.
The Arid Lands Environment Centre's assistant manager, Nicole Pietsch, said her organisation still had a number of concerns about the project and would continue to work with Titjikala residents.
"We do have some real concerns around the fact that this type of hazardous waste storage facility has never been tried in Australia before, we have concerns around the monitoring, compliance and also the enforcement," she said.
"There's examples in France and Germany where these kinds of waste storage facilities have existed and that there's accidents that have happened and then there's a huge environmental and financial cost to clean that up.
"We acknowledge the concerns of some Titjikala residents who don't feel like they have been properly informed and who also have concerns about how this project may impact on cultural responsibilities of looking after country."
Dr Vogel said the EPA had undertaken a very rigorous assessment of the potential risks and approved the Tellus Holdings project on the condition it met the EPA's 19 recommendations.
"Subject to all those controls, there should be no level of significant impact to water resources or biodiversity or air quality," he said.
"This is the first national deep geological repository for hazardous waste that's been undertaken in Australia so that being the case this was subject to a very rigorous impact assessment.
"There would need to be, over time, a very high level of regulatory oversight to ensure that this facility indeed manages those identified potential impacts and risks."

Dr Vogel said the recommendations included an annual independent and publicly disclosed audit at the company's expense, ensuring the waste met the waste acceptance criteria, a safety assessment to ensure the facility was built and operated with best practice and an independent financial assessment of the company.
Tellus Holdings' managing director, Duncan van der Merwe, said while the facility was a new concept to Australia, it has been widely used internationally.
"I'm pleased to see and hear that in the broader community there's an acceptance that there's a waste problem out in Australia," he said.
"We do need to manage our waste materials differently and there's an acceptance that we should view waste as a valuable source and we should find ways to recycle, recover and create more jobs as a result.
"And … on the mining side, diversity of revenue creates long-term stable mines, creates long-term stable economies."
The Chandler Mine project is expected to create 270 jobs during the three years of construction and 180 ongoing jobs after that, with a target of 10 per cent Indigenous employment.
But the project is still subject to NT Government approval and the company would not give any indication of when construction would be likely to start.


Trucks have stopped trying to enter a Melbourne shipping terminal after union workers barricading the dock knocked out the teeth of a driver earlier this month, the Supreme Court of Victoria has heard.
The Victorian International Container Terminal (VICT) has been shut down for two weeks after Maritime Union of Australia (MUA) members walked off the job.
The VICT is currently seeking an order from the court to ban the MUA, the CFMEU and Trades Hall Secretary Luke Hilakari from coming within 100 metres of the site, and from encouraging other union members to picket.
The dispute has been ongoing for 13 days, forcing precious cargo to be diverted to Adelaide and then taken by road to Melbourne.
Lawyers for the VICT told the court the serious assault of the truck driver occurred on December 2.
But the MUA representatives questioned the veracity of the attack, saying that the court had not been presented with evidence of who the driver was.
The VICT claim that no trucks had tried to enter the facility since the alleged attack.

The Webb Dock blockade has left 1,000 shipping containers stranded, including two shipments of EpiPens, according to the Victorian Transport Association.
Mr Hilakari told the ABC the union asked the VICT to come and retrieve the containers, but they were yet to do so.
He also said he had doubts as to whether there were actually EpiPens at the stevedore.
The issue on the docks came to a head when an audit revealed 22 workers did not have a Maritime Security Identification Card (MSIC), which lets workers into secure areas.
According to the union, the one worker who had taken the company to Fair Work had his employment terminated.
Outside the court, the Victorian Transport Association's Peter Anderson said the situation was "holding Victorians to ransom".
He called on the union to go through the proper processes and come to the table to negotiate.
"That's exactly why we have a Fair Work Commission," he told the ABC.
"That worker in the first instance became ineligible to work on the wharf, so now they're looking for a re-classification of an individual to maintain a work status as a casual.
"There's a bit of inconsistency in what they're looking for, however there's always middle ground in any negotiation."

Earlier, Mr Hilakari told the ABC that the worker has since received authorisation to work on the docks.
He said the picketing would most likely continue until the worker was reinstated.
"He's been authorised to be on the docks, so there's no reason for him not to get back there," he said.
"If he goes back to work, then the strike will be over and things will be moving back from the dock, that's my strong feeling that I get from unions and people who are community supporters down there."
Workers are granted MSIC clearance after they have been cleared by the AFP and ASIO as not being a threat to the maritime or offshore industry.
In a statement, MUA Deputy Secretary Will Tracey said the worker had to take one extra step to have his clearance approved, due to a previous conviction.
"VICT management and its supporters made the claim several times that this worker had his appeal for an MSIC rejected, not once but twice," he said.
"When the truth is that he has held a two-year MSIC card on several occasions since receiving an assault conviction more than 20 years ago."
Mr Hilakari called on the state and federal governments to intervene.
"[VICT] have automated the docks, and they're paying lower wages than industry standards, and they're also targeting union members … this issue needs to be resolved," he said.

A spokesperson for the Victorian Government said they were monitoring the impact the situation had on supplies.
"The Government has repeatedly offered to bring the parties together to help them resolve this dispute — including an offer to bring in Industrial Relations Victoria as a mediator — and that offer remains open," the spokesperson said.
"The matter will be heard by the Fair Work Commission tomorrow and we are hopeful this will bring an end to the dispute."


Clive Palmer has faced another federal court grilling from liquidators of his failed company Queensland Nickel, who say he failed to meet a judge's order to produce key financial documents.
And Mr Palmer's Twitter account — already the cause of legal controversy — posted a bizarre cartoon just as the former federal MP was testifying from the witness box.

An examination hearing on Monday heard Mr Palmer had not produced written records detailing multi-million-dollar transfers from Queensland Nickel, which liquidators alleged he used as a "cash cow" to pay other bills.
At 2:40pm (AEST), while Mr Palmer was facing questioning by a lawyer for liquidators, his Twitter account posted a cartoon containing a self-referential joke.
A judge last week ordered Mr Palmer to give an affidavit by Wednesday evening explaining a December 1 tweet from his account made during a federal court hearing he had failed to turn up for.
Mr Palmer, dressed in a sports coat and T-shirt, did not appear to have access to any electronic device in court on Monday.
The court last week ordered Mr Palmer to produce financial documents from his flagship company Mineralogy under threat of contempt charges and a raid by liquidators on his offices.
Mr Palmer told the court his staff had "produced the documents we have".
When John Peden, a barrister for liquidators, raised the prospect of a new production order for missing transaction records, Mr Palmer said: "I don't believe in wasting my people's time, just because you're funded by the Commonwealth and the Chinese Government."
Mr Palmer gave some unusual explanations for why few people in his business empire knew of financial details apart from himself.
He said transaction details were frequently not made accessible to accounts staff because "we have our phone lines tapped by the Chinese Government".
He said former Queensland Nickel chief financial officer Daren Wolfe would not know of recent debt levels in Mr Palmer's enterprise as "he has been judging the world gymnastics championships in Europe".
Mr Peden repeatedly upbraided Mr Palmer for "giving speeches" instead of answering questions.
He put it to Mr Palmer that his flagship company Mineralogy used Queensland Nickel as a "cash cow" to pay its bills.
Mr Palmer at first said this was "wrong" and that Queensland Nickel had "no money of its own" and this belonged to two holding companies.
Asked if he was aware only Queensland Nickel had a bank account, Mr Palmer said: "I can't recall."
Mr Peden responded: "Really? You appreciate you're under oath, Mr Palmer?"
Mr Palmer then answered the same question about using Queensland Nickel to pay Mineralogy's bills by saying he would have to "get advice".
His solicitor Sam Iskander stood to remind Mr Palmer he could claim privilege against self-incrimination before answering.
The hearings are examining Mr Palmer's role in the 2016 collapse of Queensland Nickel with debts of $300 million and leaving almost 800 people jobless.
Liquidators are targeting Mr Palmer in separate legal action to try to claw back more than $200 million they allege he recklessly drained from Queensland Nickel while acting as a "shadow director".
Mr Palmer has denied all wrongdoing and is defending the action.


The use of social media to "pressure" insurers into paying out claims is costing companies millions and driving up premiums, according to the peak-body for the insurance industry.
The Insurance Council of Australia's Campbell Fuller said dissatisfied customers taking their gripes of rejected claims to Twitter and Facebook can cause a number of problems, including reputational harm for insurers.
"It can have an impact on the cost of acquiring a new customer, or moving a customer from one insurer to another," Mr Fuller said.
"And because those costs are embedded in the business, they can affect the premium that customers are paying. So it does have some impact.
"When a company is trying to sell a product to a customer, it falls down the Google rankings and therefore it's harder for a new customer to see that particular company."
Mr Fuller said customer pressure over a claim can sometimes lead to payouts where they are not due.
"Other factors involved are that we have customers complaining on social media or using social media to try and leverage an insurance company," he said.
"And insurance company may feel under pressure to pay a claim even if that claim is not fair. Even if that claim is actually not legitimate or only partially legitimate.
"Simply because when there are issues and disputes, the costs of not paying the claim can actually be higher than the cost of actually paying the claim."
But some social media experts are sceptical of the claims, saying insurance companies should be using social media to listen to their customers.

Facebook and Twitter are often the places people go when they want to vent their displeasure.
Mark Pesche, a digital culture expert at the University of Sydney, said online accountability had actually improved customer service across many businesses.
"Any company that is so afraid of social media, it means that they haven't been interacting with their customers and so they're feeling like they're being attacked by them," he said.
"That's probably a sign to those businesses that they need to interact with their customers more continuously and more regularly so that they can actually put those problems to bed.
"Social media is how customers voice their opinions all the time, and any company that isn't listening to it isn't doing their job and also isn't getting the important feedback."
But Dr Pesche said while social media had made businesses more accountable, it was something that should not always be trusted.
"You actually have to be super careful because sometimes people will post things that are false," he said.
"Like a competitor will plant something, and that will then be a way of undermining a competitor. So you have to regard these things a little suspiciously."


Traditional owners in central Queensland say they could have lost all of their native title rights if they did not negotiate with Adani on a proposed coal mine in central Queensland.
The Native Title Tribunal registered an Indigenous Land Use Agreement (ILUA) on Friday with the Wangan and Jagalingou People (W&J) for the Carmichael mine, north-west of Clermont.
An ILUA is an indication of traditional owners' support for the project, but part of the group has opposed the mine.
W&J spokesman Patrick Malone said seven of the 12 native title claimants supported the mine, but a minority had taken legal action in an attempt to block the project.
Mr Malone said the Queensland coordinator-general pressured the claimants two years ago to come to the negotiating table.
"Each of us applicants got a letter from the coordinator-general saying because we weren't willing to engage with certain people they were preparing to start proceedings to extinguish native title against all Wangan Jagalingou Country," he said.
"The seven of us decided it's all about having our native title recognised so we went back to Adani and said we're willing to negotiate ILUA with you."
Mr Malone said most of the claimants who supported the mine lived in Indigenous communities like Woorabinda and Cherbourg, while many of the opponents of the project lived in capital cities.
"Mainly in Brisbane from what I can can see, these people that are doing that are sitting in their homes in the luxury of air conditioning that's probably fuelled by coal fire power stations," he said.
He said Adani had guaranteed that local Indigenous people would get at least seven-and-a-half per cent of jobs at the mine.
"So it's not only giving Adani approval, some of the things that are coming back to Wangan and Jagalingou People besides a yearly compensation payment or a royalty, there's the ability for us to participate in business projects," he said.
"One of the things they've offered to W&J people is to operate the bus service that will move around the camp and between the camp and Clermont.
"We've got Downer EDI, who are going to build the mine, they are going to take 75 Aboriginal people on as soon as they start."
Mr Malone said he felt he did not have any choice but to negotiate.
"Most of the environment approvals and the other approvals that Adani needed had already been granted and were in place and the only thing outstanding was to do ours [approval by native title claimants], and I along with the other six really didn't want to lose our native title," he said.
"And even at this stage, because there's a split in the applicant, that still might be a possibility — I don't know."
W&J claimants who opposed the mine said they planned to continue legal action to challenge the land use agreement.


Top Enders forking out for sky-high airfares will get the chance to air their frustration when a Senate inquiry visits Darwin next year.
The Rural and Regional Affairs and Transport References Committee is calling for first-hand experiences of flight prices in regional, rural and remote locations and will scrutinise the factors that determine pricing.
"It's looking at regional routes and seeing what can be done from a federal perspective, from a regulatory perspective, to try and improve our connectivity," Member for Solomon Luke Gosling said.
"We understand there's costs for business, but what we need to do is accurately see what are reasonable and fair costs for business, and then see what is — I don't know any other way to say it — businesses taking advantage of their monopoly."
Flight prices are often cited as a key deterrent to settling down in the Northern Territory, where airfares can cost interstate travellers hundreds of dollars more than east coast flights of the same distance.
Mr Gosling, who worked to ensure the inquiry would visit Darwin, told ABC Radio Darwin's Richard Margetson that scorned Territorians should offer their experiences to the committee.
"Regional airlines and airfares are a cause of concern because we live in the best part of Australia up here, but one of the things that affects our connectivity, not only with family and friends but from business, is the cost of getting around," he said.
Although it is unknown whether a hearing will also take place in Alice Springs, written submissions are already being received from residents in the outback capital.

"It's certainly something that a lot of us are pushing for and have been since the inquiry was announced a couple of weeks ago," Tourism Central Australia's Dale McIver said.
One submission complains of paying $330 for a one-way flight to visit family in Sydney over Christmas.
The ABC has previously revealed that residents frequently make the 450-kilometre journey for the cheaper airfares out of Yulara rather than flying out of Alice Springs.
"I'm off to Perth next week — $800 one-way. It hurts. I understand," Ms McIver said.
"But what we really need to make sure that this inquiry hears from is real business cases. That's what they're really going to stand up and listen to."
She said businesses often hesitated to send staff to interstate training sessions and enticing labourers to take up work in Alice Springs was difficult; the two issues having a domino effect on the town's economy.
"Just because we're a minority voice because there aren't as many of us living out here as in the big cities, we're just as important passengers."
Mr Gosling was optimistic that the inquiry could effect real change.
"I think it's up to the community to make sure our experiences are relayed to the committee so they have a good understanding," he said.
"Obviously also it's an opportunity for the airports and airlines to justify the amount they charge us for flying in and out of the Top End."

"At the end of the day, the Government can't force [airlines] to say, 'your flights are too expensive, you must change them'," Ms McIver said.
"However, hopefully some political pressure that comes out of this inquiry will make the airlines stand up and realise you can't take it out on regional Australia."
This is not the first Senate inquiry looking into the cost of airfares in the Northern Territory.
In July, the Joint Standing Committee on Northern Australia visited Alice Springs, Darwin and Yulara as part of its inquiry into stimulating northern Australian tourism.
While the inquiry is yet to hand down its recommendations, tourism bodies have said increasing the number of discount domestic airlines would unlock tourism in the Northern Territory.
Darwin International Airport's submission also called for the Passenger Movement Charge, a flat rate tax of about $60 applied to all passengers, to be reduced.
Earlier in the year Qantas announced discounted airfares of up to 30 per cent for some regional locations in Queensland and Western Australia.
The inquiry is slated to visit Darwin in March.


Optus will compensate more than 8,700 customers who were misled about the speed of their plans.
The telco also admitted it is likely to have breached the Australian Consumer Law (ACL) by providing speeds slower than what it advertised between September 2015 and June 2017.
These slower speeds were due to "technical limitations" on the customers' fibre to the node (FTTN) or fibre to the building (FTTB) NBN connections, said the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC).
Optus' most expensive "Boost Max" plan was supposed to reach maximum download speeds of up to 100 megabits per second (Mbps), and maximum upload speeds of up to 40 Mbps (100/40 Mbps).
The ACCC has revealed almost half the FTTN (fibre to the node) customers on that plan (5,430 people) were unable to reach such speeds.

Furthermore, 21 per cent of customers (2,337) could not even reach half of that speed.
"Worryingly, many affected Optus FTTN customers could not even receive the maximum speed of a lower-tier plan," ACCC chairman Rod Sims said.
"This is a concerning trend we have seen throughout the industry and we are working to fix this."
As for its next fastest plan (50/20 Mbps), more than a quarter of FTTN customers (1,519) on a 50/20 plan could not receive that top speed.
The number of Optus NBN customers who got less than they bargained for pales in comparison to Telstra's.
"Optus is the second major internet provider we have taken action against for selling broadband speeds they could not deliver to their customers," Mr Sims said.
Back in early November, Telstra admitted 42,000 of its customers were getting slower-than-expected speeds — almost five times higher than Optus' tally.
Optus has provided a court-enforceable undertaking to the ACCC, detailing the remedies it will provide to affected customers.

These remedies include refunds, changing speed plans, discounts, and customers being able to exit from contracts without paying a penalty.
Optus will also be required to check with customers, within four weeks of connecting them to a new NBN plan, to see whether they are receiving the speeds they paid for.
If during that check, the customers are getting less than the advertised speeds, the telco will need to notify them and offer remedies.
However, the ACCC warned that customers may not get faster speeds if they exit their Optus contracts and move to another internet provider.
Optus will contact its affected consumers by email or letter by March 2.


Australia's five-year mining investment slump is almost over, and that means the resources sector will soon start adding to growth again instead of dragging on the economy.
The good news is delivered in the Mining in Australia 2017 to 2032 report from forecasters at BIS Oxford Economics.
The forecaster's associate director for mining, Adrian Hart, said mining production is likely to grow 5.5 per cent in the current financial year, with maintenance spending also on the rise and the investment decline winding down.
"For the first time in several years we can say that the outlook for mining is positive, rather than negative," he said.
"We can start talking about mining being positive for the economy, not just in production terms but in investment terms as well."
Mining exploration spending fell to its lowest level in a decade last financial year, at $2.9 billion, but BIS Oxford Economics expects that to recover to $4 billion per annum over the next five years.
"We're seeing higher prices across the board and that's already stimulating that exploration work, and we expect it to really strengthen over the next few years," he said.

Mr Hart said increased exploration is already starting to lead to rising investment in new projects, at least outside of the LNG export sector.
"When you look outside of oil and gas, mining investment is actually starting to rise," he said.
"You're starting to see the next round of mining operations start to get developed, whether it be in coal, in iron ore, in copper, in gold, in other metals, we're seeing the investment starting to come through."

However, it will take longer for Australia to overcome the drag from hundreds of billions of dollars spent on LNG export facilities over the past decade.
From a peak of $95.9 billion in 2012-13, the report predicts investment in resource sector projects will bottom at $28.4 billion next financial year, before rising back to $38.4 billion over the next few years.
However, Adrian Hart said the broader Australian economic impact of the remaining investment decline is likely to be small.
"The downturn in LNG investment is probably still going to take another 12 to 18 months, and that's going to make total mining investment continue to fall," he said.
"It is highly import intensive and we believe that actually the impact on the Australian economy from that perspective will be negligible."
The BIS Oxford Economics forecast do not factor in the possibility of Adani's Carmichael coal mine, as the analysts do not believe the project is likely to go ahead.


A leading Tasmanian economist has recommended selling off government-owned assets to fund future infrastructure spending, as the state's peak social services body warns that people must come before profits.

In the Tasmania Chamber of Commerce and Industry (TCCI) report, Saul Eslake said the Government should consider offloading Tasports, TasNetworks, Aurora Energy or the Motor Accidents Insurance Board.
Mr Eslake said sales would allow the state to borrow more money to fund investment on "rigorously selected infrastructure".
He said it would also allow Tasmania to offset some of its unfunded superannuation liability.
"The economic and social challenges facing Tasmania, over the next four years and beyond, cannot be addressed by a Government which seeks a mandate for doing nothing more than 'minding the store' - however competently they do that," he said.
"This is a moment in Tasmania's history where those who seek to shape its future should be imaginative and bold, rather than cautious or timid."
The report found Tasmania's economy had "grown strongly" in specific areas, including:
The report found business confidence "remained high", with Tasmanian businesses "more supportive of State Government policies than anywhere else in Australia".

Mr Eslake said Tasmania's property market was "doing very well", with prices statewide also rising, although "not as rapidly as in Hobart".
"Residential property prices in Hobart are now rising more rapidly than in any other capital city and selling more quickly than for a very long time," he said.
The state's population growth was on the up again, because "more people are moving to Tasmania from the mainland than the other way round for the first time in six years".
Mr Eslake said Tasmania's state public sector was "in good financial shape" with "spending growing at a consistently slower rate than revenue".
"Importantly, non-financial public sector net debt is lower, relative to the size of Tasmania's economy, than it is in any other state or territory except New South Wales."
Mr Eslake noted the mining sector fell by 9.1 per cent in 2016-17, the "third consecutive large decline".
The financial and insurance services sector contracted by 11.2 per cent, while construction shrunk by 5.2 per cent.
"The declines in activity in these three sectors sliced almost 1.5 percentage points off Tasmania's overall economic growth rate in 2016-17," he said.
Mr Eslake said the report listed a "range of recommendations" for the next State Government to consider after the 2018 election.
The recommendations include:
But the chief executive of the Tasmanian Council of Social Service, Kym Goodes, said education and health, low household incomes, housing affordability and the "essentials of life" such as energy, healthy food and transport "continue to be major issues".

"Every year 5,000 households go without meals, 7,000 can't afford to heat their homes and over 21,000 struggle to pay their bills on time," she said.
"We don't want this to be the story of our future. The people of Tasmania know that things can change."
Ms Goodes said future direction should take into account the human cost of maintaining a healthy "bottom line".
"We tend to default to discussion about our deficits and, in doing so, quickly lose sight of our greatest potential asset - our people. People are not born a liability," she said.
"To change, we need to invest differently - in communities and people, in the same way we invest in projects of state significance, in industries, in tourism infrastructure.
Mr Eslake's major education recommendation was to shutter Tasmania's college system, which has historically provided Year 11 and Year 12.
He said the system was expensive, and needed radical change to achieve better educational outcomes.
The State Government, the Labor Opposition and the Greens have all rejected the suggestion.
Education Minister Jeremy Rockliff said the college system was a very important part of the educational system.
"We have very good, strong partnerships and models developing right now as part of our [years] 11 and 12 policy between our high schools and our colleges," he said.
"We've had the biggest single jump ever in terms of TCE attainment in the last 12 months. We have record amounts of our students when it comes to retention."
The State Government has promised to extend every public high school through to Year 12 if it's re-elected.
All three parties also rejected any sale of public assets.
"As we have stated before, we will not sell public assets," Premier Will Hodgman said.
"Unlike Labor, we have shown that a majority Liberal Government can balance the budget as well as invest more into key frontline services."
Greens leader Cassy O'Connor said sales would lead to higher costs.
"Inevitably it [a sell-off] leads to higher costs for consumers, and once public property is sold off you just don't get it back," she said.
Shadow deputy leader Michelle O'Byrne said Labor would not be selling any assets.
"Labor has no plans to privatise any of the assets that are currently in government hands," she said.



Australia and Canada have a lot in common when it comes to property — both nations have record housing debt and have had surging prices in two of their key cities.
But there are some key differences in housing policy and financial practices that may make Australia more vulnerable to a housing crash.
These differences have been highlighted by the chief executive of Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC), Evan Siddall, who was the keynote speaker at a recent conference hosted by the Australian Housing and Urban Research Institute (AHURI).
In an exclusive interview with the ABC, Mr Siddall touched on four reasons why Australia might be more vulnerable to a severe housing downturn than Canada, as well as one key area where both countries are taking a similar approach — foreign investors.
Canadian households have a lot of debt, in fact their debt is slightly bigger than the annual output of the nation's entire economy, 101 per cent of GDP.
That debt level is twice as big as it was at the start of the 1990s.

Mr Siddall said it is a key concern for Canada's policymakers.
"We're not proud of the level of indebtedness in Canada and we're quite concerned about it — it's even higher in Australia," he observed.
Australia's household debt is 122 per cent of our annual economic output — that level has surged much more than two-and-a-half times what it was at the start of the 1990s.

Why is this a problem?
"Because debt is basically spending future income — what you're doing is you're mortgaging your future economic growth," Mr Siddall explained.
"The correlation between high house prices and high indebtedness and a future economic recession is extremely high."
Evan at record low interest rates, Australian and Canadian households are struggling with the burden of large interest bills.
In Australia, this is already showing up in weak consumer spending which is dragging on economic growth.
That is a trend that will only get worse as rates eventually rise back towards more usual levels.
Rising interest rates is another area where Canada may have an advantage over Australia.

Not only are Canadian households less indebted, but they also tend to have fixed-rate mortgages.
"Seventy-five per cent of our mortgages are five years or longer and so, even in the event of a rate shock, we only have about 25 or 30 per cent of mortgages that come due every year and are required to be refinanced and therefore exposed to that interest rate risk," Mr Siddall explained.
When told that somewhere around 80 per cent of Australian mortgages were on variable interest rates, Mr Siddall was taken aback.
"That is a vulnerability," he responded.
"That makes Australian mortgage holders more subject to rate shock than they would be here in Canada."
Canadians are currently being tested, with the nation's central bank having lifted rates twice in the second half of this year.
Although Canadian interest rates remain lower than Australia's official cash rate, at 1 per cent versus 1.5 per cent.
Australia's tendency towards variable mortgages was seen as a strength during the global financial crisis, as it meant most households got an immediate benefit from the Reserve Bank's dramatic interest rate cuts, but it means Australians are immediately vulnerable as global interest rise back to more typical levels.
As highlighted during the global financial crisis, many large banks are considered "too big to fail" and will be bailed out if a housing market crash leads to large losses.
Australia's big four banks benefit from this implicit guarantee by receiving lower interest rates when they raise money on international markets — their credit ratings are effectively linked to the Australian Government's.
Mr Siddall said that creates what economists call "moral hazard".
"There's an incentive for people to lend rather less prudently because they believe they can count on a government bailout," he explained.
Canada also has banks that are too big to fail and would probably be bailed out if they got into trouble.
However, it also requires banks to take out mortgage insurance on all low-deposit home loans (less than 20 per cent deposit).
CMHC provides that insurance, along with two private competitors.

"At the end of the day, when it comes to home owners in a house price crash the government is going to end up paying for that, because home owners are taxpayers, as opposed to banks which we should let fail," Mr Siddall argued.
"It will be unbelievably tempting for politicians, and I think probably responsible for politicians, to help support home owners in the event of a generalised housing crash.
"We collect premia for that at CMHC and we contribute about $2 billion a year to reducing the Federal Government's deficit."
In Australia, both lenders' mortgage insurers are privately owned — the Government gets no premiums, but would probably still be on the hook to bail out the big banks if the housing market crashed and one or both of those insurers collapsed.
CMHC also has monopoly control over selling Canadian residential mortgage backed securities, which are a key source of funding for home loans.
In Australia these securities are sold by banks and non-bank mortgage lenders, which limits regulatory control of the amount of mortgage funding available.
Another potential advantage Canada has over Australia is the CMHC itself.
Not only does it do mortgage insurance, but also runs Canada's national housing affordability programs and provides policy advice.
"Being able to look at the whole spectrum, from homelessness to home ownership, means that we can have a comprehensive, integrated strategy," Mr Siddall ventured.
AHURI's executive director, Dr Ian Winter, agrees that Australia lacks national coordination in housing policy, especially when it comes to new housing.

"Whilst we're getting a fair bit of new supply — over 200,000 completions over the past couple of years, which are historical highs — most of the new stock is overwhelmingly at the high price end," he said.
"So we're not seeing either new supply at lower price segments or indeed any evidence that there's a trickle down of that new supply or of people vacating existing supply so that we're getting some sort of flow through of dwellings to first home buyers, for instance."
However, Dr Winter said the National Housing Finance Investment Corporation, a Federal Government-backed bond aggregator, will improve access to finance for affordable rental housing projects.
While Australia and Canada are tackling their housing affordability problems in different ways, they have tried some common approaches.
One has been for banking regulators to improve lending standards by getting banks to use tests when assessing how much prospective home buyers can afford to borrow.
"Prudential underwriting is the first line of defence and I think both countries have got better and better at that," Mr Siddall said.
The booming areas of both countries have also put special taxes on foreign buyers of residential property — in Vancouver and Toronto in Canada and through increased stamp duties in New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland in Australia.

Mr Siddall said the taxes in Canada appear to have just brought forward some buyers' investments, but now foreign demand in Vancouver is back where it was before the tax.
"These are politically expedient measure but ultimately not that effective," he said.
"We know in Canada that there is more speculation activity and investment activity being done by domestic Canadians than non-Canadians and so these policies aren't the solution."


The near-fatal poisoning of a NSW Central Coast man with severe autism who drank a cocktail of highly toxic herbicides left in an unmarked drink bottle has sparked fresh calls for a nationwide ban on Paraquat.
Damien Terry's survival, after accidentally drinking a combination of the commercial weed killers Paraquat and Diquat, has been described as nothing less than "miraculous".
The 21-year-old and his carer were visiting a sports oval on Mangrove Mountain in August, when he suddenly started vomiting uncontrollably shortly after returning from the disabled toilet.
He had been poisoned after accidentally sipping the chemicals, which he found in an abandoned soft drink bottle.
Safety warnings displayed on all Paraquat products include that it must be labelled clearly and not placed in drinking containers.
Doctors at Gosford Hospital told his family to prepare for the worst.
"The doctors basically said to us that Damien probably had 12 hours to live," said Mr Terry's mother, Julie Terry.
"Their words were 'nobody' survives from ingesting Paraquat.
"Obviously you go into a state of shock. Damien looked quite well, although he was vomiting quite significantly, he looked well so it was hard to comprehend that he was as ill as he was.

"At that point ... they just said he would have massive organ failure and I just asked them to keep him as comfortable as possible."
After two agonising weeks in hospital not knowing whether Mr Terry would pull through, he is now on the road to recovery and his family wants to speak out about the dangers of Paraquat.
It is a highly effective weed killer commonly used by farmers across Australia but is also extremely toxic: it only takes a few sips to kill a person and has no antidote.
In 2015, a Queensland farmer died after the deadly herbicide accidentally sprayed into his mouth when he was filling a pressure back-pack pump spray.
Paraquat has caused thousands of deaths worldwide and is banned in more than 30 countries including China, Cambodia and across the European Union.
There is also a debate about its links to Parkinson's disease.
The poison has been under review by regulator, the Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority, since 1997 due to health and environmental concerns, with a final determination due next year.

The Terrys want a major crackdown on its use and availability but are ultimately seeking a nationwide ban.
"It defies logic in my mind that this is available over the counter for anybody to purchase," Ms Terry said.
"Everybody knows these days that health and safety is a very common agenda for all of us in the workplace so I feel a bit disillusioned that the authorities didn't keep an eye on that."
The Terrys call is one that is strongly supported by the National Toxics Network.
"It beggars belief a pesticide of this toxicity would ever be used in a public facility, let alone decanted into a drinking bottle," said environmental campaigner Jo Immig.
"What it really illustrates is the failure of risk management when it comes to highly dangerous pesticides.
"It's been banned by 32 other countries and it's high time the regulator put the needs of people and the planet first ... it's just a very highly toxic chemical that has no place in common use in Australia today."
Newcastle University environmental contamination expert Professor Ravi Naidu has also questioned why the herbicide was anywhere near the sports ground.
"When Paraquat is applied, that time and at least for 20 days children should not be exposed at all. If they're exposed then it poses risk," Professor Naidu said.
He said a national ban on Paraquat would hurt the agriculture industry but agrees it should be more tightly regulated.

"I think the best way forward would be restrictive availability and therefore farmers must demonstrate they have a farm and a need for that and only the amount they need should be available."
A New South Wales Environment Protection Authority (EPA) investigation is underway into the poisoning, which could take up to three years.
An EPA spokeswoman said any pesticide misuse resulting in harm to human health is extremely serious.
She said the authority was looking at a range of offences under the pesticides legislation, with a maximum penalty of $60,000 for an individual and up to $120,000 for a corporation for each offence.
Central Coast Council has declined to comment while the incident is being investigated.
Four months on, the Terrys' lives are returning to normal but they are determined make sure other families are spared the same trauma.
"[Damien's] recovery has been miraculous — there's no other word for it. He should be gone," Ms Terry said.
"We just feel absolutely blessed he's still with us."


The Federal Government has committed to building a $10 billion inland rail line that will transport freight between Melbourne and Brisbane.
Advocates say it's vital to ease the number of trucks on our roads and to link Australia's farmers and manufacturers more efficiently with their markets.
While generally welcomed, the massive project has also raised plenty of questions from those whose lives will be most affected, as the ABC discovered when it travelled along the proposed route.
To answer some of the key questions we've gone to the top — John Fullerton, the chief executive of the Australian Rail Track Corporation (ARTC), which has the job of turning the century-old dream into a reality.
Because of the sheer volume of goods it will be able to move, according to Mr Fullerton.
"One 1,800-metre train, double-stacked, operating between Melbourne and Brisbane is equivalent to over 100 B-double [trucks]," he said.

"So to me that should tell people what the benefits of rail is, compared to road, when you can take those trucks off the road, reduce congestion, improve safety."
The volume of freight travelling along the eastern seaboard is expected to double to 8 billion tonnes by 2030, he said.

Currently three-quarters of all freight is transported by road and one-quarter by rail. The ARTC's ambitious aim is to reverse that mix.
"The real problem we have on the coastal route today is that it takes 32 hours to move freight from Melbourne to Brisbane via Sydney," he said.
"It has to navigate the curfews in the Sydney metro area, so you can understand why we only have 25 per cent of that [freight] volume on rail, because it only attracts the slow-moving, non-time sensitive freight."
One of inland rail's key targets is to offer an express service that delivers freight directly between Melbourne and Brisbane in less than 24 hours.
Yes, if rail is cheaper and more efficient than road.
"If the costs are the same as road, most times customers will choose [road] because it is more flexible," Mr Fullerton said.
"But if you can make rail 20 to 30 per cent cheaper than road, as well as providing the same level of service in terms of transit time, freight availability, it is a very easy decision for our customers to make."
But there are no promises.
ARTC is building the railway and will charge rail and freight companies to use it. Freight companies will factor that cost into the rates they charge farmers and businesses to carry their goods.

Graham Moore, from Pacific National — the largest rail freight company in Australia — said he was hopeful rates would drop.
"I think we can create the opportunity for [lower rates] to occur. Is there a guarantee? I don't think you can put a guarantee in place," the national manager of planning operations said.
Mr Fullerton is confident inland rail will lower freight costs for consumers.
"The best example is to look at our east-west business between Sydney and Perth and Melbourne and Perth," Mr Fullerton said. "It's two-thirds cheaper than road, running on those long distances."

When federal Treasurer Scott Morrison committed the bulk of the estimated $10 billion cost of the inland railway in this year's budget, he said the project would "support every regional location along the route".
But that support may be a lot, or very little, depending on where you live.
Inland rail advocate and former Nationals deputy leader Tim Fischer told the ABC the rail line wouldn't revive all of the dying towns along its route.
It'll be the regional centres which become freight hubs that will benefit most.
In New South Wales, Parkes — which sits at the centre of the Perth-to-Sydney and planned Melbourne-to-Brisbane rail lines — already has two major freight terminals, and Pacific National is pouring millions of dollars into expanding its base there.

ARTC estimates inland rail will create 16,000 jobs during the construction phase. The company will employ another 500 staff and there will be 5,000 contractors, Mr Fullerton added.
"If you think about the local benefits from the construction you've got local delis, local motels, local earthmoving companies, you've got local employment and you can see the multiplier effect quickly adding up to that estimate of 16,000," he said.
There will also be ongoing employment in roles such as train drivers and maintenance workers, he said.
Inland rail has been sold as providing the backbone for a freight system to last 100 years.
But given the pace of technological change, is rail in danger of being rendered a dinosaur?
Driverless vehicles, for example, are potentially only years away from taking to the roads, and who knows what artificial intelligence will bring to mobility and all forms of transport and infrastructure in the future?
Mr Fullerton believes rail will hold its own.
"A number of years ago rail was considered to be old-world technology. But it has been remarkable how it's made a recovery around the world," he said.
"Rail is now seen as the perfect way to move freight and people around the country and get congestion off the roads, make roads safer and it is good for the environment.
"So that's why governments around the world are now investing heavily in rail networks because of the benefits they offer."
Mr Moore from Pacific National goes further.

"What you get for your dollar on inland rail is a huge bang for your buck," he said. "The amount being spent … this would deliver only a very small section of highway in metro Sydney."
And he says rail is also constantly developing.
"We'd like to explore technology that allows us to do transitions of freight while we are moving," he said, as a lot of fuel is wasted in stopping and starting trains.
If all goes according to ARTC's business plan, inland rail will boost Australia's GDP by $16 billion over the next 50 years — but it's not expected to turn its first profit until just before then.

One third of the 1,700-kilometre inland railway will be completely new railway corridors, carved through state and privately owned land.
Balancing ARTC's need for a straight, flat track allowing speed and efficiency, and the myriad concerns of landowners, businesses and communities is a continuing challenge.
The Narrabri and Barradine Local Aboriginal Land Councils (LALCs) that oversee the Pilliga Forest in New South Wales said they were contacted by ARTC in May about the possibility of the railway going through the forest, which contains Aboriginal heritage sites, or surrounding farmland.
Infrastructure Minister Darren Chester last month announced the route would go through the forest, but the LALCs were unaware of this until informed by the ABC.
Mr Fullerton said there had been "significant" consultation, but acknowledged "we could always do better".

"Determining the alignment is just the first step in the process," he said. "We'll be working closely with all of those parties that are potentially impacted by the railway.
"And they'll also have a lot of opportunity to submit their concerns through that environmental approval process."

Millmerran farmer Russell Stevens, whose property lies within the preferred new rail corridor through south-east Queensland, has said he would have to be dragged off his land.
"Our commitment is to work with every individual landowner, understand what their issues are so that we can get to a satisfactory resolution," Mr Fullerton said.
"I am not going to second guess those things. I think we can avoid them from happening."
He has met with Mr Stevens and floodplain farmers in the wake of the announced route.
"We really want to bring the whole population with us to make inland rail an experience that is good for the regions and people can see the value in it for the Australian economy," he added.
Construction on a new section of the railway — Parkes to Narromine in NSW— will begin by the middle of next year and the first freight train is due to roll along the entire line in 2024-25, according to Mr Fullerton.
"It's a 10-year schedule we put together in 2015," he said.
"There's certainly been some delays around determination of alignment and so on. But we are going to work very hard to get all of those things into place to enable us to run that first train in 2025."
As for finishing the project within the estimated $10 billion cost: "ARTC has got the responsibility given to us by the Federal Government … and that is what we are going to get on and do."


The Bougainville Government is holding a crucial mining warden's hearing at the abandoned copper mine which sparked a decade-long armed insurgency against the Papua New Guinea Government.

The hearing will help determine if the company Bougainville Copper Limited (BCL), which was forced to abandon the Panguna mine in 1989, should retain an exploration licence for the site.
The Bougainville Government now owns part of Bougainville Copper Limited and wants it to redevelop the mine, but a rival consortium is challenging their bid, and said it has the support of key landowners from Panguna.
That consortium, Central Me'ekamui Exploration Limited, includes ASX-listed RTG Mining.
RTG's chairman Michael Carrick said the group's proposal was more realistic and better-supported by the people of Panguna.
"[It's] a sensible and well-supported and economically deliverable proposal to develop the mine for the benefit of all the people of Bougainville," he said.
RTG Mining has told the Bougainville Government that BCL's exploration licence for Panguna has expired and legally cannot be renewed.
It wants the Bougainville Government to consider its application instead, saying the landowner association for the mine pit, the Special Mining Lease Osikaiyang Landowners Association (SMLOLA), backs its bid and would present a 2,000-signature petition in opposition to BCL.
"For the first time in 30 years a mining company has been endorsed and supported by the SMLOLA," Mr Carrick said.
RTG Mining said longstanding resentment against BCL over the conflict and the ongoing environmental problems caused by their sudden withdrawal would prevent the company from being able to operate the mine again.
"The legacy issues for BCL are insurmountable," Mr Carrick said.
He said the landowners would present a 2000-signature petition in opposition to BCL.
There is a legal dispute over who rightfully chairs the landowner association.
RTG Mining said the dispute had been settled with their preferred candidate, Philip Miriori, in charge; the Bougainville Government said the mediation had failed and that the matter is still before the courts.

The Bougainville Government has also criticised the consortium for paying landowners who support them and implied it is not respecting the approval process.
"The Autonomous Bougainville Government (ABG) will not entertain companies who use the back door or break and enter through the window using self-centred individuals who think they have a monopoly over the people's resources or represent their interests," Mining Minister Raymond Masono said in a statement.
"… The ABG rejects companies that think they can bribe their way into people's resources by giving certain individuals money to gain landowner consent."
The ABG has had the PNG Government ban the key executive from Central Exploration, Sydney lawyer Renzie Duncan, from coming to Papua New Guinea.
Michael Carrick from RTG Mining says the consortium has been dealing openly with the Bougainville Government and that landowner payments are wages for its employees.
"The wages paid are in respect of services rendered to the joint venture," he said.
"The joint venture is a commercial operation and landowners, like anyone else, are able to work and to get paid for their services.
"Our dealings with landowners have been completely transparent and professional."
Mr Carrick said the intent of the travel ban against Mr Duncan appeared to be to help Bougainville Copper Limited.
"It is clear the ABG, on the appointment of the new mining minister, supported BCL and the temporary banning of Renzie, I assume, is designed to limit the support that could be afforded to the landowners of Panguna," he said.
Bougainville Copper Limited is deeply unhappy with RTG Mining and its partners.
"We think they're less than honourable in how they're carrying on their conduct and their activities in the area," BCL company secretary Mark Hitchcock said.
He said BCL's licence application was legal, and wasn't processed on time because the Bougainville Government wasn't ready to implement the processes of its new Mining Act.
"The department didn't have the resources to manage the application at the time it was taking place," he said.
"It now has all those facilities in place."
Mr Hitchcock said many landowners do support BCL, but are not being properly represented.
"From what we've seen, there is widespread support for mining in Panguna and mining with Bougainville Copper," he said.
Bougainville's Mining Secretary Shadrach Himata said all landowners will be asked for their views as part of the approval process, not just the leaders of the association.
"The warden's hearing is a process that will engage the views of all the landowners in the resource areas," he said.
"It won't be affected by the leadership tussle of the SMLOLA landowners."
Crucially, Mr Himata, said BCL is the only company currently being considered by the Bougainville Government.
"Right now, the only legal applicant on the exploration tenement is BCL," he said.
"Until that process is completed, there are no other applicants or applications over the same tenement. That's the position of Government."
The eventual decision on the exploration licence will be made by the Bougainville Executive Council, the regional government's Cabinet, probably sometime in 2018.



Angry retailers have ambushed the NSW Premier and the state's Transport Minister at the reopening of a section of Sydney's CBD where new light rail lines have been built.
The State Government is calling it Sydney's hottest selfie spot. It's a section of George Street between Park and King Streets now open, with part of it adorned with Christmas tree arches and flashing lights.
But some retailers are not feeling the cheer after enduring years of construction.
Long-time Strand Arcade jewellers Mark and Jennifer Duff made their feelings known to Transport Minister Andrew Constance at a press conference on Sunday.
"We are talking about collateral damage that you don't care about, because that's what we are," Ms Duff said.
"Well collateral damage ... but what I'm saying is we have provided rental assistance," Mr Constance replied.
The Duffs said the rental assistance is not enough to compensate for two years of lost trade, but Mr Constance was not exactly interested in hearing their comments.
"I'm here to answer questions from journalists," the Minister said.
"Run your own press conference mate.
"Guess what? Your business is about to pick up massively because guess what, here it is, here come the people.
"You had availability to some rent assistance, I hope you applied.
"This is a Government that listens and we have provided no compensation but what we have provided is some rent relief to businesses."
The State Government has confirmed 51 retailers have applied for rent help with 34 approved and 30 currently paid.
At least one business has received $100,000.
Mr Constance said the Government was "not in the business" of compensating businesses who will ultimately benefit from the infrastructure.
Mr Constance said 13.5 kilometres of the project's 25 kilometres had been completed, and work on the Queen Victoria Building station would commence in the new year.
"Thanks Sydney thus far, but we've got a long way to go," he said.


After nearly two years of traffic disruptions and delays, and months more of debate and dispute, Adelaide's new O-Bahn tunnel is expected to open to public metro buses on Monday.
The $160 million project was officially unveiled today, with locals given the chance to walk the length of the 670-metre tunnel from Hackney Road to Grenfell Street.
The tunnel is intended to ease congestion and reduce daily travel times for passengers heading to and from the north-eastern suburbs, and has been delivered "on time and on budget", according to the SA Government.
Wheelchair users have raised concerns about evacuation procedures in the tunnel for people with disabilities — criticisms which were rejected by Transport Minister Stephen Mullighan.
But Mr Mullighan stopped short of guaranteeing the first services through the tunnel would be on Monday morning, adding that final safety testing had to be carried out first.
"We've just got to make sure that after having so many thousands of people coming through the tunnel today, we do a full inspection, a check and one more test of all of the safety and security systems within the tunnel," he said.
"That'll give us the confidence we can start running services."

Only a handful of routes will be passing through the tunnel when services start tomorrow, but every O-Bahn bus should be using the tunnel by next weekend, the Government said.
Once fully operational, more than 30,000 passengers are expected to use the tunnel each week day.
Mr Mullighan said the first few hours of its operation would help transport authorities get to grips with any teething problems.
"All of the systems that have been installed ... will be under intense scrutiny during those first services," he said.
"We've got to make sure that we've got the calibration of the traffic lights and the traffic systems correct."

Dignity Party MP Kelly Vincent, who was among those inspecting the tunnel this morning, was concerned passengers with disabilities were not properly considered during the planning.
"We've been contacted by bus drivers who say they're not clear on what the evacuation procedures are," she said.
"If there is a fire or another emergency and they have someone who is a wheelchair user or uses a gopher or other mobility aid, they are concerned about potentially not being able to deploy the ramps because the footpath is ... very narrow."
But Mr Mullighan said he had been advised safety testing took wheelchair users into consideration.
"They did test getting people off those buses who do have mobility issues, who were in wheelchairs," he said.

Opposition transport spokesman David Pisoni said the O-Bahn project should have been accompanied by improvements to Grenfell and Currie streets.
He said the number of buses along the thoroughfare meant the road needed better maintenance.
"What's underneath the bitumen is what needs to be repaired. It's not good enough simply to patch the bitumen every time we see a pothole or a dip in the road caused by the buses," Mr Pisoni said.
The Government said the tunnel project had supported 450 jobs, generated $94 million worth of contracts and used about 2,000 tonnes of Whyalla steel.


One in three Melbourne suburbs now have a median house price of at least $1 million, and the once-affordable outer suburbs are also on the rise, according to Victoria's leading real estate body.
The latest data from the Real Estate Institute of Victoria found 90 per cent of suburbs within 10 kilometres of the CBD and almost half of suburbs in the middle ring — between 10 and 20km — are now in the million-dollar club.

Ten years ago only three middle-ring suburbs had a seven-figure median price.
REIV president Richmond Simpson said 154 of Melbourne's 402 suburbs recorded a median house price of $1 million or higher.
A staggering 44 suburbs made the jump in 2017, including Mordialloc on Melbourne's bayside, Kingsville in the inner west, and Coburg in the north.
"Ninety per cent of suburbs in the inner ring have a median house price of over a $1 million, that's what you sort of expect," he said.
"Suburbs such as Moorabbin, Craigieburn, Narre Warren North, those types of suburbs, they're the ones we're seeing the best price growth."
Clayton, 19 kilometres south-east of the city, had been a standout according to Mr Simpson. Its median house price increased 210 per cent over the last decade — now at $1.3 million.

"We've had unprecedented growth in real estate prices over the last 10 years, but more particularly in the last few years," he said.
"It's mainly driven by low interest rates and also high population movements to Melbourne from interstate and overseas that's put pressure on housing."
With Melbourne's population still growing at a strong rate, the REIV said it's likely more suburbs will join the million-dollar club.
"And we'll see the price in the outer suburbs coming up towards that $1 million. Suburbs in that middle ring, people can't afford those anymore, so what we're seeing is a lot more competition in the outer ring."


Despite calls from the Prime Minister to keep the coal-powered Liddell Power Station open, AGL has announced it will close the plant and repurpose it with a commitment to clean energy.
Investments will be made in gas, renewables and battery storage as part of  the NSW Generation Plan, with AGL confirming it will close the Hunter Valley station in 2022 as planned.
AGL said along with the NSW Government, it is also exploring the feasibility of a pumped hydro project in the Hunter region.
The Federal Government wanted to delay the closure of the plant for at least another five years, but AGL said a replacement electricity generation plan was far more affordable.
AGL chairman Graeme Hunt said the investments reflected the changing needs of the market and improvements in technology.
"This plan demonstrates that old power plants can be replaced with a mixture of new, cleaner technology, while improving reliability and affordability," he said.
An efficiency upgrade will also take place at Bayswater Power Station as part of the plan, which will create more capacity, without using additional fuel.

Malcolm Turnbull said the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) was looking at the plan to ensure there was not an energy shortfall.
"AGL has got a plan which they have produced for the first time which they say will meet that gap. It is being examined by AEMO now and we will look forward to discussions with AEMO," he said.
"So I want to be very clear about this, I am technology agnostic about energy."
However, Mr Turnbull fought a hard fight to urge AGL to find a buyer for Liddell to ensure a stable supply of electricity.
"You can't run an electricity system just on solar panels and wind farms. You can't."
Australian Conservation Foundation chief executive Kelly O'Shanassy said the decision was great news.
"We need to listen to AGL here, we need to switch off coal and move to renewables as fast as we can," she said.
Ms O'Shanassy said the Turnbull Government must now drop its obsession with coal and end its delaying tactics on climate change action.

"Keeping Liddell polluting for another five years was nothing more than a poorly informed thought bubble from the Prime Minister.
"What we need is a strong, comprehensive plan that would speed-up the retirement of polluting coal plants and accelerate the transition to clean energy."
In September former AGL chairman Jerry Maycock warned the 45-year-old Liddell station was nearing the end of its lifespan and was not at peak reliability.
"While it may be technically possible to extend the life of the power station, the costs of doing so in a way to ensure the plant is even moderately reliable are certain to be substantial," he said.
AGL announced in 2015 that as part of its greenhouse gas policy, its coal-fired power stations including Liddell would close by 2022.
A commitment has been made by AGL to its employees that it will not use forced redundancies when Liddell retires.


Adani's contentious mine site access deal with traditional owners has won the green light from native title authorities, months before a federal court ruling on whether the agreement is valid.
The National Native Title Tribunal on Friday registered Adani's Indigenous Land Use Agreement (ILUA) with the Wangan and Jagalingou (W&J), which is critical to gaining finance for the huge Carmichael coalmine.
The ILUA represents the Indigenous consent without which major banks will not back resources projects.

It also paves the way for the state to permanently extinguish native title rights over 2,750 hectares of the W&J's ancestral homelands in the Galilee Basin.
But it comes amid growing doubts about Adani's ability to clinch investors for the $22 billion project, after China's biggest banks joined a list of 27 financiers who have ruled out any involvement.
Traditional owners opposing Adani implored the re-elected Palaszczuk Government to drop its backing of the ILUA.

Adrian Burragubba, a member of the W&J native title applicant group, which is split down the middle on the Adani mine, also called on the government to "give assurances" it would not move to wipe out native title at Adani's request.
"We ask the government to take their hands off the ILUA, to not be a party to it," he told the ABC.
"Also, to give us an assurance that they won't go for compulsory acquisition.
"It's very doubtful a Labor government would put themselves in that position.
"We are trying to save our native title rights. We don't want that area to be extinguished for any reason."
The mine opponents have already filed a federal court bid for an injunction against Adani and the government if they move to extinguish native title.

Mr Burragubba also questioned the role of Adani supporters within the group who are pushing for the deal with the miner.
Irene Simpson, who was instrumental in reviving the deal with Adani last year, is now employed as an Indigenous engagement officer by the mining giant.
Mr Burragubba said this was "certainly" a conflict of interest.
He said Ms Simpson had "reached out to Adani personally" to re-establish negotiations "to put the ILUA back on the table" after the W&J claim group rejected the miner in 2012 and 2014.
Ms Simpson did not respond to the ABC this week.
An Adani jobs roadshow with contractor Downer, which Ms Simpson was to attend next week in Townsville and Palm Island, was cancelled without explanation on Thursday.
Adani and its W&J supporters say the mine was authorised by 294 votes to one in a meeting in April last year in Maryborough.
But opponents alleged votes against the deal were ignored and the meeting was stacked by people who were paid thousands of dollars by Adani to recruit attendees.
Another authorisation meeting held last week rejected the ILUA.
The W&J Adani opponents have enlisted high-profile barrister Stephen Keim for their legal challenge.
The tribunal decision to register the ILUA represented a backflip after months of pressure from Adani.
The tribunal was originally going to wait for the outcome of the federal court trial in March.
But Adani's lawyers argued it was the same situation when the Queensland mining minister and the environment department were able to approve its licenses, despite pending legal challenges.


Thousands of West Australians are expected to see the value of their apartments plummet and insurance premiums go through the roof on Wednesday, when up to 150 strata properties are named on a list of buildings with potentially combustible cladding.
The peak body for strata management is set to notify the managers of the properties that they require further investigation by the WA Building Commission.
The WA President of Strata Community Australia (SCA) Scott Bellerby said while most of the buildings were likely to be safe, he was worried residents could see massive costs from insurers while they wait for certification.
"The insurers would potentially withhold the policies and certainly they would be looking to put up the policies until they know, to their satisfaction, there isn't a risk there that the building might go up in flames" he said.
"When this goes public the insurers will insist that these buildings be assessed, there is no two ways about it, the buildings will have to be assessed by a fire engineer.
"If the building is deemed to be at risk and requires remediation the insurer will insist that remediation occur immediately, otherwise they will not extend the policy."
The WA Building Commission began a state-wide audit into cladding in July, in the wake of the deaths of 71 people in an apartment fire in London fuelled by dangerous cladding.
The cladding was checked on more than 1,900 buildings of three stories or more and built after 2000.
The Commission wants to further investigate 215 of them for potential risk.
While the list of buildings has not been made public, it has been given to the SCA, to help in notifying property managers.
The SCA has so far identified 50 properties that it represents, and expects this to grow to up to 150, which could affect about 9,000 people.
Mr Bellerby said while the association did not want to create angst in the community, it did want to be transparent with its members, and will notify them on Wednesday which properties are affected.
"Once that happens then of course you will see the insurers come knocking," he said.
"There'll be a degree of nervousness out there, until we've been able to get a risk assessment undertaken on the building, people will have a little bit of concern that maybe their building is affected by flammable cladding."
Securing a risk assessment is not likely to be a fast process, with the SCA only able to identify ten fire inspectors in WA registered to standards it would accept, extending the time owners could spend paying higher premiums.
Mr Bellerby said those unable to meet those costs could be financially ruined, finding themselves stuck owning an apartment or property they could not afford to fix, but also could not sell with out a certificate of currency.

Residents of a strata apartment block in Melbourne have been locked in an expensive legal battle as they pursue the builder for costs of replacing cladding which caused a large fire in 2014.
If unsuccessful, apartment owners at the Lacrosse building could be facing costs of $40,000 to $70,000 each to replace the dangerous material.
Mr Bellerby said borrowing to pay the higher premiums or remediation costs was difficult, as the banks would raise interest rates due to associated risks.
Loans to strata schemes often see interest rates of about eight to nine per cent to begin with, due to banks facing difficulties recovering losses from individual strata members.
"In the end, even if the scheme does have the ability to borrow the money, the levies and costs of that will be so high that people will be reluctant to buy into a scheme where their additional overheads are so high" Mr Bellerby said.
The SCA is calling on the State Government to provide an interest-free loan scheme to help affected owners meet costs.
"Fundamentally, this is not a fair outcome for innocent owners who bought into a property, and State Government support is needed urgently," Mr Bellerby said.
While yet to see a formal proposal, Minister for Commerce Bill Johnston said those responsible should be the ones made to pay.
"The audit is on-going and it is too early to know what steps may be required for individual buildings," he said.
"Where building products are used in a non-compliant manner the responsible parties should be held to account."


Juggling university study and a young child, Allister Hill is a busy man.
But as the chairman of an owners corporation, the 42-year-old has had to deal with a lot more than usual since a fire broke out at his Brunswick apartment complex in March.
"There's just a lot of uncertainty at the moment," Mr Hill said.
"It has been pretty stressful and for me particularly because I've been trying to balance it all."
A faulty air conditioning unit sparked the blaze at the property in Melbourne's north, which quickly spread to the apartment above.
Fire investigators have since confirmed that combustible cladding unsuitable for tall apartment buildings had been installed.

As a result of the fire and the subsequent investigation, the apartment's insurance premiums have more than quadrupled.
"We're thankful for [the insurance] but it's a bit scary how much they want," Mr Hill said.
Neighbour Andy White expressed concern when he was told about the insurance hike.
"The cost of living's so high these days as it is," he said.
"To have your insurance go through the roof as well … what do you choose — the food on your table or your insurance?"
Legal action has been launched against the builder, Hickory Group, and the matter is now before the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT).
The builder declined to comment.
The Victorian Government announced another cladding audit would take place over the next year after the Victorian Cladding Taskforce revealed 1,369 buildings "likely" had combustible cladding.
Each building will be given a danger rating from low to extreme.
The taskforce will also announce a "rectification tool" to help residents address the problem.
"We will go out and we will have physical inspections of buildings," Planning Minister Richard Wynne said.
"If rectification work needs to be undertaken, it will be undertaken."

But many residents remain sceptical their cladding will be fixed in a timely manner, and legal experts predict delays will lead to a surge in expensive, drawn-out legal action.
"There is always a reluctance from builders to hold out their hands to rectify defects," lawyer Andrew Whitelaw from TressCox Lawyers said.
"Some builders of course may take some responsibility up front while others are much more reluctant to step into the fray."

It took three years for builder LU Simon to agree to replace the cladding at the Lacrosse building in Melbourne's Docklands after fire tore up the side of the apartment complex.
The costs associated with replacing the cladding are still a matter of contention before VCAT.
Building companies have also agreed to replace cladding, at no cost to residents, at the Trilogi apartments in Prahran, Exo apartments in Docklands and Harvest apartments in Southbank.
However, Hickory Group would not confirm if they would replace the cladding at Elm apartments at Southbank.
The apartment buildings are among 10 identified by the Metropolitan Fire Brigade as requiring a heightened response due to their combustible cladding.
Mr Whitelaw represents eight owners corporations that are considering or commencing legal action, and he expects more to follow suit.
He said the Victorian legal system was "bogged down in applications" and reaching a resolution for each legal case could take years.

"The issue surrounding the cladding and how it's got to be on these buildings is a complicated one," he said.
It's also an expensive one.
Building inspection company Roscon told the ABC it cost, on average, between $3 million and $10 million to replace the cladding on most apartments blocks.
"This could lead to large builders going into liquidation in 2018," Roscon general manager Sahil Bhasin said.
"The reason for that is before they were used to $500,000 or $1 million defect claims.
"Having claims or counter claims of $3 million to $10 million against you, and then [multiplying] that by 10 buildings … may send some of these bigger builders into liquidation."
For now, residents at the Brunswick apartments want government intervention.
"There's been such a boom of apartments in the last 10 years and I think a level of under-regulation," Mr Hill said.
"[The Government] have a lot of responsibility because they've made decisions along the way that's led us to where we are."


Bitcoin and Kim Kardashian have one thing in common — they're famous for "being famous".
That's one reason why the digital currency's price has skyrocketed in the past week, reaching its record-high of $US17,154 ($22,842) at 1.00pm (AEDT), according to Coindesk.
"They've noticed its price has surged rapidly in a very short amount of time, so they naturally want to buy more bitcoin and speculate on its future gains.
"Bitcoin is also getting reported on extensively in the media, which in turn boosts its fame and popularity … the Kim Kardashian effect."
It was only a fortnight ago investors were cheering bitcoin's "fresh record" of almost $US10,000 ($13,316).
Essentially, Mr Williams said the market was a "bubble" — driven by speculative investors, rather than people who want to spend bitcoin like "real money".

Last year, a man walked into a bar (in Sydney) and made the regretful decision to pay for his pub meal with bitcoin.
His two burgers and two beers would only have cost $40 if he had paid in cash.
Instead, he chose to pay using one-fifth of a bitcoin.
"After six months, the price of bitcoin continued to rise and I joked with my mates that the burgers cost me $50, then $60," said Will, a finance executive who didn't want to be identified for this story.
"It kept escalating, and so did the joke!"
If only Will had held onto the partial-bitcoin, its value would have surged by 2,800 per cent.
One bitcoin was worth $798 back in June 2016, which is a very low price (with the benefit of hindsight).
"We now fondly refer to this as 'burger-gate' as my burgers would cost over $1,000 now," Will said.

Another problem with bitcoin payments is the surcharges — the precise amount is unknown for the customer until after the transaction is finalised.
Software engineer James Zaki found out the hard way when he purchased his first beer with bitcoin on Wednesday evening (also affectionately known as "Hump Day").

The bartender told him the beer would cost $7 (in cash), but James wanted to "have some fun" and experiment with the bitcoin technology.
Both men pulled out their smartphones — the bartender generated a QR code on his phone, which James then used his own phone to scan.
Within moments the bitcoin-for-beer transaction was finalised, and James learned the final price of his beer was a staggering $11.61.
It cost him an extra $4.61 — which is a 66 per cent surcharge.
Does he regret buying that beer?
"I have no regrets as I just wanted to try it in the real world for the first time," he said.
"I think I'll sit tight for a little while longer before trying this again."
Mr Williams explained the surcharge is a "mining fee", which is "dynamic" and "extremely variable".
Whereas James's surcharge was $4.61, sometimes it can be as low as just a few cents.
Basically, as bitcoin's popularity increased over the past few years, so did the time and delay in processing its digital transactions.

Bitcoin has a "block size" of 1 megabyte, which was adequate years ago when fewer people were using it.
Currently, bitcoin's capacity allows it to handle a few transactions per second (about seven), whereas conventional payment methods like Visa can process thousands per second.
"Instantaneous" bitcoin transactions normally attract a "mining fee", which is determined through a highly technical process (where a network of computers around the globe solve a complex mathematical problem to "verify" the customer's transaction).
This problem led to a Bitcoin 'civil war' and the creation of a spin-off currency in August, bitcoin cash — which was an attempt to solve the transaction speed and surcharge issue.
So what if one wants to buy their friends or favourite colleagues a beer?
"If you have to spend bitcoin, it's better to use it on more expensive, big-ticket items like laptops," Mr Williams said.
Since a top-of-the-range Macbook Pro costs $4,100, James's $4.61 surcharge would just be 0.1 per cent.
James has some advice for consumers: "Bitcoin is just not good for small purchases at the moment."
In just four hours, Bitcoin's price fell by 12 per cent to $US15,133 ($20,139) at 5.10pm (AEDT) — testament to its volatility.


Victorian supermarket shelves could be empty and fresh food could rot at sea if a union-backed blockade at the Port of Melbourne does not end soon, the Victorian Transport Association has warned.
About 50 workers from the Maritime Union of Australia have shut down the Victoria International Container Terminal (VICT) over the alleged treatment of one of its members.
The dispute has been ongoing for 10 days, forcing precious cargo to be diverted to Adelaide and then taken by road to Melbourne.
"There are goods coming directly into the shelves, there are goods being bought left right and centre," said the association's chief executive, Peter Anderson.
"Unfortunately the supply chain will be disrupted by this action."
The long-running dispute between the union and the VICT came to a head when an audit revealed that 22 workers did not have a Maritime Security Identification card, which lets workers into secure areas.
According to the union, the one worker who had taken the company to Fair Work had his employment terminated.

"This is the one person who had gone to the courts to raise the issue of bullying and intimidation and for that reason they sacked him and him only," said the union's Will Tracey.
"It's the company holding the community here to ransom in terms of treating one worker differently from the other 21 who identified without a permit."
The worker in question has a criminal record and has held a Maritime Security Identification card before.
But Mr Anderson said the workers' record makes him ineligible to work at the docks.
"The union want to then force the company to take this worker on," Mr Anderson said.
"It's now the company and all of Victoria through the supply chain process that's being held to ransom."

But Mr Tracey said other workers have just applied for discretionary permits after getting a police clearance.
"We probably have two or three people a week run into that sort of problems with their permits," Mr Tracey said.
The union wants the company to withdraw its letter of termination and give the man shifts when he gets his permit back.
"This company could fix this dispute right now, in the next 10 minutes," he said.


A $400 million 43-storey twin-tower development proposed for Perth's iconic Scarborough Beach has been knocked back by the body tasked with overseeing urban development of the city.
The hotel and entertainment precinct development was set to include a convention centre, hotel, apartments, shops and eateries on the corner of West Coast Highway and Scarborough Beach Road.
A statement from the Metropolitan Redevelopment Authority said the application, put forward by Chinese-owned developer 3 Oceans, had been refused planning approval because it was a significant overdevelopment of the site.

The plan included two towers — one of 43 storeys and another of 35 storeys — which is nearly four-times the base height maximum of 12 storeys under the MRA's Scarborough Planning Framework.
This framework allows developers to apply for an additional six storeys on buildings — taking the limit to 18 storeys in total — if the proposed development provides significant community benefits, such as:
The Rendezvous Hotel — the tallest building in Scarborough at 18 storeys — was granted such an exception when it was built under its original name: Observation City.
"The benefits proposed did not warrant the extent of discretion sought from the MRA," the statement said.
"Given the site's location on the corner of West Coast Highway and Scarborough Beach Road, the board determined that the critical mass of residents, workers and visitors on one site would also have serious impacts on the local traffic network."
Traffic concerns were highlighted in the lead up to the decision.
Despite an 11th-hour agreement with Main Roads WA and the developer for construction of a pedestrian bridge over West Coast Highway, the MRA said this was not included as part of the assessment.

3 Oceans managing director Dyno Zhang declined to answer questions from the media, but read a short statement decrying the decision, saying the firm was "surprised and disappointed".
"The MRA board has missed an opportunity to show courage and vision and support our project, which will be a game changer for the local Scarborough community," Mr Zhang said.
"The decision to refuse development approval for the iconic Scarborough project is contrary to State Government and City of Stirling's commitment to redevelop the Scarborough Beach foreshore."

He said it failed to align with government objectives of creating jobs and tourism opportunities.
"It sends the wrong signal for people wanting to invest in Western Australia, particularly in the local Scarborough area," Mr Zhang said.
"3 Oceans property group will now work with the State Government on finding a way for the project to proceed."
The project is associated with Chinese steel tycoon Ma Xibo, whose Hebei Qianjin steel group is the majority owner of 3 Oceans Property.
It also had backing from a Singapore-based investment group, Hong Rong.
Mr Ma has other interests in the State, swooping on the failed Palandri Wine Group in 2008 and re-branding the firm to 3 Oceans.
Planning Minister Rita Saffioti said the State Government was disappointed the issues with the development could not be resolved prior to the MRA Board's decision yesterday.
"We are keen to see significant development occur at the site and still hope to work with the applicant towards an agreeable proposal," she said.
This was the final meeting of the MRA Board, as the State Government moves to make major reforms to WA's land agencies, creating one central planning body out of the MRA and LandCorp.
Tourism Council chief executive Evan Hall said the rejection of this development would come at a great cost to tourism and jobs in WA.
"It means there is a lot of jobs forgone that we really do need in the economy at the moment and excellent facilities not only for West Australians but for our visitors around the world."
The MRA said it would welcome the opportunity to work with the developer on a modified proposal that was "more consistent with the vision of the Scarborough Master Plan".


Western Australian wildlife carers fear they may have to euthanise joeys because the cost of flying the native animals is twice as much as cats and dogs.
Broome-based wildlife carer Jan Martin struggles with the cost of flying marsupials.
She also sometimes needs to fly kangaroos 1,000km from Broome to Kununurra, a route only serviced by regional carrier, Air North.
The animals need to be transported to be raised by other wildlife carers or to be released back into the wild.
"I usually send them in pairs, so to send two little joeys, each five kilos, it's going to cost me $663. A dog would cost me $155," Ms Martin said.

Rose Best, from the Pilbara Wildlife Carers Association, rehabilitates about 120 kangaroos every year.
Due to a lack of local carers, some animals are sent from her home in Karratha to Perth, using Qantas or Virgin, which uses third party providers to manage its cargo unit.
"Our biggest problem is we can send them down, but the reds [kangaroos] come back up for release," Ms Best said.
"We're being charged $1,200 to send three red kangaroos back.
"It is totally cost prohibitive. We don't get much funding or support anymore, so when you're looking at nearly a third of your income going out in freight, we just have to say we can't do it.
"Unfortunately, there are eagles and birds of prey who need food.
"We might just have to put the joeys down and use them as meat."

Ms Martin believes Qantas should remove its famous animal branding known as the Flying Kangaroo.
"Take the big red kangaroo off the tail because they don't offer a service to wildlife," she said.
"Qantas is the Australian airline, you've got a kangaroo as your emblem, you use Australian wildlife with all your advertising and your touristy stuff and yet when one needs help…
"You want to charge me more than you charge that 10kg dog there."
Qantas defended the cost of transporting the kangaroos, saying the price discrepancy between pets and wildlife was due to the extra care needed to transport native animals.
"Kangaroos have never been classified as pets and animals, [because] kangaroos require more care than a domesticated animal such as a dog or cat, which is partly why there is a cost difference," a Qantas spokesperson said.

But the wildlife carers said kangaroos did not receive different treatment from pets on flights.
"They don't have different temperature requirements or anything like that," Ms Best said.
"The only consideration that we ask, that I think any cat or dog owner would ask, is that the crate isn't left sitting on the hot tarmac."
A Qantas spokesperson has told the ABC they are happy to work with wildlife carers on different options.
Editor's note (8/12/2017): The original version of this story stated that Air North is a subsidiary of Qantas, which was not correct. It has since been updated, along with a response from Qantas.


A Cape York man who struck a multi-million-dollar deal with a mining company behind the backs of other traditional owners siphoned off more than $250,000 for his own use, a court has found.
Ankamuthi man Larry Woosup, who kept cash payments and details of the deal secret from 75 other traditional owners, has been ordered to hand back $370,000.
The Federal Court also stripped Mr Woosup of the right to manage any money on behalf of the Ankamuthi people after he abused his role as a representative with oversight of up to $20 million in future royalty payments from bauxite mining.
The court ruling in Brisbane on Thursday drew a line under a bitter stoush that played out after 2013 when Mr Woosup negotiated a pact with Gulf Alumina Limited.
Justice Andrew Greenwood found Mr Woosup had "treated his people's money, benefits and compensation as his own and has entirely failed to account for the way in which it was used".
The judge upheld claims by other traditional owners that "Mr Woosup has taken the benefit of monies for himself in breach of his duties owed to the Ankamuthi people as [a] whole".
Justice Greenwood said the mining company had paid an advance of more than $371,000 but none of this was paid to or used for the benefit of the Ankamuthi people.
This included more than $255,000 Gulf Alumina had paid on July 25, 2014 that Mr Woosup "applied ... to his own use".
He ordered that Mr Woosup "account to the Ankamuthi people for $370,000" and repay that money via the court by February 6.
Justice Greenwood also barred Mr Woosup from "exercising any right to conduct transactions" around any bank account held by Seven Rivers Aboriginal Corporation, the trustee for the Ankamuthi people.
The successful challenge was brought by Mark Gebadi and six other people on behalf of a group of 75 traditional owners who were given no opportunity to review or authorise the deal with Gulf Alumina.
Mr Woosup in 2015 claimed the challengers were "johnny-come-lately" who had "no ties and no connection to country", a position rejected by the court.
Justice Greenwood said Mr Woosup and fellow Ankamuthi representative Beverly Tamwoy had failed to "disclose the terms of the agreement with Gulf" and so "breached duties of trust owed to the Ankamuthi People as a whole".


When tens of thousands of fans come streaming out of the new Perth Stadium on event days, there will be an army of local business owners waiting to welcome them with open arms.
Up to 14,000 people are expected to walk across the Matagarup pedestrian bridge — when it is finally opened in May — over the Swan River from the stadium and arrive on the East Perth foreshore.
Rose Deli owner Ursula Rose will be ready for them. She will be happy if even a fraction of them come in for a coffee or a bite to eat.
"It doesn't mean everyone is going to make a day of it in East Perth, but gosh, even if it's 5 per cent, that's a hell of a lot of people," Ms Rose said.
"We think it'll be terrific for the area."
Ms Rose was not the only one in East Perth expecting a big boost from the stadium.
The Royal on the Waterfront, on the Claisebrook inlet, is also planning to put on more staff and adapt its menu for hungry sports and music fans.

"We're going to expect a lot of people in East Perth ... it's going to benefit all the local businesses here quite significantly," manager Anoop Nair said.
The pub will be stocking extra beer and looking for other ways to capitalise on the expected crowds.
"There's lots of different options, maybe a pop-up bar outside, maybe a barbecue outside. There's plenty of opportunity there for us," Mr Nair said.
But not all those 14,000 people will be streaming through East Perth.
In fact, shuttle buses will be waiting for many, if not most, of those fans at the bottom of a ramp on the East Perth side of the bridge — which is expected to open in May — to whisk them straight to the CBD.
For anyone who wants to stay in the area, stairs from the bridge will lead towards Claisebrook Cove.
But the Public Transport Authority has added a gate at the top of those stairs "at the request of some local residents during early stakeholder engagement".

That request came from East Perth Community Safety Group. But it has some local businesses extremely worried that if the gate is closed, they will miss out on a lot of extra customers.
The group's chairman Jeff Broun said that was not the intention, rather it was to help direct people towards the shuttle buses so they would not get confused.
PTA spokesman David Hynes said "at this stage the gate will be open on game days, but it gives us the flexibility to close it should we require it for crowd management".
"We have been working hard to find the right balance between the needs of local residents, businesses and those of Optus Stadium patrons," Mr Hynes said.
"We firmly believe we have found the best solution for all parties.
"It is important to note the bridge will be open to the public at all times."
Local resident Bill MacGillivray is worried about drunken fans in the streets.
"I think it's going to be chock-a-block and bit horrendous here for people. I don't think it's really been thought out," he said.
The City of Perth is improving lighting and installing extra CCTV cameras in the area, and police will patrol on bicycles.

Across the river in Victoria Park, pubs, restaurants and cafes are also trying to make the most of the new stadium.
Nick Duncan, owner of the Broken Hill Hotel, said fans needed easy parking access.
"Hopefully, the council is listening to our pleas to make it free parking on game day, so that we can fill up all the streets and it's a nice 16, 17 minute walk to the ground from here, and they can have a couple of beers and be safe to drive home," Mr Duncan said
The Town of Victoria Park said it already had some free parking and was looking at other options.
The $1.6 billion stadium is due to open in January.



A community legal service has urged Australia's consumer watchdog to crack down on Adani for "misleading vulnerable jobseekers" with "inflated" claims its Queensland mine will create 10,000 jobs.
Environmental Justice Australia (EJA), acting for Townsville jobseeker Chris McCoomb, has referred the Indian miner to the Australian Consumer and Competition Commission (ACCC) over its jobs spruiking.
The case comes more than two years after the Land Court of Queensland found Adani had inflated its figures by almost 700 per cent.
EJA has called on the ACCC to investigate and stop public "representations" by Adani that "lead vulnerable jobseekers", including possibly remote Indigenous residents, to spend thousands of dollars on training for "jobs that will never exist".
Mr McCoomb's 17-page complaint names at least one Queensland mining training outfit that is using Adani's "inflated figures ... to promote sometimes costly training courses and certifications" to cash-strapped jobseekers.
That company advertises a one day "mining induction course" for $650.
Amid doubts about financial backing for the Carmichael coalmine, Adani has stuck by its claim the project will create 10,000 "direct and indirect jobs", including in newspaper advertisements last month and its online jobs portal.
State Opposition Leader Tim Nicholls repeated the figure during the Queensland election campaign, while Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull went even further by claiming in April Adani would generate "tens of thousands of jobs".
That is despite state Land Court president Carmel MacDonald finding in 2015 Adani had significantly "overstated" its job figures in court evidence and to the State Government.

Ms MacDonald rejected Adani's modelling showing "the number of Queensland jobs generated by the mine alone to be over 10,000 [full time equivalent] jobs per annum from 2024".
She instead accepted testimony by Adani's own expert witness the project would "increase average annual employment by 1,206 jobs in Queensland and 1,464 jobs in Australia".
Adani launched a public relations campaign this year to counter mounting opposition to Australia's largest proposed coal mine, which relies on job creation for Queensland's struggling mining belt as its key pitch.

Mr McCoomb, a volunteer coordinator with the Australian Unemployed Workers Union, said Adani had "created a lot of false hope, particularly up here in the north".
"We have to ensure there's honesty in what Adani's saying. Those claims are repeated in the media by politicians and that's creating a false sense of hope," he said.
"Towns like Bowen in particular are really banking on the project going ahead.
"I suppose it's created a fair bit of excitement in relation to the potential for employment.
"At the same time, we know that the figures Adani are throwing around out there aren't consistent with what [their expert] told the Queensland land court."
Mr McCoomb said mining industry hopefuls had to complete "a number of courses" before being eligible for work. One course he took cost $1,200.
EJA lawyer David Barnden told the ACCC "the evidence for misleading and deceptive conduct ... is strong".
"Our client is concerned these representations are misleading and will lead vulnerable jobseekers in Australia to heavily invest in training for jobs that will never exist," he said.
"ACCC is urged to take action to prevent the continued dissemination of Adani's misleading or deceptive statements that are directed at jobseekers.
"Vulnerable jobseekers should not be misled into spending money or training courses or certification without the true number of expected direct and indirect jobs being published by Adani."
An ACCC spokesman declined to comment on the Adani complaint.
The agency can act on misleading claims in business via enforceable undertakings, legal action and fines.
EJA called on the ACCC to intervene on the same issue in 2015 when acting for progressive lobby group GetUp, months before the Land Court ruling.
The watchdog invited GetUp to pursue its own legal action.
But Mr McCoomb, the AUWU and "the large number of unemployed workers in regional Queensland who may also benefit from the ACCC's investigation ... do not have the resources to pursue legal action", Mr Barnden said.
He said the matter met ACCC criteria for a priority investigation, including "conduct involving issues of national or international significance [and] detrimentally affecting disadvantaged or vulnerable consumer groups", including possibly "Indigenous consumers living in remote areas".
An Adani spokesman could not be reached for comment.


Australia's top chief executives earn an average of $4.75 million — or 78 times more than the average Australian worker.
The stark finding comes from corporate adviser Conrad Liveris, who has examined the remuneration of executives at Australia's 100 biggest public companies.
But that's not all.
Here's how the gap between total average remuneration for ASX100 chief executives compares to average weekly earnings.

Mr Liveris says Australian corporations' approach to executive remuneration is outdated, as it's based on a model created for corporations in the 1980s and 1990s.
"It's barely been reviewed for decades even though the business environment has changed.
"In this time of change and innovation, decision makers need to better analyse the contributions being made to their corporation's performance and examine how they can share the benefits more widely."
Australians' wages are stubbornly stagnant, but it's a quite different story for CEOs.
Over the past couple of years, CEO remuneration has climbed 46 per cent more, year on year, than average Australian incomes.
Mr Liveris believes corporations need to align increases in executive remuneration to Australia's Wage Price Index, in an effort to win back trust in the country's biggest businesses.

You might assume that women who become CEOs have broken through the glass ceiling. But even at this level, there remains a large gap in earnings.
And keep in mind: there are only seven women leading ASX100 companies.

The highest-earning woman CEO is Susan Lloyd-Hurwitz from Mirvac, who took home a total package of $5.3 million.
That compares to Alan Joyce from Qantas, the top-earning man who is earning $24.6 million.
Notably, though, some women executives who hold other positions are out-earning their fellow CEOs. For example:
"The highest paid men in the ASX100 tend to be group chief executives, while women tend to lead business units," Mr Liveris explains.
Alan Joyce from Qantas may have received the highest total remuneration package, but Wesfarmers' Richard Goyder took home the highest salary.







Former foreign minister Bob Carr says he has been assured that no Chinese investors will help Adani's controversial Carmichael coal mine in remote central Queensland.
Mr Carr has been lobbying Chinese organisations against the project on behalf of the Australian Conservation Foundation for the past three weeks.
Two large Chinese banks this week ruled out involvement in $21.7 billion mine, which is facing major financing hurdles after Australia's major banks announced they would not be investing.
"There's been a significant number of [Chinese] financial institutions and they've said, after looking at it, they're not going to invest money into Adani," Mr Carr said during a telephone interview from Shanghai.
Mr Carr declined to detail who or what institutions he had been speaking to in China about the project, nor at what level of seniority the various representatives were.
"I've been talking to both government and financial institutions at a level that makes me confident there will be no financial support for this project," he said.
Last month Chinese media reported that officials from the country's top economic planning body met Australia's Trade Minister Steve Ciobo in Cairns, fuelling speculation that Chinese state banks could salvage the project.
In September, Mr Ciobo and the Deputy Prime Minister Barnaby Joyce wrote to the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) to vouch for Adani and to 'welcome' Chinese investment.
The ABC sent a list of questions to the NDRC about the possibility of Chinese funding for the coal mine but they went unanswered.
Opponents of the mining project last week claimed they had been assured by the Chinese embassy in Canberra that any lenders seeking to invest in it would need central government approval, and that no applications had been received.
This came after Adani insiders claimed the Indian-led company had secured Chinese financial backing.
"Environmental concerns are a matter of the highest priority [for China's Government]," said Mr Carr, who also heads up the Australia-China Research Institute at UTS in Sydney.
"So they automatically respond to arguments about carbon emissions, and in addition they are astute enough to see in a flash how dubious the financial implications are."
Adani has on numerous occasions pushed back the start date for the mine.
Adani previously claimed it would have finance in place by the end of this year and, later, said it expected to finalise finance by the end of the Indian fiscal year in March.


Russia has designated Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL) and Voice of America (VOA) as foreign agents, a move aimed at complicating their work in retaliation for what Moscow says is unacceptable US pressure on Russian media.

The classification against the US media outlets is part of the fallout from allegations that the Kremlin interfered in the US presidential election last year in favour of Donald Trump.
Russian politicians rushed through the necessary legislation last month and President Vladimir Putin signed off on the measures on November 25.
Russia's justice ministry said in a statement on its website that it was now formally designating the US government-sponsored stations, along with seven separate Russian or local-language news outlets run by RFE/RL, as "fulfilling the role of foreign agents."

The new designation means the outlets will be subject to the same requirements that are applied to foreign-funded non-governmental organisations under a 2012 law.
Under that law, the agents must include a mention of their 'foreign agent' designation in any information they publish or broadcast to Russian audiences.
They also must apply for inclusion in a government register, submit regular reports on their sources of funding, on their objectives, on how they spend their money, and who their managers are.

They can be subject to spot checks by the authorities to make sure they comply with the rules, according to the 2012 law, which has forced some NGOs to close.
Of the seven other outlets, one provides news on Crimea, which Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014, one on Siberia, and one on the predominantly Muslim North Caucasus region.
Another covers provincial Russia, one is an online TV station, another covers the mostly Muslim region of Tatarstan, and the other is a news portal that fact-checks the statements of Russian officials.
The US probe into Russian interference in the US election targeted former Trump campaign team member Michael Flynn at the weekend, after the first charges were filed in October.
Russia's Kremlin-funded RT TV station was registered with the US Justice Department last month as a foreign agent, following a demand from Washington.
Reuters/AP


Amid the hype that Amazon would severely disrupt Australia's retail industry, two e-commerce businesses have joined forces in an elaborate deal to protect their market positions.
One of them is Catch Group — better known for its online retail shops Catch of the Day (which has since been shortened to "Catch"), Grocery Run and Mumgo.
Catch also became the new owner of Pumpkin Patch after it bought the failed retailer's brand and intellectual property back in March.
The other party to this deal is Lux Group, which owns the discount luxury travel business Luxury Escapes.
Some cynical observers see this as a desperate alliance between two competitors trying to protect themselves from Amazon.
But Lux and Catch see Amazon as an "opportunity" more than a threat.
The conundrum is "Lux's strength is not Catch's strength, and vice-versa", Lux's co-founder Adam Schwab told the ABC.
Lux (in addition to its travel business) sells products online, through its websites Brands Exclusive and TheHome, which is an area Catch is better at.
Meanwhile, Catch also runs online travel sites (BonVoyage and Scoopon Travel), an area in which Lux has the competitive advantage.
"Why don't we focus on what we do really well?" Mr Schwab said.
Therefore, Lux purchased BonVoyage and Scoopon Travel from Catch — while Catch acquired Brands Exclusive and TheHome.
Simply put, both companies negotiated a deal over seven months and conducted what appears to be an asset swap, which took effect on Tuesday.
After one grapples with Lux and Catch buying each other's travel and product businesses, the other element of the deal is forming a 50/50 joint venture (JV) called "Lux Everyday".

This JV combines the ownership of their numerous deal-of-the-day websites — Scoopon (which was owned by Catch), plus Cudo, Livingsocial, Deals.com.au and New Zealand-based TreatMe (which was owned by Lux).
They are now owned equally by the two companies as part of the "Lux Everyday" JV.
As for why those brands should not simply be merged (to reduce duplication), Mr Schwab explained: "Each website has its own very loyal customer base".
"I might be a life-long Cudo member, and you might be a life-long Scoopon member.
"When you merge brands, you can lose a lot of customers who were happy with the previous brand, and may not like the new brand."
Although the co-owners of Lux and Catch did not disclose the value of this complicated deal structure, it is estimated their combined annual revenues exceed $600 million.
Lux and Catch denied there were competition concerns arising from their deal, based on the legal advice they received.
"The travel market is dominated by huge overseas players in the travel space such as Booking.com, Expedia, Wotif," Mr Schwab said.
"Our $300 million turnover is a fraction of the size of these American-owned goliaths."

How about the threat posed by Amazon?
Lux and Catch denied their deal had anything to do with Amazon — despite the timing of their deal.
After all, the US e-commerce giant's soft launch was almost a fortnight ago (during the "Black Friday" sale event on November 24), and it officially launched on Tuesday.
"Amazon is a bigger threat to the retail business — not a threat to the travel business," Mr Schwab said, in regards to his own business Lux Group.
"We don't see Amazon as a threat, we see it as opportunity," interjected Catch's co-founder Gabby Leibovich.
"In the next month, hundreds of thousands of people will transact online for the first time this year in Australia.
"This is good news for anyone running an e-commerce business — we see ourselves as an Amazon alternative ... the number two to Amazon."
"We are cherishing the arrival of Amazon because it will grow the pie, and we believe we will grab a bigger share of it."


Former Tasmanian environment minister Matthew Groom kept his most senior Cabinet colleagues in the dark about a public sector email scandal involving a department head, it has been revealed.

Yesterday the ABC reported the then-head of the Tasmanian Parks and Wildlife Service resigned after allegations of interference with a tender process.
Peter Mooney left the public service in July with no termination payments after he emailed a company vying for the Maria Island ferry contract in 2016, with tips to improve its application.
The controversy prompted Tasmania's Department of Primary Industries, Parks, Water and Environment (DPIPWE) to refer the matter to police and the Integrity Commission, as well as suspending the tender process.
Senior members of the Hodgman Liberal Government have been scrambling to distance themselves from the matter.
Despite being one of the ministers responsible for DPIPWE, Deputy Premier Jeremy Rockliff said he was only briefed on the matter yesterday, along with Premier Will Hodgman.
"I wasn't aware, it's not part of my responsibility," Mr Rockliff said.
"I'm the minister in charge of primary industries and water, not parks and wildlife."
A government spokesman confirmed Mr Groom was informed when the incident happened in 2016, raising questions about why his cabinet colleagues didn't know.
"As is standard practice, the relevant minister was advised at the time of what had occurred and the action taken to ensure the integrity of the tender process," the spokesman said.
The police assessment of Mr Mooney's actions found no crime had been committed.
The Navigators Group, who eventually won the Maria Island ferry tender, was not the company Mr Mooney was trying to coach.

Labor spokesman Scott Bacon said he doubted the Premier and his deputy were unaware of the investigation.
"When you see a police investigation, a referral to the Integrity Commission and a senior public servant resign, there is no way the Premier and the Deputy Premier didn't know about this," he said.
"It's time for the Premier to come clean on this scandal within the public service."
Greens leader Cassy O'Connor said she was uneasy about the level of government assistance to private interests.
"I think we are looking at a cultural problem here, where there is too close a relationship between Government agencies at the behest of their political masters and private developers," she said.
"It's always a problem when private interests are given an entree to Government, or an insight into Government or access to public assets without the public knowing."


The Reserve Bank has left interest rates on hold at a record low 1.5 per cent, with analysts expecting the first rate rise to be almost a year away.

The cash rate has been on hold since it was last cut in August 2016.
The decision to leave rates on hold was anticipated by every economist surveyed by Bloomberg and financial comparison website Finder.
Signs from the Reserve Bank governor's statement again point to rates remaining unchanged for many months to come.
"The low level of interest rates is continuing to support the Australian economy," Philip Lowe wrote.
"Taking account of the available information, the board judged that holding the stance of monetary policy unchanged at this meeting would be consistent with sustainable growth in the economy and achieving the inflation target over time."
That is despite an increasingly upbeat view at the Reserve Bank about growth prospects for both the Australian and global economies.
"Conditions in the global economy have improved over 2017. Labour markets have tightened and further above-trend growth is expected in a number of advanced economies, although uncertainties remain," Dr Lowe wrote.
"Recent data suggest that the Australian economy grew at around its trend rate over the year to the September quarter.
"Business conditions are positive and capacity utilisation has increased. The outlook for non-mining business investment has improved further, with the forward-looking indicators being more positive than they have been for some time."
The Reserve Bank will get an update on Australia's latest economic performance when the ABS releases the September quarter economic growth data tomorrow.

The RBA boss also noted with approval a slowdown in Sydney property price growth, following tighter lending standards being introduced by the banking regulator APRA.
Data released by APRA today shows the dramatic effect that its regulatory crackdown has had on interest-only lending, which almost halved during the September quarter.
However, the one blight on the governor's outlook is the weak consumer sector.
"One continuing source of uncertainty is the outlook for household consumption," Dr Lowe lamented.
"Household incomes are growing slowly and debt levels are high."
For that reason, given that consumption makes up around 60 per cent of the Australian economy, the majority of analysts do not expect the Reserve Bank to start raising interest rates until late next year.
Most economists only expect one rate rise next year and 10 out of 24 analysts expect rates to remain on hold into 2019, and potentially beyond.
Some prominent analysts, such as Westpac's chief economist Bill Evans, expect rates may remain steady into 2020.
The market is pricing in a 62 per cent chance of a rate rise by the end of next year, amid strong jobs growth this year, especially in full-time work, signs that the mining bust is near an end and business investment in other sectors is finally picking up.


A regulatory crackdown to limit risky lending has resulted in the share of interest-only loans plunging by nearly half in just three months.

Bank regulator APRA's ADI Property Exposure data shows that interest-only lending dived 44.8 per cent during the September quarter.
Interest only loans made up 30.5 per cent of the new loans in the June quarter, but that share has now plunged to an historic low of just 16.9 per cent.
That is well below the 30 per cent cap imposed by APRA in March.
The downturn is even steeper among the big four banks, which between them account for more than 80 per cent of the mortgage market.
Their share of interest only lending has shrunk by 48.7 per cent to 16.7 per cent.
"This has been a colossal turnaround in the way banks view interest-only terms," Rate City money editor Sally Tindall said.
In March this year APRA introduced lending restrictions on banks to ease the threat to them from riskier forms of lending to pay for overheated property prices in Australia's biggest housing markets.
Two years ago interest-only mortgages represented more than 45 per cent of new loans approved by banks, but now they are less than 17 per cent.
"The move away from interest-only lending should help bring down Australia's record high household debt-to-income ratio," Ms Tindall added.
The latest Reserve Bank figures show this ratio is now 194 per cent.
The reduction in interest-only lending may also be a factor weighing on home prices in Australia's most expensive property market, Sydney, where Core Logic's index shows prices down 1.3 per cent over the three months to the end of November.
"Tighter lending standards have contributed to a moderation in dwelling price growth and turnover," wrote JP Morgan economist Tom Kennedy.
"The impacts have been most pronounced in Sydney, where auction clearance rates have fallen to multi-year lows and house price growth, on some metrics, has turned negative."
Interest-only loans reduce upfront monthly mortgage repayments, potentially allowing home buyers to take out bigger loans, but come at the cost of higher repayments and a bigger total interest bill when the interest-only period ends.

Regulators have so far had far less success with existing mortgage holders converting to principal and interest repayments, despite an increase in rates for interest-only loans.
Today's APRA numbers show that 35.35 per cent of all loans are still interest-only, a more modest 6 per cent drop over the quarter.
Rate City data shows that on average banks are charging between 30 and 35 basis points more for interest-only lending, but this has not yet encouraged a majority of existing borrowers to start paying down their debt.
Tom Kennedy warns that the investor and interest-only crackdown may also spread to new principal and interest owner-occupier loans.
"While the RBA appears somewhat content with the impact of macro-prudential restrictions on the property market, the bank is cognisant that housing credit growth continues to outpace incomes growth, which in turn is driving the aggregate household debt-to-income ratio higher," he wrote.
"We therefore remain mindful of the risk that the regulatory framework is tightened further, potentially via the implementation of borrower debt-to-income restrictions."


If you could hand-pick a reading list for Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull this summer, what would you include?
The Grattan Institute — a public policy think tank — has today released its annual suggested reading list for the PM and will deliver copies of the six books right to his door.
It includes a biography of a former prime minister, a radical account of world energy policy, and even a fictional novel set in Sri Lanka.
Grattan Institute chief executive John Daley said they steered clear of the "wonky" titles and prioritised interesting works.
"We narrow it down to the ones we think are really good reads and at the same time have something to say," he told News Breakfast.
Mr Daley said the book had to satisfy three requirements:
And while Mr Turnbull will receive the books, Mr Daley said the list was not about making a political point.
"I'd like to think that somehow if we held a general election between now and Christmas and Bill Shorten was prime minister we'd be sending him exactly the same list," he said.
"The issues would be the same, the advice would be the same, the challenges would be the same."

The biography of Australia's second prime minister sheds light on both the public image of the man, and how his personal life shaped his policies.
Written by political scientist Judith Brett, it looks at how the actions of the "father of federation" still shape politics today.
Mr Daley's message for the PM:
What's really relevant about it today is Deakin very seldom had a majority.
What he was always about was trying to craft a coalition of people to get good change to happen and he was incredibly good at it.
It's interesting that Robert Menzies described Deakin as our greatest prime minister and the reason was not so much that he advocated policies that today we would say were fantastic… but what is interesting about him was his statecraft.
He worked with all of the players to get good change to happen, and he was patient and he was clever and he sold the message.

Is slowing economic growth and increasing inequality the new normal? For Brink Lindsey and Steven M. Teles it doesn't have to be.
In Captured Economy the pair argues they have identified the reason for inequality that will "surprise both the ideological left and right". And they say they have the policies that will decrease the power that corporations hold over politics.
Mr Daley's message for the PM:
What's really interesting about this book is it's written by one person who is a libertarian — not far from Senator David Leyonhjelm — and another who is social liberal, so probably not that far away from Jenny Macklin.
And it's about what brings them together.
So I think stepping back and thinking about whether our political process been captured and to what extent can we change some of the institutions so it's harder for business interests to capture the political interests is a good thing.

Breaking The Mould tells the story of a sporting revolution taking place across Australia, as sportswomen increasingly break through the "grass ceiling".
Through interviews with pioneering women and sporting administrators, journalist Angela Pippos delves into a "seismic shift" in Australia's culture and the sport we play.
Mr Daley's message for the PM:
The message for the PM is in part to make sure we are really supporting women's sport to the extent we are supporting men's.
But then there's a kind of more interesting story as well about how is it we achieved quite radical social change, really over just about a decade.
How is it that we went from a world in which women's sport was invisible and no-one ever made the big time, to a world in which a million people watched a women's AFL game?

There's an energy revolution coming our way, writes industry observer Dieter Helm, and it will have huge implications for nations, companies and the way we address climate change.
Based on his assessment of technological advances, Helm argues that the world is increasingly moving away from oil and gas and that this will herald a shift in geopolitical power.
Mr Daley's message for the PM:
You can understand why the Prime Minister would be very focussed on the immediate problems of energy and that's entirely appropriate. But what this book is about is the long game.
We haven't had an energy book on the list for years and we always get beaten up about that.
You know, "Surely climate change is the great moral challenge of our time", which the answer is, "Yeah it is", but we haven't had a book that said anything new.
This one says something new about the issue … and you suddenly think, "Oh geez, there's quite a lot of big changes coming".

Social researcher Rebecca Huntley has spent years travelling the country and conducting interviews to discover that while Australians can be pessimistic about our future, there's actually a lot to be positive about.
Still Lucky delves into what social changes Australians want to see, and exactly how they think our politicians will go about achieving them.
Mr Daley's message for the PM:
I think it's very easy in today's environment to get depressed and what this book says is, "No, don't get depressed".
Actually, we have made a lot of progress and in some ways Australians are still very optimistic about their country and actually their biggest fear is that their politicians won't get them there.
They're nervous that their political leadership won't get them the future they want.

This novel by Miles Franklin-winning author Michelle de Kretser is set in Sydney, Paris and Sri Lanka and weaves multiple narratives to tell a story of intimacy and our flawed perception of others.
From the woman who pines for a married lover, to the writer longing for success, and a Sri Lankan man trying to forget the tragedy of his youth, the book explores very human emotions.
Mr Daley's message for the PM:
Mr Turnbull, make sure you read one really good novel and have a good time, because you can have a very good time reading this book.
This asks a really profound question about what is a life well-lived.
And no matter what area of life you're in it's worth stepping back and asking that question every so often.


Australia's second biggest iron ore miner Rio Tinto believes it will be a big winner from China's increasing demand for high-grade iron ore, but it could spell trouble for the likes of Fortescue Metals.
Beijing's crackdown on inefficient and polluting mills, and a restructuring of the steel industry, has led to a significant shift in iron ore demand.
Rio Tinto's iron ore boss Chris Salisbury told ABC's The Business that this trend was showing up in a growing price gap between high and lower grade ore.
"We've seen the discount grow from 30 per cent in the first three quarters to over 40 per cent," Mr Salisbury said.
A recent note from Deutsche Bank highlighted how Fortescue's stocks have been growing at an increasing rate and late last month stood at 39 days of production.
In contrast, BHP's and Rio Tinto's stood at 10 days.
Some analysts believe this could be temporary, relating to reduced Chinese demand leading into winter — but Mr Salisbury disagrees, pointing to the political push for cleaner, more profitable production.
"All of this is providing evidence we believe that this is an ongoing phenomenon — so structural in nature."
So who is going to buy low grade iron ore if the Chinese don't?
"That's a very interesting question, because we've seen the stockpiles of low grade ore at the port just increasing and it's almost like you can't give it away," Mr Salisbury told the program.
"So it is a real challenge if you're in that particular market sector.
"We have the flagship product in the market today; our Pilbara blend product is flagship product for China, it attracts a premium over and above the 62 per cent iron index, which is the key indicator."
Despite some concerns about the level of debt in China and questions about how the Government will continue to maintain growth without overheating the economy, Rio Tinto does not see too many problems ahead.

"While Rio Tinto remains optimistic about China in the medium to long term, there could be a slowdown over the next six months, with a weakening in construction, infrastructure and automotive demand growth during that period," its chief executive Jean-Sebastian Jacques told investors.
In its latest economic forecast, the Reserve Bank warned the slowdown could be more prolonged, noting "demand for iron ore and coking coal is expected to moderate in coming years."
But Mr Salisbury told The Business that will not apply to all miners.
"You should be asking what iron ore we're talking about," he said.
"We have seen demand for high-grade constant.
"We are still selling all of our high-grade ore, yet low grade is piling up on the wharf."
He also reaffirmed Rio Tinto's drive for value over volume, meaning it is unlikely to ramp up production to meet the growing demand for higher grade ore, preferring to keep supply tight and reap the rewards for shareholders.


Barry Swann returned to Tip Top's western Sydney depot in April 2009 after a long night delivering bread to stores and supermarkets in the city's outer suburbs.
He often worked 14-hour shifts, seven days a week, but he still struggled to make ends meet.
He would fall behind with truck repayments and could not afford to pay another driver to do his delivery run.
His family said he had not had more than a couple of days off in three months.
Another Tip Top driver, Tony Parsons, told 7.30 he was present when Swann complained to a Tip Top manager of having chest pains.
Mr Parsons said Swann asked for help with his delivery run but was rebuffed by the manager, who said there was nobody to help him.
After finishing his shift that morning, Swann got into his car and was driving out the gate of the Chullora depot when he suffered a heart attack.
Swann called a friend to pick him up. He had another heart attack in the car and was pronounced dead when they arrived at Bankstown Hospital.
"I still don't know why he didn't call an ambulance," his stepson Sven Morris told 7.30.
Mr Morris also drives trucks for a living and knows how demanding the job can be.
"On numerous occasions I used to, after working my jobs, go out on the run with him," Mr Morris said.
"He was just knackered."

7.30 has revealed that several Tip Top delivery drivers in New South Wales were suffering from extreme fatigue and financial stress.
Some warned the pressure of the job could lead to an accident or worse.
7.30 has spoken to other Tip Top delivery drivers who have recently worked up to five months straight without a decent break.
The company said it was not aware of drivers working "without breaks and does not endorse such activity".
It said as independent contractors, the onus was on them to manage fatigue and employ relief drivers.
Swann's daughter-in-law, Renee Morris, has no doubt that plenty of delivery drivers are dangerously fatigued.
"Let them have a break," she said.
"Don't work them to death."

While repeated pay cuts have taken a heavy toll on Tip Top drivers, the company said it was facing "challenging market conditions" and "operational changes" were needed to "ensure Tip Top remains competitive and sustainable in a highly contested industry".
For delivery drivers such as Ian James, the cuts to his pay rate had a devastating impact.
A Tip Top delivery driver for almost a decade, James was diagnosed with lung cancer in 2014.
Vicki James said her husband's pay packet had already shrunk by more than $1,000 a week before he got sick.
"Tip Top would just say, 'Well, these are the costs. It's costing us more, so therefore we have to pass on to the drivers and therefore the wages were decreased'."
While he was undergoing chemotherapy, James had no choice but to employ a relief driver.
By that point he was no longer making any money from his delivery run.
"He didn't have anything to survive on and when you've got cancer, there's a lot of bills to pay," Ms James said.
In May 2015, Tip Top came to Ian James with a new proposal.
According to his wife, Tip Top wanted to almost double the number of outlets he delivered to, something she said, would have made his run longer and ultimately unprofitable.
"They came out to our house to put extra pressure on him," Ms James said.
"When Ian said, 'You're sending me into insolvency, I can't do this,' the attitude was, 'Well, that's it, sorry. You take it or leave it.'
"Surely there was another way they could have done things."
Having already had his pay slashed and facing the ongoing costs and stress of chemotherapy, James chose to give up the delivery run.
A month later he was back in hospital and he died in August 2015.
"[Tip Top] sent me flowers the day of his funeral. They were lucky they didn't get them back because I was so disappointed and disgusted," Ms James said.

Both families believe that Tip Top must take more responsibility for the welfare of its drivers.
"They've got to look after their drivers if they want to keep their reputation," Ms James said.
Since 7.30's first story early last month, Tip Top has announced it is conducting an internal investigation and says it takes the issues raised seriously.
Mr Morris thinks unless there is major changes, it is likely more delivery drivers will die or go bankrupt.
"It's as simple as that," he said.
Tip Top declined 7.30's requests for an interview and would not answer questions about these cases.


Australian retailers have received some rare and welcome good news as they confront the threat from Amazon, with a bigger than expected bounce in sales during October.
Local shopkeepers have been struggling with a shrinking retail pie over recent months at the same time as overseas competitors enter the market trying to take a share of it.
The latest challenge is Amazon's Australian website launch this morning, with the global online shopping giant offering products across 23 categories and trying to take a big slice of the nation's $300 billion-a-year retail pie.
However, the Australian Bureau of Statistics data for October showed retail sales rose 0.5 per cent in that month, and September was revised up from flat to 0.1 per cent growth, showing shoppers are again spending more.

But it was not all good news, and certainly not for some shopkeepers.
The October figures beat modest analyst expectations (+0.3 per cent) but were driven by a big surge in cafe, restaurant and takeaway food sales (up 1.7 per cent) rather than shopping.
The best retailing categories in October were footwear and personal accessories (up 2.5 per cent), electronics (up 0.8 per cent), department stores (up 0.5 per cent) and supermarkets (up 0.5 per cent).
On the flip side, the peak in the housing market appears to be weighing on furniture and hardware sellers.
Newspapers and books also continue to be out of favour, with monthly sales plunging 2.3 per cent.
Things are more likely to get worse than better for retailers, according to ANZ senior economist Jo Masters, who points to the continued slowdown in new home building and intense competition.
"We continue to see headwinds for discretionary spending given the challenging combination of weak wage growth, record indebtedness, price rises for non-discretionary goods and services and more recently slowing house price growth and rising petrol prices," she wrote.


Economists are warning people with home loans to brace for an interest rate rise, but probably not until around this time next year.

The Reserve Bank meets this afternoon for the final time in 2017 and all economists surveyed expect the official cash rate to stay on hold at 1.5 per cent.
But many borrowers have already faced rising mortgage costs this year, especially those with investment and interest-only loans, as banks try to limit demand in these areas to comply with regulatory limits.

While the cash rate is likely to stay where it is for some time yet, only one economist surveyed by Bloomberg is still forecasting further rate cuts, while a majority say rates will rise by the end of next year.
TD Securities, which looked through the Bloomberg data, is expecting two rate hikes — one in May and another in November.
Most economists only expect one rate rise next year and 10 out of 24 analysts expect rates to remain on hold into 2019, and potentially beyond.
Some prominent analysts, such as Westpac's chief economist Bill Evans, expect rates may remain steady into 2020.
The market is pricing in a 62 per cent chance of a rate rise by the end of next year, amid strong jobs growth this year, especially in full-time work, signs that the mining bust is near an end and business investment in other sectors is finally picking up.
QIC chief economist Matthew Peter is one of the 33 analysts surveyed by financial comparison website Finder, who all expect rates to remain on hold today, and most of whom expect them to remain steady well into 2018.

"The economy still contains sufficient slack to keep underlying inflation at low levels," he told Finder.
"The RBA will need to keep rates on hold well into 2018 to support our export and import competing sectors, which are currently the drivers of growth."
These sectors are currently benefitting from a lower Australian dollar, which has recently retreated from above 80 US cents to 76 US cents as investors bet on quicker interest rate increases overseas, while Australia keeps rates on hold.
A lower currency makes Australia's exports relatively cheaper and imports into the nation relatively more expensive, shifting demand towards domestic goods and services.
Profits and wages figures out yesterday from the Australian Bureau of Statistics showed that company profits remain strong — down 0.2 per cent in the quarter, led by a slide in mining profits, but up 26.9 per cent over the year to September at $318 billion.
Wages continue to lag company profits, but a combination of rising employment and hours worked offset weak pay growth to see total earnings going to staff rise 1.1 per cent last quarter.
Analysts will be closely watching the Reserve Bank governor's post meeting statement for the latest subtle hints about whether RBA board members are starting to turn their minds towards rate increases, and closing them towards further cuts.


Although the passing of the Republican tax bill boosted Wall Street's blue chips stocks overnight, Australian shares are likely to start the day weaker.

US stocks ended the day mixed, after the US Senate voted in favour of the tax reform bill on Saturday, by a slim majority of 51 to 49.
The next step is for the Senate and House of Representatives to reconcile the differences in their respective bills, before it can be presented to US President Donald Trump for signing.
One key difference for them to address is whether the proposed corporate tax cuts will take effect immediately or in 2019.
Fresh records were set by the Dow Jones index, which lifted 0.2 per cent to 24,290.
Although the S&P 500 traded higher for much of the day, it ultimately ended 0.1 per cent lower at 2,639.
But the hardest hit index was the Nasdaq, which fell by 1.1 per cent to 6,775.
The technology sector was sold off as investors repositioned their portfolios to favour financial and industrial stocks.
Bank of America shares surged by 3.5 per cent to an almost decade-high, while Boeing's share price jumped 2.4 per cent to its highest levels ever.
The Australian dollar has fallen by 0.2 per cent to slightly under 76 US cents.
It has also fallen against the British pound (-0.7pc) and euro (-0.5pc).
Iron ore prices have surged by almost 3.7 per cent to $US72.68 US dollars a tonne, which should boost local mining stocks today.
In economic news, The Reserve Bank board will meet for the last time this year later.
While the RBA will not raise interest rates today, the outcome of its meeting could still affect the Australian dollar's movements.
In addition, the Bureau of Statistics will release its October retail sales figures.
Reuters-polled economists predicted retail sales will rise by 0.3 per cent, but the results in the last three months have been weak — consistently falling below market expectations.
The ABS will also release its September quarter current account figures.
"We look for net exports to have contributed 0.3 per cent points to growth and we expect government spending to also be positive, supported by higher levels of infrastructure spending," said NAB's director of economics David de Garis.


When Nyrie Stringer was injured after falling from the back of her supermarket delivery truck onto bitumen, her boss's reaction was not what she had hoped for.
"I was lying in the middle of the road and my boss was worried that her day was ruined," she said.
"It was a case of 'Oh why did you do this to me? You've made it so difficult, today is so hard already and now we've got to deal with you injuring yourself'."
Ms Stringer said in addition to the pain from her injury, she soon had to deal with the "humiliation" of having her male manager aged in his 60s sit in on an appointment with a company doctor that her employer insisted she attend.
While her injuries were not as serious as she feared — and doctors at Fiona Stanley Hospital said her strained and bruised back and neck would likely recover with rest — she said her employer, whom she did not want to name, had other ideas.
Ms Stringer said after she lodged a claim for workers' compensation, the company put her on light duties tidying the store instead of giving her time off, and sent her to a company doctor.
"So I went to the work doctor, I had to give this person who I've never met in my life my medical history with the store manager present, which they said had to happen because they had to witness what the doctor was saying," she said.
"I didn't know that I had any input or any choice in this.
"I felt very backed into a corner and signed off on the forms because they said I had to.

"And of course you just do it because you don't want to lose your job, you don't want to cause trouble."
She said the doctor put her on a return-to-work plan and told her to take paracetamol for her pain.
She continued to perform nine- and 10-hour shifts tidying the store, but said although she was on restricted duties — meaning no heavy lifting or repetitive bending and lifting — these activities were impossible to avoid.
Ms Stringer believes the outcome would have been different, and her recovery faster, had she been allowed to see her own GP, whom she believed would have been given her time off to rest and ensured physiotherapy was covered as part of her claim.
"It was so embarrassing … it was humiliating and all this time I could have been seeing my own GP," Ms Stringer said.

According to Unions WA, Ms Stringer's experience is not unique.
Assistant secretary Owen Whittle said there had been an upturn in the number of workers complaining about being sent to company doctors, and of company representatives attending medical appointments with injured workers.
"This is something that should never be occurring," he said.

"There is no good reason for an employer representative to be in attendance during a medical appointment.
"The only reason someone will be inside a medical appointment taking notes is to potentially use that information later down the track against the worker.
"The kind of privacy breaches that could occur and the compromising of care in these situations is just too great."
Unions WA recently put out a survey to its members, asking about their experiences in the workers' compensation system.
Of the 1,052 respondents, almost one in eight had made a claim for compensation.
Of those, 11 per cent reported that their employer had sought to be or was represented at a medical assessment for a claim.
A total of 16 per cent reported feeling pressured by their employer or their insurer, 12 per cent described the experience as stressful and not worth it, and 10 per cent claimed they felt bullied and stigmatised after lodging a claim.
Unions WA said the survey results strengthened its argument for greater protections to be written into legislation, including ending the practice of employer and insurance representatives attending medical appointments with injured workers.

Industrial Relations Minister Bill Johnston said the issue would be considered as part of a review of workers' compensation laws, due early next year.
However, Chamber of Commerce and Industry chief executive Deidre Wilmott defended the use of company doctors "to give employers certainty about what tasks the employee can and cannot carry out safely and what is the best pathway to support their return to work as efficiently as possible".
"This is best achieved by a company doctor or local medical centre — family or personal GP's can be difficult to get an immediate appointment with, and company doctors who are familiar with the workplace and nature of work may be able to better understand the occupational context on an injury," she said.


US retail goliath Amazon has officially launched its Australian operations and will expand the local online product range to more than 20 consumer categories.

The highly anticipated announcement comes as traditional bricks and mortar retailers David Jones, Myer, Harvey Norman and JB HiFi brace for expected tougher competition from Amazon's Australian onslaught.
Amazon's Australian marketplace covers 23 categories including books, computers, music, clothing, accessories, home improvement, consumer electronics, kitchen goods and baby products.

In a move certain to fuel competition from traditional retailers in the leadup to Christmas, Amazon will offer free delivery on orders over $49 with a one-day service in select areas.
In a carefully planned announcement, Amazon Australia's country manager, Rocco Braeuniger, said Amazon would be offering "millions" of products from well-known Australian brands as the company enters the $300 billion retail market.
"By concentrating on providing a great shopping experience and by constantly innovating on behalf of customers, we hope to earn the trust and the custom of Australian shoppers in the years to come," Mr Braeuniger said in a statement to the ABC.
Customers buying on the Amazon Australia platform will have their goods shipped from a "fulfillment centre" at Dandenong South in Melbourne's outer east which was converted from a 24,000-square-metre warehouse earlier this year.
Mr Braeuniger said Amazon was committed to Australia for the long-term and wanted to become a significant part of the Australian economy and retail sector.

"Over time, we will create thousands of new jobs and invest hundreds of millions of dollars in Australia," Mr Braeuniger said.
"The result will be an ever-improving customer experience driven by the regular introduction of new products and services that we hope customers will love."
Amazon — the world's biggest online shopping company — had been expected to open in Australia last month to coincide with the Black Friday shopping promotion the day after the Thanksgiving holiday in the United States.



The entry of Amazon into Australia is likely to pressure local online players like Kogan, JB Hi Fi and Ebay, with other major players forced to lower prices in the face of the toughest trading conditions since the 2007 global financial crisis.
Amazon has been tight-lipped in the leadup to the Australian launch and until now has provided few hints about its Australian marketplace strategy.
The company says "thousands" of Australian businesses will be using Amazon's local platform to sell their products but would not provide a specific number.

However, Amazon says globally about half of the company's sales come from marketplace sellers.
In addition to its Australian online site, the company has corporate offices in Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Brisbane and Canberra employing more than 1,000 staff.
Amazon is valued at US$560 billion and recently bought Whole Food Markets in the US as part of its online supermarket arm, Amazon Fresh.
However, the ABC understands Amazon has no imminent plans to open Amazon Fresh in Australia, which would provide direct competition to Coles and Woolworths who are already under pressure from Aldi and Costco.
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission chairman Rod Sims said last week Amazon's arrival in Australia would be positive for consumers but conceded local traditional retailers could become damaged.


New data reveals just how long it takes you to save for a home in every area across Australia — from the good, to the bad and the very ugly.

The stark contrast between Australia's east and west coast housing markets has been laid bare in new data which reveals it now takes Sydney first-home buyers twice as long to save a 20 per cent deposit for a median-priced home than punters in the post-mining boom city of Perth.
The data is sourced from the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the census and property monitoring firm CoreLogic, and compiled by Bankwest.

The figures used in the study, compiled for every Local Government Area (LGA) in Australia, have been calculated based on ABS income data of the average combined salary for two people aged between 25-34, saving 20 per cent of their pre-tax income in a high-interest savings account.
The study tells a tale of two cities, with Perth now the most affordable mainland state capital, taking just 3.9 years for first-home buyers to save a deposit.
It is a far different story in Sydney, where buyers require 8.2 years to save a deposit — well above the national average of 4.6 years.
Just five years ago the situation was the reverse.
Perth property prices were booming, fuelled by the state's mining industry.
But since the sector stalled in 2012 values have been in decline, falling a further 4.3 per cent over the past financial year alone while Sydney prices have jumped 11 per cent.

New South Wales is home to eight of the nation's top 10 LGAs where it takes a first-home buyer couple the longest time to save.
Sydney buyers need on average 8.2 years to save the $215,133 deposit required to purchase a median-priced house, three years longer than the national capital city average of 4.9 years.

When regional areas are included, the average saving time reduces to six years.
New South Wales boasts the lowest proportion of first-home buyers, who account for just 8.1 per cent of total sales.

Across the country in Perth, more than a fifth of total buyers in the 2016/17 financial year were purchasing their first home, fuelled by falling house prices.
It now takes around 3.9 years to save the $103,046 deposit for a median-priced home, one year less than the national average.

When the entire State is taken into account, the saving time falls to 3.6 years.
Despite a post-boom economy in decline, Perth retains the title of the most unaffordable LGA — Peppermint Grove — where it would take 21.2 years to save a deposit of $673,000.

Melbourne remains the second-most expensive property market in the country, but is rapidly gaining ground on its northern neighbour with prices rising 14.2 per cent during the 2016/17 financial year.
First-home buyers looking in the city need to save for 6.4 years to amass the $153,008 deposit for a median-priced property, an increase of eight months on last year.

Despite strong prices and weak wages growth, the introduction of stamp duty concessions on properties up to $750,000 boosted the first-home buyer market, recording a 3 per cent rise in buyers for the year to August 2017.

Queensland's market has remained relatively stable but has recorded a massive 11.2 per cent jump in first-home buyer purchases, driven by the extension of a $20,000 grant for new homes until the end of the year.
Brisbane buyers take on average 4.5 years to save the $105,950 deposit for a median-priced property, largely in line with last year's figures.

The holiday town of Noosa trumped Queensland's State capital, reporting a 13.6 per cent rise in house prices during the period.

It takes just over $90,000 to lay down a 20 per cent deposit on a house in Adelaide, the lowest of any mainland state, but only one in every 10 properties are sold to first-home buyers.
That is driven by the state being home to the oldest population demographic after Tasmania, and the fact people aged between 25-34 have the second-lowest average wages in the country of just $51,629.

Adelaide first-home buyer couples require 4.2 years to save the $90,665 deposit on a median-priced property, a figure largely unchanged from last year.
Just under $78,000 will secure you a 20 per cent deposit on a house in Hobart, while a little over $60,000 will be enough to help you buy outside of the city.
Prices in Hobart rose 8.6 per cent over the period, but the average saving time of 3.8 years to save the $77,812 deposit remains the lowest of the state capitals.
Perth couple Dirk Black and Isabelle Southern have been putting money away since finishing university.
"[We started saving] once I had stable work, not necessarily with the intention of buying a house, but making sure I had some sort of savings together," Mr Black said.
Four years on, and at just 26 years of age, they pooled their funds to snag their first property five kilometres east of Perth's CBD, taking full advantage of Perth's plummeting house prices.

"I think [the market] definitely had a positive influence. I guess it pushed us to act a little bit quicker rather than wait another 12 months [or] a year and a half down the track," Mr Black said.
"It took roughly four years because we pooled our funds together," he said.
"I went back to uni and then I got a part-time job last year, so that's when I was putting more aside. We're not really big spenders so that's helped," Isabelle Southern said.

"Across the country we're seeing very different markets and across the 421 local government [areas] we're seeing very different markets," Bankwest general manager of personal and small business banking, Donna Dalby, said.
"The accessibility for first-time buyers to get into the market varies greatly."
"Western Australia, or Perth in terms of capital cities, is one of the most accessible markets.
"Some of the reasons for that is that house prices have fallen in the Perth market … we're coming out the other side of the boom, we're in the production phase of the mining boom which isn't as labour-intensive."

Alistair and Penelope Clifton are part of the small minority in Sydney making their first purchase, but to get into the market they were forced to team up with family.
"We formed our little syndicate with the two of us and my young brother," Mr Clifton said.
"I consulted Tom — my younger brother — and said, 'Are you keen to buy a property?'
"He was keen and it made it feasible for us if there's three people paying off a mortgage rather than two."
They chose to buy an investment property first with the plan of eventually using the property's capital growth to purchase their own home.
"We will get to a point where … we're renting no more, but I can't see us buying a home in the next 10 years," he said.
"That's why we bought this investment property and hopefully we might be able to buy another one in the next 10 years and then maybe sell them.
"Then we both split up and and then we might be able to have the money to buy our own house."



Katherine residents are being warned not to eat local seafood and other home-grown produce after an interim report into PFAS contamination identified them as potential health risks.
The Department of Defence released details of an interim human health risk assessment for the Northern Territory town on Monday outlining potential exposure pathways to the community.
Most of the town is in the investigation area.
The chemicals, an ingredient in firefighting foam once used at the nearby Tindal RAAF Base, have seeped into Katherine's bores used for drinking water and irrigation.
The interim report said initial findings indicated a number of activities could pose a risk to residents:
"We did find that in the fish samples that we've taken they have triggered what they call the trigger values in the food standard Australia and New Zealand thresholds," Steven Grzeskowrak from Defence said.
"That means it's appropriate to start looking at limiting intake of, in this case, fish from Katherine river."

The trigger value for PFOS in fish flesh is 5.2 micrograms a kilogram and is based on a child between two and six years old eating 500 grams of fish a week.
Compared to the trigger value, barramundi that were tested returned between 12 and 42 micrograms, up to six times the safe level.
Cod and catfish contained between 6.2 and 88 micrograms, up to 17 times the value.
Other fish had the broadest range, between 9.5 and 350, a maximum of 70 times the trigger value. When asked what fish were included in the last group, a Defence representative said it was varied but could not provide detail on which particular fish had the highest concentration.
Mr Grzeskowrak said in terms of vegetables, the concentration of PFAS was higher in leafy greens.
"The uptake into fruits has been very low or nil in many cases," he said.
"The uptake into leafy green vegetables tends to be higher."

The Department also noted the testing was done during the dry season, when bore water use is at its peak, so it could give results that were "worst case scenario".
It also recommended that people avoid or minimise their contact with the activities or, in the case with fruit, vegetables and seafood, combine it with goods from a non-contaminated source.
But the Department said their testing of incidental exposure from digging in soil or coming into contact with dust contaminated with PFAS was not considered an exposure pathway.
Similar advice was given to Darwin residents in 2016 when the chemicals were found in shellfish in Ludmilla and Rapid Creek, but were later found to be safe for consumption.

Defence also said the report informed a recent decision to offer a $5.7 million support package to Katherine residents, which included voluntary blood testing, funding for counselling services, and an epidemiological study.
Local and State Government representatives lobbied to have the services available in the town for months, including the Chief Minister writing to the Prime Minister asking for blood tests.
The Department did not detail for how many years residents may have been consuming the toxic chemicals, which have been linked to a number of conditions in animal studies including some types of cancer and low birthweight.
The United States Environmental Protection Agency has said there may be a correlation between PFAS consumption and adverse health effects in humans, but Australian authorities maintain there is currently no consistent evidence that exposure to PFOS and PFOA causes adverse health effects.



There have been violent scenes in Melbourne where controversial British commentator Milo Yiannopoulos was speaking.
Heavily armed police were forced to intervene when protesters clashed outside the Melbourne Pavillion in Kensington shortly after 6:00pm.
At least two people were arrested, with police standing guard outside the venue where Yiannopoulos was hosting three shows on Monday.
Police used capsicum spray when the violence broke out.

One of the protesters fell to the ground and was bleeding during the incident.
A police officer was also struck by a rock and received minor injuries.
Both left and right groups were chanting and holding placards.
Neil Erikson from far-right group Patriot Blue said he was at the protest to defend free speech.
"We were basically coming to the Milo event and we were attacked so we had to defend ourselves," he said.
Chris DiPasquale from the campaign against racism and fascism said his group "want to send a positive message".
"We're against racism, we're against sexism, transphobia, homophobia, everything that Milo stands for we're against that," he said.
The venue of the sold-out shows was kept secret to those who purchased tickets until the last minute, due to concerns about protests.
The right-wing commentator has made a career out of attacking feminism, political correctness and Islam.
A book by Mr Yiannopoulos was cancelled after video resurfaced which showed him speaking positively about sexual relationships between boys and men.
He was permanently banned from Twitter in July last year for calling Ghostbusters actress Leslie Jones a "black dude".
Last year, universities in the US cancelled speaking events hosted by the far-right commentator because of security concerns. Protesters lit fires and smashed windows when he was due to speak at a Californian university earlier this year.
His Australian speaking tour began in Adelaide on Friday and finishes in the Gold Coast on Thursday.



A regional airport in south-east New South Wales has had its air services reduced after months of conflict with the region's main airline over a $50 million expansion of air and sea transport facilities.

The project aims to boost the region's tourism industry by extending the Merimbula airport runway to take bigger planes, while the Port of Eden wharf will be extended to take bigger cruise ships.
The federal and state governments funding the project see it as vital to the region's economic development.
But Regional Express (Rex) said it saw the airport development and others like it as a "folly" that could put airline out of business.
Rex, which is the sole carrier on the Sydney to Merimbula route and the main carrier on the Melbourne route, does not want the airport runway to be extended.
Earlier this year, the airline warned airport owners Bega Valley Shire Council that it might reduce or even withdraw its services if the development went ahead.
The airline said the development is unnecessary and "a cavalier exercise" that will lead to the council charging Rex with higher airport usage fees because the council will need to cover increased operating costs.
Warrick Lodge, the general manager of Rex network strategy, said Rex's opposition is not restricted to Merimbula.
"We do have serious concerns in regard to regional airports … embarking on expansion plans that are unnecessary and over and above what the airport requires," he said.
Rex provides air services to 55 regional airports from Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne and Perth.
Mr Lodge said that the cumulative costs across their network as a result of developments such as at Merimbula would make their business unsustainable as it operated on very slim profit margins.
He said Rex is not opposed to competition, but that the development is unnecessary because the passenger numbers using the airport are not sufficient to sustain any competition.

The Sydney to Merimbula route was de-regulated earlier this year which Mr Lodge pointed-out had failed to attract interest from other airlines.
However the mayor of Bega Valley Shire Council, Kristy McBain, said that it is inevitable that the airport will be required to take larger aircraft at some time in the future, and that funding was available now.
"It's about gearing up and making sure that we're ready for that when it does happen," she said.
Ms McBain said that Rex would not be hit with higher airport fees because the council had a special rate variation to cover ongoing costs.
Furthermore, she said that the development of both the airport and the Port of Eden would be catalysts for increased passenger numbers that would make it sustainable to service the region with larger aircraft.
Rex operates a fleet of Saab 340 aircraft, seating 34 passengers, which ceased production in 1999 that Rex said will be adequate to provide services for the next 15 years.
But former Bega Shire mayor and now-tourism operator Michael Britten said the Rex aircraft and business model are designed to service business commuters and are not suitable for tourism market.
"You need to have a plane with a bigger capacity and also be able to take a lot of luggage that go with families when they go on holidays," he said.

The proposed airport runway extension is intended to support larger turboprop aircraft with approximately 74 passengers and greater luggage capacity.
Mr Lodge rejected what he called a "build it and they will come" approach.
"We've had considerable issues with a number of regional airports that are spending in excess of $15 million to upgrade their airport … with no commitment at all from any of the larger carriers to provide any more services that Rex already provides there," he said.


A decorated Tasmanian public servant resigned over allegations of interference with a tender process for a ferry service, a matter which was referred to Tasmania Police, the ABC can reveal.
In an email seen by ABC News, the former head of Tasmanian Parks and Wildlife Service, Peter Mooney, contacted a company vying for the Maria Island ferry contract with tips to improve its application.
The late-night message, sent not long after the tender process was announced in April 2016, said:
"You will need to suggest what additional services beyond the standard ferry service you can provide or collaborate with. Could even suggest eventual collaboration with PWS (Parks and Wildlife) to run the accommodation in the Penitentiary and Coffee Palace."
The email even went as far as to talk down the then-ferry operator, who was also competing for the contract, and suggest the application make "mention of intention" to work with the local school.

"We know that school(s) want to get to Maria Island but find it difficult with the current attitude of the present ferry operator," Mr Mooney wrote in the email.
"I will have another think and come back to you with more suggestions."
In a statement, Department of Primary Industries, Parks, Water and Environment (DPIPWE) revealed the matter was investigated.
"The allegation was referred to Tasmania Police and the Integrity Commission was advised," the statement read.
"On 15 June 2016, Tasmania Police advised the department that following review it appeared that no crime had been committed and there was not the need for investigation by Tasmania Police."
DPIPWE said Mr Mooney "tendered his resignation from the public service on 10 June 2016".
The statement said Mr Mooney was "paid his entitlements" but no other termination payments were made.
When contacted for comment, Mr Mooney responded with a short text message.
"I retired from the public service July last year," it read.
"I believe the matter you refer to was appropriately resolved."
Independent Upper House MP Ruth Forrest said the correspondence was entirely inappropriate.
"It's interference in a tender process," she said.
"Any potential ferry operator should have free opportunity to put forward their case without fear that it's being somehow subverted."
Despite a wide-ranging internal investigation, Premier Will Hodgman was only briefed this morning after his office was contacted by the ABC.
"The process was suspended when it was apparent there was an issue," he said.
"A party that was not part of the initial area of concern was successfully awarded the tender."
The company Mr Mooney was contacting was not the eventual winner of the tender, the Navigators Group.
DPIPWE has also said upon learning of the allegation, it put in place a range of measures, including ensuring Mr Mooney was removed from the tender process.
It also gave all participants the opportunity to resubmit their application and the final assessment was reviewed by a procurement panel.


Crown Resorts' shareholders have launched a class action against the gambling giant for a sharp drop in its share price following the arrest of 18 employees in China.
Law firm Maurice Blackburn alleges shareholders in James Packer's company suffered losses when Crown shares dropped almost 14 per cent after the staff were detained for "gambling crimes" in police raids in October last year.
The Federal Court statement of claim alleged Crown breached the Corporations Act by failing to make timely and accurate disclosures to the market about the risks it was taking in China and engaged in misleading or deceptive conduct about Chinese market growth.
The employees, including Australian executive Jason O'Connor, pleaded guilty to the crime of promoting gambling in China in June.
Maurice Blackburn's head of class actions, Andrew Watson, said Crown took a gamble amid Chinese government warnings that it intended to crack down on foreign casinos marketing to its citizens on the mainland.
"Shareholders should have been apprised of the risks that Crown was taking in China and the threat they posed to the company's revenue streams," he said.
"Chinese authorities could not have made the risks of marketing gambling any plainer to Crown or other casino operators, yet Crown ignored these warnings."
The share price plunged 13.9 per cent, from $12.95 to $11.15 following news of the arrests.

The class action covers individual and institutional investors who bought shares between February 6, 2015 and October 16, 2016.
Crown has vowed to vigorously defend itself.
The arrests were a blow to Crown's plans for Sydney's Barangaroo casino, which was promoted as a venue for wealthy gamblers — known as VIPs — many of whom come from mainland China.
Legal documents show Crown reported annual VIP revenue worth more than $1 billion, but VIP turnover at its Australian casinos fell by 49 per cent in the past financial year.
In a separate Federal Court case, Crown and pokies manufacturer Aristocrat are being sued by former gambling addict Shonica Guy who claimed the Dolphin Treasure machine was deceptive and misleading.
Crown has also rejected whistleblowers' claims staff deliberately tampered with poker machines at its Melbourne casino to gouge more money out of gamblers and circumvented anti-money laundering laws.


The Government and major banks were staunchly against a royal commission until it became all but inevitable that an inquiry would happen with or without their imprimatur.
That has led many to question whether the terms of reference have been designed to reduce the scope of the commission in a way that limits the amount of wrongdoing that might be uncovered.
"It is carefully crafted to avoid a lot of the potential bear traps," said banking analyst Martin North from Digital Finance Analytics.
"It's probably the one you have to have, I'm not sure it's really going to add much to the real debate and I'm not sure the outcomes will be really significant."

CLSA banking analyst Brian Johnson concurs the terms of reference are weaker than what Labor, the Greens and some dissident Nationals had in mind.
But he also noted the extensive and compulsive investigative powers of royal commissions tend to mean they turn up surprising findings — the "unknown unknowns" as former US defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld famously put it.
"If it doesn't actually turn up anything that we don't know already then it is really a waste of time," Mr Johnson said.
"This does provide a mechanism for aggrieved parties to basically purge themselves, so that's where the risk basically lies [for the banks]."
The Government's main argument against a royal commission is that it has already held a range of inquiries and undertaken a number of reforms to improve financial sector regulation and accountability.
Martin North agrees a lot of progress has been made.
"Over the last 18 months or so, there have been a whole series of improvements in the regulatory framework in and around banks," he said.
"A lot of the things that should have been done have been done already."

Mr North cited the Productivity Commission review of so-called vertical integration (where banks cross-sell a wide range of products and services to their customers), the ACCC's investigation into bank price setting and the Banking Executive Accountability Regime as examples.
However, Mr North said the biggest elephant in the room remains largely ignored.
"The critical question for me is about lending, and about lending standards," he said.
"I have a view that we are at a very early stage of understanding just how far from where we should have been have the lending standards been … that is the real black hole at the moment."
Mr North said there may be a ticking time bomb of bad loans that could turn into rising defaults over the next three to five years.

"If you look at the lending standards today and you compare them to two or three years ago, there are many people holding mortgages today who would not now have got those mortgages," he said.
"But I also believe that even today, the lending standards are still too loose and there are households today who are able to get mortgages and committing to mortgages that they shouldn't be getting."
Mr North said there was also a lot more to be discovered in the areas of financial planning and mortgage broking.
"I also think that we've still got some questions around the conflicts of interest, for example, from mortgage brokers and financial advisers and how they back-end into the overall financial services sector," he said.
"Those are the two things that I think are the critical issues but I don't think either of them will get touched very hard in this review."
Mr Johnson said another key issue that may not be examined in the royal commission is the economic fallout of having such large, super-profitable major banks.
"The 10-year bond rate is something like 2.6 per cent and we've got banks doing an ROE [return on equity] of about 15 per cent, which is amongst the highest in the world," he said.
"That high level of profitability, perhaps that is a tax on the rest of the economy."
While the terms of reference give relatively broad scope for Kenneth Hayne to take a wide looks across the financial sector, he has only been given a year to do so.
This is slightly less than the Northern Territory royal commission investigating youth detention.
It is almost a full year less than the Trade Union Royal Commission, which was extended from nine months to nearly two years at the request of commissioner Dyson Heydon who found there was insufficient time to complete his inquiry into half a dozen trade unions.

This inquiry is intended to look at hundreds of financial companies, many of which are worth well over $1 billion and each sell hundreds of individual products.
Given the number of victims of the financial scandals the public have been made aware of, the royal commission looking at institutional responses to child sexual abuse may provide a better guide of how much time is needed for a genuinely thorough inquiry.
It was originally intended to take two years, however it was extended to four years due to the sheer volume of victims' stories that needed to be told.
As for bank claims the bad publicity and possibility of new scandals arising from the royal commission would push up overseas funding costs and therefore mortgage interest rates, Mr Johnson is sceptical.
"The cost of three-year and five-year money is back down at the low points of the cycle," he said.
"It certainly would be more driven by what we see happening in credit markets generally than this idea that suddenly investors would desert the Australian banks.
"I just think that's over-hyping it and it's a somewhat convenient argument."
Mr Johnson said where Australians choose to park their savings is a much more important factor for lending interest rates than whether international investors are investing.
"The funding costs for the Australian banks are far more sensitive to deposit pricing than they actually are to wholesale funding," he added.
Ironic in light of the latest scandal, exposed by Ben Butler in The Australian, where the major banks rolled term-deposit customers over into much lower interest rate products after their initial deposit matured without adequate warning that this would happen.


A Melbourne real estate company has been fined for a second time for underquoting properties.

The Federal Court has fined Hocking Stuart Doncaster $160,000 for underquoting nine houses for sale in Melbourne's north-eastern suburbs.
The franchisee admitted to false and misleading conduct charges bought by the director of Consumers Affairs Victoria.
It follows a fine of $300,000 imposed on Hocking Stuart Richmond for underquoting last year.
In the latest matter the court heard that between June 2014 and December 2016, Hocking Stuart Doncaster deliberately advertised nine properties at price ranges lower than the homes would sell for.
The court heard realtors told owners underquoting was a technique designed to attract buyers, which would in turn drive up the sale price.
"In many cases it had been instructed by the vendor that the property was not available for sale at the price estimated," Justice Bernard Murphy said.
A Doncaster homeowner agreed to sell for $810,000, the property was then advertised for $790,000, before selling at auction for $1.01 million.
In 2015, Hocking Stuart Doncaster also advertised a Templestowe home for $1.7 million and above, despite the owner wanting $1.8 million to $1.9 million.
The home sold for $2.04 million at auction.
The court heard underquoting was a widespread practice in the industry, but Consumer Affairs Victoria found only nine out of 25 sales investigated involved underquoting.
"Hocking Stuart Doncaster's conduct was plainly deliberate," Justice Murphy said. "It was intended and as apt to create the illusion of a bargain."
The agency was facing a maximum penalty of $9.9 million for breaching consumer law, but the judge agreed to a lesser penalty as the business only made a small profit as a result of its conduct.
Hocking Stuart Doncaster was ordered to pay $160,000 plus court costs, and to implement a three-year compliance order.
Between December 2016 and July 2017, six other Victorian real estate companies accepted enforceable undertakings for underquoting, paying a total of $240,000 in penalties.


After a nine-month search, Rio Tinto has picked former investment banker Simon Thompson to be its new chairman from March 5, next year.
The British-born Mr Thompson, 58, will succeed Jan du Plessis, who has been the mining giant's long-standing chairman since 2008.
Rio did not have too look far.
Mr Thompson is currently the chairman of the company's remuneration committee, having joined the company's board as a non-executive director in 2014.
"Mr Thompson has over 20 years' experience working across five continents in the mining and metals industry," Rio Tinto said in a statement on Monday.
This includes senior positions at global miner Anglo-American, and board positions at AngloGold Ashanti, Rusal and Newmont Mining Corp.
He has also been the chairman of multinational private equity firm 3i Group (since 2015) and Tullow Oil, a British oil and gas exploration company with extensive operations in Africa (from 2012 to 2017).
Earlier in his career, Mr Thompson worked at British investment banks SG Warburg (which is now a part of Swiss-based UBS), and N M Rothschild (which is controlled by the wealthy Rothschild family).
"I look forward to leading the board as we work with J-S [Jean Sebastien-Jacques] and his team to ensure that Rio Tinto continues to deliver superior returns for its shareholders by maintaining its capital discipline and 'value-over-volume' approach," Mr Thompson said.
Though one of Mr Thompson's most important future tasks will be dealing with the US corporate regulator, which has charged Rio with fraud.
The Securities and Exchange Commission alleges the company, along with its former CEO and chief financial officer, tried to cover up more than $US3 billion worth of losses on a failed coal investment in Mozambique back in 2011.
Rio is also being investigated by the UK Serious Fraud Office for "suspected corruption in the conduct of business in the Republic of Guinea".
Mr du Plessis, 63, joined Rio Tinto during a mining industry slump during the global financial crisis back in September 2008.

Four months before he became chairman, Rio Tinto's ASX-listed shares were trading at $155.35 per share (at May 16, 2008) — but by early December, the mining giant's shares had plunged by nearly 80 per cent to $32.
Rio's share price has since recovered to $71.80 (at 12:40pm AEDT).
When the South African executive announced his intention to leave Rio in March, he was offered a job with another industry giant in a very different sector — British telco, BT Group.
Mr du Plessis became a non-executive director of BT's board in June and started work as its new chairman in early November.


Matt Ormiston knows his 12-year-old son Joshua will face challenges throughout his life that his older sisters won't, especially when it comes to getting a job.
Joshua is on the autism spectrum, and his father is part of a growing movement to help people with autism find employment that they will excel in.
Mr Ormiston is the director of the ANZ Spectrum Program, and the bank is currently hiring its inaugural intake of employees on the spectrum.
"That won't only just help my children, but will help other people's children who are also going to face into those same sort of challenges that I expect Josh will as he comes into that place of working life," Mr Ormiston said.
"It really starts to put you in a position after 20 odd years of working around the world in technology, to say here's something that I can really leave a legacy."
Currently in Australia only around 40 per cent of adults on the autism spectrum are employed.
Those who  do find employment are often working in jobs below their educational or professional level.
But that could be beginning to change.
ANZ has become the latest major company to deliberately recruit people with autism.
Nine new employees are due to begin work early next year: four in cyber-security roles, five as test analysts.
The banking group insists the initiative is not driven simply by a "feel-good factor".
"There's a real untapped pool of potential here in the autistic community," Mr Ormiston said.
Autism researcher Professor Cheryl Dissanayake from La Trobe University said cyber security in particular was increasingly recognised as "a very good fit" for many people with autism.
"The attention to detail, the looking for information, for detailed information, for variations in code, is critical," she said.
"And many people with autism have very good skills to bring into that."
While the ANZ program is starting out with an intake of just nine employees, it is hoped it will expand significantly.
"We're really looking to be able to dream much bigger, and look at opportunities right across the ANZ," Mr Ormiston said.
The ANZ program is modelled on a similar initiative which has been running for several years at DXC Technology, formerly Hewlett Packard.

DXC's Dandelion program now employs close to 60 people in Adelaide, Canberra and Brisbane, many of them working in Federal Government departments, including Defence, Human Services and Immigration and Border Protection.
It is the brainchild of executive Michael Fieldhouse who said he had an "epiphany" one evening while watching a friend's son, who has autism, throw pebbles into an urn at a dinner party, an action that initially frustrated him.
By eventually timing him Mr Fieldhouse realised that the boy was dropping the pebbles at exact intervals.
"He did that for a bit over two hours," Mr Fieldhouse said.
"I learnt that night that talent actually comes in all shapes and sizes.
"I saw raw talent not being utilised."
Twenty-four-year-old Martin Ribot de Bressac is one of the employees on the DXC program.
Before being hired by DXC, he struggled to find full-time work.
"A big barrier that I find is the interview process and being able to connect with the other side of the interview," Mr de Bressac said.
"It's very anxiety-ridden talking to someone that I've never met before, I felt like I could not perform at all."

Starting out in his new job in automation was not plain-sailing either.
"I was having self-esteem issues thinking I'm not really doing a good job and not really saying the right thing, and everyone at work is judging me because of my anxiety and because of my Asperger's," Mr de Bressac said.
Almost two years on his confidence has grown enormously — in fact, he is thriving.
"I find that when I'm given a task that I can just demolish it way, way quicker than a lot of my peers," he said.
"I'll hack into a piece of software, completely understand the deep roots of it and then build something out of it I get to the point where I can do crazy things with technology."
Co-worker Kayne Weir, 20, has also been with DXC Technology overseeing IT systems for close to two years.

He too still struggles with the social aspects of the workplace, but said he and his family are "ecstatic" that he has employment.
"It's good money, it's good work," he said.
"I'm happy is what they see."
The DXC program is monitored by researchers at the Olga Tennison Autism Research Centre at La Trobe University, who will also be involved in the ANZ program.
The Centre's Director, Professor Cheryl Dissanayake, said one of the hardest things for people on the spectrum to manage in the workplace was downtime.
"I think they do much better when the workflow is consistent and there's work to do," she said.
"I think it's also important for the co-worker to recognise that this isn't going to be the person who gossips at the water cooler, but rather someone who does need a constant workflow and does need very clear communication."
Watch the story tonight on Lateline at 9.30pm AEDT on ABC News or 10.40pm on ABC TV.


Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro has said his country will launch a cryptocurrency to combat a US-led financial "blockade", although he provided few clues about how the economically crippled OPEC member would pull off the feat.
"Venezuela will create a cryptocurrency … the 'petro', to advance issues of monetary sovereignty, make financial transactions and overcome the financial blockade," Mr Maduro said during his weekly televised broadcast.
The digital currency will be backed by Venezuelan reserves of gold, oil, gas and diamonds, he said during the near five-hour show, which included traditional Christmas songs and dancing.
"The 21st century has arrived!" Mr Maduro added to cheers, without providing specifics about the currency launch.
Opposition leaders scorned the announcement, which they said needed congressional approval, and some cast doubt on whether the digital currency would ever see the light of day in tumultuous Venezuela.
"It's Maduro being a clown. This has no credibility," opposition politician and economist Angel Alvarado said.
Still, the announcement highlights how US sanctions this year are hurting Venezuela's ability to move money through international banks.
Mr Maduro's move away from the US dollar comes after the recent spectacular rise of bitcoin, which has been fuelled by signs that the digital currency is slowly gaining traction in the mainstream investment world.

Cryptocurrencies typically are not backed by any government or central banks.

Bitcoin already has a strong following among tech-savvy Venezuelans looking to bypass dysfunctional economic controls to obtain dollars or make internet purchases.
Venezuela's traditional currency, meanwhile, is in freefall.
Currency controls and excessive money printing have led to a 57 per cent depreciation of the bolivar against the dollar in the last month alone on the widely used black market.
For the millions of Venezuelans plunged into poverty and struggling to eat three meals a day, Mr Maduro's announcement is unlikely to bring any immediate relief.
Economists and opposition leaders say the leftist Mr Maduro, a former bus driver and union leader, has recklessly refused to overhaul Venezuela's controls and stem the economic meltdown.
He could now be seeking to pay bondholders and foreign creditors in the currency amid a plan to restructure the country's major debt burden, opposition leaders said, but the plan is likely to flop.
Reuters


Before Australia adopted some of the strictest smoking regulations in the world, advertising cigarettes was big business.
Ad agencies have long sought the clients with the biggest budgets — and from the 50s to the 70s, the clients with the biggest budgets were selling tobacco.
They set out, and succeeded, in convincing Australians that smoking was a suave, sexy and sophisticated thing to do.
Slim cigarettes were tailored for "the feminine hand". Craven was "the clean cigarette that's kind to your throat", and Benson and Hedges was for "when only the best would do".
But one campaign was so successful that it backfired — prompting the backlash that ultimately saw Australia ban tobacco advertising altogether.
By the early 1970s, there were already warning signs about the risks to consumers' health. But teenagers were a lucrative target market, and one brand in particular resonated: Winfield.
Allan Johnston, a new creative at Sydney agency Hertz-Walpole, was asked to come up with an idea for Winfield, then owned by the company Rothmans.
"We came up with this crazy idea to put Paul Hogan in a dinner suit and take the piss out of other cigarette ads," Johnston said.
On the day of the shoot none of the usual executives turned up. They were terrified and thought it was going to be a disaster.
Hogan arrived in his tuxedo. The Sydney Symphony orchestra was brought in. And in his ocker drawl Hogan began: "G'day. I've been asked to talk to ya, and being the suave, sophisticated man about town…"

Australians loved it. Especially the kids. "It was brave — actually naïve," Johnston said.
After the first week on air, Rothmans chairman Sir Ronald Irish ordered that the "uncouth bloke" be taken off air, but was then reminded that the company were now selling a million sticks a day.
Not long after, Winfield overtook Marlboro as Australia's number one selling cigarette.
The popularity of Paul Hogan and his Winfield ads among teenagers was a worrying development.
Winfield became their preferred brand, and Hogan's powerful resonance with kids saw them take up smoking at a growing rate.

Health campaigners and public sentiment were getting more vocal. The link between tobacco and lung disease could no longer be ignored.
By the mid 1970s, there was increasing pressure on the government to act.
The new Whitlam government pledged extra funds to state health departments, so they could engage in the very medium that had propelled these tobacco companies into peoples' lives in the first place. Anti-smoking television advertisements began.
Adman John Bevins was approached by the NSW Department of Health, and asked to come up with a hard-hitting anti-smoking ad that was to be trialled on the NSW North Coast.
The first thing he wanted to know was why cigarettes were so bad. He was put in touch with public health expert Garry Egger, who told him: "The lung is like a sponge, it's designed to soak up air but a smoker's lung soaks up smoke instead."
The ad wrote itself. The campaign was a huge success, greatly reducing smoking, and was rolled out across the country.

Tobacco advertising was officially banned on Australian radio and television in 1976, though it remained legal on billboards for some years to come.
BUGA UP — an acronym for Billboard Utilising Graffitists Against Unhealthy Promotion — continued the fight after holding their first public meeting in October 1980.
They used humour and satire to drive their message through careful and often minimal billboard touch-ups.
Blocking out several letters of "Benson and Hedges", for example, produced "Be on edge", while "John Player Special" could be changed to "Lung Slayer Special".

As a new pole of anti-tobacco radicalism, BUGA UP drew attention to the morality of cigarette advertising. Funds from public support helped pay the fines of those who were arrested.
It inspired similar movements in Canada, the United States, and the United Kingdom, where London-based group COUGH UP emerged.
It was a struggle where David finally beat Goliath. Billboard tobacco advertising was banned across Australia in 1993.


With complaints about phone and internet providers soaring, consumer groups are calling for the troubled sector to be regulated the same way as the water or energy industries.

In a letter to Communications Minister Mitch Fifield, consumer advocates say a review of the Telecommunications Consumer Protection (TPC) code is industry-dominated, lacks independence and is being rushed.
The letter has been signed by the Consumers Federation of Australia, CHOICE, Consumer Action Law Centre, Financial Counselling Australia, Financial & Consumer Rights Council (FCRC) and COTA Australia.
The TCP code governs the way the providers advertise, sell, and handle complaints and debt, but the consumer groups say the Government needs to better regulate the sector.
"The telco regulation is out of step with consumer protections in other sectors like energy and financial services and it was time for the Federal Government to act," FCRC executive officer Sandy Ross said.

The consumer advocates say the rise in customer complaints is the result of industry "self-regulation".
In the last financial year, complaints to the Telecommunication Industry Ombudsman shot up by 41 per cent and complaints about the National Broadband Network jumped 159 per cent.
Under the Universal Service Obligation only standard landlines and payphones have to be accessible.
The consumer groups want Australia to follow Canada's lead which declared broadband internet a basic telecommunications service last year.
"Members of our community cannot pay bills, get important information, or remain socially connected without access to working telco services," Consumers' Federation of Australia chair Gerard Brody told the ABC.

Legal services are reporting an increase in disputes about telcos selling multiple, unaffordable and inappropriate contracts to disadvantaged and vulnerable people.
Melbourne pensioner Elizabeth, 70, who did not want her surname used, is recovering from cancer and has been housebound for the past two years.
She wanted the internet so her mind could escape her four walls.
However, for the past seven months she has been fighting with Telstra after signing up for a bundle internet and landline service that she hasn't been able to use.
"I would have internet access at best for a couple of days, but usually it would drop out after a few hours," she told the ABC.
"The thing is when it dropped out so did my landline and I need a phone for medical emergencies."
Elizabeth said she spent hours with technicians who never fixed "the blasted box" and was also signed up for a premium service that she couldn't afford.
"They would charge me for things they told me I wouldn't be charged for. No two accounts from Telstra are the same," she said.
Communications Alliance communications CEO John Stanton says the review isn't industry-dominated, pointing the participation of representatives from the peak communications consumer body, ACCAN, industry regulators, government officials and the ombudsman.
"The claims made in the letter are inaccurate," he told the ABC.
"The TCP code process is not a self-regulatory process — it is a 'co-regulatory' process."
Mr Stanton said the code would be enforceable on all providers and says it is neither rushed nor perfunctory.
In a statement, a spokesman for Senator Fifield said all industry codes were enforceable by the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) and telcos could face court penalties.
Telecommunications provider FuzeNet was the latest company to be singled out by the ACMA for not properly managing customer complaints, but no penalty was issued.
Senator Fifield's office said the CEOs of all major retailers and the NBN have agreed to improve the customer experience when it comes to the NBN.


One of Australia's leading authorities on the superannuation system has accused bank-run super funds of "looting" workers' retirement savings for profit, and criticised the Federal Government's "bizarre" targeting of the not-for-profit industry super sector.

Wilson Sy was formerly head of research at the Australian Prudential Regulator Authority (APRA), which oversees superannuation funds, and principal adviser on the 2010 super system review (the Cooper Review) which resulted in major reforms of the industry.
He said it was ridiculous that the Government is trying to force changes on the "world's best practice" industry super fund model which has persistently and consistently delivered significantly higher returns for members than the retail funds run for profit by banks and big financial conglomerates.
"The industry funds have averaged 2 to 3 per cent better [than retail funds] over a period of 20 years," he said.
Over the same period, retail funds have delivered "about four and a half per cent" after fees and charges but before tax, which is "about the same as cash", said Mr Sy, who recently analysed two decades of official data.
"I think it's looting," he said.
"Retail funds are there to make profits for shareholders. Basically, they treat their members as consumers to which they sell some sort of financial product."
The Government is hoping to pass legislation on superannuation fund governance before the summer break, with Parliament set to debate the government's bill this week.
The legislation would require that at least one third of the trustees on a super fund be "independent".
This would force many industry funds to abandon the "equal representation" rule, under which the trustees of a fund are made up of equal numbers of employer representatives and representatives of the workers who are fund members, usually nominated by unions.
"The reform is important because independent directors bring different skills and expertise and they can hold other directors accountable for their conduct, particularly in relation to conflicts of interest," the explanatory memorandum for the bill says.

But Mr Sy says the independent director requirement, which is already in place at most bank-run funds, has failed spectacularly to prevent workers' retirement savings being eroded by excessive fees and has failed to overcome blatant conflicts of interest.
Trustees of superannuation funds that are run for profit by banks and other financial services firms face an "inherent conflict of interest", he says, because they are required under Corporations law to serve the interests of the shareholders who own the fund and required under superannuation laws to serve the interests of the funds' members.
The consistent and persistent underperformance of retail funds showed that the conflict has generally been resolved in the interests of shareholders.
Independent directors of retail funds are generally finance professionals schooled in making profits from workers' retirement savings, Mr Sy said.
It was naive to think that they would serve the interests of members at the expense of profits for the financial institution that owned the fund.
He also said that few so-called independent directors, drawn from financial services firms that provided services to banks or the super funds they own, would risk future work by standing up for members' interests at the expense of profits.
"Members do not reward the directors," Mr Sy said.
"Directors get rewarded for serving the shareholders of the bank that owns the fund, and pays their directors fees."

Often trustees of industry super funds are members of the fund themselves and therefore had a direct interest in minimising fees and maximising returns to fund members, Mr Sy said.
"If you are a director of a super fund and have most of your superannuation in the fund that you are a director [for], you are less likely to allow higher fees to be paid to service providers," he said.
"That is called skin in the game or alignment of interest."
Forcing the new governance model on industry funds would undermine members' interests, with fewer directors aligned directly to members' interests and more finance professionals aligned to the interest of the finance industry — profiting from workers' retirement savings — he said.
"It's precisely the wrong model."
The Government has acknowledged that the legislation would impose extra costs on industry funds, largely due to the expense of hiring new directors.
The Coalition has been trying to impose the new governance arrangements for years without success, but it is believed that the Government could be close to getting the numbers after intense lobbying of the crossbenches.
Mr Sy recently wrote to members outlining his concerns.


Adani's controversial Carmichael mine has been dealt another blow after one of China's major banks said it would not bankroll the project.

Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) issued a statement to clarify it had no intention of funding Adani's proposed mine in Queensland.
"ICBC has not been, and does not intend to be, engaged in arranging financing for this project," ICBC said in a statement on its website.
"ICBC attaches great importance to its social responsibilities and keenly promotes green financing."
While not mentioning coal, ICBC said it had provided finance in Australia "for a series of renewable energy projects".
Earlier, China Construction Bank also rejected financing links with Adani saying it "is not involved with, nor considering involvement with, the Adani Carmichael Mine project".
The anti-Adani lobby has hailed the rejection by two of China's major banks as a significant development in blocking the construction of the mine.
Market Forces executive director Julien Vincent said arranging finance from China was one of Adani's last remaining hopes given that Australian banks had walked away.
"Having failed to secure finance from banks in the US, Europe and Australia, Adani has now seen the world's largest and second largest banks by assets rule out support for its massive proposed coal mine," Mr Vincent said.
"This leaves their attempts to open up Australia's largest coal mine in tatters, and increasingly reliant on public funding."

Mr Vincent said Adani has been working to contract China Machinery Engineering Corporation (CEMC) into the Carmichael mine and rail project.
However, CEMC would potentially need to source credit and support from Chinese banks to participate in the Adani project.
Adani has, on numerous occasions, pushed back the start date for the mine.
Adani has previously claimed it would have finance in place by the end of this year and, later, said it expected to finalise finance by the end of the Indian fiscal year in March.
Global banks, including Australia's major banks, have baulked at funding the Carmichael coal mine on concerns about its financial viability and the push towards renewable energy sources.


A group of traditional owners fighting Adani's central Queensland coal mine have filed a court injunction against both the mine owner and the Queensland Government, hoping to prevent a National Native Title Tribunal decision on the Carmichael mine site.

The legal fate of Australia's largest proposed coal mine hinges on the tribunal registering an Indigenous land use agreement (ILUA).
After months of pressure from Adani, it is understood the tribunal has moved to fast-track its ruling and was due to hand down its decision some time this week.
The move shocked mine opponents within the Wangan and Jagalingou (W&J) traditional owners, who fear having a huge swathe of their native title claim on Galilee Basin country irreversibly struck down before the Federal Court can rule on a separate challenge to the validity of the ILUA.
Some W&J claimants have alleged in the Federal Court that Adani paid certain people $2,000 to attend a meeting and vote in favour of a compensation deal that would allow the coal mine to go ahead.
Speaking in Brisbane on Sunday for the W&J group opposed to the mine, Adrian Burragubba said they were determined to stop the tribunal handing down a decision ahead of the court ruling.
However, the W&J's 12-person native title representative group is split down the middle on the mine deal, which was revived last year after traditional owners rejected Adani twice before.

Patrick Malone, a W&J representative who supports the deal, said claims people were paid to vote for Adani were "nonsense".
The Federal Court is due to rule on the matter in March.
Mr Burragubba said 120 members of the W&J met on Saturday and voted for a fourth time to reject the ILUA.
"We will not negotiate [with Adani] any further," he said.
"No means no."
Anger over the tribunal's apparent backflip came after a letter from the tribunal sent to mine opponents and Adani in July, advising that "the registrar intends to await the outcome of the Federal Court proceedings" before signing off on the ILUA.
Lawyers for Adani immediately pushed for the registrar to approve the ILUA without waiting for the Federal Court ruling.
In papers filed with the tribunal, Adani's lawyers argued the court case was "not an administrative or legal impediment to the registration of the Adani ILUA".

They argued that formalising the deal "will not affect the relief that may be granted" by the Federal Court or the right of the mine opponents to seek judicial review if the registrar approves the deal.
The lawyers argued Adani "will be prejudiced" by further delays to the ILUA because the miner "will be prevented from acting in reliance on [it] for an indefinite and potentially long period of time".
The ILUA is critical for Adani in gaining finance for the mine, as it shows Indigenous consent without which most of the world's banks, under the Equator Principles, will not invest in resources projects.
Adani's lawyers argued it was the same situation it had experienced when Queensland mines minister Anthony Lynham approved their mining leases, despite there being ongoing judicial review of them.


Two Australian brothers behind successful YouTube channel RackaRacka, which now has more than four million subscribers, are about to make the big move from Adelaide to Los Angeles to capitalise on their skyrocketing popularity.
Twins Danny and Michael Philippou, 24, have just released their latest online clip to immediate success, a Star Wars-style battle staged in the stores and car park of an Adelaide suburban shopping centre.
The pair have mixed emotions about the move to the United States.
"It's easier for Danny — I'm not so excited moving," Michael said with a laugh.
Danny admitted he was the keener of the two to move abroad.
"I'm sort of forcing him to come along," he said.
"It could all fail, so we're going to go over there and try it for a year."
"When Danny's eight projects fail, then we'll come back," Michael cut in.

The guys already have a manager in LA who is setting up meetings about their latest projects.
Busy with video production and live appearances, the Philippou brothers are part of a rapidly changing media consumption landscape.

They have made it into a top-10 list of Australia's most influential cultural people, in the Australian Financial Review, and been named in Variety magazine's list of top "Famechangers".
It was their Harry Potter versus Star Wars clip on YouTube that shot them to fame in 2014, a clip which has been viewed more than 21 million times.
RackaRacka's early YouTube clips were made at their father's house at suburban Pooraka, from where their online name is derived, and they moved out after causing lots of wall and ceiling damage with their antics there.

They admitted their move to another house helped ease their father's anguish.
"We had to give our dad a break … he didn't kick us out, we left," they explained, finishing each other's sentences as twins sometimes do.
There are firm plans for the twins to be back in Adelaide next year to shoot their first movie, Concrete Kings, with locally based Triptych Pictures.


The WA Building Commission is expected to begin ordering the removal of highly flammable cladding from a number of buildings in the coming weeks, as it enters the inspection phase of a state-wide audit.
Termed the "business end" of the audit by director of compliance Sandy Randall, 214 buildings will be inspected to ensure they are not clad with dangerously flammable material.
Ms Randall said if extreme cases were detected it may be forced to order the evacuation of buildings, but she did not expect that to be likely, with only two evacuations ordered during a similar audit in Victoria.
"The more likely scenario is that we're going to have high-risk buildings, in which case the local governments could issue building orders on the building owners requiring that they remove the panels that are dangerous," she said.
The WA Building Commission initiated an audit of aluminium cladding in the wake of a 2014 fire at Melbourne's Lacrosse apartment building.
The initial audit was broadened into a state-wide audit after combustible cladding fuelled the Grenfell apartment tower fire in London, which claimed 80 lives.

The state-wide audit identified 460 multi-storey buildings in WA with cladding, 382 of which have been assessed.
In June the audit found an apartment building for homeless youth in Leederville did not comply with regulations.
The WA Department of Communities and Housing confirmed in October it was removing the dangerous cladding.
It was revealed this week that 214 of the assessed buildings could have highly flammable cladding and have been flagged for inspection early in 2018.
A number of builders, certifiers and building owners could face penalties if they are found to have put people at risk by installing or approving dangerous cladding out of negligence.
Ms Randall said prior to the Lacrosse fire in 2014 the industry was divided as to how cladding-related codes should be interpreted, and this would likely be taken into account for breaches detected in older buildings.
She said the Australian Building Code board had since clarified the codes and made it very clear what was and was not approved.
"If we come across a scenario where that cladding has been recommended in more recent years then certainly we will be looking at whether or not that person needs to be held accountable," she said.
"The most extreme penalty is deregistration, but one of the more effective compliance disciplinary processes is simply the naming and shaming of people.
"Other than that there are fines up to $25,000 dollars."
Ms Randall said the inspections were also likely to detect a number of additional hazards that could land building owners in hot water.
"It's very hard to walk into a building with blinkers on," she said.
"When we're looking at the cladding we will have to look at the other fire safety systems, some of them might be in relation to maintenance."
The list of 214 buildings to be inspected is likely to grow as the building commission continues to receive information from local governments, some of which is understood to be archived paper-based records that are time consuming to find.
"We're working very collaboratively with the local government and Department of Fire and Emergency Services to make sure that everyone understands the priority that needs to be applied to this," she said.
"The information will trickle in at different rates so we certainly will be delivering outcomes with some of the buildings inside of 12 months and hopefully inside of six months."
Ms Randall said the process had been helped by added pressure from insurance companies.
"They've got their own interest to protect and a number of building owners are being sort of confronted with the choice of either get a fire assessment done or your insurance premiums will be hiked quite a bit," she said.
The building commission has taken steps to ensure that if building owners engage a fire engineer the assessment satisfies the requirements of the audit as well as the insurance companies.


On the first day of the container deposit scheme in New South Wales, rural and regional residents of the state are already calling for more facilities to be made available in their areas.
NSW has become the second state after South Australia to introduce such a scheme with about 200 collection points opened for the first time this weekend.
There has been ongoing criticism of delays ahead of the rollout with some residents having to travel up to three hours to collect their 10 cents and others travelling across the border to save money.
In the north coast, Woolgoolga is the only site on the coast for recycling containers between Taree and Tweed, each about a three-hour drive away.
Further south, Wagga Wagga, Deniliquin and Cootamundra have collection points but rural residents living further west will have to drive two to three hours for a refund.
Deputy Premier John Barilaro this week asked the community to be patient and admitted the scheme was running behind schedule.
"Have we rolled out the scheme in a way that has been seamless? No. The answer is no, it hasn't been as perfect as we'd hoped it to be," Mr Barilaro said.
Environment Minister Gabrielle Upton said eventually there would be more than 500 collection points across the state.
"We're starting this scheme as a rollout. Over time we will be bringing more on board," she said.
Ms Upton advised residents living in a town without a collection point to stockpile their containers ahead of reverse vending machines being installed.

The collection points offer three ways to collect a refund from depositing cans and bottles.
Residents can select between a donation to charity, a retail refund to be spent in store or a digital refund which deposits the ten cents into a PayPal account.
Michael Harris visited Woolgoolga Woolworths on Friday and said he thought the digital option was "a bit risky".
Mr Harris said the scheme was good news for the environment but would not work properly until there were more collection points across the state.
"I walk the beach everyday and pick up rubbish off the beach — bottles and cans and stuff that's been washed up — so it will help immensely," he said.
Pam Stone used the same collection point on Friday but said it was a waste of a car park space.
"I'm paying 15 cents a can and getting 10 cents a can so it didn't make me feel all that better," she said.
Ms Stone also suggested the Government reconsider banning plastic bags as a more effective environmental strategy.
Tim Chappo from Wagga Wagga visited one of the three of the city's collection points on Saturday to empty rubbish from his ute — three empty soft drink bottles.
"I haven't set up the PayPal digital one so I got a voucher for the kids," he said.
Noelle and her daughter Taylor, who live in Wagga, said they thought the scheme would encourage people to recycle more, especially children keen to use the supermarket vouchers.
Further south down the coast at Bega, ABC reporter Bill Brown said he saw no-one using or passing by the collection point, which is on a rooftop car park away three stories above the shopping mall.

New South Wales Labor has been vocal about its opposition to the scheme, saying it should have been delayed until all collection points were established.
Labor environment spokeswoman Penny Sharpe also criticised the digital refund option saying it would deter children from using the service as PayPal requires its users to be over 18.
The state member for Ballina, Tamara Smith, said the rollout should have been delayed as it is open to rorting, as containers bought in states which do not have a deposit scheme can still be redeemed for 10 cents.
"Obviously that's not a great look for them politically, but it's far better for this to be done properly and to fully consult to iron out all the glitches," Ms Smith said.
The Member for Clarence said people were being treated as "guinea pigs" and it is obvious the rollout of the scheme should have been better planned.
Further south, Murray MP Austin Evans has criticised the rollout and said it's unfair for cross-border retailers losing customers to Victoria.


Victoria's east is still preparing for the worst of the flooding, but there is an oversupply of a different kind facing the central Gippsland community of Glengarry.
The town was prepared to host and feed more than 3,000 cyclists participating in the Great Victorian Bike Ride.
The bike event was cancelled due to heavy rain, meaning the town's weeks of preparation were for nothing.
Or were they?
Community members put a call out on social media asking Gippsland residents to come into town and eat the hundreds of kilograms of prepared food so it did not go to waste.

Glengarry Hotel hand crumbed 200 kilograms of chicken, creating about 600 schnitzels to make into parmigianas.
The publican's daughter Jacqui Barnes said the response had been overwhelming
"The chefs have been cooking nonstop for hours and hours on end," she said.
"We are very lucky we live in Glengarry, it's a very, very close-knit community.
"It's amazing to think at 5:30am we were standing here wondering if anyone was going to come or is it going to be a flop. But the support has been amazing."

At lunch time the main street of Glengarry was filled with vehicles, as was the gravel car park near the start of the Gippsland Plains Rail Trail.
"The bistro is full to the brim and the phones just don't stop ringing," Ms Barnes said.
Great Victorian Bike Ride participant John Collins, from Emerald, was taking part in the washed out event.
He did not cycle to Glengarry, but still stopped in town on his drive home.
Despite not exerting the same amount of physical energy in the transport method to Glengarry, Mr Collins still had a large enough appetite to tackle a parma.
With a plump parma sitting in front of him, Mr Collins said he was happy to have paid a visit to Glengarry.
"We thought it would be good to come here, because we'd heard that all the locals had done a fantastic job in preparing to welcome us but not many have actually arrived," he said.

It is not just the parmas that required mass consumption in Glengarry.
There was also the 100 kilograms of steak still to get through and thousands of pies at the local bakery.
The bakery had spent long nights preparing many different flavours of pies for the riders, and thought they would not be able to sell them all once the ride got cancelled.
They offered the community a two-for-one special, in a bid to try and sell them all.
They sold out by 10:30am.
Bakery owner Trevor Ewert said they had made more than 3,500 pastries in preparation for the cyclists arriving.
"It's been a community effort. We've worked between all of us, we've basically worked day and night, to make as much product as we can," he said.
"We came up with the crazy idea last night to offer buy one get one free. There's been a steady steam of customers and now we've completely sold out.
"Now we're finished up here we'll be down the pub getting a pot and parma into us in no time. I've done an eating competition before — I reckon I could smash three or four no problem at all.
"You can't be angry can you? Who controls the weather? If the Government controlled the weather you'd understand. We've succeeded, we've done what we need to do, now let's go to the pub."



Adani is accused of discreetly paying thousands of dollars to recruit people to vote on a crucial mining deal with traditional owners, including Aboriginal people with no link to its Queensland mine site.
A Wangan and Jagalingou (W&J) representative said he was paid $2,000 by Adani to boost numbers at the meeting, where he said many who were "not part of my mob" voted on the compensation deal.
Another W&J woman said her family of eight voted against the deal but the official vote recorded just one person against and 294 people in favour.

The claims are made in sworn statements filed in the Federal Court, ahead of a trial in March to decide whether the meeting legitimately endorsed the Adani deal, which has bitterly divided the W&J.
Adani and its supporters in the W&J greeted the overwhelming vote as a ringing endorsement of the Indigenous Land Use Agreement (ILUA) but opponents who boycotted the meeting say it is invalid.
Patrick Malone, a W&J representative who supports the deal, rejected the claims about the meeting as "nonsense".
The W&J's 12-person native title representative group is split down the middle on the mine deal, which was revived last year after traditional owners rejected Adani twice before.

Craig Dallen, a fellow representative who has withdrawn his support for Adani, said the meeting on the deal drew about 300 people, or "twice the size of any previous meeting of the claim group".
"I was paid approximately $2,000 by Adani to get people to the meeting. The more people I brought the more I was paid," he said in an affidavit.
Mr Dallen said "several other" representatives told him Adani also paid them to recruit people.
He said on top of this Adani paid him and others "generously" to show up, including $400 for him and $250 for each of his children for travel expenses.

Mr Dallen named members of at least eight other Aboriginal nations who were counted as W&J supporters of the mine.
"Some people I did recognise and knew them not to be part of my mob. I saw that they were given arm bands to allow them to vote and participate in the meeting," he said.
Carmel Gyemore named her cousin as another W&J representative who was "getting paid by Adani for every member of our family who turned up", including three who were absent.
She also named non-W&J people who "should not have been at our meeting".
Both said the meeting did not include the usual resolution on who could rightly attend.

Jasmin Broome said her family of eight were "seated together [and] we all voted against accepting the ILUA".
Ms Broome said she also recognised non-W&J people and filed in court a social media post from members of another family with a picture and the words: "Only come meeting for money."
Security guards at the meeting were allegedly told to refuse entry to Adrian Burragubba, a W&J man who is an outspoken opponent of the Carmichael mine, "because Adani did not want him at the meeting".
Mr Malone said votes were counted by scrutineers from a native title legal service and he was not aware of anyone being paid to recruit attendees.
He said W&J representatives "sat with an anthropologist and marked off people and made sure they were W&J".
"The people who weren't part of W&J, were given a different-coloured wristband so they could be observers and they could not vote."
Adani has previously defended the legitimacy of the meeting but a spokesman could not be reached on Friday.


A fight between a shire CEO and a cafe owner who built a kangaroo shelter inside his shop is set to continue after both sides declared they would not back down.
The CEO of the Gnowangerup Shire, Shelley Pike, issued an order to owner of the Gnowangerup Newsagency and Cafe, Phillip Vardy, instructing him to remove the animals and the room they live in.
The order was on the grounds that the enclosure breaches the Food Act and the Health Act.
Ms Pike said the Shire had taken a firm stand on the issue in writing to the shop owner with an infringement notice.
"Although we are supportive of wildlife being looked after, it's not appropriate in a business that is primarily registered as a food business," she said.

But Mr Vardy is equally determined to continue having the young kangaroos housed within the cafe.
"It all started a few weeks ago," Mr Vardy said.
"Megan, who works with me, became a carer for wild animals. A week later she got a phone call and she received two little joeys whose mother had been killed.
"They couldn't hop, they should have been in their mother's pouch. If Megan hadn't taken them they would have died.
"We had some Japanese tourists come in one day with these little kids, so Megan went home and got one of the little joeys.
"The little kids were amazed, they just couldn't believe they actually were seeing real, live, baby kangaroos."
Mr Vardy proposed building a room with a window in it within the cafe so children could watch the joeys being fed.
He said he invited the Shire's health inspector to the property, told him about the plans, and asked whether or not they would pose a problem.
"(The health inspector) said to me, 'no, I don't see any health problems'," Mr Vardy said.
The Shire contests that claim.

"That's simply not true. We've had our health inspector make several visits and he advised the owner that what he planned to do would be in breach of the requirements of the food standards required," Ms Pike said.
Mr Vardy went ahead with the construction and built the kangaroo pen inside a cool room with two air vents and exhaust fans leading outside the cafe.
"The entire area is enclosed and no one can get into the pen or touch the animals without leaving the cafe," Mr Vardy said.
The Shire has suggested that the roo room should be re-located outside the shop to the back of the premises.
"We've had just so many complaints from the community. People won't go into the shop and they're not satisfied that it's clean and they certainly won't purchase food or coffee there," the Shire CEO said.
"But tourists do, and I'm just dreading the day that we get a complaint from a tourist saying it's unhygienic."
Mr Vardy said one of the biggest issues was the installation of hot water for handwashing.
He said health regulations required hot water to be provided in areas of food preparation, not food handling.
To get around this, Mr Vardy said he had shut his kitchen and gets food prepared off-site and delivered to the cafe.
"I now buy all the cakes from the bakery in Katanning so we are now no longer preparing food, we are handling food," he said.

The Cat Cafe Puurth in Subiaco has a similar arrangement where cats are kept behind a floor-to-ceiling glass enclosure, separate to the cafe but under the same roof.
Patrons pay a fee to go into the enclosure to handle the animals, leaving their shoes outside.
Health Department rules mean the Cat Cafe can not make food on-site but will have it delivered — the same arrangement Mr Vardy has enacted.
"The policy is that we can't make food on the premises but we can make our own coffee and drinks," he said.
In a letter to Mr Vardy, the Shire CEO said he should take the matter up with the Health Department:
The issue of whether you can keep kangaroos in your shop is not a matter that the Shire can decide. This is a matter for the Health Department.
As explained in my letter, you are in breach of the Food Act which is a Health Department responsibility.
The Shire is an enforcement agency for the Health Department and we are obliged to ensure that the provisions of the Act are enforced.
You may wish to discuss this with the Health Department as they are the only ones who can waive the infringement notice.
Mr Vardy said he will shut up shop if he is forced to get rid of the joeys.
"I will shut the Gnowangerup Newsagency," he said.
"They will no longer have a newsagency. No-one can do their lotto and no-one can buy a newspaper and I don't care.
"I will not give up these kangaroos."


At first it was just a ban on single-use plastic bags, then it was helium balloons. Now it looks like scientists and environmentalists want to ban the use of glitter.
Scientists from the United Kingdom to New Zealand are now calling for a glitter ban to further address the environmental impact of plastics.
Those shiny, colourful specks of joy people use in lieu of clothing at music festivals are one of many plastic pollutants called microplastics.
A microplastic is any plastic less than five millimetres in diameter and experts say they are making their way into water systems, marine life and eventually into us.
The physical impact of plastics on animals is well documented, but scientists around the world are still trying to determine how they affect the breathing and brain function of people.

A professor of environmental engineering at the University of Western Australia, Anas Ghadouani, supports a ban on glitter.
"We don't yet know all the details," Professor Ghadouani said.
"But it's not a natural product that will morph into our system. It's not like nutrients, it's a chemical.
"If you breathe microplastics inside your lungs they don't decompose, they stay there."
Professor Ghadouani has been collecting wastewater and environmental water from systems around Perth to analyse the amount, type and origin of microplastics — including glitter.

"I have little girls and they have birthday parties, but I've mandated they only have parties every second year because it takes me two years to get rid of glitter from the last party," he said.
"I still find it in some corners of my house, so imagine what it's like in the environment."
In WA's south-west, environmentalist Carmen Kowal has been campaigning against plastics for several years.
At the helm of two organisations — one that removes litter from beaches and another that sews sustainable shopping bags for residents — Ms Kowal said glitter had just appeared on her radar.
"I've just noticed glitter in kids' bubble baths. It's in our clothes," Ms Kowal said.
"It just keeps going. It's a bit like bashing your head against the wall."
The 40-year-old recalled a recent beach clean-up in Eagle Bay where volunteers stumbled across two square metres of glitter that was impossible to pick up.
"But if it doesn't get picked up it's going to get blown into the ocean and end up in the food chain," she said.


While Professor Ghadouani and Ms Kowal are aware of the critics out there, they say the risk of name-calling is worth protecting the environment as "some fun-policing is just essential".
"Harming the environment is harming business — that's the end of the story," Professor Ghadouani said.
"The environment is what provides for us. It's where we find our resources. It's where we make our money. So harming it unnecessarily just doesn't make sense."
He added that removing glitter and other microplastics from the market will force people to come up with alternatives.
Perth-based face painter Desiree Crossing has cottoned-on to the growing demand for environmentally sustainable products.
The 35-year-old now also sells glitter online where she says about 80 per cent of her sales are in biodegradable glitters made of compostable plant matter.
Before opening a year ago, Ms Crossing said she had not even considered the fact that glitter is a plastic.
"Someone eventually told me and I just felt awful about it," Ms Crossing said.
"So, I investigated bio glitters and got some of them. They were sparkly and they were beautiful and they did everything that the regular glitters did — just without that destruction."

While she wants to eventually offer only biodegradable glitter, until it is less expensive to produce and more colour and shape variants are available she said it is not feasible.
Professor Ghadouani agreed that many environmentally-friendly options were more expensive than mass-produced plastics, but he said he was certain that choosing locally-crafted wooden Christmas decorations over plastic, glittery baubles would eventually become more affordable.
And while governments and partying might not sound like a natural partnership, Professor Ghadouani said sweeping legislation was the final frontier in removing microplastics from the environment.
"We need leadership here where people say 'listen, this is how we're going to party," he said.
"We're going to reinvent partying."
Editor's note 11/12/2017: This story has been edited. Since publication, a study mentioned in the original version has been discredited due to scientific misconduct.


A deal to extract gas from Queensland's Surat Basin will create 1,000 new jobs, boost domestic gas supply, and unlock one of the largest gas reserves on the east coast, the resources industry says.
Arrow Energy has signed a 27-year agreement to supply more than four times the forecast east coast domestic gas shortfall to Shell's Queensland Curtis Liquified Natural Gas project every year.
Arrow Energy CEO Qian Mingyang said the company's equal shareholders PetroChina and Shell had approved the agreement, which offers long-awaited infrastructure collaboration in the natural gas industry.
"It will create better cost efficiencies and enable us to bring this gas to market in a challenging investment climate," Mr Qian said.
He said utilising existing pipelines and infrastructure would reduce the impacts on landholders and local communities.
Mr Qian said work would commence from the expansion of Arrow's Tipton fields, near Dalby, and build two new development areas from around 2021.

The Queensland Resources Council's chief executive, Ian MacFarlane, said the agreement demonstrated that Queensland was leading the rest of Australia in working to address the gas shortage.
"This one agreement alone will deliver enough extra gas to more than power Queensland's entire industrial demand every year out to 2047," he said.
He said scaling up production would help to get gas out of the ground at an affordable price.
Queensland Resources Minister Anthony Lynham said a reliable and accessible gas supply was critical.
"The Government will be interested in the company's proposals for domestic gas supply and their production timeline," he said.
"It's important for industry and jobs that more gas gets to market."


A Senate inquiry is calling for a raft of measures to secure the Australian steel industry including beefing up anti-dumping laws and certification.
The Senate's Economics References Committee handed down 28 recommendations on Friday as part of its final report into the future of the industry.
The inquiry arose after Australia's two major steelworks at Whyalla in South Australia and Port Kembla in New South Wales faced major financial issues leading to large job losses.
The report said the inquiry received "alarming evidence" around the safety risks posed by steel that did not meet Australian standards and was used in bridges, poles, caravans and safety structures on mining sites.
It found legal loopholes allowed imported fabricated steel to avoid complying with the same standard as steel made in Australia which meant local steel costed more to produce.
The recommendations included maximising the use of locally-made steel in Commonwealth-funded projects and improving resources for the Anti-Dumping Commission, which investigates alleged dumping and subsidisation of goods imported into Australia.
The Opposition industry and innovation spokesman Kim Carr said it was vital the Government committed to using more Australian steel.
"It's very important that we maintain the standards. We can't have our bridges being put up across the country and not be certain we've met the very strongest of safety standards," Senator Carr said.
The inquiry has also recommended a bipartisan solution to high energy costs in order to secure energy supply for steel manufacturers.
Bluescope Steel, which owns the Port Kembla steelworks, this week said its energy prices had risen by 93 per cent over the past two years.
The Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull and Energy Minister Josh Frydenberg earlier this week used the Port Kembla steelworks as a backdrop to spruik the Government's National Energy Guarantee (NEG).

"Today the Prime Minister has come to Port Kembla to create jobs for Australia's working class men and women, and the way we will do that is by driving power prices lower."
Rock legend Jimmy Barnes leapt on those comments, tweeting:
"Don't use my name or my songs to sell your sh**ty policies. You don't represent me."
Senator Carr said there was now an opportunity for the Government to ensure steelmaking remained strong in Australia.
"We need a bit more than platitudes and vague references to Jimmy Barnes here," he said.

"We do actually need a Government that commits to buying Australian when it comes to spending taxpayer dollars."
Illawarra-based steel advocate Ian Waters said securing cheap baseload energy remained crucial to ensure the industry survived.
"When the industries are going well and the market's buoyant, it's just another cost that people probably aren't all that stressed about," Mr Waters said.
"But as soon as there's any sort of sniff or hint of a downturn, this is going to be a massive drama."

A spokesman for the Industry Minister Arthur Sinodinos said the Government would consider the recommendations of the inquiry and respond in due course.

He said steel was going through significant transition globally as it dealt with supply outstripping demand.
"Bluescope has posted a major turnaround in its business in recent years by driving efficiency within its business and working with employees to reduce business costs," the spokesman said.
"The Whyalla steelworks has recently been acquired by Liberty OneSteel, and both the state and Turnbull governments are working with Liberty OneSteel to secure Whyalla's long term future.
"The Turnbull Government has already significantly strengthened Australia's anti-dumping regime by improving the process of conducting reviews of dumping measures by the Anti-Dumping Commission."


Australia's property market has reached a turning point, with smaller cities taking more of a front row seat in the growth story.

CoreLogic's monthly figures show the capital cities with the biggest property price increases in November were Canberra (+0.9pc) and Hobart (+0.6pc).
Melbourne dwelling values, on average, rose 0.5 per cent last month to take third place.  The median price in Australia's second largest city is about $718,000.
Sydney prices fell by 0.7 per cent in November, and by 1.3 per cent over the last quarter — September to November.
But buyers should not get too ahead of themselves as Sydney is still the most expensive property market by far, with a median price of about $904,000.
The only other capital city which saw its property prices drop was Darwin (-0.4pc in November, and -5.5pc in the last year).
"Darwin's property market peaked in 2014, and has fallen by about 21 per cent since then," CoreLogic's head of research Tim Lawless told the ABC.

Hobart was the best performing housing market by far — with prices up by 3.3 per cent in the last three months, and 11.5 per cent over the last year.
When asked why, Mr Lawless said it was "sheer affordability of housing" which drove the Tasmanian capital's gains.
The typical price of a house in Hobart is about $420,000, versus over $1 million in Sydney.
But when apartments are factored in, the median dwelling values in Hobart and Sydney are $398,000 and $904,000 respectively.
"Buying power is much more substantial in Hobart, especially if you're cashing out of Melbourne and Sydney," he said.
"People's money goes a lot further in Hobart, and there's a renewed trend towards buying into lifestyle markets.
"Also, the rental market is strong, with yields here much higher compared to other capital cities — which attracts more investment."
Canberra's housing values gained 10.6 per cent over the last year (beating the national average of 9.2 per cent).
Its property prices also lifted by 0.9 per cent in November (the highest of any capital city), and 1.3 per cent in the last three months.
As for the reasons behind Canberra's gains, Mr Lawless said it was due to "reasonably strong jobs growth" and public sector wages growth outperforming the private sector (since the nation's capital has a high concentration of public service roles).
When it comes to housing prices, Melbourne has beaten Sydney.
Melbourne prices lifted by 1.9 per cent over the last quarter, and by 10.1 per cent in the last year.
In comparison, Sydney prices property prices fell by 1.3 per cent in the last quarter.  But on a yearly basis, Sydney prices increased by 5 per cent — which was just half of Melbourne's annual gain.
"Tightening lending conditions" are also behind Sydney's downturn, as it is feeling much sharper and "more immediate" effects compared to other cities, Mr Lawless said.
He attributed that to the higher concentration of investor housing purchases in the nation's largest city.
On the other hand, Mr Lawless said Melbourne was "very resilient to a slowdown, as it has less problematic housing affordability compared to Sydney".
The median price of a dwelling in Melbourne was about $718,000 — which is almost $200,000 cheaper compared to Sydney's median price.
He also said Melbourne had "high rates of population growth, from interstate and overseas, a stronger labour market, and higher levels of job creation".

It also appears the Perth market has begun to recover, as housing prices lifted by 0.3 per cent in the last three months.
"If this is indeed the start of a recovery phase in the Perth housing market, it comes after dwelling values have fallen 10.8 per cent since peaking in mid-2014," he said.
For Brisbane and Adelaide, they will face a "continuation of slow and steady growth".
While Brisbane property prices rose by a slight 0.1 per cent in November, Adelaide's prices remained firmly flat.
The regional property markets also performed strongly.
The strongest gains were seen in the regional markets of Newcastle and Lake Macquarie in NSW — its housing values lifted by 13 per cent in the past year.
Properties in the Gold Coast, Sunshine Coast and Byron Bay (the "lifestyle markets") were also popular — rising by more than 5 per cent each year.
Mr Lawless said that was driven by buyers who wanted to buy a second home or holiday house, wanted a sea change, or were getting ready for retirement living.


The world's biggest lithium ion battery has been launched in South Australia, with Premier Jay Weatherill declaring it an example of SA "leading the world".
Mr Weatherill travelled to the site of the battery near Jamestown in the state's north with Romain Desrousseaux, the deputy chief executive officer of French renewable energy company Neoen, which will operate the 100-megawatt Tesla battery attached to its Hornsdale windfarm.
Tesla boss Elon Musk — who travelled to South Australia twice this year to mark significant milestones for the battery — did not visit for this event.

Mr Weatherill made light of the billionaire's non-attendance, pointing out Mr Musk had delivered on his promise to deliver the battery within a 100-day deadline or deliver it free.
"The great thing about Elon is he delivers," Mr Weatherill said.
"He's very proud of the fact that they were able to meet that deadline. He's probably a little bit relieved as well. He's got fifty million bucks in his back pocket."
The Premier said the battery had sent a message that his state was open to innovation.
"This has put us at the centre of the tech universe in South Australia," he said.

While the Premier braved wet and foggy conditions to launch the battery on the first day of summer, it was actually called into operation one day early.

Unexpectedly hot conditions across South Australia and Victoria on Thursday afternoon meant power was in short supply in both states.
The battery was ordered on by the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) late in the afternoon, pumping up to 70 megawatts of power into the grid to help meet peak demand.
SA taxpayers will pay up to $50 million in subsidies to Tesla and Neoen over the next 10 years. In return, the State Government will have access to 70 per cent of the energy stored within the battery.
Mr Weatherill said it would prove a useful tool for preventing blackouts — whether they be caused by a shortage of energy, or a lack of grid stability.
"It provides stabilisation services, which is short bursts of energy for the purposes of providing frequency control," he said.
"The second thing it does is potentially provide an extra burst of energy to deal with reserve shortfalls, the sorts of things that emerged yesterday."

While the battery proved its worth on the final day of spring, some of its closest neighbours spent the first day of summer without power.

Widespread thunderstorms swept across the state overnight, with lightning strikes damaging some powerlines, including in the Jamestown area.
Northern Areas Council mayor Denis Clark said a number of nearby farmers were left blacked out.
"They were wondering if the Premier would supply some long extension cords so they could tap into the battery to get some power," he said.
Bev Lovell, who lives near the windfarm and battery site, said a number of recent blackouts had left her angry and frustrated.
"I look out our bathroom window and I look at wind turbines," she said.
"How are we meant to be able to communicate with the outside world when we can't charge our phones and we can't even run our fridges and freezers and keep our things running like normal people would?"

The Premier said no type of power generator could prevent the sorts of blackouts caused by lightning damage to power lines and other infrastructure.
"We had 250,000 lightning strikes — an extraordinary number," he said. "It's amazing we don't have more lines down and we don't have more people out of power."
But Mr Weatherill said the battery would help make SA more resilient to the sorts of outages caused by the failure of generators, or system security problems like the statewide blackout last September.
"I think there's a view that nothing would have saved us on the 28th of September, but it may save us from less drastic events," he said.
Mr Weatherill said the AEMO had adopted a more cautious approach since the statewide blackout, and had taken steps ahead of the thunderstorms to protect the system.
Mr Weatherill said he expected to quickly recoup his Government's investment in the battery by driving down power bills.
The Government intends to use its share of the battery's output to bid into the market for stability services, which it estimates costs South Australian households and businesses in the order of $50 million a year.
"We expect that eventually this battery will be able to put a big hole in that cost for South Australian consumers," Mr Weatherill said.
"So if that happens in the way in which we expect, this battery will pay for itself from the perspective of South Australians pretty quickly."



All Tip Top-owned bread delivery trucks at its western Sydney depot have been issued with defect notices after an inspection by road safety authorities.

Police and Roads and Maritime Services (RMS) officers inspected 46 trucks and issued 25 defect notices — three major, 15 minor and seven formal warnings.
All six of the vehicles owned by Tip Top were deemed defective, the others belonged to contracted owner/drivers.
"Four speed limiter downloads were taken by NSW Police," an RMS spokesperson said.
NSW Police also issued six penalty notices, including two for defective seatbelts, one for defective brakes and one for an expired driver's licence.

Tip Top has downplayed the defects, saying it worked "amicably" with RMS on the inspection.
"Two distributor vehicles presented with issues that required immediate attention including bald tyres and a seatbelt not retracting," it said in a statement.
"The balance of issues was minor, including a fading number plate and a small crack in a light."


The inspections come after 7.30 revealed major safety concerns linked to declining rates of pay for the company's delivery drivers.
At least a dozen Tip Top delivery drivers, employed as independent contractors, told 7.30 it was common practice for drivers to work for months without a day off because they could not afford to employ relief drivers to cover their runs.
The investigation revealed repeated pay cuts, rising maintenance costs and pressure to deliver more bread meant some trucks were not being regularly serviced.
Two Tip Top delivery drivers say a replacement truck with a faulty speedometer and fuel gauge had been provided by a Tip Top supervisor.
They said the defective vehicle, which belonged to another contractor, was used when other trucks were being repaired.
Tip Top has denied providing a replacement vehicle.
In a statement the company said it was conducting a comprehensive internal investigation into the matters raised by 7.30.
Tip Top said it conducts "daily roadworthiness checks" on "random" vehicles.
"Any issues identified are logged within the internal reporting system and followed up promptly," the company said.


Telstra's budget mobile and internet provider Belong has overcharged customers overnight, debiting bank accounts multiple times.

Customers have taken to the company's Facebook page to vent their frustrations.
"Not happy Belong," one customer posted.
"You've charged my account twice and have taken a portion of my rent money, that is due to be paid today as well. Please put the money back into my account so I can pay my landlord," wrote another.
"I have a 2 year old and a newborn that can't get formula or nappies for now because my account is in minus … I had $180 in my account and belong takes out 3 payments of $65 and I won't see that back usable in my account for 7-10 days."
Others are feeling the pinch close to Christmas.
"Christmas time isn't a great time financially for a lot of people and taking extra money and having to wait god knows how long for it to be returned is unacceptable," one woman posted.
Some customers have had triple payments taken out, with Belong then telling them their accounts with the company are now in credit.

Customers also expressed anger at the difficulty in getting hold of the company, saying its online chat system was not working and its phone line seemed to be down.
Many who did get through said they had been on hold for more than an hour.
"Worst customer service ever. On hold for over an hour to sort out you guys taking out my fee twice. Call sales and they answer instantly but are unable to help me. Obviously existing customers aren't important," posted one customer.
Belong has emailed customers addressing the reports.
"We are working on the issue right now and we'll refund the overpayment as soon as possible, " the email said.
In a statement Telstra said a system error had impacted its fixed broadband customers with Belong.
"We are currently contacting impacted customers and are working to refund any overpayments as quickly as possible," it said.
"We apologise for the inconvenience this has caused our customers."
It is not known how many of the company's 150,000 customers were affected.
"Having a company unexpectedly or unfairly take a direct debit from your account is a rude shock for any customer and can make a big impact," Choice spokesperson, Stefanie Menezes said.
"People could miss payments for other bills and face unnecessary financial stress in the lead up to Christmas.
"Big telco companies such as Telstra should have better systems in place to protect their customers from this kind of financial harm."


Australia is at growing risk of a home price crash because of the high number of mum and dad property investors, inflated prices, record household debt and an economy that appears to be losing momentum, a new report says.
Local hedge fund Watermark Funds Management has warned conditions in the Australian housing market are similar to countries which experienced property busts after the global financial crisis, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Spain and the Netherlands.
Watermark predicts national home prices are likely to peak in the first half of next year, with prices in Sydney, Perth and Darwin having already fallen amid a crackdown on investor loans by the banking regulator, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.
The price falls indicated that investors were driving the housing market.

The investment firm said the most worrying part of the Australian housing market was the "extreme" level of mum and dad investors in residential property who depend on property prices rising to make a profit.
The proportion of new mortgages taken out by non-professional property investors stands at 35 per cent in Australia — about three times higher than the US, UK and Canada.
The proportion of amateur landlord mortgages in the Sydney market was 42 per cent, which was down from half of all new mortgages in 2015-16.


Aside from the clampdown on investor-lending by the banking regulator, the report said if a Labor government came to power nationally, it may curb tax breaks for property investors, like negative gearing.

"This is a concern to the extent that recent macro-prudential measures and possible future tax changes are being specifically designed to reduce investor activity in the Australian housing market," the report said.
The fear is that price falls could be exacerbated if more amateur investors sell their properties or demand for investor loans continues to decline.
Watermark said a similar situation occurred in the US before the global financial crisis when the high number of property investors in some cities created a more volatile market.
"The US experience in the '00s suggests that housing markets with high participation of leveraged speculators tend to exhibit increased volatility in both booms and busts," the report said.
These 'investor' cities had greater than 50 per cent appreciation in the housing boom and a 50 per cent larger correction when the market declined, compared to the US national average.

Author of the report, head of financials investment at Watermark, Hamish Chalmers, said there was the possibility of a sharp drop in home prices in Australia if mum and dad investors ran for the exits.
"Our research highlighted that the Australian economy is exhibiting many similar symptoms that those other economies did before they had their housing-led busts, so things are definitely slowing," he said.
"What happens next is dependent, and how bad things will be depends on the reaction from the Government and regulators.
"It depends on the reaction of the banks themselves and I think crucially, and where Australia is different, is that there is a huge army of amateur investors."

A survey by Morgan Stanley found that 40 per cent of Australian home loan borrowers intended to sell if house prices were flat or falling, with interest-only loan borrowers three times more likely to sell.

The report said extreme levels of household debt caused downturns to be deeper and more protracted than those entered when debt levels were lower.
Watermark said Australian Bureau of Statistics data over the last 40 years indicated Australian households had increased their mortgage debt each year — a situation which has seen the Reserve Bank voice concerns over the record level of household debt, which is one of the highest in the OECD.
Mr Chalmers said the unprecedented expansion of mortgage-borrowing had been driven by Australia not having a significant economic downturn in more than a quarter of a century.
Citing Macquarie Research, the report said Australian home loan borrowers could borrow more money compared to mortgage borrowers in the UK on the same income.
"We believe that British bankers can recall a recession and house price declines while Australian bankers cannot," the report said.
"We believe hindsight will reveal Australian banks have simply over-lent to households."



Former High Court Judge Kenneth Hayne has been appointed to head the royal commission into the banking sector.
Mr Hayne, who was a Justice of the High Court for more than 17 years, will bring a "wealth of experience" to the role, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said.
Mr Turnbull this week announced the Government would hold the public inquiry, after previously rubbishing calls for it from Labor, the Greens and some Coalition backbenchers.
Mr Turnbull, Attorney-General George Brandis and Treasurer Scott Morrison said Mr Hayne was the "ideal person" to conduct the public inquiry.
"He is renowned for his brilliant mind, his forensic skill, and his deep sense of justice," they said in a statement.

Mr Hayne retired from the High Court bench in 2015.
He played an important role as a senior judge, presiding over a challenge resulting from the bungled West Australian Senate election which was heard in the Court of Disputed Returns.
Mr Hayne declared the poll void and a new election had to be held.
He also took on the urgent injunction sought by lawyers for a group of 157 Tamil asylum seekers being held at sea last year. The court ultimately ruled the group had been legally detained.
The royal commission will have 12 months to complete its inquiries, with a final report expected to be delivered by February 1, 2019.


Liquidators investigating the collapse of Queensland Nickel will be able to enter Clive Palmer's company offices and seize financial documents if they are not handed over by next Wednesday.
Justice John Reeves made the order in the Federal Court in Brisbane, after businessman Clive Palmer missed a court-imposed November 30 deadline to provide the information.
Mr Palmer has also been ordered to attend the Federal Court on December 7.
Earlier, lawyers for liquidators FTI Consulting threatened to launch contempt proceedings against Mr Palmer for not providing the material, and failing to show up for a scheduled court appearance on Thursday.
The liquidators said they would not instigate contempt proceedings if Mr Palmer attended court and provided the documents.
Mr Palmer's lawyer Andrew Boe said his client was not aware he had to personally attend court.
"He will come back immediately if he's ordered to do so," Mr Boe said.
"My instructions have been that he wishes to comply, but all I can do is go back and advise him of the need to comply."
Justice Reeves said it appeared Mr Palmer had not shown "reasonable cause" for his non-attendance.
Mr Palmer is currently in Western Australia.
Queensland Nickel collapsed with debts of about $300 million leaving 800 workers at its Yabulu refinery in Townsville in north Queensland out of work.
While Mr Palmer was not a director when Queensland Nickel collapsed, liquidators claim he was secretly running the company and using its funds to bankroll other businesses and his now-defunct political party.
In October, Mr Palmer's was ordered to provide five years of financial documents showing transactions between his company Mineralogy and other mining businesses he owned, including Queensland Nickel.
The court also wanted journal entries documenting several multi-million dollar payments, including $US14.3 million from Queensland Nickel to Mr Palmer's personal account and to a resort he owned in Tahiti.
In February, Mr Palmer said he could not remember what the payment was for, but was certain it was "for a legitimate purpose".
Other transactions under scrutiny include $7.6 million from Queensland Nickel to Mr Palmer's father-in-law, and $4.5 million worth of payments to a Chinese Queensland Nickel worker.
FTI Consulting barrister John Peden said it was unreasonable that Mr Palmer and Mineralogy had been unable to provide the information, given it was likely on a computer accounting system.
"Critically we need the documents," he said.
Mr Palmer's brother-in-law George Sokolov fronted the Federal Court in Brisbane in October to make a last-minute delivery of documents on behalf of the businessman's lawyers.
Mr Sokolov, the Bulgarian-born brother of Mr Palmer's wife Anna, wheeled in three boxes of documents to the court just as the Registrar adjourned the matter because the material had not turned up.
The documents were sought ahead of a return to the witness box by Mr Palmer's personal assistant Sarah Mole, set down for that hearing.
At a hearing in late September, Ms Mole was grilled about email and text message contact she had with the businessman's elusive nephew, Clive Mensink.
Mr Mensink left Australia in June 2016 and has not returned despite court orders to do so.


A Perth residential building company has been fined $380,000 for engaging in conduct liable to mislead the public in connection with two online review websites.
The Federal Court found Aveling Homes operated and controlled two websites — Aveling Homes product reviews and First Home Owners Centre product reviews — but represented them as independent of the firm.
The court found during periods in 2016, Aveling represented each of its review websites were independent of Aveling and were affiliated with the website www.productreview.com.au, when that was not the case.
At least 133 reviews were not published, of which 45 were less than three stars, which the court found created an inaccurately favourable overall star rating for the firm's products.
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission chairman Rod Simms said the company held back bad reviews to give a more favourable impression of its services.
"Consumers are increasingly relying on online review websites to assist with their purchasing decisions," he said.
"They are entitled to expect that review sites are independent and unbiased.
"Companies publishing customer reviews online must be clear with consumers whether or not they accurately reflect the full range of consumer feedback — the good and the bad."
The Federal Court also found the overall star rating and reviews on the review websites were more favourable towards Aveling's products and services than would have been the case if all the reviews received by Aveling were published.
Aveling Homes Group Sales and Marketing Manager Sean Quartermaine was also fined $25,000.
The court found the features and appearance of the review websites that caused the contravening conduct were designed by Mr Quartermaine.
Aveling undertook to the Federal Court not to engage in similar conduct for three years and agreed to contribute to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission costs, as well as implementing a consumer law compliance program.
The company has also published a "corrective notice" ordered by the court on their website, advising customers of their misleading conduct, which contravened Australian consumer law.
Aveling Homes told the ABC they had made changes to the review website since last December, which now made it clear the site was operated by the firm.
Aveling said the website was created to publish a "selection" of customer testimonials.
"These are verified reviews completed by clients who have built with us. We acknowledge that we did not post all positive and negative reviews on this website," the company said.
"We now appreciate that some consumers were likely to have gained the wrong impression that the website was operated independently of Aveling Homes or was in some way associated with productreview.com.
"We very much regret and apologise if anyone got that wrong impression. We should not have created such an impression or omitted the positive and negative reviews.
"We welcome all feedback about our business — whether positive or negative — and we are constantly looking for new ways to improve our operations based on the content of this client feedback."
Aveling has operated in Western Australia since 2009, and say they have build more than 2,000 homes in that time.


Telstra has cut its 2017/18 earnings guidance by $600 million, and blamed this on NBN Co's temporary suspension of the national broadband network rollout.
The company estimated its pre-tax earnings would be reduced to the $10.1 billion to $10.6 billion range.
The figure was higher at $10.7 million to $11.2 million when Telstra unveiled its full-year results in August.
On Monday, NBN's chief executive Bill Morrow warned customers to expect a six to nine-month delay before they could connect to the network via its Hybrid Fibre Coaxial (HFC) cables, which are used to deliver pay TV services.
This delay has a flow-on negative impact on Telstra's earnings because its previous guidance relied on the assumption that the rollout would be in accordance with NBN's 2017 corporate plan.
"With the addition of the delays from the NBN cease sale of HFC announced earlier this week, Telstra's outlook is now outside of the guidance range and has been updated accordingly," the company said in a statement today.

As for its total income this financial year, Telstra is forecasting it will drop by $700 million to a range between $27.6 billion and $29.5 million.
Despite the immediate financial impact from the NBN delay, Telstra is expecting to receive the funds in later financial years.
"The most significant impact from a timing perspective is the proportion of one-off receipts … to Telstra from NBN being delayed into future periods," the company said.
"The revenue recognition from Telstra's commercial works contracts with NBN will also be delayed."
Telstra even expects the delay will be "modestly financial positive" to the company "over the full rollout due to the effects of a natural hedge".
The telco left its dividend unchanged at 22 cents per share.
In the meantime, NBN Co is trying to improve the speed and dropout issues associated with the HFC cables.
But Telstra's chief executive Andrew Penn said the cables were working fine until NBN made "technology changes" to them.
Mr Penn also conceded on Tuesday that Telstra cannot tell how fast a customer's NBN speed will be until after they get connected.
Telstra shares fell 0.3 per cent to $3.42 at 10.20am (AEDT).


Bitcoin has crossed over the $US11,000 mark — briefly — as it continues its whirlwind end to the year.
It's more than welcome news to investors, who are embracing the increasing value of the digital currency, but market analysts are a bit more sceptical.
Here's why some are predicting a bitcoin crash and what would happen if it does.
Bitcoin is a type of digital cryptocurrency that first emerged in 2009.

The reason why everyone keeps talking about it is because it's increased tenfold in its value since the beginning of the year, and is currently worth more than $US10,000 after its value more than doubled since the beginning of October.
"The bitcoin phenomenon is almost unprecedented," John Noonan, senior forex analyst at Thomson Noonan, said.
"I've never seen anything like it, certainly in my 44 years.

In fact, the cryptocurrency's current market capitalisation — its price multiplied by the number of coins that have been released into the system — is roughly $US214 billion, according to industry website Coinmarketcap.
To put that in perspective, that is equivalent to the combined market cap of the Commonwealth Bank (at $140 billion) and National Australia Bank (at $80 billion).
Mr Noonan told ABC News Breakfast there are a few reasons that make bitcoin an attractive bet to some investors, including the fact it does not have a central bank and that there is a limited supply of bitcoins.


One of the other factors credited with driving the prices higher has been the announcement that investors will soon be able to bet on bitcoin futures. Even the Nasdaq is reportedly looking at getting in on that.
There's also a great deal of hype going on, fuelled somewhat by the intense media coverage it's been getting lately.

Some experts and economists see the massive growth in bitcoin value over a short period of time as an indication that people are buying because of the hype.  They appear to see it as a risky investment at best, extremely volatile at worst.
It took 834 days for Bitcoin to top $US1,000, and another 1,270 days to hit $US2,000 on May 20, 2017. But in the later half of this year alone, it has already surpassed $10,000.
It's why analysts are comparing it to Tulip Mania and the dot-com crash. Bloomberg's Stephen Gandel has even estimated that based on valuation, bitcoins are four times more expensive than dot-com stocks were at the height of their bubble.
Over the past two years, the digital currency has experienced numerous crashes, usually every couple of months.
If there was a catastrophic fall in prices, there would be winners and losers.

But it is unlikely to pose a risk to the global economy like other bubbles, according to bitcoin expert Adrian Lee, a senior lecturer in finance at the University of Technology in Sydney.
That's because, for one thing, there's not as much money tied up in bitcoin as there was during the dot-com bubble, Mr Lee says, pointing out that while there is billions in bitcoin, there were trillions spent during the dot-com bubble.
"So [for example], it wouldn't effect the Australia dollar I'd say, because nobody really uses it at the moment," he said.
"If you think about it, there's trillions of trading in the Australian dollar whereas bitcoin is at most worth [approximately] $200 billion at total so it's hardly anything compared to the trillions in foreign exchange.
What also makes this unique is that it is unlikely people are borrowing to invest in bitcoin, according to RMIT professor of economics Jason Potts.
"There's very little evidence of anyone borrowing money to buy cryptocurrency and if I was a bank or a lender, there's no way I would loan out money to do that," he said.
Our experts said that seemed unlikely. It's still a relatively small number of people with money invested — roughly similar to the amount of people using email in 1994, Mr Potts said. So we're still very much in the early adoption phase.

And Mr Potts said there had not been many retail investors involved. "The sort of people who would hold superannuation funds … they're not in this market and might not be for some time," he said.
That would limit the fallout to the wider economy in a worst-case scenario. "If it crashed, it would only largely be those people who speculate on it, maybe people who use bitcoin and maybe the exchanges may lose money. But then again the exchanges don't require much overhead to run it, so if it fell they'd still be OK," Mr Lee said.
Mr Potts agreed. "It doesn't actually cause catastrophic financial meltdown. Some people who bought at the wrong time would be angry, other people who have been waiting to buy would be happy," he said.
Those who have invested in associated entities, including mining infrastructure and ICO-based businesses, would also lose out, Mr Lee said.
"The bitcoin miners would take a big hit, these guys who all they do is buy machines to mine bitcoins will lose money when the value falls," Mr Lee said.
He also said the impact on other cryptocurrencies would depend on what sparked the crash.
If it were as a result of central banks cracking down on bitcoin then you would expect the value of other cryptocurrencies to also fall. But if it was because of irrational exuberance, then only those cryptocurrencies that have experienced similarly sharp rises in their value would drop.
Mr Potts says the chances of systematic crash are extremely low.

The bitcoin expert told the ABC that the recent surge in value is not a 'bubble' but a "price discovery".
"Bubbles are things that happen to technologies or commodities or products that we know what they're for, so tulips can have a bubble because you know what they're for, or houses can have a bubble if the price of a house departs wildly from people's ability to pay … but this isn't like that," he said.
"This is a fundamental, radical new technology where every day we're discovering new uses for it and that gets priced in.
"I think what we're observing in this growth of price over the last nine years … is this gradual discovery of more and more uses for it, this gradual confidence in the technology."
Besides, Mr Potts says there's been what could be described as "crashes" in bitcoin every few months. On Wednesday alone, bitcoin rose as much as 15 per cent, but by mid-afternoon (US time) was trading at $US9,500 at one point because of a crash that lasted roughly six hours.
"There's been some big crashes, crashes of up to 80 per cent [of its value] and it's recovered," he said. "What's impressive is that they happen and then it bounces back."
"There's an enormous amount of volatility, but there's also a long-term growth trend in bitcoin in particular. It has grown [apart from 2014] every other year so over in the long-term it's been a solidly performing asset," he said.
"It's just scary to hold."


Australian stocks are headed for a strong start today, amid a record-breaking session on Wall Street.

The Dow Jones surged by 331 points, past the 24,000 mark for the first time.
It seems the market is getting increasingly confident US President Donald Trump's corporate tax cuts may finally get passed.
What changed was that Republican Senator John McCain announced he would vote in favour of the tax bill currently before the US Senate.
"I believe this legislation, though far from perfect, would enhance American competitiveness, boost the economy, and provide long overdue tax relief for middle class families," Senator McCain said in a statement.
The senator's support is seen as crucial as the Republicans have a slim Senate majority.
He also previously broke ranks and voted against the repeal of Obamacare.
With the prospect of lower corporate taxes, the financial sector lifted by 0.6 per cent.
But the energy sector was the strongest performer, rising 1.5 per cent over the latest developments in oil markets.
Brent crude prices lifted after the world's largest producers, Russia and the OPEC nations (Saudia Arabia, Iran, Iraq and others), made a deal to continue curbing oil output after hours of discussions at a summit in Vienna.
They agreed to cut production by 1.8 million barrels a day until the end of 2018, in an effort to boost oil prices and clear a global glut of crude.
With SPI futures rising by 0.4 per cent, the local share market is expected to open higher.
The Australian dollar has fallen slightly against the greenback, and is buying 75.65 US cents.
It has also weakened against the British pound (-0.9pc) and euro (-0.6pc).
However, it has risen against the Japanese yen (+0.5pc) and New Zealand dollar (+0.8pc).


A hotly contested deal between Adani and traditional owners of its proposed Carmichael mine site in Queensland's Galilee Basin would deliver compensation "well below" what most big miners pay, according to a new analysis.
The Wangan and Jagalingou (W&J) people would only get 0.2 per cent of Adani's earnings from the mine, less than half the industry average, respected mining industry outfit Economics Consulting Services has found.
Its report, obtained by the ABC, was commissioned by six W&J representatives whose looming court challenge to the deal stands as the final legal hurdle to Adani's contentious mega-mine.
It found the W&J people would earn up to $145 million over 30 years, out of the project's estimated $77.4 billion in gross revenue, a share which was "well below industry benchmark standards".
The benchmarks for such deals usually ranged from 0.75 per cent to 0.35 per cent.

Only 11 per cent of the deal would come to the W&J people in cash, up to $17.4 million over 30 years, or about $2,300 a year per adult member of the clan.
Report author Murray Meaton, who was awarded an Order of Australia in 2014 for services to the mining industry, found the benefits to the W&J people would be "dramatically lower" if job promises for locals fell short as they did "in most jurisdictions and agreements".
To gain finance for the $21 billion project, Adani needs an Indigenous Land Use Agreement (ILUA) with the W&J people, or it must call on the Queensland Government to forcibly extinguish any native title claim over the mine site in the Galilee Basin.
After almost six years of vexed negotiations with Adani, the W&J representative group is evenly split over the deal.
The Indigenous group twice rejected Adani in 2012 and 2014 before seven of 12 W&J representatives swung their support behind the miner last year.

But Adani lost majority support in June when one representative changed heart, sending the group into deadlock after the ILUA was allegedly authorised in a meeting funded by Adani.
The Adani supporters in the W&J have argued the mine is inevitable and they need to seize the miner's offer to economically benefit their people, including some who live in Queensland's more disadvantaged communities.
However, the anti-Adani group object to the destruction of their ancestral lands and culture, and contest the legitimacy of the meeting that approved the Adani deal.
The dispute will go to trial in the federal court in Brisbane in March.
The case has pushed back Adani's deadline on clinching finance for the project, which remains in doubt.
The report from Economics Consulting Services, which has handled more than 150 native title negotiations involving major Australian miners, found the mine's first phase "appears to be a very profitable project" but it was unlikely to last beyond 30 years.
Mr Meaton was concerned that 75 per cent of Adani's offer hinged on job promises for the W&J people, mostly an "optimistic" pledge of up to 50 jobs earning an average of $75,000 a year over 30 years.
"This is not a well-balanced package," his report said.
The estimated value of business contracts was potentially another $725,000 a year, mostly via a bus service for mine workers and cultural heritage and environmental works that would offer 50 casual jobs.
Mr Meaton found that while the total value of the deal to W&J people was "heavily dependent" on jobs and contracts, "jobs and contract targets have not been delivered in most jurisdictions and agreements".
An Adani spokesman could not be reached for comment on Thursday.


At a time when public funds are being spent laying new tramlines in Adelaide's CBD, many a frustrated commuter has no doubt wondered why our city's once extensive tram network was scrapped in the first place.
One Curious Adelaidean asked us to track down the answer (pun intended).
"Why was Adelaide's tram network ripped up in the 1950s?"
The answer? It's complicated.
But a run-down system, poor financial management, and a perhaps misguided view about the future of our city all played a role.
Adelaide's first tram network was highly profitable and an engineering feat to be proud of.
In 1909, horse-drawn trams gave way to electric and a fortune was spent creating an impressive network across the greater metropolitan area.

But the enviable web of public transport options didn't last long.
The Municipal Tramways Trust (MTT) introduced a 10-year plan to phase out trams in favour of buses by the mid 50s.
The public's affection for the network and dismay at its loss is evident in letters to the editor from the time.
"The MTT is making a big mistake in scrapping the trams," wrote A.J. Lines of Hyde Park to The Advertiser in 1954.
"As a quick, efficient means of transport, there is nothing to equal the trams.
"It would be a thousand pities to have them taken from us."
C. Steele of Tusmore seemed to have a window to the future.
"A tram which carries 100 people has 50 times more right to be on the road than a car which carries only two people."
Ultimately, the campaign to save the trams was in vain and in 1958 the closure of the Cheltenham tram service left the Glenelg tramway as the sole remaining track.
The Department of Planning Transport and Infrastructure told Curious Adelaide that after its initial glory days, the tram network simply became unviable.
"The emergence of trolley buses combined with rapid growth in private car ownership led to a decline in tram usage," the department said.
"Postponed maintenance of track infrastructure because of the Second World War, and the following shortage of materials resulted in the tracks being worn."

But a scathing 1955 report by the Council of the South Australian Branch of Australian Electric Traction Association suggested some deeper issues.
The report referred to "staggering losses" by the MTT brought about by "mismanagement" and "indeterminate and constant indecision".
The council was clearly in opposition to the decision to scrap the network, declaring the abandonment of the electric tramcar system "not only uneconomical in the long run, but completely undesirable".
Archivist Colin Seymour, who works for the Tramway Museum in St Kilda in Adelaide's north, believed there were many factors at play.

"I guess they took the easy way out at the time because the system was run down after the Second World War," he said.
But Mr Seymour believed other approaches were preferable.
"They should've perhaps got rid of the less profitable lines and kept some of the main lines that were pretty busy," he said.
"[The could have] gradually updated them over a period of time like they did in Melbourne."

Further investigation of newspaper reports from the time reveal the MTT had racked up a deficit of £1.12 million, with yearly losses in the hundreds of thousands of pounds.
Such were the state of its finances, the state government provided an aid payment of £700,000.
As with most significant historical events, there's always room for a good conspiracy theory.
Our Curious Adelaide questioner alerted us to one such theory.
There were whisperings at the time that tram networks were dismantled globally because oil companies were manipulating the fuel price market to make buses more desirable and cost effective.
Tramway Museum manager Jack Pennack said an emerging local car industry and the increasing power of oil companies certainly played a part, but not as part of a broader conspiracy.
"GMH was wanting to set up car production in South Australia, the flow was towards the motor industry and the only place that really stood against it was Melbourne," Mr Pennack said.
"The oil companies were getting a stranglehold on things, so in the end [premier Tom] Playford went along with diesel railcars."
The old trams that used to service our sprawling city network, long since retired, can now be seen at the tramway museum.
Mr Pennack remembers the ceremonious final tram ride on the Cheltenham line in 1958.

"It was totally packed that night," he recalled.
"I was about 13 at the time and very much a junior recruit for the cause."
Mr Pennack said as a lad he knew the infrastructure wasn't up to scratch.
"They were badly rundown, at the time I thought it was great fun but I wasn't seeing it in the way those who ran Adelaide had to see it, the system needed massive rehabilitation," Mr Pennack said.
He now believes the decision to scrap the tram network was "understandable, but regrettable".
"I think today it should be exactly the same as it was in '56, same trams, same lines," he laughed.
"We know that's not possible, that's only a dream."
The South Australian Government is spending more than $80 million on the first stage of its tram network extension project.
It will provide additional tram stops along North Terrace to East Terrace and up King William Road to the Adelaide Festival Plaza precinct.
There are also multi-billion-dollar plans for other tramlines, branching out through Adelaide's suburbs including Norwood, Henley Beach, Adelaide Airport, North Adelaide, Prospect and Mitcham.




Tasmania's three salmon producers are set to meet with the Environment Protection Authority (EPA) to discuss contingency planning for a mass mortality event in Macquarie Harbour.
The Director of the EPA Wes Ford said he was confident the industry could handle a reasonable sized event but more planning was required for a bigger fish kill.
In January last year Mr Ford wrote to companies saying the likelihood of a fish kill in Macquarie Harbour was "sufficiently high that any company involved in farming in the harbour should assume that such an event will occur at some time and should plan and prepare accordingly."
It also warned that a failure to plan could result in a "situation causing serious environmental harm and considerable damage to the reputation of the industry".
The letter was sent before the EPA took over the regulation of the industry.
Mr Ford said the Tasmanian Salmonid Growers Association (TGSA) has organised the upcoming meeting.
"What the companies need to work through is basically being able to get the dead fish out of the water relatively quickly and then we're also interested in the disposal process, so we're working with them on a range of disposal options."
Mr Ford said the EPA has met with the TGSA and salmon companies on a number of occasions in the last year to discuss mortalities, but a joint meeting would be advantageous.

"We can have a discussion about shared resources, see what's available and also each of the companies can understand what the contingency plans of the other companies are," he said.
Frances Bender from Huon Aquaculture said she is "heartened" to see all three companies and the EPA coming together.
"I'm happy to see that we're actually having a meeting where all people involved are in the same room at the same time, rather than entities having meetings and then writing and going backwards and forwards and losing time," she said.
In response to the EPA's 2016 letter Huon Aquaculture warned it could take weeks to remove morts (dead fish) if a mass mortality event occurred.
"Obviously this would not be practical with morts becoming impossible to handle without disintegrating within only a few days at warm water and air temperatures," the company said.
It's thought the industry is capable of removing around 300 tonnes of fish a day, the current amount of salmon allowed in the harbour in 12,000 tonne.

Mr Ford said a mortality event involving several hundred tonne of salmon at a Petuna lease in 2015 showed the industry had the capacity to handle similar sized events.
"There is sufficient planning in place for a reasonably sized event and the companies are continuing to look at what their options are."
Mr Ford said a bigger event wasn't expected but the upcoming meeting would work through what capability there would be to remove additional morts.
"That's what we need to work through with the companies, what is their capacity?," he said.
"That's always the challenge in any contingency planning whether it be fire, flood earthquake, animal disease or fish mortality."
A recent outbreak of the naturally-occurring pilchard orthomyxovirus has killed around 50,000 juvenile salmon in the harbour.
The EPA has also said the dissolved oxygen levels in the mid-water of the harbour are lower now than what they were this time last year.
"I think (the meeting) is now being treated with a lot more urgency than it was being treated before," Ms Bender said.
"I think that's an understanding that we need to work together all departments and all businesses to develop a wholistic overview of how we're going to manage in the unfortunate event that something like (a mass mortality event) happens."
Ms Bender said the recent hot weather was also a concern.
"We don't know how the summer is going to pan out but it's one hell of a shock that we've had it so hot so early."
Hot weather increases the risk of fish deaths and Ms Bender said already low dissolved oxygen levels in Macquarie Harbour meant the industry had to be "doubly careful".
"Making sure that we have low stocking densities, making sure that we have pristine clean nets so that we have the oxygen flow flowing through to the fish," she said.
"That we're looking after the environment as best we can."
In a statement, Tassal agreed the industry needed to work together.
"We believe the meeting between all three parties is important as we are all facing the same issues, and a wholistic plan jointly agreed upon will be instrumental to proactively manage the health of the Harbour."
No-one from Petuna was available to respond to the ABC's request for comment.



The New South Wales Government will pay off the HECs debts of 60 graduates each year if they sign up for a posting at one of 150 eligible rural and remote schools around the state.
The move is part of a revamped $140 million package aimed at boosting education standards in country schools.
There are currently more than 200 staff vacancies at rural schools.
The scholarships, which will be available from 2018 to HSC or university students looking to study teaching, will also include a $7,500 annual stipend to assist student teachers with their studies and a $6,000 sign-on bonus when they start their new job.
Making the announcement at Finley Public School, about 150 kilometres west of Albury, Education Minister Rob Stokes said it meant young teachers would be able get years ahead financially by moving to a country school.
"These incentives really make it a no-brainer," Mr Stokes said.
"If I was a young teacher starting out, I reckon this is an incredible opportunity."
Mr Stokes said there were also changes to the incentives offered to attract and retain more experienced teachers to eligible remote and regional schools, including:

"We want to attract the brightest young minds, but it is also important that they are supported by experienced mentors who will ensure the best educational outcomes are achieved for their students," Mr Stokes said.
Mr Stokes acknowledged previous incentive schemes had failed to prevent teacher shortages in the bush, and conceded the new measures were not a magic bullet.
"It's always been a struggle and I anticipate that it will continue to be so," Mr Stokes said.
Finley High School principal Helen McCrae said recruiting and retaining good staff was one of the most challenging aspects of her job.
"It can be a huge issue," she said.
"I have sometimes had to advertise four times to fill positions."

One teacher who has made the move from Newcastle to Finley in January is Nicholas Campbell.
He said moving to the country was good for his career and for his young family.
"There's more time to spend with the family because the commute to work is a 100-metre walk," he said.
An independent review commissioned by the Federal Government will deliver its report on how to attract and retain teachers at regional, remote and rural schools by the end of the year.


A federal court judge has slammed Volkswagen for failing to explain why they fitted cars with emissions "defeat devices", and has warned company executives may be forced to take the stand over the matter.

The Volkswagen Group is currently the subject of court proceedings brought about by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) and two law firms representing the owners of nearly 100,000 affected Volkswagen, Audi and Skoda vehicles in Australia.
The emissions scandal erupted in 2015 when the US Environmental Protection Agency discovered many Volkswagen cars sold in America were fitted with software designed to evade government pollution controls.
In September, Judge Lindsay Foster ordered Volkswagen to explain under oath why the software was developed and installed in the first place.
At a hearing in the Sydney Federal Court on Thursday, Judge Foster said the company had not answered the question that went to the "heart of the case".
"There is a reason why this was done that your client has to answer," Judge Foster said.
"If there is some legitimate engineering reason, let's hear it."
Volkswagen's barrister, Ruth Higgins SC, said they did not know why the software was installed because they were not involved.
The judge was not satisfied with the answer.
"Why was this done? How difficult can this be? Why was it done in the first place? Why at all?" he demanded.

Judge Foster has given Volkswagen two more weeks to answer the question, ahead of next year's class action.
"Plenty of people did know about this," said Judge Foster, pointing out that senior people had to have directed the research and installation of the software.
"That is being denied," Dr Higgins responded. She argued they had answered the Judge's question.
Judge Foster had also asked Volkswagen, Audi and Skoda whether the software installed in Australia, Europe and the US was all the same.
While lawyers for the Volkswagen Group responded, the court heard Skoda and Audi had failed to comply with a court order and had not answered the question.
"They simply cannot do this. It's not the first time and it displays an attitude of some arrogance," Judge Foster said.
Judge Foster said the respondents appeared "to please themselves with which point they'll come back with".
The Australian class action will begin in March.


Bali, Singapore and Thailand are more attractive tourist destination than regional WA thanks to unreasonably high airfares that are adversely affecting the lives of people who live in outback areas, a parliamentary committee has found.
The inquiry, which generated more submissions than any other Legislative Assembly probe, examined why regional airfares are so high and what the airlines and WA Government could do about it.
Committee chair Jessica Shaw told Parliament high airfares were often a major reason people moved away from regional areas.
"People recounted stories where they had been unable to attend important legal or personal appointments, visit sick relatives, attend significant family events, or — tragically — say final farewells to loved ones," she said.
"People told us that their Perth-based families could not afford to visit them (and vice versa), that they could not visit their children at boarding school or regularly bring them home, that their adult children could not return home from university, that they cannot themselves afford to go away on holiday.
"All of these factors can compound feelings of isolation and loneliness."
The report found the high cost of airfares had a significant effect on local businesses, including on recruitment and training costs, staff attraction and retention, professional development and business development.

"The Committee received considerable evidence suggesting that fares on unregulated routes are unreasonably priced," Ms Shaw said.
Tourism also suffered, as people were much more likely to choose cheap flights to South East Asia than regional WA for holidays.
"Return flights to such overseas locations from regional towns can be considerably cheaper than a return flight inside the state," the report found.
Airlines were reluctant to provide detailed pricing information to the committee, hindering its inquiry, though it received many submissions claiming price-gouging, particularly for fares booked close to the date of departure.
"While the airlines operating on unregulated routes stated to the committee that their regional fares are now lower than before the peak of the mining boom, direct proof of these assertions was not provided," the report found.
"Qantas, in particular, refused during its hearing to provide the committee with information on its pricing, claiming 'commercial confidentiality', despite the committee's offer to receive the information on a confidential basis."
Many submissions to the committee told of the distress caused by the high cost of last-minute flights to respond to family emergencies.
"If people have to travel to Perth with little notice for an emergency (such as a family funeral), the high cost of the airfare adds enormous emotional pressure and stress to their already difficult situation," one submission said.
Another said the "airlines pray on the BBS—the business, the bereaved and the sick, those who have got to fly on short notice".
The committee found the passenger cost per kilometre for WA routes were up to 80 per cent higher that interstate routes elsewhere in Australia, a difference Qantas said was due to reduced passenger numbers in WA.
Kununurra resident Joanne Pavlinovich's submission said the prohibitive cost of airfares made her less inclined to travel anywhere not within driving distance.
"I found myself isolated from Perth friends and family, unable to attend special events including birthdays and weddings," she wrote.
"The Kimberley is losing so many high-quality professional, community members and volunteers because it simply costs so much to live in the region."
The report found the size of the state made air transport a necessity for most living outside Perth.
"For regional communities, with little opportunity for alternative travel modes to distant destinations such as Perth, their aviation services are seen as an essential public transport, akin to the access Perth residents have to buses and trains,"' it found.
It recommended an immediate review of the state's aviation strategy, including an examination of whether more routes should be subsidised and regulated, particularly the Kununurra to Perth route, where return airfares often cost more than $1,000.
Currently, seven routes are regulated and have a single operator, including Albany, Esperance, Kalbarri, Exmouth and Carnarvon.
It found airfares often changed by the day and hour, but those on regulated routes were less subject to volatility.
The report also suggested the possibility of a government-run online regional airfare comparison tool, similar to FuelWatch, to help passengers find the cheapest fares.
However, City of Kalgoorlie-Boulder CEO John Walker said re-regulating flight routes was not a long-term solution, despite the committee reporting relatively high satisfaction in regulated communities such as Albany and Esperance.
"I'm not a supporter of regulation, and I don't think the people, generally, would be," Mr Walker said.
"It's easy for us to say, in Kalgoorlie, we should regulate the fares so its cheaper to get to Perth, but then what happens when you want to go beyond there?
"We have deregulation to go overseas, for example, and there's a lot of consumer benefit."
But Mr Walker said more oversight was necessary, arguing the Government should focus on forcing pricing transparency from the major airlines.
Lifelong Broome resident Jacqueline Dixon has to fly to Perth several times a year to get medical treatment for her grandson, who she looks after, but cannot afford airfares that are not subsidised through the Patient Assistance Travel Scheme.
"We'd love down to go down there (to Perth) but the cost of the flights [is too much]," she said.
"(I feel) sad, they need to put those airfares down so we can go down for holidays or funerals … some families can't make it because of the prices."
Broome's Runway Bar manager Tex Kitchen said customers often complained about the cost of flights, and the local economy would be boosted significantly by cheaper fares.
"If the airports can't drop the prices themselves, government departments have got to speak," he said.
"If they can't justify why they should charge those prices, then the Government should have a subsidy."
Route (return from Perth)
Depart Dec 12, return Dec 15
cheapest
(non-flexible)
most expensive
(non-flexible)
(Source: Skyscanner)


Almost 1 million jobs will be created in Australia over the next five years but there won't be enough skilled workers to fill them.
That's according to Business Council chief executive Jennifer Westacott, who says Australia faces a crippling skills shortage unless more funding is urgently returned to vocational education.
The Federal Department of Employment predicts almost half of those jobs created will require a vocational qualification.
The rapidly ageing population, construction of major infrastructure, a growing taste for eating out and the full rollout of the National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) will drive many of the new jobs.
There are serious concerns funding cuts to the vocational education and training (VET) system have left it in no shape to meet that challenge.
Ms Westacott fears, "we will have to spend billions to put it back together".
"We'll have another skills shortage then we'll have another debate about bringing in foreign workers, or we will just lose new businesses and new activities to other countries where they have a more trained and skilled workforce," Ms Westacott told 7.30.

"This is urgent. Go and look at other countries, go and look at Germany, go and talk to any senior business person in the United States, particularly the people in the big technology companies, and they'll say to you it's the vocational system we should be focusing on now."
Professor Peter Noonan, an expert in tertiary education policy from the Mitchell Institute at Victoria University, told 7.30 he was deeply worried.
"Between 2014 and 2015, state governments took $1 billion out of vocational education and training," he said.
"The Commonwealth has more or less maintained what it puts in but the states have really dropped the ball."
He said one of the biggest disadvantages faced by VET students was not having access to the generous university loan scheme.
"Enrolments are going down but the most regrettable thing is that fees for students are going up, and in some cases students are paying thousands of dollars up front and they can't get an income contingent loan like they can if they're going to university," he said.

Disability service provider Yellowbridge is already unable to find enough qualified staff.
The company, based in Toowoomba in regional Queensland, would like to hire another 50 people but CEO Penny Hamilton said they weren't available.
"I don't know if it's a crisis but I think it is something that needs to be looked at pretty quickly," she said.
"With the rollout of the NDIS we've had an increase in services that are required, but there really isn't the workforce out there to actually do the support work that we require."
Yellowbridge has paid for staff, including disability support worker Kevin McLennan, to complete a certificate III in individual care with a private provider.
He said not having to pay the fee was a relief.
"It was a big concern for me, especially coming into the job. I was unemployed for a little bit so it's hard to just fork out that type of money for a certificate," he said.

While TAFE offers early childhood courses, many students choose to study it at university to avoid fees.
Education consultant Jonathan Chew said it was an easy decision for many students to make.
"You might be looking at an out-of-pocket fee of anywhere from $1,000 to $4,000, [to study early childhood in VET]," he said.
"If you study that at a university you'd be paying nothing for a bachelor-equivalent degree."
The Business Council is calling for a dramatic shakeup that would put vocational education into a single tertiary system.
Ms Westacott wants each student to be given a lifelong skills account, with the same subsidies and loans to spend wherever they choose.
"What that would allow you to do is basically assemble a qualification," she said.
"What I mean by that is, as people will need a module of something they don't need to go into a whole undergraduate or postgraduate degree.
"They can go and get that from a vocational provider — a TAFE or a private provider. They can get that from the university and they can effectively assemble their own qualification."


South Australia's giant Tesla battery has begun dispatching stored wind power into the electricity grid a day ahead of its scheduled switch-on.
Premier Jay Weatherill is visiting the battery site — alongside the Hornsdale windfarm near Jamestown in the state's mid north — on Friday, to mark its official opening on the first day of summer.
But with temperatures across South Australia and Victoria hitting the mid 30s, and output from the state's wind farms low, the battery was called upon early to help meet Thursday afternoon's peak demand.
The battery dispatched a maximum of 59 megawatts of power.
The 100MW/129MWh battery is capable of powering about 30,000 homes for a little over an hour.
The manufacturer, Tesla says the lithium-ion device — made up of PowerWall 2 batteries —  is both the "largest" by storage and "most powerful" of its type in the world.
South Australian taxpayers will be subsidising its operation with up to $50 million over the next 10 years.
In return, the South Australian Government will have the right to use the battery to prevent load-shedding blackouts.
It will also be able to use a portion of the battery's output to provide system security services to the grid, in an effort to bring down prices.
The hot weather on the eve of summer prompted the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) into taking the highly unusual step of paying power customers to reduce their electricity usage during the peak period.
The customer or customers involved have not been identified.
But they are likely to be heavy power users who volunteered to be directed to reduce their power usage under a "demand management" program.
That program is a key part of AEMO's plan to prevent unexpected blackouts this summer.
The plan was enacted after the closure of the Hazelwood coal-fired power station in Victoria.
It provides the market operator with about 1,000 megawatts of demand management and emergency generation to use to help balance supply and demand in the grid.


Jeff Morris is the whistleblower who can take much of the credit for today's announcement of a royal commission into the banking industry.
It was his actions in exposing corrupt practices at the Commonwealth Bank that led first to a parliamentary inquiry and now finally to the royal commission.
But Mr Morris has paid an enormous personal price for his actions, including threats against his life and effectively losing his job.
"It had a horrific impact on my family. My wife was never in favour of me doing what I did and it's hard to argue with her, really, when you look back at what happened," he said.
"I guess part of what I've learned is the determination that nobody should have to go through what I've gone through as a whistleblower ever again."

In 2008, Mr Morris began work as a financial planner at the CBA in Sydney. Very soon he found evidence of corruption going "all the way to the top".
"Corruption was absolutely rife. There were crooked plans stitching up literally widows and orphans, and there was a crooked management team covering it up," he told the ABC.
In one case, two retirees had seen a CBA financial planner, but half a million dollars of their retirement portfolio had been "vaporised".

"They couldn't get any straight answers out of the planner. They couldn't get any straight answers out of his manager at the CBA. And the people who were meant to deal with this complaint were trying to fob them off," Mr Morris said.
"That was when I realised the bank was going to do this to all these people. And as individuals they wouldn't stand a chance, unless someone on the inside did something about the cover-up that was going on."
Mr Morris was one of three 'ferrets' who blew the whistle on a rogue financial planner at the bank.
They sent a fax to the financial regulator, ASIC, with a series of accusations. But he says ASIC was "useless", and did nothing for years.
Eventually he felt he had no choice but to leave the bank and go public with the allegations, first in the media and eventually before a parliamentary inquiry.
He told the inquiry he had learned of a threat to shoot him.
He says alongside the royal commission, the Government must strengthen legislative protection for whistleblowers.

"I'm concerned that when the Government says they're going to tackle whistleblower reform, they'll put some legislation in place but it won't be the real deal. It won't be as tough as it should be," he said.
"I've had a lot of people come to me for advice. I've told them what to expect and they say, 'Well I've got a family, I can't do that'."
From the beginning, Mr Morris has called for a royal commission. He says despite longstanding opposition from within government, there is a groundswell for reform.
"It's a good feeling. It's taken far too long of course, but I've always been confident that we'd get here," he said.



The well-known Australian handbag and accessories retailer Oroton has gone into voluntary administration.

In a statement to the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX), Oroton said its 62 stores in Australia, New Zealand and Malaysia would continue to trade as normal, while administrator, Deloitte Restructuring Services, tried to find a buyer.
A spokesperson for Oroton told the ABC no jobs at the company were in jeopardy at this stage, and shoppers could continue to use gift vouchers at Oroton stores.
Oroton launched a strategic review of the business in May, but today's statement confirmed it had not been able to find a viable solution which could achieve a better outcome than voluntary administration.
The retailer issued a series of earnings downgrades earlier this year and reported a loss of $14.2 million for the 2016-2017 financial year.
"Our focus is on continuing to operate the business as we seek a recapitalisation or sale of this iconic brand," administrator Vaughn Strawbridge said.
"The flexibility of the voluntary administration process enhances the ability to further restructure OrotonGroup in a manner which makes it possible to achieve the best possible outcome in these circumstances.
"Our ambition is that a stronger Oroton business will emerge from this process."
Oroton's interim chief executive Ross Lane said every effort was made to avoid voluntary administration.
"The board is disappointed that it has to take this step after running such a comprehensive process," he said.
Deloitte Restructuring Services advised that Oroton's annual general meeting, which was planned for tomorrow, would not proceed as scheduled, but would be deferred to a date to be advised.
The first meeting of creditors will take place on December 11.
Oroton is the latest fashion retailer in Australia to collapse, joining Pumpkin Patch, Payless Shoes, Marcs, David Lawrence, Herringbone and Rhodes & Beckett, which have all gone under in the past 18 months.


A failure to convince interstate and overseas tourists to visit Western Australia — which is perceived as "too far away, too expensive and with a scarcity of hotel rooms" — is set to cost the State $800 million in projected tourism revenue by the end of the decade.
That's the key finding of a report by the auditor-general on the State Government's key "Strategy for Tourism in WA 2020" policy.
The strategy — launched by Tourism WA five years ago — aims to double tourism spending to $12 billion by 2020.
Under the plan, by 2017 WA was supposed to be enjoying a sustained boost to leisure and business tourist numbers.

But auditor-general Colin Murphy found that was yet to happen, making it "unlikely the strategy goal will be met in 2020".
Specifically, the auditor-general found there was a lack of growth in spending, especially among international visitors; inadequate marketing, despite a $42 million budget; and a failure to deliver four to five new "hallmark" events.
Mr Murphy said without "rapid and significant improvement", the key target of $12 billion in tourism spending by 2020 would be missed — by at least $800 million according to some projections.
He said despite a "good plan", Tourism WA had been inconsistent in following it, meaning targets for visitor numbers had been missed.
Part of the problem, Mr Murphy said, was a lack of collaboration and engagement between the government-funded agency and other tourism partners.
Tourism WA also needed to be more nimble in picking up on failures quickly and redirecting funding to where it would have the greatest impact, Mr Murphy said.

Responding to the report, the Department of Jobs, Science, Tourism and Innovation (JSTI) said efforts to lure holiday makers away from international markets had paid off last financial year, but acknowledged there was still work to be done.
Correcting the lingering perceptions on the east coast that WA is too far away, too expensive and has a scarcity of hotel rooms, remains a challenge," the department said.
It pointed out 3,300 hotel rooms had been built or were due for completion next year and would help make Perth more attractive as a leisure destination.
"The new hotel rooms also make Perth a better value proposition following years of a lack of accommodation and high hotel room costs due to high business demand fuelled by the mining sector," it said.

Tourism WA board member Elizabeth Gaines said the agency's goal to double tourism spending by 2020 was an ambitious one.
"I think the fact that the agency is on track to deliver over $11 billion in value means it's actually got pretty close to that stretch target," Ms Gaines said.
"Undoubtedly there are clear learnings and we should take those on board, but I do think that what has been delivered for Western Australia was an ambitious target and we've done very well."
The auditor-general said there was still time to achieve the target, but it would be challenging given a lack of progress to date and the economic downturn.
Tourism Council head Evan Hall said the State could not afford the $800 million shortfall and needed to rethink the way it promotes itself.
"The CEO of Tourism Western Australia is also the director general of a department, he can't be expected to be a tourism expert," Mr Hall said.
"The head of tourism marketing — we've had seven different people in seven years do that job. We keep doing the same thing, putting a generalist into the role.
"What we need is an expert who is going to lead that marketing, make the best use of the Government's investment in marketing and make sure we turn that into bums in beds."
Mr Murphy made six key recommendations for Tourism WA, with half to be introduced by mid-2018.
They include improvements in planning, record-keeping and engagement with partners, as well as better prioritisation of activities.
The report said Tourism WA should also consider reviewing its business model by 2020.


Workers at the Edith Creek milk plant have expressed a mix of devastation and cautious optimism as the north-west Tasmanian plant shuts down.
The plant was bought by Thai company Dutch Mill in an 11th hour announcement yesterday after current owners Murray Goulburn completed a lengthy sale process.
But the factory will still close in the short term, with the loss of around 120 jobs.
The new owners hope to reopen the facility in the second quarter of 2018.
Kathy Wallis, an end line operator, has been working at the factory for two decades.

"It's just sad, really sad. There are so many feelings running through our minds right now … we're angry that it has come to this."
"But we're also happy and relieved that it's been bought by another company."
Mrs Wallis will be working a casual job as a cleaner over the Christmas period to help make ends meet.
"We just want to know what that means for the workers who lose a job today.
"We thought this was safe, it was a good factory, this just goes to show it can happen to anybody."
For Craig Harvey from the National Union of Workers (NUW), the fight is not yet over.
"The next question is, how will Dutch Mill treat its workers, will they offer similar conditions?" Mr Harvey asked.

"Were optimistic, they will have a hard time attracting experienced local labour if they go down the path of low pay and bad conditions.
"We're looking forward to working with them for good outcomes for everyone. At the end of the day it's great news there is a buyer."
The NUW yesterday sent a letter requesting consultations with Dutch Mill. The company is yet to respond, the union said.
As the factory workers waved to each other as they left today, a worker in a silver sedan beeped and waved as she left the factory for the last time.
Mrs Wallis left through the yellow gates after 20 years.
"It's bittersweet but we're already looking to the future — you have to be optimistic," she said.
"I think I'm used to the idea now."
New owner Dutch Mill was founded in Thailand in the early 1980s.
It has a large presence in the south-east Asian market and recently expanded into Myanmar.
In an interview with the ABC yesterday, Dutch Mill Australia's spokesman, Anthony Guinness, said the company wanted to turn the site into a "world-class" facility.

"What is important to us is engaging with the community … about employment and that's obviously very much in the minds of those out of work," he said.
Mr Guinness said the company was committed to the local Circular Head region.
Dutch Mill currently owns six dairy farms in the state's north-west.
On its website, Dutch Mill states it "will pay the attention to the quality in all matters, which may affect our customers."
"We will also cling on our three main working principles:
The company says its vision is "to be one of the best manufacturing and marketing companies of dairy products in ASEAN".


Imagine being asked to catch up with a friend and former work mate who just happens to be The Beatles' Paul McCartney?

That is what just happened to northern NSW resident and former Londoner Joanne Petersen, then Joanne Newfield, who was the personal assistant for Beatles manager Brian Epstein in the 1960s.
Ms Petersen, who now lives in the small town of Bangalow, has been invited to catch up with Sir Paul in Brisbane in December during his Australian tour.
She says it has been nearly 40 years since she has seen him and there is a lot to catch up on.
"I would be typing in the office and Paul and John would be writing songs, scrawling down lyrics, and throwing the pieces of paper on the floor," she said.
"I would look at the mess they were making and thinking to myself 'what slobs, why can't they put their rubbish in the bin?'"
Ms Petersen was close to Epstein and knew he was a gay man.
It was Ms Petersen who found Epstein dead in his Chapel Street home from an accidental drug overdose in August 1967.
She said she wished that he was alive today to see the support for gay marriage.
"I think about him a lot and would love to sit down now, at this great age, and have a conversation about the vote for same sex marriage," she said.
"Back in the sixties you couldn't come out as a gay man as it was illegal, and as the Beatles' manager he could of easily have been blackmailed or publicly humiliated.
"Brian was lonely. I saw loneliness there."

Ms Petersen was in her early twenties when she got the dream job.
She said she was dancing in an exclusive London club when she caught the eye of Ringo Starr and George Harrison.
"I heard this voice say 'so, where did you learn to dance like that?'" she said.
She turned around and saw two cheeky lads grinning at her.
"It comes naturally," she said she replied.
Both men asked for her name and she cheekily asked what their names were.
"They said they were Paul and John (Lennon) and we all laughed."
Ms Petersen told the pair she was unhappy where she worked and the pair told them to ring "Eppy", as he was looking for a new assistant.
She did, and got the job after cheating on her typing test.
Working for Epstein she spent time with the Fab Four regularly, saying they had very different personalities but all worked hard for the band, inserting their individual styles into the famous melodies.
Ms Petersen says Epstein loved the Beatles and managed their egos beautifully, saying he really was the fifth Beatle.
And she still remembers listening to the Sgt Pepper's album and being blown away.


Ms Petersen said Lennon and McCartney were good mates, but their friendship suffered during The Beatles' break-up.
Despite public opinion, she said the rift continued until Lennon was murdered in December 1980.

She believed Paul is haunted by the fact that he never got the chance to be close again to his childhood friend.
She said no-one could have predicted how influential and famous the Beatles were to become.
"I should of grabbed that half-eaten chocolate biscuit that John Lennon had eaten and put it in a bag and kept it for 40 years, and then sold it as 'A half eaten biscuit by John Lennon' and made a fortune," she laughs.
"Why didn't I do that?"


As Victoria braces for a major rainfall event this weekend, the residents of one town fear they will be hit hardest after revelations that a significant amount of recovery funding allocated to the areas after floods in 2011 have been mismanaged.
Up to 200mm of heavy rain is expected to fall over the next three days in the Central Goldfields region.
In 2011, 100mm worth of rainfall resulted in 250 homes becoming flooded in the town of Carisbrook.

The Central Goldfields Shire came under fire this week after the ABC revealed a significant amount of flood grant money meant for Carisbrook in the 2011 floods, was unaccounted for.
Documents obtained by the ABC revealed that since 2011 the Federal Government supplied $30 million in flood recovery funding to the Central Goldfields Shire Council, and the State Government committed a further $1.3 million.
Some Carisbrook residents believe only a small portion of that was spent in the town to help mitigate future flood risks but it remains unclear how much of the multi-million dollar fund can be accounted for.
Carisbrook Fire Captain Ian Boucher said residents were on edge.
"There are a lot of anxious people here, I've fielded quite a few phone calls from worried locals," he said.
"I've been phoning around our CFA members to see their availability, we've got a truck load of sand delivered to the station and a supply of sandbags in preparation.
"We're predicting even if we don't get the event they're expecting, low-line areas on the creek will flood."
Mr Boucher said the rain predicted was shaping up as worse than the 2011 floods.
"I'm very mindful of the fact of what happened in 2011 — just like everyone else I'm expecting the worst but hoping for the best.

"This doesn't paint a good picture for Carisbrook at the moment."
Carisbrook Disaster Recovery Committee President Keith McLeish said in his 75-years, he had never seen 200mm of rain predicted.
"There are a few people here very angry that six years after we tried to get something done, we still don't have drainage that could have saved 90 per cent of the town.
"I hardly slept last night and normally it takes a bit to stir me up.

"We had about 70mm here in 2011, then another 30mm that night and that just finished the town."
Former Councillor and Carisbrook resident Helen Broad said the weekend was looking as bad as 2011.
"My biggest concern is the residents and making sure we do what we can to help them out and try to prevent what happened last time," Ms Broad said.
"I've had a lot of calls from people out here worried, they want to know what's going to happen and it's questions I can't really answer.
"It saddens me to think that here we are nearly seven years down the track and we're going to be in the same situation again."
Central Goldfields Shire Interim Chief Executive Vince Haining said the shire was meeting today with the SES and Police.
"We have positioned sand out at Carisbrook because we know that's a very high risk flood environment out there," Mr Haining said.
"It's a very risky area for flooding there and we hope they will be prepared to the extent they can be.
"We need to do our very best to protect our community from floods, we don't want to see a repeat of 2011."


A 56-year-old man has died at the Inpex Ichthys gas project, just outside of Darwin, after a "serious" workplace incident.
"The deceased was working in a confined space installing insulation within a tank when the incident occurred," NT WorkSafe said in a statement.
Northern Territory police said it received a call about 8:30pm on Wednesday, informing them a man was being resuscitated at the site.
"We were made aware of a person, a male out there, a 56-year-old male under full resuscitation as a result of what appears at this stage to be a workplace incident," Duty Superintendent James O'Brien said.
"Unfortunately as a result of the incident the male didn't survive."
Duty Superintendent O'Brien said police had been investigating overnight but would not release details on what caused the incident before a report was prepared for the coroner.
In a statement, Inpex confirmed the man's death was the result of a "serious incident" at the Bladin Point construction site.

"Our heartfelt thoughts and condolences go to his family, loved ones and colleagues," it said.
"We are cooperating fully with relevant authorities."
NT WorkSafe said a prohibition notice has been issued, preventing all insulation work within tanks at the Bladin Point site.
"WorkSafe Inspectors are currently back onsite continuing their investigation," the safety watchdog said.
Inpex said it was now in the process of informing and providing counselling to its workers.
"Inpex has advised our staff of the tragedy this morning and also reminded them of the counselling and support services that are available to them and there won't be any construction activity on site today," general manager Sean Kildare said.


Banks and insurers are jeopardising their futures if they fail to prepare for climate-related risks, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) has warned.

The stark advice from the industry watchdog was delivered during a speech last night to the Centre for Policy Development in Sydney.
APRA said it had a duty to warn the institutions that it regulates, like banks, superannuation funds and insurers, if it identified a risk that could threaten their stability.
Geoff Summerhayes, an executive board member of APRA, said that included unexpected risks such as cyber crime, technology disruption or climate risk.
He said climate change was already leaving its mark, and not just ecologically.
"The sustainable insurance forums view, which APRA shares, is that climate change — and here's the crucial bit — societies response to it, are starting to affect the global economy," he said.
Mr Summerhayes gave Cyclone Debbie as an example, which devastated parts of north Queensland earlier this year.
At the latest count the insurance bill from that event topped out at $1.6 billion.
"Should extreme weather events become more frequent and intense, as scientists predict, this type of adverse economy impact will become magnified and more common," Mr Summerhayes said.
"Consequently raising awareness about climate risks and the need for resilience is entirely within APRA's regulatory mandate of promoting financial system stability.
"And in the interests of deposit holders, policy holders and superannuation fund members."
Mr Summerhayes said the APRA has established the Climate Change Financial Risk Working Group, which has begun questioning its entities about their preparedness for climate change and its associated risks.
And furthermore, he predicted that disclosure would become a major trend in global regulation.
While one of the drivers behind that will be regulatory action, he said pressure from investors would be the main player.
Mr Summerhayes cited examples from elsewhere in the world, such as France's energy transition law.
That law requires listed companies and institutions to disclose their investment portfolio contribution to the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the national energy transition strategy.
"[And] the UK and business insurance regulators gather data about market practice on sustainability issues," he said.
"At APRA we're planning a survey of regulated entities to gain a better understanding of emerging best practice. As well as an industry wide review of climate related disclosures."
He also said Australia's transition to a low carbon economy was underway and moving quickly.
ANZ's loans and specialised finance managing director, Christina Tonkin, said understanding climate change related risks was important for business.
"ANZ considers that no stone must be left unturned in the pursuit of transitioning Australia and the region to a more sustainable footing," she said.
"It's the challenge of our time and one that government, business, financiers and communities need to make a top priority."


Opposition Leader Bill Shorten has sacked Sam Dastyari from his deputy Senate whip position, saying he's lost faith in the senator's judgement.
Meanwhile, the Prime Minister has announced a royal commission into the banking sector.
Look back over all the day's political developments in our blog.



Malcolm Turnbull has announced a royal commission into the banking sector, after sustained pressure from within his own Government and an admission by Australia's big four banks that an inquiry is necessary to restore public faith in the financial system.

A letter to the Treasurer signed by the chairpersons and chief executives of ANZ, Commonwealth, NAB and Westpac and dated today argued that even though the sector had long campaigned against it, such a measure was now in the national interest.
"Our banks have consistently argued the view that further inquiries into the sector, including a royal commission, are unwarranted," the letter said.
"However, it is now in the national interest for the political uncertainty to end."
Shortly after the letter was released, the Prime Minister announced the royal commission, saying that it was the only way to "give all Australians a greater degree of assurance" about the banking sector.
"Since the financial crisis, there have been examples of misconduct by financial institutions. Some of them extremely serious. And that's demanded a response from the institutions themselves and from government," Mr Turnbull said.
"The only way we can give all Australians a greater degree of assurance is a royal commission into misconduct into the financial services industry."

The Prime Minister described it as a "comprehensive inquiry" that would cover the nation's banks, wealth managers, superannuation providers and insurance companies.
The Government's announcement has headed off a move in the Senate where the junior Coalition partner, the Nationals, were prepared to combine with the Greens, Labor and other crossbenchers to force an inquiry to be held.
Mr Turnbull's announcement means the Government avoids the embarrassment of its own side of politics compelling it to hold an inquiry.
But it is politically embarrassing for Mr Turnbull to have been forced into walking away from his previous refusal to hold an inquiry.

Nationals senator Barry O'Sullivan had been working with other parties and was prepared to pass legislation for an inquiry that, until today, the Government has been strongly resisting.

But Senator O'Sullivan insisted the Prime Minister was not "dragged to the table" on a banking royal commission because of his private member's bill.
"I don't think that the Prime Minister had a change of heart. I think we've got a Prime Minister who has listened and had the capacity to make and support a decision and I think that's a positive thing," he said.
"He was making his own journey in relation to these matters.
"I am not going to go into deep comment about the historical aspects or the current aspects until I have had a chance to look at the details."

But George Christensen, one of the Nationals who vowed to support Senator O'Sullivan's bill, was not so convinced.
"I just don't understand why it took a number of National Party backbenchers to drag the Prime Minister kicking and screaming to this decision," he said.
"But we've got the decision, it's a good decision.
"I'm hoping that this is going to be a thorough root-and-branch review of the banking sector.
"It's going to weed out these systemic cases of misconduct, and perhaps criminal actions by big banks, and we'll get some justice for the victims of banking misconduct."
Mr Turnbull conceded there had been "a lot of changes in the political environment" but said the decision was one that came from the Cabinet.
The Federal Opposition has been pressuring the Government to hold a royal commission since April last year, when it announced that a Labor government would call one.

Labor has argued for more than 18 months that a royal commission would make the sector stronger.
Opposition Leader Bill Shorten said the timing of today's announcement was "one of Mr Turnbull's greatest failures of leadership".
"If Mr Turnbull had have listened to Labor, we would've had a royal commission and it would have been done by now, with its recommendations being implemented," Mr Shorten said.
"We are deeply concerned that even today, the Prime Minister said a royal commission was 'regrettable'.
"Turnbull and his Government voted in the Parliament more than 20 times to protect the banks from a royal commission."
The royal commission will have 12 months to complete its inquiries, with a final report expected to be delivered by February 1, 2019.

Mr Turnbull said it would investigate "how financial institutions had dealt with cases of misconduct in the past, and whether those examples expose issues in terms of the cultural and governance issues in terms of the regulation and supervision of the industry".
"This will not be an open-ended commission, it will not put capitalism on trial," he said.
Treasurer Scott Morrison emphasised the royal commission did not undermine the strength of Australian banks.
"Australia's banks are unquestionably strong, nothing that we have announced today changes this or gives any reason to question this, on the part of the Government," Mr Morrison said.
"This is an important message for markets and the international financial community, it does not question the robust nature of our prudential system."
Crossbench MP Bob Katter has already suggested social justice campaigner Tim Costello as a potential candidate to lead the royal commission.
The Government has not yet appointed anyone to the role but said it would be a "distinguished former or serving judicial officer".



A port launching rockets into space from North-East Arnhem Land won't benefit Aboriginal people and the Northern Territory Government is only promoting the project in its own interest, says a local independent politician.
Canberra-based commercial venture Equatorial Launch Australia (ELA) has signed a sub-lease with the Aboriginal Gumatj Corporation to build Australia's first commercial rocket launching facility at a remote site near Nhulunbuy, in the Top End's Gulf of Carpentaria.
Construction of the Arnhem Space Centre is set to start next year, and ELA is hopeful rocket launching could begin at the end of 2018.
The NT Government has talked up the ambitious project and says it will bring more than $100 million to the region, creating about 70 jobs during the construction and operational phases at the 275-hectare site.
"I think the NT Government is pushing this for its own good," Yingiya Mark Guyula, the independent Member for Nhulunbuy, said.
"Providing jobs, they say, but who is the job for? People out there are not interested, people out there are not as excited as the Government is saying.
"They are confused, they are worried about what this is going to bring."
Nhulunbuy, created as a mining town hub in the 1960s, has been struggling since the closure of Rio Tinto's alumina refinery in 2014, and has had its population halved to about 2,000 people since then.
Mr Guyula said the space centre would only foster private development, and exceeded local ambition.
"A space industry… it's not something that we intend to do. People just want to set up small businesses, just want to take our infrastructure resources back onto country," he said.
"There's enough trouble in the homelands out there already without this industry coming in that's providing big dollar signs to the rest of the world … to Australia."

A spokesman for the NT Government said it has helped to facilitate negotiations between the Northern Land Council (NLC), Equatorial Launch Australia, and the Gumatj Aboriginal Corporation, which represents the traditional owners from one of the local Aboriginal clans in the Nhulunbuy area.
The spokesman said that there had been no complaints about the process to date.
Mr Guyula said the NLC and the NT Government had rushed through consultation with local people affected by the project, and had so far provided limited detail.
"The question is: Have I failed my people out there? Or has the Government, the Northern Land Council failed us?" asked Mr Guyula.
"I need to push through and remind the NLC, remind the NT Government, that they have not properly consulted Yolngu people out there."
NLC CEO Joe Morrison refuted Mr Guyula's claims.
"I reject that assumption that Mark Guyula's put out there that the consultation process was fraught," Mr Morrison said.
"We're more than happy to brief him on a range of matters, and we'd certainly like to do that in relation to the space base because we feel that we've complied with the Aboriginal Land Rights Act in ensuring that the right people were consulted, and affected people were also notified and understood the nature of the proposal."


Australian shares are headed for a weak start amid a volatile session on Wall Street, in which investors dumped tech stocks in favour of the big banks.

Technology was, by far, the worst performing sector on the S&P 500, falling by 2.6 per cent.
To put that figure in perspective, the second weakest sector overnight was utilities, which actually rose by a slight 0.1 per cent.
While shares in the technology giants Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix and Google plunged by as much as 3-6 per cent overnight, financial stocks enjoyed a strong lift as investors repositioned their portfolios.
Shares in JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and Bank of America posted gains, because investors have high hopes that the US Senate Republicans will pass a bill to cut corporate tax rates by Friday morning (AEDT).
They are also betting on the Federal Reserve announcing an interest rate hike in December.
The market has priced in a higher than 90 per cent chance of American interest rates rising next month.
Furthermore, the Commerce Department released its second estimate of GDP, which showed the US economy expanded by 3.3 per cent on an annual basis, beating market expectations.
The Dow Jones closed at a fresh record, rising 0.4 per cent to 23,941.
While the S&P 500 ended flat, the Nasdaq fell sharply by 1.3 per cent.
ASX futures have fallen by 0.1 per cent (7 points), which signals the local bourse is likely to open lower today.
In local economic news, the Bureau of Statistics will release its latest building approvals and private capital expenditure figures.
Reuters-polled economists are expecting building approvals in October to drop by 1.8 per cent.
"Our economists expect Australia’s capex [capital expenditure] report to reveal an increase of 1 per cent in the third quarter after a similar 0.8 per cent growth in the second quarter," said NAB's senior foreign exchange strategist Rodrigo Catril.
However, ANZ's economist were not as optimistic, and are instead expecting a 1.95 per cent drop.
"The number will be watched not only for its implications for third quarter GDP growth, but also broader business investment plans," said ANZ's Martin Whetton.
The Reserve Bank will also release figures on private sector credit.
The Australian dollar has fallen by 0.3 per cent to 75.70 US cents, as the greenback lifted over higher expectations of a US rate hike by mid-December.


As Adani angles for Chinese money for its giant coal mine in North Queensland, China's Australian embassy has made clear that any backing from Chinese state enterprises would need central government approval.
Senior embassy officials have also told opponents of the mining venture that no applications for funding have been made, despite Adani insiders claiming recently that finance from China had been secured.
Over the past month, businessman and environmentalist Geoff Cousins and prominent investment banker Mark Burrows, AO, have held talks with Chinese embassy officials in Canberra to lobby against Adani's Australian project, amid reports Adani was close to finalising a deal for Chinese backing.
"Myself and Mark Burrows went to see senior officials from the Chinese embassy; we explained that China might think that Australians supported the Adani mine and we gave them a lot of evidence that that was not the case," Mr Cousins told the ABC.
"The Chinese embassy was very forthright in saying that investment from a Chinese corporation would require the approval of the central government and that also no such proposal had been put."

A director of Adani's Australian subsidiary Adani Mining recently boasted at a public function that Adani had secured finance from China and would soon be announcing the deal.
Although it disputed a report that it would no longer require a loan from the Northern Australia Infrastructure Facility, Adani has not denied reports that finance from China was imminent.
"I'm aware of that," Mr Cousins said.
"It's just another in the series of lies that Adani has told the public of Australia and the Australian Government.
"I mean, these things are simply not true.
"If you went back through the history of Adani's statements in Australia since this project was first mooted, they have never met a single deadline that's been set and they have told so many of these lies that I can't believe that they haven't been held to account for them."
Adani has on numerous occasions pushed back the start date for the mine.
Adani had claimed it would have finance in place by the end of this year and, later, said it expected to finalise finance by the end of the Indian fiscal year in March.
Nonetheless, opponents of the Adani mine are clearly worried by the prospect of China providing finance for the venture.
Yesterday, 15 environment and conservation groups wrote to the chairman and president of China Machinery Engineering Corporation (CMEC), which has been linked to the Carmichael mine and railway.

The letter described it as an environmentally unsound, financially risky venture, said it was deeply unpopular with most Australians, and asked CMEC to clarify its intentions.
CMEC has removed from its website a statement about meeting executives from Adani and its engineering contractor, Downer EDI, which expressed CMEC's desire to be involved in the venture.
Mr Cousins and Mr Burrows met officials at China's embassy in Canberra on November 14, with Mr Cousins having a further telephone conference on November 23.
Mr Cousins said his approach to the Chinese embassy was prompted in part by the actions of Coalition MP Barnaby Joyce and trade minister Steve Ciobo who wrote to Chinese officials in support of Adani's Carmichael mine.
"There's a letter from the Australian Government to a foreign government offering support for a commercial enterprise that isn't even an Australian company. It's a foreign company," Mr Cousins said.
"I've been in business a long time one way or another; I don't think I've even heard of such a letter being written previously."

In his meetings with Chinese embassy officials, Mr Cousins praised China's progress on its commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and its global leadership on addressing climate change.
"It's fair to say that China has filled the leadership vacuum that has been left by the United States' withdrawal," he said.

"I can't speak for what China may eventually decide, but I seriously doubt it would want to damage its international reputation and the wonderful progress it has made by funding such a disastrous project.
"It just seems at odds with government policy. I mean, the most senior government officials only recently came out and made statements that made it quite clear that they wanted to protect and develop their reputation in these areas."
Chinese funding for the project is becoming more critical as prospects for a subsidised loan of up to $1 billion from the Northern Australia Infrastructure Facility for the mine railway fade.
The Labor Party, which looks likely to form a government in Queensland, has pledged to effectively veto the loan.
Pauline Hanson's One Nation Party, which has secured at least one seat in the state parliament, is also opposed to the loan.
Banks across the globe have refused to fund the Carmichael coal mine because of doubts about its financial viability and its potential to worsen global warming.


In the aftermath of allegations around TV personality Don Burke, Channel Nine has established a helpline where employees can access an independent counselling service and report instances of "past behaviour" within the organisation.
A joint ABC/Fairfax investigation uncovered claims from a number of women who worked with Burke in the late 1980s and 1990s.
It comes in the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal, with women all over the world revealing their experiences of workplace sexual harassment.
CEO Hugh Marks announced the helpline in an email to staff, saying the organisation "can and will take steps to ensure that former employees, perhaps with old grievances, are supported".
Mr Marks said any matters which were raised and required further action would be addressed appropriately either internally or, if required, externally of Nine.
"In light of the appalling allegations this week of sexual assault, harassment and misconduct by Don Burke I wanted to write to all staff to reaffirm Nine's commitment to maintaining a culture that is inclusive, supportive and respectful," Mr Marks said.

"As much as we might like to sometimes we unfortunately cannot rewrite history.
"… It is fundamental that as a team we all share some simple expectations. And it is in this context that we all accept our role in ensuring we have and maintain a culture that has zero tolerance of inappropriate workplace behaviour.
"Everyone is entitled to come to work at Nine confident that our workplace is safe and that inappropriate behaviour will be dealt with effectively."
The counselling will be provided to former employees without charge.


Perth is set to become the first Australian city, and one of the first places in the world, to trial on-demand driverless cars capable of picking up passengers.
Operating in much the same way as ride-sharing services like Uber, customers will be able to order a ride using a smart-phone app.
A car will then arrive to take them wherever they need to go — only without a driver.
The WA Government has partnered with the Royal Automobile Club (RAC) and the French company behind the technology, NAVYA, to bring several driverless cars to the state for testing next year.
Perth was one of three cities chosen for the trial, the others being Paris and a US city yet to be announced.
The vehicles are set to arrive in April 2018 and will be tested on private roads before being taken onto city streets later in the year.

Members of the public will be able to sign up to be passengers during the public road tests, in much the same way as the trials of an automated shuttle bus in South Perth, also made by NAVYA.
Unlike the bus, the driverless cars have leather seats for six passengers and can reach a maximum speed of 90 kilometres an hour.
But it is expected that like the buses, speeds will be regulated during trials — and the RAC will also have a human chaperone onboard, capable of overriding the computer systems.
When operating automatically, the vehicles employ multi-sensor technology including four radars, six cameras and two links to global navigation satellite systems.

The features give the vehicles 3D perception that allows them to map the environment, detect obstacles and respond accordingly.
RAC WA's CEO Terry Agnew said it was hoped driverless technology could one day eliminate the 90 per cent of road crashes that were caused by human error.
He said the technology would tie in nicely with Perth's existing transport systems, and suggested the trial could put the city at the forefront of the "driverless revolution".
"The driverless passenger vehicles will largely be shorter journeys, they'll be inner-city and very often they might be simply connecting people up to public transport," he said
"So it complements the existing system rather than replacing it.
"It's very important with any new technology to stay ahead of the pack and this is the logical next phase."
Mr Agnew said while the technology was very close — with the service potentially operating by 2021 — it was important the community was ready for it and participated in the trial.
"It gives them the opportunity to try rather than read about it or be told about it," he said.
"Quite often you can see new technology is introduced and the community isn't ready for it.
"We want to ensure that Western Australians are ready for that."
There is no definite timetable for when the public trials will begin, with the RAC saying they will not go ahead until both it and the State Government are entirely comfortable.


Underutilised bus services in Perth are costing the WA Government more than $410 million a year, a new report has found, as fewer people catch buses and services become less efficient.
The cost is set to rise nearly $40 million over the next three years unless fares are increased, more people start catching buses or operating costs are slashed, the report by auditor-general Colin Murphy has found.

Mr Murphy said just 17 per cent of the cost of running the service in the past financial year — $85 million — was recouped in passenger fares.
"Despite increased capacity, higher frequency services and coverage of new residential areas, fewer people are using buses now than four years ago," the report found.
"As a result, revenue from fares dropped 7.7 per cent between 2012-13 and 2016-17.
"Bus services are 28 per cent less efficient than 10 years ago. It now costs $1.18 per passenger kilometre compared with $0.92 (in real terms) in 2006-07."

It recommended the best way to reduce costs would be to for the Public Transport Authority (PTA) to cut routes, especially those that duplicate train routes.
Cutting the six services that run non-stop along Kwinana Freeway between Canning Bridge and Elizabeth Quay, for example, would save an estimated $4 million and 100,000 bus trips a year.
"PTA has good information about bus routes and how passengers use the network, but it is not using it effectively to identify which service changes will produce the greatest efficiencies," Mr Murphy found.

Bus services were contracted out to private companies in 1998, a move that was expected to save $40 million per year.
Instead, costs are rising to an "unsustainable" level, and there are significant further outlays on the horizon, Mr Murphy found.
Replacement of ageing buses and expansion of the current fleet is set to cost the PTA almost $680 million over a 10-year period, including the replacement of its entire fleet 512 compressed natural gas buses.
The PTA has tried to get more bus priority lanes installed in a bid to boost passenger numbers.
"But PTA does not own the roads and there is no specific enabling legislation to establish bus priority measures. This often results in substantial delays," the report found.
In response to the report, the PTA said its contracting arrangements followed world's best practice and bus operators from around the world had copied its model.
However, it said Perth's low density "brings with it the very difficult challenge of balancing … obligations to provide a reasonable level of service to the more vulnerable people in our community, who often have no alternative transport options, and making the most efficient use of our available resources."
About 15 per cent of homes in Perth do not have easy access to bus services.
The PTA said it was looking at "new and innovative" ways to boost passenger numbers, but it was confident this would happen as the economy improved.


Armed landowners in the Papua New Guinea highlands say they have blocked access to gas wells because of an ongoing dispute with the Government over the payment of royalties.
The landowners in PNG's Hela province have cut down trees and blocked roads and say they have stopped police from taking back control of the area.
They are demanding the PNG Government pay them outstanding royalties, which are the subject of a protracted legal dispute.
"They have cut down trees from wellhead B to G, blocking the roads," said Dickson Ango, the chairman of one of the petroleum development licence areas.
"The security personnel have withdrawn and landowners have taken control of that area."
Mr Ango said the landowners were protesting the PNG Government's failure to pay a promised 20 million kina ($AUD8 million) in royalties for the gas.
They promised to pay to the landowners — they even wrote a dummy cheque and gave it to the landowners — but that money was not in the account," Mr Ango said.
"They showed us the cheque and they said, you see it, you feel it, you touch it and then they withdraw it and they never pay it to us."

The PNG Government has previously said it cannot pay royalties to some landowner groups because of disputes over clan vetting and an ongoing legal case.
It has been negotiating with landowners in an attempt to resolve the disputes and prevent unrest at the project and along the pipeline.
The operator of the PNG Liquefied Natural Gas project, ExxonMobil, said its production was continuing at normal levels, but it has withdrawn all non-essential staff from the area.
"ExxonMobil PNG is continuing to monitor ongoing tension in the Highlands (Hides, Angore, Komo) areas," a spokeswoman said.
"Staffing at the Hides Gas Conditioning Plant remains at essential personnel only.
"The Hides Gas Conditioning Plant is operating safely at normal production levels."
Police in Hela Province were not able to be reached for comment.
Hela Province has been the scene of some of PNG's worst tribal fighting over the past four years, with provincial authorities estimating at least 200 people have been killed.


The consumer watchdog has launched Federal Court action against Australia's largest caravan manufacturer, Jayco Corporation, over faulty caravans.

The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) alleges the company tried to prevent customers from getting refunds after they were sold defective caravans, costing tens of thousands of dollars.
It is alleged that between 2013 and 2015, Jayco breached consumer laws when it knew the caravans were faulty, even after repeated and failed attempts to repair them.
The ACCC said it had received numerous complaints about the company's behaviour but had taken action on behalf of four customers.
"The numerous defects in the Jayco caravans sold to these four consumers became apparent at the time of purchase or very soon after, and included issues such as misalignment in the roof, which did not close properly and leaked," ACCC chairman Rod Sims said.
Mr Sims said despite repeated requests for refunds or replacements, the company failed to comply with the law by telling buyers they could only get repairs.
"This understandably caused a lot of distress for the customers," he said.
Jayco is a family-owned Victorian business and has been operating since 1975.
Its website states the company has built over 180,000 RVs to date.
The ACCC said the legal case illustrated a more systemic problem with the industry.
While action is only being taken against Jayco, the watchdog said it had received more than 1,000 complaints about caravans.
"This is an industry that does need to be put on notice," Mr Sims said.
"Our aim is to change behaviour and say to the industry, you should not be behaving like this."
Mr Sims said caravans were not quick, easy purchases and it could be very distressing to get the run-around from a company.
"People put great weight on these purchases and they aren't purchases that are made often," he said.
"People are entitled to expect that the caravan they purchase will be of acceptable quality."
The ACCC is seeking financial penalties, consumer redress orders, and costs.
A spokesperson for Jayco said it had no comment at this stage.
The Jayco models in the ACCC's sights are the Swan Outback camper trailer, the Expanda pop-top caravan, the Expanda Outback pop-top caravan, and the Journey Outback pop-top caravan.


Australian music has a pretty big problem: not enough people are listening to it.
At least, that's if you go by the Australian pop charts.
Last week there were only two songs by Australian artists in the ARIA top 50 singles chart. This week, as Australian artists celebrate another ARIA awards, there are three.

In the US Billboard top 50, by contrast, all but a handful of tracks are homegrown.
Junkee reported in August there still had not been an Australian song hit number 1 in Australia in 2017. That trend has continued.
Music publicist Stephen Green said the problem was complex.
"I think the concern most people have at the moment about the complete lack of Australian music in the charts is whether it's actually a systemic, structural thing," he said.
Streaming, quickly becoming the most common way people consume music, is now what most informs the make-up of the ARIA singles charts, since digital download numbers are declining and physical CD singles no longer exist.
"As the streaming market has become a global, not a local, market, in our view Australian artists may be disadvantaged as they may not be as well-known internationally," Maria Amato, CEO of the Australian Independent Record Labels Association, said.
Not appearing in the charts has flow-on effects, because the big radio stations play the hits. They may be less inclined to give prominence to Australian songs in popular timeslots if few are charting.
"It's the chicken and the egg situation," Mr Green said. "How do you have a hit if no-one is playing your song?"
Some in the industry say the popularity of playlists on streaming platforms like Spotify, Apple Music and Google Play is an issue. The really popular playlists are curated overseas; Australian artists often don't feature.
But Spotify said nine out of the 10 top playlists that drive streams in Australia predominately feature "domestic repertoire".

Yes.
About 25 per cent of the music they play must be local. However, some believe they are not hitting their mark.
"From the data we've seen, commercial radio may not in some instances be strictly compliant with the quota," Ms Amato said.

"Our concern longer-term is that a singles chart biased against Australian artists will just reinforce commercial radio's arguments against local content."
APRA, the peak body for distributing royalties to musicians when their music is played on the radio, is looking into the accuracy of the local content reports commercial radio stations publish.
It said it would review Commercial Radio Australia's upcoming report on quota compliance "extremely carefully", comparing it against its own data, to make sure they are hitting the mandated targets.
"If you talk to people in radio," Mr Green said, "they are there to play the hits, and Australian music is not in the charts, therefore they are not playing Australian music.
"Which obviously then means people aren't hearing it, therefore it doesn't get in the charts, and it's a spiral situation down."
But Joan Warner, chief executive officer of Commercial Radio Australia, said claims commercial stations were not hitting their quotas, or doing so by filling non-peak shifts with Australian music, were "mischievous, ill-informed and just plain wrong".
"The commercial radio industry is a big supporter of Australian music, with on average one in every five tracks played being Australian," she said, adding that many commercial stations played more Australian music than they were required to.
The ABC's triple j has a self-imposed quota of 40 per cent.

There are no easy answers, but some suggest the streaming giants have a role to play.
Mr Green suggested Spotify might, for example, give more prominence in algorithms to playlists curated in Australia, and the industry could, "work with Apple and Spotify to work out how Australian-based playlists can be recommended to people at a higher [rate]".
Spotify, which has emphasised growth in the music industry and decline in music piracy since it launched in Australia five years ago, is encouraging "more open dialogue" on the issue.
"Whilst we are already having conversations with key stakeholders in the industry on this topic, we must also acknowledge that we are just one part of a local ecosystem that must work collaboratively on this issue," Alicia Sbrugnera, senior music editor at Spotify Australia & NZ, said.
Chris Bowen, CEO of Music Australia, said he had heard increasing talk of the need for more Australian-curated playlists, but that it was still early days — that the industry was still figuring out how to champion Australian music in the streaming age.



Usually people jump out of planes to get their kicks but two French daredevils have gone one better: boarding a plane mid-air.
First, they had to jump off a mountain.

Video shows wingsuit fliers Fred Fugen and Vince Reffet leaping off Switzerland's Jungfrau mountain.
The pair soar low over the frozen landscape as they approach the small plane.
It is silent, except for the whistling wind, and soon, the sounds of a man in the plane calling out an unusual instruction for a plane mid-flight.
"Go for entry, go for entry," he says.
The pair hurtle through the open door and cheers ring out.
The fliers, along with pilot Philippe Bouvier and navigator Yves Rossy, completed more than 100 practice flights in preparation for the spectacular stunt with many attempts not going to plan.



Welcome to Queensland's Sunshine Coast — where having a full-time job, degree and trade qualification is not enough to fund rental housing.
Daniel, who did not want to use his last name, grew up in Sydney and would often drive past social housing complexes but never imagined he would need housing support — especially not at as he approached the age of 40.
"I didn't think I was going to find myself in a situation where I needed to rely on this," he said.
"I have a trade, I have a degree, I work 50 hours a week and I've been permanently employed from 20 years since I left school."
After moving from Sydney to the Sunshine Coast, Daniel and his wife Sophie struggled to find a suitable home.
The couple needed room for their young son Luka as well as a house on one level to accommodate Sophie, who is recovering from a stroke.
"We were almost in crisis — to use the word — we probably spent six months and found nothing that suited us," Daniel said.
"I'd always been told — Queensland, Sunshine Coast, lower cost of living — you'll be fine.
"Rental prices are cheaper compared to Sydney, but the wage is considerably lower as well, so I found for the first time in my life that I was in a predicament."
Daniel and his family are not alone — the national Rental Affordability Index has ranked the Sunshine Coast region among the least affordable for tenants, compared to average incomes.
The index shows for a household on the median Sunshine Coast income — $65,000 per year — looking for a three-bedroom house, which is the standard size for the region, all suburbs are rated either "unaffordable" or "severely unaffordable".

National Shelter, the lobby group that helps compile the index, said there were 1.3 million Australian households in housing stress, meaning they spent more than one-third of their income on rent.
A glance at rental property listings on the Sunshine Coast shows how difficult it can be to find a reasonably-priced rental.
In Noosa Heads, one of the suburbs ranked least affordable, the cheapest house for rent is $700 per week — a big stretch for someone on less than $80,000 per year.

Even a hinterland suburb like Eumundi is difficult — you will need a $960 a week to afford the only rental available there.

The Real Estate Institute of Queensland (REIQ) estimates that for the past five years, the Sunshine Coast has had a rental vacancy rate of just 1 per cent.
Andrew Elvin got so fed-up with the rental problems in his area that he set up his own not-for-profit agency, Purpose Real Estate, to help people find affordable rents.
"Families are paying at least 30 per cent or 40 per cent of their household income just to pay the rent and this is an issue that really needs to be addressed," Mr Elvin said.
Eventually, Mr Elvin helped Daniel and his family find a home in Peregian Springs.

But even with a cheaper arrangement, there is only $400 left after rent each week.
"Four-hundred dollars sounds like a lot, but after you spend $80 on petrol, more on groceries — you can imagine how quickly it goes," Daniel said.
"We all go through certain circumstances, change — you take on a new family, move to a new area, and you find yourself in a situation.
"It's just fantastic that there was support available for us."



A milk plant in Tasmania's north-west has been sold to a Thai company a day before it was to close, with one worker describing the months of waiting as a "rollercoaster ride".

Murray Goulburn has sold its plant at Edith Creek to Dutch Mill — a company originally from Thailand with an Australian subsidiary.
The announcement came via a press release issued today, 24 hours before the company was set to close the doors.
Dutch Mill has already been purchasing dairy farms in the Circular Head region.
Mayor Daryl Quilliam, whose council incorporates the Edith Creek area, said it was good news for the small community of about 8,000 people.
"They're going to continue operate it as a factory, I'm not exactly sure what products but it will be similar products to what has been made out there in the past," Alderman Quilliam said.
"They will require a lot of the people that have been there in the past, so that's great news."

For Brendan Costello, an electrician at Edith Creek, the news came as a complete surprise.
"It's been pretty hard a lot of mixed emotions and some people are still not sure what they're doing.
"It's a bit of a rollercoaster ride, to be honest."
Mr Costello welcomed the announcement, and said he hoped the new owners would continue to employ locals.
"It's just great to see that there is a future there, especially after months of uncertainty."
Workers have previously told the ABC they have been left in the dark during the sale process.

Dutch Mill Australia said Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) approval did not apply to the sale.
The threshold for FIRB approval is $55 million.
The ABC understands rival offers for the facility were in the region of $12 million to $19 million.
Anthony Guinness, spokesperson for Dutch Mill Australia, said the company expected to open the plant in the second quarter of 2018.
"What is important to us is engaging with the community in that three-month period and talking to them about milk supply ... about employment and that's obviously very much in the minds of those out of work as of tomorrow," he said.
He said there were no concrete plans on what would be produced at the factory and the Federal and Tasmanian governments had not offered inducements to buy it.
"We'll be talking as how we best go about that, once we've assessed what products can be economically produced at that site," Mr Guinness said.
Dutch Mill currently owns six dairy farms in the region.
Murray Goulburn said the factory's closure would go ahead tomorrow as planned because the sale would not be completed until early 2018.
"We thank Edith Creek employees for their significant contribution to Murray Goulburn," company CEO Ari Mervis said in a statement.
"The decision to close this processing site was difficult to make, however a necessary step on the journey to ensure the competitiveness of Murray Goulburn.
"We congratulate Dutch Mill on their acquisition of Edith Creek, and wish them well for the future," Mr Mervis said.
"Murray Goulburn continues to employ approximately 55 people across our Smithton processing facility, Murray Goulburn Trading store and in the Field Services team supporting local suppliers," a company spokesperson added.
Tasmania's Labor and Liberal parties welcomed the news in separate statements.


Australia is in the grip of a housing crisis and the rental market is failing too many people — especially older women, according to the latest Rental Affordability Index (RAI).

The report, released today by the National Shelter, Community Sector Banking and SGS, found low-income households could no longer afford to live in metropolitan areas.
Pensioners and students were the most vulnerable, with some of them winding up homeless.
Adrian Pisarski, executive officer of National Shelter, was involved with compiling the index and said there was, "virtually no affordable housing in any Australian city for people on low incomes".
"This is now representative of a true housing crisis in Australia and a true market failure," he said.
Sydney remained the worst city to rent, bleeding some households of almost 90 per cent of their incomes.
Hobart was the second worst area, due to the number of people there living on low incomes.
And then it was glitzy holiday destinations like Noosa on the Sunshine Coast, or the Gold Coast in south east Queensland.


Mr Pisarski said problems arise when lower-income households spend more than a third of their income on rent.

"We are expecting that homelessness would have risen quite sharply," he said.
"All of the reports that we get from services across Australia is their services are under increasing stress.
"We know that there have been many reports about older people suffering from homelessness, older women in particular."
In addition to urgent tax reforms to stop over-priced property investment, Mr Pisarski said the private sector needed to invest more in community housing.
"We need to have the right incentives in place to encourage a build-to-rent sector in Australia," he said.

Plunging into homelessness can happen in the blink of an eye.

Julie, 61, experienced it first hand after having to leave her well-paid job.
"I could not deal with day-to-day things like paying my rent, just paying bills basically," she said.
"This led to me losing everything — house, car, you name it.
"At the time I thought this was my own personal phenomena, how could this happen to people like me?
"But I don't think this is unusual, from what I understand these days."
Her situation was exacerbated by struggles with anxiety and depression.
But Julie, who did not want to give her last name, said Centrelink just was not enough to pay rent in Melbourne.
"I couldn't afford to think about private rental, because I couldn't control my life," she said.
"I became sleeping at friends, to actually going up to the high country and sleeping in cattlemen's huts."


Parts of Adelaide's foothills and foreshore are now officially unaffordable for renters, the latest Rental Affordability Index (RAI) has revealed.
The RAI is generated biannually by housing advocacy organisation National Shelter, Community Sector Banking and SGS Economics and Planning.
The index has identified Adelaide's least affordable rental suburbs as Stirling, Echunga, Belair and Glenalta, where average households would pay up to 34 per cent of their income for a new rental.
The RAI classifies a suburb as "unaffordable" when the average rental price exceeds 30 per cent of the average household income.
Suburbs like Happy Valley, Flagstaff Hill, Henley Beach South, West Lakes and Tennyson also made the list of the city's least affordable suburbs for renters.
"There has been some change in the geographic spread of affordability in greater Adelaide," the RAI report stated.
"The situation in the foothill areas of Belair, Flagstaff Hill out to Happy Valley and Chandlers Hill has worsened since last release and are now considered unaffordable."
Affordability was also worsening in fast-growing outer areas including Mount Barker and Nairne.
Shelter SA's executive director Dr Alice Clark said the report confirmed that rental affordability was getting "worse and worse" in South Australia.
"If you're renting a place that's $1,000 a week and you're earning $5,000 a week, it's clearly not an issue," she said.
"But what we're particularly interested in is people living on low incomes who are paying more than 30 per cent of their income on their housing, and that can go as high as 70 per cent for some households.
"That leaves very little for people to live on and to afford very basic things, like food and electricity."

Unsurprisingly, outlying areas in Adelaide's north and south were more affordable than suburbs closer to the CBD.
Property manager Mark Leslie was critical of the report, saying it was simply "outlining the obvious".
"If renters go to the top suburbs in Adelaide, they will be unaffordable ... in any city in the world, you can pick out the most expensive suburbs and say they are unaffordable to renters," he said.
"That is like saying to a person buying their first car that a Mercedes, Jaguar and Rolls Royce are unaffordable and the costs of these cars needs to be reduced."
Mr Leslie said there were "plenty of homes available" in Adelaide's more affordable suburbs.
"I think this report is just trying to peddle fear in the community," he said.
According to the report, the average rental price for Adelaide overall was about 25 per cent of a household's income.
Dr Clark said Adelaide was now comparable to Sydney and Melbourne when viewed through the eyes of a prospective renter on a low income.
"In terms of people living on low incomes, Adelaide and South Australia [generally] are no different to the rest of the country," she said.
"We always hear so much about the eastern states but if you're living on a low income, there is nothing affordable in the private rental market."
Dr Clark said more investment in public housing and a greater focus on improving housing affordability nationally were needed to alleviate the problem.
"I think [the situation] is made worse in South Australia by the fact that we have such high unemployment," she said.
"We actually lack direction in terms of a national housing strategy ... targeted to improve housing affordability and reduce homelessness."


Banking stocks surged overnight, which sent the US and British stock markets flying.

Nearly every sector on Wall Street traded higher, with financials among the best performers.
Financials stocks had their biggest jump in more than two weeks, with JPMorgan and Bank of America shares soaring by 3.5 and 4 per cent respectively.
This was in reaction to comments made by Jerome Powell at his confirmation hearing before the US Senate Banking Committee.
Mr Powell is President Donald Trump's pick to be the new Federal Reserve chair next year.
The Fed chair-nominee said current banking regulations were "tough enough", and he supported "tailoring" regulations to alleviate the burden on smaller banks.
In addition, Mr Powell signalled the US central bank is likely to raise interest rates next month.
"The case for raising interest rates at our next meeting is coming together," Mr Powell said.
Asked if that meant the Fed would raise rates, he replied: "I think the conditions are supportive of doing that."
The Dow Jones was the index which had the largest gains, adding 1.1 per cent to 23,837.
This was followed by the S&P 500 (+1pc) and Nasdaq (+0.5pc).
In Europe, the financials sector lifted after the the Bank of England released its annual stress test results.
The BOE found the UK's seven largest banks would still be able to lend money even if Britain entered a "hard Brexit" scenario and left the European Union abruptly.
"The [BoE] ... judges that the banking system can continue to support the real economy, even in the unlikely event of a disorderly Brexit," BOE governor Mark Carney said at a news conference.
But he said it was in the interests of both Britain and the EU to reach a deal before Brexit in March 2019, despite slow progress so far.
"In the event of a sharp disorderly Brexit, there will be an economic impact on households, on businesses," Mr Carney said.
"There will be lost markets before new markets are found, and there will be some pain associated with that."
This was also the first time since 2014 — when the BOE launched its stress tests — that no bank needed to raise extra funds to strengthen its capital position.
London's FTSE was the best performing European bourse overnight, gaining more than 1 per cent to 7,561.
Given the strong lead from global stock markets, Australian shares are likely to open higher today.
SPI futures jumped by 0.7 per cent (or 40 points), which is also an indicator of the ASX's likely early-trade direction.
The Australian dollar fell slightly below the 76 US cent mark.
It has also dropped against the British pound (-0.4 per cent), but has strengthened against the euro (+0.4 per cent) and Japanese yen (+0.3 per cent).


Australia loves Paul Kelly again, Gang of Youths rocked out, Harry Styles got mildly political and Sia was so well camouflaged she could not be seen at the ARIA Awards.
At the awards ceremony on Tuesday night at Sydney's Star Casino, Gang of Youths cemented their status as one of Australia's leading rock bands by winning Album of the Year.
The Sydney band went into the ARIAs with the most nominations, and ended up winning Best Group and Best Rock Album for their creation Go Farther In Lightness.
On stage, lead singer David Le'aupepe stressed the importance of a multicultural Australia, pointing out that each member of the band was an immigrant.
"This country was built on a strong Indigenous people and on the backs of immigrants," the pacific islander frontman said.
"To be heralded in the cultural and entertainment landscape in Australia is quite something.
"The presumption of Pacific islanders is they play footy, do security or play R'n'B and that's just not the case."
The charismatic songwriter has dealt with intense mental health issues, attempting to end his own life in 2014, but his music is his victory march.
"A mate of mine gave me a ring and told me not to [end my life]," he said.
"I channelled all the horrible energy I had and put it into something meaningful and positive.
"A lot of people gawk at that but it gave me hope like I never had before."
The group's wins took their ARIA tally to four — the band won the Producer of the Year Award for the album with Adrian Breakspear in a ceremony earlier this year.

Music legend Kelly, who brought down the house with his classic hit Dumb Things, also won four awards including Best Male Artist and Best Adult Contemporary album for Life Is Fine.
Australia's favourite camouflaging artist Sia was crowned best female artist for her single The Greatest (featuring Kendrick Lamar), a strong win when all other nominees in the category were chosen for albums.
Her camouflage was so good, she was nowhere to be seen at The Star.
Whilst the night belonged to Gang of Youths and Kelly, some of music's biggest talents also used this year's ARIAs to make their voices heard on political issues.
Styles, who took out Best International Artist, took the opportunity to praise Australia on its recent Yes vote in the same-sex marriage postal survey.
"Congratulations on your latest political decision," the former One Direction member said.
Later during his performance of his latest single Kiwi, Styles experienced technical difficulties and started the song again, with host Richard Wilkins telling him "nothing's your fault man".

A.B. Original won best Urban and Best Independent Release for their controversial album Reclaim Australia which broaches issues including racism, Indigenous disadvantage and police brutality.
"We made this album in our community, for our community, from our community," said Briggs, one half of the duo with rapper Trials.
"Change doesn't come from being comfortable," he said.

"We made ourselves extremely uncomfortable making this album, trying to upset all those rednecks.

"Here's a new joint for our mums to put on the shelf," the rapper said when he was handed the award.
The musicians kept punching out the political messages.
All Our Exes Live in Texas snatched the award for Best Blues and Roots album for When We Fall, and lead singer Hannah Crofts took the opportunity to make a statement on the situation on Manus Island.
Crofts painted her nails with a slogan in support of 600 men who were still on the Papua New Guinea island.
"It's about bringing them home," she said.

Amy Shark, 31, whose hit Adore brought her massive chart and radio success, took out awards for Best Pop Release and Breakthrough Artist.
"My heart can't handle this," she said.
The Gold Coast indie star said getting to her "fairytale" 2017 was no walk in the park though.
"For so long there were many people who didn't respond ... my now husband was writing to people, sending my demo.
"I was very close to giving it all away."
New Zealand songstress Lorde, who has been touring Australia to rave reviews, performed a mash up of her hits Liability and Green Light, with her trademark wild dancing captivating the audience.

Kasey Chambers took out Best Country Album for Dragonfly and also the (unofficial) award for most excited recipient.
"Sorry I'm just freaking out," the country princess said.
The album was produced by Paul Kelly, who Chambers called "one of the biggest inspirations of my life".
Chambers also decided to touch on gender equality in the industry, in the same vein as Tina Arena's 2015 statement.
"A lot of negative stuff has been said about being a woman over 40 in the industry … but I f***ing love it!"

Rock icon Darryl Braithwaite, who has had a major resurgence among millennials with his 90s hit The Horses, has been be inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame.
He took the opportunity to reflect on his four-decades-long music career, which started with Sherbet and transformed into a solo career with 12 platinum records.
After Sherbet's break-up Braithwaite went on the dole for a while.
"I then worked on the roads for 10 weeks … it was then I realised I needed to keep making music," he said.
"If you're a young person who has that passion, please listen to the voice inside your head because it's really worth it."
The night built to a climax with Styles performing his latest single Kiwi to the crowd.
Also worth a mention — Jimmy Barnes wore a kilt while accepting his award for Best Children's Album for Och Aye The G'Nu, which is about a Scottish wildebeest.
Bringing his grandson Dylan and Blue Wiggle Anthony Field with him to the stage, he said he enlisted the help of the very best in kids music — The Wiggles — for this album.
"If you're going to make a kids album why not go to the top?"


Telstra's chief executive Andrew Penn said the company's HFC cables worked just fine until the NBN made "technology changes" to them and also admitted the company cannot tell customers how fast their NBN internet will be until after it is connected.

Speaking to The Business presenter Elysse Morgan during an American Chamber of Commerce in Australia (AmCham) lunch, Mr Penn said he supported NBN Co's decision to delay its rollout on the Hybrid Fibre Coaxial (HFC) network by six to nine months while it resolves technical problems leading to internet dropouts.
However, Mr Penn emphasised that those problems were not inherent in the cable, much of which was installed by Telstra.
"That is the same cable that currently provides internet services for Telstra's customers and also for Foxtel pay TV services and for those services it is absolutely fine and delivering a great experience," he said.
"It's in the process of NBN taking it and making whatever technology changes they are making to it where they have some issues."
It is not just HFC that is causing problems for NBN Co and telcos using its network, with several internet service providers compensating customers for slower-than-advertised speeds.

Telstra's boss said his company cannot accurately tell customers how fast their speeds will be until after they are connected.
"NBN cannot advise on what the actual speed is that's available in your home until it actually gets connected," Mr Penn said.
Pressed on how Telstra would advertise speeds to customers, Mr Penn said it promised a baseline and then offered upgraded speeds at an extra cost for customers whose connection could support it.
"Because NBN cannot tell us until they actually connect a home what speed they can provide to that particular home," he explained.
Despite the repeated problems with slower than anticipated internet speeds, dropouts and higher costs, Mr Penn said he did not expect that enough customers would abandon the NBN for mobile connections to make it redundant.
"I think you will see some customers on the fixed network decide to just go mobile only, but ultimately the laws of physics apply, and if you were to carry the same amount of data on a mobile network at a national level that is currently carried on a fixed network there would have to be such a very, very significant investment in mobile capacity," he said.
"There's no doubt that 5G and mobile will play a bigger role, my point is that it won't eliminate the NBN completely.

"It'll probably impact it as a business, because they'll probably ultimately have a smaller proportion of customers that they're serving, but it won't render it redundant completely."
As for the financial impact, Mr Penn said Telstra is still calculating the short-term cost of the latest delay in the NBN rollout and will update the market in the coming days, including whether there would be any further cut to the company's planned dividend.
"Financially, there's net-net no long term change, because this affects the timing of when we receive the various different payments but, as you can imagine, there's quite a lot of complexity in the relationship between NBN and Telstra financially," he said.


The 2017 ARIA Music Awards are underway with local and international talent hitting the red carpet at the Sydney's Star casino.
The music legends nominated could not be more diverse for the ARIA's 31st year, with something for everybody's tastes including Paul Kelly, Amy Shark, A.B Original, Jessica Mauboy and Illy.


And in what is sure to be a big moment, rock icon Daryl Braithwaite, who has had a major resurgence among millennials, will be inducted into the Hall of Fame.
Fans are in for a night of top entertainment with several nominees gracing the stage including Gang of Youths, Peking Duck, Dan Sultan and Pnau.
But from the crowd's reaction on the red carpet, the performances by the international acts, Harry Styles and Lorde, were hotly anticipated.
Styles sidestepped the media area completely, but fans went wild when he arrived just before the awards kick-off.



Indigenous duo A.B Original, who are nominated for six ARIA awards for their album Reclaim Australia, kept their expectations low before the ceremony.
The pair described 2017 as a long year.
"We're Indigenous so one year is like three for us. We've actually lived three years for your one. It's been wild," rapper Briggs said.
The rappers said they thought the album release would mark the end of their careers.
"We thought this was it — we thought we would do this and go out with a bang," Trials said
"We just thought we were going to make the best album rap for us … we didn't think anyone else would enjoy it," Briggs said.

"It feels great to be finally recognised," said indie-pop darling Amy Shark, a nominee today.
"The ARIAs is so special, its something we've watched as children so it's huge to be here.
"I was very close to giving it all away … but it was meant to be. It's been a big big year."

Gang of Youths frontman David Le'aupepe said he was feeling overwhelmed, but unlike last year he was walking the red carpet sober this time.
"Started doing this expecting nothing then here it is!" he said.
"Would be cool to win something."

Bliss n Eso are nominated for best song and best video for their song Moments and described how director Allan Hardy went to eight countries and shot kids in their natural environment.
MC Eso said his son was one of the kids in the video.

Braithwaite, the newest inductee into the Hall of Fame, said he was "honoured" to have been in the music industry for 50 years.
"I remember when Sherbet split and the solo thing came along, and I realised how much work went into it," Braithwaite said.
The singer, who's experienced a resurgence of his 1990s hit song Horses said it was "spooky hanging with all the young people".
"But it's a good responsibility … no plans to stop unless I die."

Pop band Client Liaison arrived in a smoking limousine, with band member and triple j Hack presenter Tom Tilley — who is still recovering from a motocross injury — pushed onto the red carpet in a wheelchair.



The Liberal Party has amped up its campaign against the South Australian Government over power — promising to appoint a "special investigator" on day one of any future Marshall Liberal government, to investigate Labor's early purchase of a power plant.
Premier Jay Weatherill and Energy Minister Tom Koutsantonis this morning exercised an option to purchase nine aero-derivative turbines, which it currently leases from US company APR Energy.
They are meant to provide up to 270 megawatts of backup generation should the state face the risk of blackouts over the next two summers.
The Government plans to take the nine turbines from their temporary diesel configuration at Elizabeth and Lonsdale and connect them at a permanent location, to become a gas-fired backup generator.
Under its contract with APR Energy, the Government was not required to exercise its purchase option until December 2018.
But the Premier said there was no good reason not to make a call before the election.
"This decision is an important decision to take now so we can put in place the planning arrangements, the commissioning arrangements, the selection of site and the preparation of ground works so that we can be in this power plant on the ground by the time of the next summer," Mr Weatherill said.
In a sign of just how politically charged the energy debate has become, the Premier and Energy Minister signed the contract alongside a stack of contracts relating to the privatisation of South Australia's electricity network under then-Liberal treasurer Rob Lucas 17 years ago.

"What was done today is undo some of those signatures that bear Rob Lucas's name ... We undo some of the damage that Rob Lucas did," Mr Koutsantonis told reporters.
The Government has refused to detail the precise costs of leasing and buying the turbines, declaring the figures are "commercial in confidence".
But the Premier said all elements of his $550 million Energy Plan remained within budget.
Minutes before the contract was signed, deputy Liberal leader Vickie Chapman declared a Liberal government would appoint a "special investigator" to examine the decision to purchase the generators.
"If the Premier signs that contract today, on day one of a Marshall government we will commence an inquiry into this scandalous behaviour," Ms Chapman said.
"It's scandalous because the whole process of procurement is in secret."

"To do this in a hurry, to save their own skin on the eve of an election makes it all the more despicable.
"It's a stinking rotten scandal and it is not an acceptable standard of government and it is unacceptable that our grandchildren are left with this legacy."
Ms Chapman was not specific on what form the investigation would take, but raised the prospect of a judicial inquiry with royal commission powers.
"Every person that's involved in this scandal will be called to account with a Marshall Liberal government," she said.
The Premier Jay Weatherill said any such inquiry would be politically motivated.
"If there is to be a judicial inquiry it should be into the privatisation of ETSA," he said.
Ms Chapman was less clear on whether a Marshall Liberal government would seek to privatise the taxpayer-owned power plant.
The Opposition's power plan, released last month, contemplated continuing the temporary lease of the gas turbines, but not proceeding with the permanent purchase of a power plant.
Instead, a Liberal government would contract backup generation from the private sector.
Ms Chapman repeatedly refused to rule out whether that meant a Liberal government would sell the taxpayer-owned turbines.
"The inquiry has to happen first. Obviously we'll be guided by that," she told reporters.
"It may not be enforceable, who knows."
The latest fight over the South Australian Government's generators came as the Australian Energy Market Operator confirmed they might be used to help prevent blackouts in Victoria this Summer.
AEMO's summer readiness plan confirms the operator has used emergency powers to procure 1,150 megawatts of back-up generation and demand-side measures to help alleviate the risk of blackouts across the national grid.

The powers — known as the Reliability and Emergency Reserve Trader (RERT) function — will see AEMO source 884 MW of demand side response, which can be called upon at relatively short notice.
The RERT will also include 266 MW of temporary diesel generation — including 170 megawatts from the South Australian Government's turbines.
The Energy Minister Tom Koutsantonis has confirmed the State Government will be paid if it is called upon by AEMO to turn its generators on.
"We will get paid in the RERT system, but not enough to recover costs and we're not attempting to make profit. We're just helping with the running costs of the generator," he said.
AEMO's report says it is "well prepared" for the summer ahead.
"In South Australia, the State Government's energy plan will be an important contributor to delivering new generation and energy storage for use in emergency situations during the coming summer, if extreme conditions occur," the report said.


The push for a banking commission of inquiry has stalled again, with the Greens toughening their position on a bill being prepared by LNP senator Barry O'Sullivan.

Senator O'Sullivan's bill to set up an inquiry into the banking sector appeared to have enough support to pass both houses after two of his colleagues in the House of Representatives said they would support it.
But the Greens have now said they want the bill to be stronger, and they will not support it if it is introduced to the Senate this week in its current form.
The Greens are still negotiating with Senator O'Sullivan to add extra elements to the bill.
The Federal Opposition has been demanding a royal commission into banking.
But Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull is continuing to resist those calls saying: "We have made it very clear we are not going to establish a royal commission."
Senator O'Sullivan's push for a parliamentary inquiry is aimed at countering Mr Turnbull's resistance to the push for a royal commission.
A vote in Parliament cannot set up a royal commission but it can set up a commission of inquiry with similar powers.
The timing of Senator O'Sullivan's bill is now unclear.
The pressure over a banking inquiry has intensified after LNP backbencher Llew O'Brien said he was prepared to cross the floor to support it.
His LNP colleague George Christensen has already said he would cross the floor.

If they both voted for the bill with Labor and the crossbench, it would pass the Lower House.
Cabinet Minister Christopher Pyne has warned them against their agitation for an inquiry.
Mr Pyne said the Coalition needed to remain united.
"My message to all my colleagues is that disunity is death," Mr Pyne said.
"If anyone thinks they will do well by creating disunity, they don't do so.
"I've been in parliament for a quarter of a century, I can tell you that when parties are disunited they lose."


The surge in bitcoin's price is showing no signs of slowing down, and is within striking distance of the $US10,000 mark.

At 11:05am (AEDT), one bitcoin was worth $US9,733 ($12,793).
The digital currency has seen an eye-watering tenfold increase in its value since the start of the year and has more than doubled in value since the beginning of October.
Bitcoin's price has been helped in recent months by the announcement that the world's biggest derivatives exchange operator CME Group would start offering bitcoin futures.
The company said last week the futures would launch by the end of the year, though no precise date had been set.
So far, institutional investors have largely stayed away from the market, viewing it as a bubble — too volatile, risky and complex to invest other people's money into.
But some say the launch of the CME futures could lure in more mainstream investors.
"Promises of bitcoin futures opening the door to institutional money are supercharging the price," said Charles Hayter, founder of cryptocurrency data analysis website Cryptocompare.

The latest price surge brought bitcoin's market capitalisation — its price multiplied by the number of coins that have been released into the system — to more than $214 billion, according to industry website Coinmarketcap.
Meanwhile, the total estimated value of all cryptocurrencies surged to $401.9 billion.

That was even higher than US retail giant Wal-Mart's market cap by $22.5 billion, which topped the Fortune 500 list of biggest companies in 2017.
The staggering price increases seen in the crypto-market have led to multiple warnings from central bankers, investment bankers and other investors that it had reached bubble territory.
Some say it could prompt regulators in the West to crack down on the market in a similar fashion to China, where bitcoin exchanges were shut down earlier this year.
"Regulators know the rewards of cryptocurrency and blockchain could be huge but [they] have more than one eye on the catastrophic ramifications if good governance, stability and control are not preserved," said David Futter, a fintech partner at law firm Ashurst, in London.
"If the carrot of self-regulation proves insufficient, the regulators will not hesitate to use their stick."
Bitcoin's biggest rival, Ethereum, has seen even more stratospheric gains this year, up more than 6,000 per cent.
Each Ethereum unit is worth $633.41, with its market cap around $60.7 billion.
While the western world is yet to celebrate bitcoin's $US10,000 ($13,150) milestone, the digital currency is worth almost twice as much in Zimbabwe.
Bitcoin in Zimbabwe soared to about $23,659 on the local exchange on Tuesday, as investors continued to seek a safe haven for their money trapped in the banks.
Ousted president Robert Mugabe's 37-year rule left the country with a worthless currency, massive debts, and an estimated unemployment rate of more than 80 per cent.
In the grip of acute shortages of US dollars, Zimbabweans are piling into anything they think might retain value.
In contrast, bitcoin is seen as a volatile and highly speculative bet for most investors around the world, and many countries have dealt with it differently under their laws.
China and South Korea has banned fundraising through token launches (also known as initial coin offerings), whereby a new cryptocurrency is sold to finance a product development.
Russia's central bank said it would block websites selling bitcoin and its rival cryptocurrencies.
The European Central Bank told EU lawmakers last year, "they should not seek … to promote the use of virtual currencies" because these could, "in principle affect the central banks' control over the supply of money" and inflation.
Yet Japan in April recognised bitcoin as legal tender and approved several companies as operators of cryptocurrency exchanges but required them to register with the Government.
Reuters


The head of Australia's energy market regulator says the organisation has done everything possible to stave off further blackouts this summer, declaring she wants energy policy to become "boring" again.
The Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO) faced a blizzard of criticism last summer when power shortages caused mass blackouts in South Australia and put the energy grid in New South Wales under strain.
Since then, the Hazelwood Power Station in Victoria's LaTrobe Valley has also shut down — taking another 1,600 Megawatts of generation capacity out of the system.
But AEMO chief executive Audrey Zibelman said the regulator had built up reserves of energy which could be used to keep the lights on when demand peaked.
"I think we all want to make it better for Australians, we want to get back to the point where energy is boring and nobody is interested because we're doing it so well," Ms Zibelman said.
"We feel like we have solved many of the issues we were concerned about and are very prepared."
She said AEMO could deliver 800 megawatts of additional power from gas generators.

The regulator is also planning to ask big power users and utilities to cut their use of power when demand rises.
AEMO said that would allow them to pump more than 1,000 megawatts of power into the system if needed.

Still, AEMO is not guaranteeing the lights will stay on when temperatures soar.
The operator's summer readiness report said demand could be "precariously tight" if any major power generators are taken offline for maintenance.
And Ms Zibelman conceded the grid could still struggle if bushfires or other natural disasters forced several generators to shut down.
"We can't solve for every potential event … there are always things you can't anticipate and can't control," she said.
"[But] all in all — compared to last summer — we're in a good, strong position."


Australia's risk of a recession has fallen from one-third to about 20 per cent, with home prices only set for high single-digit percentage falls, according to independent economic analyst Gerard Minack.
In April, Mr Minack warned of one-in-three chance Australia would experience a recession in 2018 — its first in 27 years — but now he believes there is just a one-in-five chance the economy will shrink for two consecutive quarters.
Mr Minack told The Business that it is a pick up in business confidence and non-mining investment that is likely to stop Australia's economy going backwards.
"We have seen a significant pick up in business confidence," he said.
"If that's all I had, I wouldn't have changed things much, but we're also seeing corporates deliver on their optimism in terms of the labour market — we've had a cracking six months for hiring.
"And, finally, there's a twinkle in their eye when it comes to business investment."
The latest business investment figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics are due out on Thursday, and the typical forecast is for a 1 per cent rise over the September quarter.
Not that the renowned bear has suddenly turned into a bullish optimist.
"There's still a lot of problems out there, and my base case is still that we've got a year of exceptionally weak, tepid, anaemic growth heading into next year," Mr Minack added.
"But that downside risk, it's still there, but it's not quite as big as I thought it was three or six months ago."
The two biggest handicaps for the Australian economy remain weak wages growth and over-priced housing, according to Mr Minack.
He said there is some chance that rising employment will help the former.

"The best tonic for consumers, rather than capex per se, would be a pick-up in wages which, ultimately on measures we have, are at rock-bottom multi-decade lows, and that also is getting the consumer down," he observed.
On the issue of home prices, Mr Minack remains downbeat, but is not expecting a severe crash.
"My base case for now is it's a high single-digit percentage decline across the board, there'll be a lot of unevenness there but that sort of order of magnitude," he said.
"But then the even bigger uncertainty will be how do people respond to that, because it's obviously been something that's been helpful for sentiment and has encouraged people to spend more of their income than they have historically.
"And if they take fright then we have a recession, if they just get mildly cautious and conservative then that's probably the base case of very weak growth and, of course, if they don't respond at all then we can talk about bright times ahead."
As for the recent global share market rally, Mr Minack said it could have at least another year to run.
"Low volatility, low interest rates, steady inflation and high profitability, we've got them all," he said.
"You could take the view that conditions are as propitious as we've seen them in several decades to get a proper equity bubble.
"Now, by definition, a bubble is not sustainable, but you can't rule out that over the next one or two quarters we see equities put in some great returns building on the strength we've had this year as investors factor in what looks like a fairly cloudless sky on a 12 to 18 month view - cloudless in terms of the risks we can forecast."

However, while Mr Minack has traded his claws for horns over the next year, he remains a bear on the medium-term outlook.
"I don't think it's remarkable we've got an expansion underway globally, I think it's remarkable that it's taken eight or nine years of zero rates to get any growth at all," he said.
"To me it's symptomatic that we still are facing this secular stagnation — this period of low growth, low rates and this current expansion will be, I think, quite temporary."


About 150,000 people will leave their homes on the slopes of Mount Agung, Bali's Governor says, as the volcano's eruptions grow more powerful, while the island's main airport will close for another 24 hours due to ashfall.

Governor Made Pastika said the evacuation period for people living within 10 kilometres of the crater could easily last as long as a month.
Indonesia's disaster management agency said the evacuation is so far orderly and without panic.
Mount Agung has been hurling clouds of white and dark grey ash about 3,000 meters into the atmosphere since the weekend and lava is welling up in the crater, sometimes reflected as a reddish-yellow glow in the ash plumes.

Its explosions can be heard about 12 kilometres away.
Videos released by Indonesia's disaster management agency showed a mudflow of volcanic debris and water — known as a lahar — moving down the volcano's slopes.
It said lahars could increase because it is rainy season and the agency warned people to stay away from rivers.
Spokesman Sutopo Purwo Nugroho told a news conference in Jakarta that the danger zone affects 22 villages and about 90,000 to 100,000 people.
He said about 40,000 people have evacuated but others have not left because they feel safe or don't want to abandon their livestock.
"Authorities will comb the area to persuade them," he said.
"If needed we will forcibly evacuate them."
About 25,000 people were already living in evacuation centres after an increase in tremors from the mountain in September sparked an evacuation.
Lava rising in the crater "will certainly spill over to the slopes," Mr Sutopo said.
However life continued largely as normal in villages surrounding Agung on Tuesday, with residents setting up traditional markets and offering prayers as the volcano continued to spew tall columns of ash and smoke from its crater.
Mount Agung's last eruption in 1963 killed more than 1,000 people and razed several villages by hurling out pyroclastic material, hot ash, lava and lahar.
Indonesia's Volcanology and Geological Disaster Mitigation Centre warned that if a similar eruption occurred, it could send rocks bigger than fist-size up to 8 kilometres from the summit and volcanic gas a distance of 10 kilometres within three minutes.
Bali's Ngurah Rai airport will be closed for a further 24 hours, after being closed on Monday morning due to falling volcanic ash.
The airport said it will reassess the situation on Wednesday morning.
A report from local aviation navigation authorities showed that "aircraft flight channels are covered with volcanic ash", the transportation ministry said in a statement.


Airport spokesman Air Ahsanurrohim said 445 flights were cancelled on Monday, stranding about 59,000 travellers.
Another 30,000 passengers will be unable to leave via plane after today's closure.

Ten alternative airports have been prepared for airlines to divert inbound flights, including in neighbouring provinces.
The airport's closure is having a disruptive effect on flights around Indonesia and the region.
Bali is a hub airport in Indonesia with many flights transiting there for domestic as well as international destinations.
Planes that would have flown other routes on Monday were stuck on the tarmac in Bali.
Human Rights Watch Indonesia researcher Andreas Harsono said he was waiting for two hours at Jakarta's terminal 3 for his delayed flight to a domestic destination.
He said other flight delays had been announced at the terminal, which serves national carrier Garuda, and the departure area was filling up with many waiting passengers.
Indonesia's Directorate General of Land Transportation said 100 buses were being deployed to Bali's international airport and to ferry terminals to help travellers stranded by the eruption.

The agency's chief said major ferry crossing points had been advised to prepare for a surge in passengers and vehicles.
About 500 passengers have so far moved on to airports on the island of Java, but most are remaining on Bali and hoping the airport will resume operations.
Indonesia's Tourism Ministry said member hotels of the Indonesia Hotel and Restaurant Association would provide a night's free accommodation to people affected by the airport closure.
ABC/AP/Reuters


The ABC's board will be asked to reconsider triple j's decision to move the date of its highly successful Hottest 100 countdown away from Australia Day, according to the Communications Minister.

The scheduling change was announced yesterday and has caused significant brouhaha among politicians, with some criticising the ABC for seeking to "delegitimise" Australia Day.
Triple j management argue the Hottest 100 was not created as an Australia Day celebration, and it had consulted with its audience, the music industry and Indigenous Australians about whether changing the date was necessary.
"There are a relatively small number of people who have an issue with the fact that Australia Day is celebrated on January 26," Communications Minister Mitch Fifield told News Breakfast.
"I already have made my view clear to the ABC.
"And I'll be asking the board of the ABC, who have the ultimate programming and editorial responsibility, to reconsider this."
A statement from the ABC board published this morning said the decision to move the date of the countdown would "benefit everyone".
"Triple j's community continues to celebrate the countdown and the great music, now over an extended weekend, while the network has more time to join the rest of the ABC in providing comprehensive coverage of Australia Day," the statement said.
"Its 2018 program includes an interview with the Young Australian of the Year, and crosses to other Australia Day activities, including Indigenous events like Yabun."

The station's announcement yesterday included its special programming plans for Australia Day 2018. It will broadcast Australian artists all day and feature events including citizenship ceremonies and the Australia v England One Day International cricket series.
Mr Fifield initially said he was "bewildered" by yesterday's announcement.
"The ABC shouldn't be buying into this debate," he said in a statement.
"Australia Day is our national day. The ABC should honour it and not mess with the Hottest 100."

Fellow Liberal MP Alex Hawke also shared his disappointment on the decision in an interview with the radio station's news and current affairs program, Hack.
"It's hard to see how it can't be interpreted as a little bit political," he said.
"There has been this conversation started by some protest groups about Australia Day being held on January 26, and there's no real clear reason why we need to move the Hottest 100 away from January 26, Australia Day.
"I don't understand it. I think the Government doesn't understand it.
"The Government's view is that Australia Day should continue to be held on January 26 and it's an appropriate day to mark the good things about our history and the things that aren't so good about our history."


A number of signs are pointing to the Australian share market opening lower today.

The price of key commodities, iron ore and copper, fell by 0.9 per cent each overnight.
Global markets are providing a weak lead, with Wall Street ending its day with a lacklustre performance.
The US market hit record highs in early trade, driven by a surge in Cyber Monday online retail sales.
Amazon saw a 0 per cent rise in its share price after data from Adobe Analytics showed the retailer's Black Friday online sales rose nearly 17 per cent from last year.
But Wall Street has since retreated from those highs.
Telecommunications and utilities were the sectors which posted the highest gains — both rising by 0.6 per cent each.
Most S&P sectors traded flat, while the energy sector was the worst performer — falling by more than 1 per cent.
Chevron and Exxon Mobil shares slipped by 0.8 and 0.4 per cent respectively.
The drop in energy stocks was due to a fall in US oil prices, amid concerns about the outcome of the OPEC meeting later this week.
At this meeting, the world's largest oil producers and Russia will discuss a potential extension of production cuts to curb a global supply glut.
ASX futures have fallen by 0.2 per cent, which is another sign of a lower open for the local share market.
Although there has been a drop in commodity prices, gold was the exception — lifting by 0.5 per cent to $US1,294.
The Australian dollar is weaker against the US dollar (-0.1 per cent), Japanese yen (-0.6 per cent) and New Zealand dollar (-0.5 per cent).
But the local currency strengthened against the British pound (+0.1 per cent) and euro (+0.3 per cent).


A tourism development proposed for Cleland Wildlife Park is just "pre-election glitter" and would destroy the natural aesthetic of the Adelaide Hills, a former state MP who opposed a cable car plan in the area nearly 30 years ago has said.
The State Government has released concept plans for the wildlife park and is now searching for investors to make it a reality.
The plans were designed by businessman Allan Zeman, who is known for turning Hong Kong's Ocean Park into a bigger success than Hong Kong's Disneyland.
"We're excited by it and we want to see whether others are similarly excited by it," Premier Jay Weatherill said while unveiling the plans on Monday.
Former Democrats MP Ian Gilfillan was a vocal opponent of a proposal for a cable car in the same area in 1989.
That proposal was eventually rejected by State Cabinet under the leadership of then-premier John Bannon.

Mr Gilfillan said Mr Zeman's ideas — which included a cable car, hotel, zip lines and an Australiana shopping precinct — should be rejected.
"A cable car [in particular] … in the crest of the hills will be nothing other than a constant irritant and an eyesore to anyone who is appreciating the view from Adelaide, looking at that lovely range," he said.
"Cable cars are a dime a dozen all over the world, but unspoiled hill faces as Adelaide's got … are unique."
He said it would create a negative impact on both flora and fauna, including the natural movement of birds and smaller animals.
"It wouldn't have any attraction from anyone who really cares about wildlife," Mr Gilfillan said.
"It seems to me that it's a bit more like pre-election glitter than a serious proposal, and I hope it doesn't get any further," he said.
Mr Weatherill, in revealing the concept plan, said the proposal would be approached in a sensitive and consultative manner.
Australian businessman Lindsay Fox, a friend of Mr Zeman, yesterday said he was considering investing in the proposal but wanted to see more detail.
The state election is scheduled for March next year.


The union representing teachers in Tasmania has been accused of bullying staff, acting in an anti-union fashion and creating a culture of mistrust.
The ABC has obtained a letter that was sent to about 50 Australian Education Union (AEU) councillors on behalf of staff who are represented by the Australian Services Union (ASU).
The AEU in Tasmania represents about 6,000 education workers, and is headed by Roz Madsen, who is also the president of Unions Tasmania.
The damning letter outlines questionable redundancies and the disregard of an existing staff agreement as the union undergoes a restructure.
The ABC understands almost a quarter of the 21 AEU staff are on stress-related leave or have made workers compensation claims.
"We are informed that over a long period some employees perceive or believe that they have been subjected to bullying," the letter reads.
"We believe that the recent changes that are being made under the restructure are not in line with union values and beliefs."
The letter claims that under the restructure, some workers had been made redundant only to be replaced by contract workers.
It said the ASU is of the view that the AEU is "unreasonably disregarding" clauses in an existing staff agreement, while a new agreement is negotiated.
Negotiations have been going for 12 months, unsuccessfully.
"We are not against the changes being made to the AEU … however the resulting outcomes for some of your AEU staff has been disappointing, with many people being unfairly disadvantaged and treated without due regard to reasonable union values and industrial relations procedures," the letter reads.
The ASU, which represents most of the staff, claims employees who hold permanent positions have been told they will need to apply for new fixed-term contract roles or that they no longer have a job and will be made redundant.
"Is this ethical or moral for a union organisation to behave in this way towards their employees?" the letter asks.
"The mental health and wellbeing of some staff has been affected, which has resulted in two employees claiming workers compensation and others having to take sick leave due to the stressful situation that they have found themselves in."
In a statement, AEU Tasmania state manager Roz Madsen said the union had "undergone some changes in order to better serve the interests of Tasmania's hard working teachers, principals and support staff in our public schools and TAFE".
"Our focus now is on securing the additional staff and other supports that are urgently needed in our schools and TAFE to ensure a quality education for all," Ms Madsen said.


A year during which the market exceeded all expectations ends not with investors backing off but rather with them throwing caution to the wind.
The trend was particularly prevalent among those who prefer index funds, as ETFs saw their second-biggest week of inflows ever at $31.4 billion, according to fund flow data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Active strategies, as expressed through mutual funds, saw huge outflows, with the $22.7 billion leaving the fourth-worst week on record. However, the difference of $8.7 billion still left the equity side of the ledger with a big week.
Speculation continues to build that the bull market is running out of steam, even as the major indexes continue to set records. The Dow industrials are threatening to break 25,000 as 2017 winds to a close, with the index up just shy of 25 percent including Friday's gains as of midday. The blue chips would need to pick up just another 1.5 percent or so to break the 25K barrier.


Fitbit won't be profitable and will continue to burn through cash next year, Stifel said as it downgraded the company's stock to a sell rating.
The company that once ignited a boom in fitness trackers hasn't innovated enough to keep consumers interested, Stifel wrote. Plus, it said Fitbit hasn't unlocked any meaningful business in the health-care space.
"The franchise and customer database does have strategic value and the balance sheet can sustain cash burn through 2018, but absent a change in direction and sudden acceleration in health care system revenue contribution, we see shares lacking a catalyst (without profits, not even corporate tax reform)," Stifel analyst Jim Duffy wrote in a note published Friday.
Fitbit now has two sell ratings on it, still relatively rare recommendations on Wall Street. The company still has five buy ratings and seven hold calls, according to FactSet. Shares of Fitbit plunged as much as 9.3 percent on Friday, dragging down its year-to-date loss to 15.5 percent.
Nonetheless, Stifel said it's encouraged by Fitbit's position in a market with promise for the long-term. But right now, it doesn't see Fitbit's path to profitability.


The hot FANG stocks are not likely to continue their strong outperformance in 2018, and investors should look to overweight other technology names and value stocks, according to FundStrat.
FundStrat founder Tom Lee says the group could be challenged by the Federal Communication Commission's decision this week to do away with Obama-era net neutrality rules that guaranteed content providers equal access to the internet. Simply put, the rules prevented internet providers from charging content companies more for a higher level of service.
FANG stocks account for about 64 percent of internet traffic, says FundStrat. Those names include Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet.
"While the implications are not yet known, we see this as creating the potential for content distributors to bear a greater share of the total cost of the internet," wrote Lee. FundStrat  estimates the cost of the internet to be about $100 billion a year, and the winners would be telecom and cable companies that could find ways to share their costs.


A leading indicator for stocks just entered a death cross, but the traditionally ominous signal might not be as scary as it's cracked up to be.
The high-yield corporate bond ETF, the HYG, has fallen 2 percent from its 52-week high, with its short-term 50-day moving average crossing below its long-term 200-day moving average (the death cross) earlier this week. The last time this happened, the HYG plunged 20 percent from September 2014 to its low in February 2016.
High yield is typically viewed as a barometer for the equity market, as the two are highly correlated, but according to Craig Johnson, technical market strategist at Piper Jaffray, these warning signs may not be as reliable as people think.
"We've done some back testing on [the death cross], a lot of the damage is done before the cross actually takes place. I'd probably say 75 percent of the damage is already done from what we've found." Johnson said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"You can also see on the chart that you're getting a divergence right now between the S&P 500 and high yield. In the past that has signaled that perhaps there is a challenge ahead with the market," he said. "We would disagree with that."

The technician noted that the correlation between the S&P 500 and HYG fell to a three-year low earlier this fall, signaling to him to believe that investors have little to worry about from that aspect. Johnson has a 2,850 price target on the S&P 500 for 2018.
Larry McDonald, founder of the Bear Traps Report, expects further pressure on the high-yield market going into the next year.
"The biggest thing going on is we've had a big move in energy, so the default rate in high yield has improved because oil is up from mid-20s in 2016 to close to $65 now so that's helping high yield," he said on "Trading Nation." "But if you look at the real driver in the last 12 months it's been the European Central Bank. They were doing $2 trillion of economic stimulus of what's called buybacks, asset purchases. And they've been buying some really poor-quality assets."
McDonald pointed to the losses seen after the ECB's purchase of bonds in the retailer Steinhoff which dropped in value. ECB President Mario Draghi defended the move earlier this week.
"They're buying so many high-yield bonds in Europe, that's driving down yields here, this year. But if the ECB pulls back that's a very, very big negative for U.S. high yield. We think that's the biggest risk in the next six months," he added.


The first week of Cboe's bitcoin futures trading was relatively stable, except for a sudden drop Wednesday afternoon.
It turns out that was the same day one of the largest brokerages trading the futures, Interactive Brokers, began allowing clients to short, or bet against, the futures.
"The introduction of short sales was necessitated by the large premium of the January futures contract over the price at which Bitcoin trades on the physical venues," Interactive Brokers founder, Chairman and CEO Thomas Peterffy, said in a release Wednesday.
On Tuesday, Cboe's January bitcoin futures contract settled at $18,020. In contrast, the digital currency was trading more than $500 dollars lower on major digital currency exchanges. Bitcoin settled Tuesday at $17,395 according to Gemini's daily price auction, which Cboe's contract is based off of. Bitcoin traded that day at $17,178, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index.
Difference between Cboe January bitcoin futures contract and CoinDesk bitcoin price index

Source: Cboe, CoinDesk
The launch of bitcoin futures on the Cboe Futures Exchange Sunday marked the cryptocurrency's first derivatives contract on an established exchange. Many saw it as a step towards establishing bitcoin as a legitimate asset class, potentially paving the way for a bitcoin exchange-traded fund.
Also on Wednesday, DoubleLine Capital CEO Jeffrey Gundlach said midday on CNBC's "Halftime Report" that "if you short bitcoin today, you'll make money," although he acknowledged it could trade higher in the short term.
The Cboe bitcoin futures then fell 10 percent, briefly triggering a price halt, and settled more than 5 percent lower in their worst trading day since the launch. The futures had soared nearly 20 percent in their first day of trading. They were trading 7.5 percent higher at $18,060 late Friday morning.

When the bitcoin futures launched Sunday evening, Interactive Brokers had not allowed clients to short the product "due to the extreme volatility of cryptocurrencies," according to a Monday release. Peterffy stated that "Interactive Brokers was on the buy side of the low print of $14,710."
Interactive Brokers said that it handled just over half of the bitcoin futures trading volume the day of their launch. Updated figures were not yet available as of Friday.
CME, the world's largest futures exchange, is set to launch its own bitcoin futures contract Sunday evening. Interactive Brokers said Friday that it plans to let customers bet on and against the CME contract.


Traders are making bullish bets using options on Mircon, Red Hat and Paychex ahead of earnings next week.
Chipmaker Micron reports earnings on Tuesday after the bell.
In the past week investors have bought more than 11,000 calls with a December 48 strike price in Micron, according to Jon Najarian, Najarian Family Office co-founder and "Halftime Report" contributor. These calls expire next Friday, so it's a relatively short-term bet. Micron closed at $42.24 on Thursday, so the stock would have to pop nearly 14 percent to hit $48 by next Friday.


Investors are scrambling to determine which companies will benefit most from President Donald Trump's policy initiatives, including the current Republican plan for tax cuts.
JPMorgan's top analysts weighed in on the discussion, with Dubravko Lakos-Bujas – the bank's head of U.S. equity strategy – telling clients that corporate tax cuts spell a "goldilocks" scenario for stocks.
"We believe progress on GOP/Trump policy initiatives (i.e., lower corporate taxes, reduction in regulatory burden) should be a significant source of upside for equities," wrote the strategist. "We estimate the tax plan could provide additional upside of ~$10 to S&P 500 earnings per share, which would increase our estimates to $153 in 2018 and $165 in 2019."
The current Republican legislation aims to boost economic activity and fuel job growth, with party officials assuring voters that the bill would pay for itself through GDP expansion. Provisions of the bill include a top individual tax rate of 37 percent while also lowering the corporate tax rate to 21 percent, which could spell gains for earnings in the coming years.
The lawmakers are expected to vote on a reconciled bill early next week.
"Considering these drivers and the potential for legislative success on tax reform, we expect S&P 500 to reach 3,000 next year," added Lakos-Bujas, forecasting double-digit growth in the next 12 months.
But the strategist also encouraged investors to buy select stocks that could outperform others if Trump is victorious on the tax plan.
By screening for companies with high tax rates, domestic sales and pricing power, JPMorgan's equity analysts determined that the following stocks could benefit the most from the GOP plan. While some company stocks have performed well this year, others may be set for a rebound with tax reform.

"Financials is our highest conviction overweight given the sector should continue to benefit from a 'goldilocks-type' scenario with expanding net interest margin (rising rates) and declining credit costs (strong labor market with falling unemployment rate with some wage growth)," explained Lakos-Bujas.
The strategist also advised investors to pivot to value from growth stocks, arguing that the latter group may be extended with technology's long run this year. Value picks with strong fundamentals and dividends in financials and energy may be a better better into 2018, according to the research.


CNBC's Jim Cramer questioned Friday whether Republicans would be able to pass their tax overhaul bill this year — or if concerns from within the party about the legislation would cause them to fall short, like in their attempt to repeal Obamacare.
Cramer spoke just hours before GOP leaders on Capitol Hill were expected to finalize their compromise tax measure. But there were still some holdout and undecided lawmakers ahead of next week's planned vote.
Tax writers on Friday afternoon, according to sources, made tweaks to the child tax credit that turned Republican Sen. Marco Rubio's opposition into support. On Thursday, he had said he would vote "no," unless the proposed refundability to taxpayers of the child credit was expanded. There's been no word yet from Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah, who was undecided on the bill due to the child credit.
Meanwhile, Maine Republican Sen. Susan Collins has been noncommittal on the bill, while Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., has expressed concerns about expanding the federal deficit.
"We should not rule out the fact that this may not be a done deal," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
Cramer also asked whether it "could be an ACA," referring to the acronym for the formal name of Obamacare, the Affordable Care Act. Earlier this year, Republicans were unable to follow through on their yearslong promise to repeal former President Barack Obama's signature health bill.
"Do you think it just suddenly falls apart?" Cramer asked. "Most people felt that ACA was going to pass."


Nike shares have moved into high gear, surging nearly 30 percent this year to their highest level since 2016, and Larry McDonald of the Bear Traps Report says the Dow stock may have run too far, too fast.
The athletic apparel maker has been on a tear this week, rallying nearly 6 percent and outperforming the broader retail group — the retail ETF, XRT is down about 2 percent.
From a short-term perspective, Nike "looks like a screaming sell," McDonald said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "Relative strength index is through the roof, and I think shares should be sold here." The relative strength index is usually looked to by investors as an technical indicator to determine whether or not a stock has run too far, too fast.
"You're talking about shares that are up 35 percent since October, and you're also talking about shares that have also had substantial drawdowns since 2013," McDonald said.
However, not everyone is pessimistic on the athletic giant.
Craig Johnson, senior technical research analyst at Piper Jaffray, said Nike looks poised to continue to surge.
There's "good momentum, good relative strength," Johnson said Thursday on "Trading Nation."

Looking at a chart of Nike, Johnson pointed to the big base of support as an indication that the stock's recent run-up could continue. "We just started breaking out, and I think you're going to see a move here in Nike shares probably back up toward $68, maybe even $70 a share," he said.
Johnson also noted that any form of shorter-term pullback in Nike should be seen as a buying opportunity.
The company is scheduled to report earnings after the market close on Thursday. Analysts polled by FactSet expect earnings of 40 cents per share on $8.4 billion in revenue.
Previously, shares of Nike rallied in the month after earnings reports. After posting earnings on June 29 and Sept. 26, the stock jumped 10 percent and 6 percent, respectively.
Disclaimer


Goldman Sachs believes retail stocks will be big winners of the tax overhaul.
The current dealfeatures a corporate tax rate reduction to 21 percent from 35 percent, starting in 2018, and a top individual rate of 37 percent, CNBC and other outlets reported.
"Tax reform legislation has now passed both chambers of Congress. While the final shape of the legislation is still in flux, our economists expect a conference agreement and enactment by year-end," Goldman analyst Matthew Fassler said in a note Friday. "Based on the current proposals, we expect that most retailers in our coverage would emerge as net beneficiaries."
The retail sector is underperforming the market this year. The SPDR S&P Retail ETF is roughly flat year to date through Thursday versus the S&P 500's 18.5 percent return.
Fassler noted that U.S. retailers generate most of their sales domestically, so the significant reduction of the corporate tax rate will have a large positive impact for the sector's earnings.
For investors who want to trade on tax reform being implemented, here are 10 retail companies Goldman says will benefit the most in terms of profits:




If you missed this year's stock rally, fear not: Equities will go higher next year, according to Richard Bernstein, CEO of Richard Bernstein Advisors.
"Earnings around the world are still accelerating," Bernstein told CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Thursday. "It's really hard to get a bear market going when earnings are accelerating."
He also noted there is a lot of cash in the market, meaning "a lot of ammo for people to buy the dip."
The S&P 500 has soared more than 18 percent in 2017, with stocks boosted by strong earnings growth, a global economic expansion and expectations for lower corporate taxes.


The disastrous year for Teva Pharmaceutical shareholders will improve in 2018, according to one top Wall Street firm.
Goldman Sachs raised its rating to buy from neutral for the generic drugmaker, citing the company's aggressive cost-cutting targets for the next two years.
The call sent the stock up 4 percent during Friday's premarket session.
"TEVA has turned a corner on December 14, with its announced $3bn of cost cuts by 2019 coming in well ahead of our expectation of $1-2bn by 2020," analyst Jami Rubin wrote in a note to clients Friday. "While we acknowledge there is skepticism on the path forward … we believe we are in the early innings of a credible turnaround led by a competent management team."
The company announced Thursday it plans to lay off 14,000 employees or 25 percent of its workforce as a part of its restructuring plan over the next two years.
The analyst increased her 12-month price target for Teva shares to $20 from $15, representing 16 percent upside to Thursday's close. Teva shares surged 10 percent on Thursday after announcing the cost-saving targets and layoffs.
Teva shares are underperforming the market this year. Through Thursday, its stock is down 52 percent in 2017 versus the S&P 500's 18.5 percent return. The company repeatedly disappointed Wall Street with lower-than-expected financial guidance and weak results earlier this year.
Rubin expressed confidence Teva's new CEO, Kare Schultz, who joined in November, will deliver on the cost-cutting projections. The executive has "repeatedly understated and over-delivered" at his previous job at Lundbeck, Rubin said.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Oracle — The business software giant reported adjusted quarterly profit of 70 cents per share, 2 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts and the company also added $12 billion to its share buyback program. Oracle gave weaker-than-expected guidance for growth of its cloud-computing business for the second consecutive quarter, however.
Hess — Hess is once again the target of activist investor Elliott Management, which said it is frustrated by the energy giant's "continuing underperformance" by the energy giant. The Wall Street Journal said Elliott wants to either oust CEO John Hess or push him to sell all or part of the company. Hess and Elliott engaged in a contentious battle in 2013 that led to the addition of Elliott nominees to the board of directors.
Adobe Systems – Adobe came in 10 cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.26 per share. The design software company's revenue also came in above Street forecasts and Adobe raised its outlook for 2018.
Costco – Costco earned an adjusted $1.36 per share for its latest quarter, beating estimates by 2 cents a share. Revenue for the warehouse retailer was slightly above forecasts. Its comparable-store sales jumped 10.5 percent, while comparable e-commerce sales surged 43.5 percent.
Teva Pharmaceutical – Goldman Sachs upgraded the generic drug maker to "buy" from "neutral," saying the company is in the early innings of a credible turnaround following Thursday's announcement of workforce reductions and a dividend suspension.
Foot Locker – Canaccord upgraded the athletic apparel and footwear retailer to "buy" from "hold," citing the company's strong relationship with Nike and terming current headwinds for the industry cyclical rather than structural.
T-Mobile US – Macquarie upgraded the wireless services provider to "outperform" from "neutral," saying the company is poised for a new phase of growth and pointing to T-Mobile's ability to out-execute its peers.
Fitbit – Stifel Nicolaus downgraded the wearable fitness device maker to "sell" from "hold," saying the company has a "high hurdle" to clear to achieve a breakeven operating margin.
Jabil Circuit – Jabil beat estimates by a penny a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 80 cents per share. Revenue was above estimates, as well. The contract electronics manufacturer, one of Apple's biggest suppliers, also gave an upbeat current-quarter forecast.
Waste Management – The environmental services company increased its quarterly dividend by 9.4 percent to 46.5 cents per share, and also approved a $1.25 billion stock buyback program.
CSX – Chief Executive Officer Hunter Harrison is taking a medical leave of absence, due to complications from an unspecified illness. Chief Operating Officer James Foote was named acting CEO.
Pfizer – The drugmaker received Food and Drug Administration approval for expanded use of its Xeljanz drug, which can now be used for to treatment of psoriatic arthritis.
Wells Fargo – The bank cut 60 jobs in its mortgage unit, according to The Wall Street Journal, as it continues to revamp its business following increased scrutiny by federal regulators.
Sinclair Broadcasting – Sinclair may have to sell off about a dozen TV stations to win government approval of its planned buyout of Tribune Media, according to The Wall Street Journal. The paper said the Justice Department has signaled it is willing to approve the deal with that concession.
Discovery Communications — Discovery shares are getting a boost, following a Securities and Exchange Commission filing showing media mogul John Malone bought nearly 333,000 new shares in the cable channel operator. That puts the total holdings of Malone and his wife to about 939,000 shares.


Foot Locker shares could rocket higher next year as footwear trends bottom in 2017, according to Canaccord Genuity, which upgraded the stock to buy from hold.
Calling the retailer's relationship with Nike "strong and symbiotic," analyst Camilo Lyon told clients that footwear trends are set to improve with sustained growth in athletic options.
"It was made abundantly clear to us that the company's relationship with Nike is strong and symbiotic, and more importantly the current assortment-led comp declines are cyclical, not structural," Lyon said in a note Friday. "We believe footwear trends, while still soft, are improving sequentially. Running continues to perform well as momentum in Adidas (NMD, Tubular Shadow, EQT, UltraBOOST) and Nike (VaporMax, Air franchise) is not fading and allocations are increasing."
A swell in footwear sales at Foot Locker would certainly be welcomed by the company. Shares have slid all year as news of a closer relationship between Nike and e-commerce giant Amazon surfaced. The stock is down nearly 40 percent this year, though shares have rallied 42 percent in the past month.
The company performed better than expected in its latest quarterly earnings report, sending shares up nearly 30 percent in a single day.
Lyon's new $64 price target represents 44 percent upside from Thursday's close. Though an inflection in footwear trends was the crux of the analyst's upgrade, Foot Locker's improving digital platform could also bode well for sales.
Shares of Foot Locker were up 5 percent in late morning trading.
"The company is making progress on rolling out the new digital e-commerce platform along with a mobile app platform and new point-of-sale technology," Lyon said. "Following these rollouts, all e-commerce sites globally will be on one platform, all mobile apps will be on one platform, and all stores worldwide will be using the same point-of-sale system."
A better digital surface would likely lead to greater visibility into consumer buying patterns, quicker access to inventory as well as enhanced data analytics. Lyon noted that the company is hiring scientists and third parties to study social data and popular buying trends.


Cboe's bitcoin futures ended their first week of trading higher on slightly stronger demand.
The futures contract, which trades under the ticker XBT and expires in January, settled up 7.8 percent Friday at $18,105 — a 17.1 percent gain in their first week of trading.
Earlier, the futures triggered a two-minute trading halt at 5:37 a.m. ET and the contract had traded more than 1,000 contracts by 8:36 a.m., for an unofficial full-day volume of 1,515 contracts.
Full-day trading volume in the January contract had hovered closer to 1,000 and 1,500 in the last few days after nearly 4,000 contracts on the first day. Total trading volume across all three contracts was 4,127. That's still relatively small compared with futures for the Cboe's volatility index, whose daily trading volume typically ranges from the tens of thousands to more than 100,000.

The Cboe bitcoin futures have had a relatively smooth first week of trading. The futures triggered two brief trading halts Sunday night as prices surged, and triggered another temporary trading halt Wednesday as the futures fell 10 percent. The halts were in accordance with Cboe's trading rules and match similar rules for other market products.
However, investor participation remained light as firms preferred to monitor the first futures contract on an established exchange for a notoriously volatile asset. As of Thursday, major banks such as Goldman Sachs were offering limited to no support for clients to trade bitcoin futures.
Interactive Brokers and Wedbush Futures were among the roughly 20 firms that Cboe said did participate in its bitcoin futures launch. TD Ameritradeannounced Friday it would give certain clients access to the Cboe bitcoin futures on Monday.
"From our point of view, the volumes at the CFE today are not reflecting the level of interest that we're seeing. There's a lot of preparation by firms to trade bitcoin one way or the other," Bob Fitzsimmons, head of Wedbush Futures, said in a phone interview Friday.
"We're seeing some digital currency hedge funds and obviously you see an element of retail in this as well, but all relatively sophisticated trading firms," he said.
Bitcoin itself was trading 6 percent higher at $17,469, according to CoinDesk. The digital currency has gained 8.8 percent for the week, 76 percent for December, and more than 1,700 percent for the year, according to CoinDesk.
The world's largest futures exchange, CME, is set to launch its own bitcoin futures contract Sunday evening. Interactive Brokers and Wedbush both plan to allow clients access, while TD Ameritrade initially will not.
Most other digital currencies fell Friday after surging in the last few days to record highs. Ethereum fell 1.7 percent to $684, Ripple, or XRP, traded more than 12.5 percent lower at 75.6 cents, and bitcoin's offshoot bitcoin cash fell 8.1 percent to $ 1,807, according to CoinMarketCap. Litecoin rose 7.4 percent to $300, the website showed.
Clarification: This story has been updated to reflect the January bitcoin futures contract traded nearly 4,000 contracts on its first day. Total trading volume across all contracts was 4,127.


Tesla recently climbed out of bear market territory, and one chart-minded trader sees an even bigger comeback in the cards.
Shares of the electric auto maker surged 7 percent this week after Pepsi announced it preordered 100 of the new Tesla Semi trucks. The stock is still down more than 10 percent from its recent high, but the breakout leads Todd Gordon of TradingAnalysis.com to believe it could soon reclaim those levels.
"I like the consolidation that we've seen over the last several months, and we've just broken higher on news that Pepsi's going to put a pretty big order in for trucks," he said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "That was the catalyst we needed to break out of the consolidation."
According to Gordon, a descending wedge pattern has formed in Tesla, along with a consolidation that is now serving as a support level just above $300. "We should be able now to get a little push up towards $400 in early 2018," said Gordon.

Furthermore, Gordon pointed out that the stock recently bounced off the lower end of an upward trend channel, and is making a run toward the higher end of that channel around $380, which Gordon believes is a key level for Tesla to break leading up to earnings in February.

To play for a move higher, Gordon bought the February 375/380 call spread for $1.25, or about $125 per options contract. Gordon would make a maximum reward of around $375 if Tesla closes above $380 on the Feb. 16 expiration.
But Gordon would lose the $125 he paid to make the trade if Tesla closes below $375 on Feb. 16. Therefore, he wants to establish a point at which to get out of the trade.
"If my options spread gets down to about 65 cents, half of the options premium that we just laid out is gone and it's probably time to get out of the trade and contain the risk," he said.
Shares of Tesla have surged 58 percent this year.


This start-up is making it a lot easier to own a Ferrari — or, at least, a part of one.
The collector car market has historically only been accessible to a wealthy few. Rally Rd. is aiming to democratize classic car collecting by turning premium vehicles — like a $165,000 vintage Ferrari Testarossa or a $425,000 Porsche Speedster — into stock.
"Each investment on Rally Rd. is essentially a mini public company," says Christopher Bruno, the start-up's co-founder and CEO. "Our investors are able to create a custom, diversified portfolio of equity interest in blue-chip collector cars, share by share."
After Rally Rd.'s team of experts identifies an investment opportunity, the company acquires the car and securitizes it, turning it into equity shares. Price per share is determined by the value of the car divided by 2,000. Investors are then able to purchase stock in the vehicle for as low as $50 a share. Rally Rd. does not charge any commissions or management fees, and the entire process is completed on a smartphone, through the company's mobile app.
The cars on Rally Rd. are always for sale. The start-up decides when to sell a car with the help of input from an expert advisory board, as well as investor sentiment, determined by data collected on the app. After a car is sold, the proceeds get paid to its shareholders. If investors want to exit before an asset is liquidated, they can trade their shares on a secondary market during monthly trading windows.


Bitcoin: it's electric.   Well, indirectly, anyway. Electricity consumption domestically and around the world is rising on bitcoin mining fervor, according to media reports citing Digiconomist data on bitcoin-related energy consumption.  Investors can capitalize on the surge in electricity consumption by way of bitcoin mining through buying several names in the energy and power space, according to macroeconomic strategist and Bear Traps Report publisher Larry McDonald. Here are his reasons why, and his recommendations to investors.  • Bitcoin is incredibly volatile as an asset and investors are looking to more conservative, long-term ways to play the bitcoin trend than buying the cryptocurrency outright. Through the act of bitcoin mining, electricity is being consumed at a rapid clip.  • Investors can look to one natural gas exchange-traded fund, the United States Natural Gas Fund (UNG), as well as uranium and the Global X Uranium ETF (URA).  • A liquefied natural gas company, Cheniere Energy (LNG), would also be a smart play here.  Bottom line: As bitcoin mining consumes more electricity, some energy-related exchange-traded funds are worth a buy, according to McDonald.


Ripple is vying with bitcoin cash to be the third-largest cryptocurrency by market value.
Ripple, or XRP, surged 89 percent Thursday to a record high of 89.2 cents and was last trading near 81 cents, giving it a market value of $31.6 billion, according to CoinMarketCap.
Those gains temporarily pushed ripple's market value past that of bitcoin's offshoot bitcoin cash, and into third place just behind the largest digital currencies, bitcoin and ethereum, according to CoinMarketCap. The website showed bitcoin cash had regained third place by late Thursday afternoon, with a market value of $32.1 billion.
Ripple surpassed the market value of litecoin on Wednesday after starting the week in fifth place by cryptocurrency market capitalization, according to CoinMarketCap.
Ripple seven-day performance

Source: CoinMarketCap
Ripple is officially the name of a startup using blockchain technology to develop a payments network for banks, digital asset exchanges and other financial institutions. XRP is the digital coin network participants use for transactions.
Interest from South Korean investors helped drive ripple's latest gains, just as they have helped send ethereum higher. In the last 24 hours, trading in South Korean won occasionally accounted for more than 40 percent of ripple trading volume, according to CryptoCompare.
Nikkei reported Wednesday Japan time that banks in Japan and South Korea began testing Ripple's blockchain technology on Friday. The cross-border trials are set to run through Jan. 31, and if all goes well, the banks plan to send money using Ripple's XRP digital currency, according to the report.
"In a landscape of a lot of hype, Ripple is the one that is delivering a reality," Brad Garlinghouse, CEO of Ripple, said in a phone interview with CNBC.
Ripple has gained traction in the last several months. In October, Ripple announced that more than 100 financial institutions use its blockchain network. The following month, the company said American Express FX International Payments and Santander would use Ripple's network for cross-border payments between the U.S. and the UK.
At the end of November, TechCrunch founder Mike Arrington announced he is launching a $100 million "cryptofund" that will be denominated in XRP.


Overstock.com CEO Patrick Byrne said he expects to have a deal in the next three months on selling or reorganizing the company's retail business to focus on blockchain, the technology behind bitcoin.
"My goal is [within] 60 to 90 days we walk away from this," Byrne told CNBC Wednesday in reference to the plan. He said he has an "ethical obligation" to focus for the next five years on his newly announced De Soto joint venture for a blockchain-based global property registry. "We think we can change the world for 5 billion people."
Byrne said the company is looking at three options for its home goods e-commerce business:
First, a traditional brick-and-mortar business could buy the operations.
Second, a "strategic investor, probably a guy out of Asia" could invest in the business. An approach from a wealthy Asian investor prompted Byrne to ask Guggenheim to help the company explore sale options, he said.
Third, the company could "go private" with a private equity company such as Bain, Carlyle or KKR and "go off the market for two years" in order to integrate Overstock's blockchain work with the retail arm.

Byrne had indicated on Overstock.com's third-quarter earnings call that he could sell the retail business.
The only Wall Street analyst covering the stock, D.A. Davidson's Tom Forte, had subsequently raised his price target on the stock to $85 a share, with the retail business accounting for $58 a share.
Marc Cohodes, a noted short-seller who announced his positive turn on the stock in October, said Wednesday he estimates the retail business is worth about $60 to $90 a share.
Those estimates would value the e-commerce arm at about $1.5 billion to $2.25 billion, since Overstock.com has 25.02 million shares outstanding.
Shares of Overstock.com traded little changed Thursday after gaining 13.9 percent Wednesday to $60.90 a share after news of the company's for-profit joint venture with well-known Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto. However, Byrne told CNBC Wednesday that while he expects the venture to generate revenue, making money is not the primary goal.
Overstock's shares have now surged 248 percent this year and have a market value of $1.5 billion as investors bet the company's work on blockchain could reap benefits similar to the meteoric surge of digital currency bitcoin, which was the first application of blockchain technology. The cryptocurrency has leaped more than 1,600 percent this year, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index.
Blockchain eliminates the need for a third-party intermediary by creating a rapid, permanent record of transactions in a network.
Byrne has a big vision for his investments in the technology, which began when Overstock launched Medici Ventures in 2014.
Medici's subsidiary has majority ownership of tZero, which said in September it is launching an SEC-compliant platform for trading digital coins. TZero is set to begin its initial coin offering on Monday and plans to raise $500 million.
TZero already operates a blockchain-based system for short-sellers. In addition to launching the digital coin-trading platform, Byrne said he is in contact with two countries about launching an overseas trading platform for coins that are considered "utility" tokens rather than "securities."
Cohodes estimates Overstock's blockchain business could be worth far more than the e-commerce operations. He said Wednesday that tZero adds another $100 to $200 to the stock, an additional value of $2.5 billion to $5 billion. D.A. Davidson's Forte has said Medici Ventures and tZero are together worth at least $27 a share, or about $675.5 million.


With bitcoin's meteoric rise in value, some investors are wondering if using it to purchase another digital asset means they can delay paying taxes on their gains.
Under the Republican tax bill expected to be voted on next week, the answer is no.
Because the IRS views bitcoin as property rather than a currency for tax purposes, there's been discussion about whether a certain kind of transaction known as a 1031 exchange can apply to bitcoin and its brethren.
A 1031 exchange allows taxpayers to exchange one type of asset for a similar one, thereby postponing capital gains taxes. The asset also must be used for business or investment purposes and meet other requirements.
In simple terms, such an exchange can result in getting taxed at a lower rate when the new asset is eventually sold.


Shares of Twitter gained 7.3 percent on Thursday, reaching their highest level in more than a year.
The social media's stock hit $23.24, its highest level since Oct. 5, 2016, when it traded as high as $25.25 a share. It closed at $22.58.
Jonathan Krinsky, chief market technician at MKM Partners, said Twitter's stock was breaking out of a two-year range on Thursday.
"It's been trading between $14 on the downside and $22 on the upside," he said. "Based on the length of the base, I'd say we could see an upside into the high $20s."

Twitter shares have rallied sharply this year, advancing nearly 40 percent in that time period. Krinsky said the next level to watch on the stock is $24. Twitter hasn't closed above that level since October 2016.


Shares of Tiffany & Co. jumped 4 percent Thursday after Citigroup upgraded the luxury retailer to buy, saying the jeweler is "starting to show some shine."
"The third quarter brought several positive inflection points, new management is showing us that they understand the challenges and opportunities, and they are not sitting still," Citi analyst Paul Lejuez explained. "Considering the increasing tailwind from FX and the likely earnings per share lift from tax reform (which we don't believe is priced in), we believe Tiffany looks attractive."
It has been a busy year at Tiffany with "significant" changes to both the board and management. Though the company typically debuted major collections every few years, it added both CEO Alessandro Bogliolo and head designer Reed Krakoff this year in an effort to jump-start sales with new blood and more frequent product launches.
"Tiffany launched its HardWare collection of jewelry and (more recently) its home/accessories line, as well as opening the Blue Box Café in its NYC flagship," explained Lejuez. "We are optimistic that the changes we have seen thus far have Tiffany on a better path for success."
The new HardWare collection features pieces like a $12,000 link bracelet in 18-karat rose gold.
Shares of Tiffany are up 28 percent this year versus the S&P 500's 19 percent climb, with 9 percentage points of the stock's surge coming in the last three months. Tiffany stock closed up 3.4 percent higher Thursday after the call.
The analyst raised his price target on Tiffany to $115 from $92. The new target is 20 percent higher than Wednesday's closing price.
Meanwhile, Citi has more reason to favor the luxury retailer. Citi's European luxury goods analyst Thomas Chauvet said he believes the company could be an attractive acquisition target. Chauvet and his team find "increasing probability" that a European luxury conglomerate could make a move to buy Tiffany or one of its segments, potentially boosting the shares further.
Tiffany & Co. did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.


Bitcoin is now sizing up to be what could be the biggest market bubble of all time.
According to Birinyi Associates, bitcoin now looks to be bigger than any of the 10 other market bubbles it studied including the the tech bubble, beanie babies, the Dow in 1929 and the silver bubble of the late 1970s.
Bitcoin was trading at about $16,235 Thursday morning, rising from $1,000 at the start of the year, and $11,000 at the beginning of last week.
Just last week, bitcoin was the third largest of the 10 events Birinyi studied. It was third behind an 18th-century French financing scheme around the development of the Mississippi Valley, known as the Mississippi bubble, and the one-day 31 percent surge in Qualcomm in December 1999. According to Birinyi Associates, it was a Wall Street analyst's call for a $1,000 target that set Qualcomm shares on fire.
The cryptocurrency market goes beyond bitcoin, but none has appealed to the broader, general public in quite the same way.
Wall Street has been late in catching up to the individual investors and cryptocurrency traders who expect bitcoin to keep surging. Three exchanges have rushed to launch bitcoin products. Futures started trading Sunday on the Cboe, with a separate contract expected to launch at the CME this weekend. Nasdaq also plans to offer futures next year.


The Republican plan for a major tax overhaul may not be fully priced into the market, closely followed trader Art Cashin told CNBC on Thursday.
Stocks opened higher Thursday, a day after news broke that House and Senate negotiators have reached a deal on a tax plan. The two chambers hope to send legislation to President Donald Trump's desk before Christmas. It will likely feature a 21 percent corporate rate.
"No, I don't think it's fully priced in," Cashin, UBS' director of floor operations at the New York Stock Exchange, said on "Squawk on the Street" about the tax plan. "And there are other potentially disruptive things. This pass-through for independent operators may heavily impact the brokerage business."
Cashin said he was also confused about the market's reaction to the tax bill Thursday considering Republican Sen. John McCain has been hospitalized. McCain's office said Wednesday that the Arizona senator was receiving treatment for "normal side effects of his ongoing cancer therapy."
The statement added, McCain "looks forward to returning to work as soon as possible."
"If he's not there for the vote, that's going to make things even tighter," Cashin said.


The Trump administration may be more open to the Disney-Twenty-First Century Fox deal than other proposed media mergers, billionaire investor Mario Gabelli told CNBC on Thursday.
"From my point of view, the one good news is that the administration ... is more friendly towards Fox than they would to CNN," Gabelli said on "Squawk Box," referring to President Donald Trump's adoration of Fox News and his loathing of CNN, which he has repeatedly called "fake news."
Gabelli called into CNBC shortly after Disney announced a deal to pay $52.4 billion in stock for many parts of Fox, including Fox movie studios, Nat Geo, stakes in Sky and Hulu, and regional sports networks, but not Fox News Channel and other Fox television broadcasting assets.
As of the latest securities filing on Sept. 30, Gabelli's Gamco Investors owned 6.1 million Twenty-First Century Fox Class A shares and 4.4 million Fox Class B shares. Gamco also has a small stake in Disney.
Gabelli comments about CNN came after reports last month that the Justice Department was pushing AT&T to sell assets, including possibly the cable news network, in order to get approval for its proposed $85 billion buyout of Time Warner. The DOJ has denied those reports.
Gamco owned nearly 2.1 million Time Warner shares and about 1.4 million shares of AT&T, as of Sept. 30.


Disney wants to win the streaming wars by having three distinct products: A family-friendly movie and TV service, a sports streaming platform and an adult-focused Hulu.
"We think it's quite a compelling opportunity for the company, and we think it's really compelling from a consumer perspective," Disney CEO Bob Iger told CNBC's David Faber on "Squawk on the Street."
Disney will purchase many parts of Twenty-First Century Fox for $52.4 billion in stock in a deal announced Thursday. Part of the deal includes Fox's movie studios, networks Nat Geo and FX, Asian pay-TV operator Star TV, and stakes in Sky, Endemol Shine Group and Hulu, as well as several regional sports networks. It will also give it more content to launch its direct-to-consumer services, as it prepares to remove its content from Netflix by 2019.
Disney's streaming plans involve launching an over-the-top subscription plan for Disney, Pixar, Marvel and Lucasfilm content in 2019. It will start a sports-focused ESPN streaming service next year, and hopes to make Hulu it's more "adult-oriented product."
The Disney-Fox deal will give Disney a 60 percent stake of Hulu. The company things its an "interesting" opportunity to grow the platform alongside the other minority owners which include Comcast and Time Warner, Iger said.
"With that we'll have the ability to direct Hulu in ways that we haven't been able to, as essentially equal partners," Iger said. "But we'll also be able to infuse Hulu with even more content. We will actually invest in content from both entities for Hulu."
Disclosure: CNBC parent company NBCUniversal is owned by Comcast.


Twenty-First Century Fox's decision to sell $52 billion of assets to Disney seems like odd timing.
On the surface, Fox may have benefited by waiting until a federal judge rules on AT&T's $85 billion deal for Time Warner. That trial date is set for March 19, although a verdict may not come until about two months later.
Waiting would have let Fox know if big media vertical integration is acceptable under U.S. law or not. If it is — and AT&T's deal for Time Warner stands — Comcast and Verizon, both of which expressed interest in Fox's assets, would instantly become more viable buyers from a regulatory standpoint. That may have pushed Disney's offer price higher.
We should also remember that 3½ years ago Fox made an unsolicited offer to acquire Time Warner, then ultimately withdrew it. But Time Warner may be back in play in a few months, if the Department of Justice's decision to block AT&T's $85 billion acquisition holds up in court.


Disney's strategy of buying key media content assets from Twenty-First Century Fox to beef up content for its own streaming services will not work, according to one Wall Street firm.
On Thursday, Disney announced a deal to acquire certain Twenty-First Century Fox assets including movie studios and cable entertainment properties.
"We are weighing in - negatively - with our assessment of what we expect will be the strategic rationale for the deal (positioning Disney better to compete in the OTT space) … In our view, Disney is committing significant capital to the lost cause of protecting video aggregation margins," analyst Doug Creutz wrote in a note to clients Thursday. "Taking on competitors who don't need to turn a profit is rarely a good idea."
The analyst reaffirmed his market perform rating and $94 price target for Disney shares, representing 13 percent downside to Wednesday's close.
Disney announced plans in August to launch a branded direct-to-consumer streaming service in 2019 and an ESPN streaming service in 2018.
Creutz said the internet giants like Amazon and Netflix can leverage "essentially unlimited balance sheets" to buy content.
"What we don't understand is why Disney would want to compete with Netflix, and other new media players, as a new media content aggregator," he wrote. "With even more players entering the fray (Apple, Google), and a likely willingness by at least some of them to play a long game of loss leadership in content aggregation to support other business objectives, we expect pressure on content margins."
Disney shares are underperforming the market this year. Its shares have rallied 3 percent through Wednesday versus the S&P 500's 19 percent gain.
"We think that this deal is an attempt by the Murdoch clan to eventually put themselves in position to run Disney," he wrote. "Eventual control of Disney by the Murdochs may not be the most likely outcome, but we think it is a very possible one."


Despite a host of challenges facing consumer staples, Coca-Cola, Pepsi and Dr Pepper Snapple Group all buying opportunities, according to Deutsche Bank.
With analysts across Wall Street cautious on the space due to new competition and pricing pressure, analyst Steve Powers argues that traditional beverages companies are up to the task.
"The door has opened to new (smaller, but agile) competition, which is increasingly leveraging digital technology and sophisticated third-party manufacturing to deliver compelling product options," wrote Powers on Wednesday. "Still, such concerns have now become the dominant market narrative—already making investors revisit past assumptions about normalized growth … Beverage companies today are far more accepting of their new realities versus 6 to 12 months ago, and are acting accordingly."
Starting with Coca-Cola, Powers highlighted the company's recent beverage initiatives and efforts to break into new categories. Recent projects at the beverage giant include a cola recipe sweetened only with stevia as well as a continued relationship with energy drink company Monster. Some analyst have even speculated that the company could venture into alcoholic mixers or booze in coming years.
"In our view, Coca-Cola is emerging from recent change determined to win across all beverages, while importantly shifting focus to price/revenue realization," the analyst explained. "This shift comes alongside promising efforts both to streamline internal operations (more speed, higher productivity), and optimize System alignment through Coca-Cola own refranchising."
The analyst's $52 price target represents 13 percent upside from Wednesday's close; shares are up 11 percent this year.
Meanwhile, Powers sees reignited acceleration at PepsiCo, arguing that the company's stock should climb 12 percent in the next year despite losing share to Coca-Cola.
"The domestic Frito business remains dominant, and is showing signs of renewed acceleration. Moreover, the building of Frito scale abroad remains a potential source of upside surprise," explained Powers. "While PepsiCo's North America beverage business is currently ceding share in the midst of Coca-Cola's refranchising, management seems to understand past shortfalls and has committed to increased investments."
Shares of PepsiCo are up 13 percent since January.
Powers also initiated coverage of Dr Pepper Snapple at buy despite recent concerns over its acquisition of antioxidant drink maker Bai earlier this year. The company faced a barrage of skepticism during its October earnings call as analysts voiced concern that the company lacks the experience to integrate new brands and ramp volume.
"We initiate on Dr Pepper Snapple with a Buy rating and $104 price target, viewing tail risks from Bai disappointment as already priced in," said Powers. "With roughly 13 percent upside to our price target, Dr Pepper Snapple offers an attractive return, nothing that the company could see significant benefits from proposed tax reform."
Dr Pepper Snapple shares are up 3 percent this year.



A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are a bit higher after Wednesday's mixed close. We get weekly jobless claims numbers and retail sales data this morning.
DEALS/NO DEALS
-Disney and FOX have announceda $52 billion deal in which Disney will acquire Fox's movie and television production assets.  Hollywood is worried the combination will bring substantial layoffs.
TAXES
-GOP leaders in the House and Senate have made a deal on their combined tax reform plan and now seek to vote on it next week. The Fed announcement Wednesday included some praise and a green light for the tax reform bill.


Mainstream market forecasters are taking a serious look at the bitcoin boom — noting a bust could cause collateral damage in the stock market.
Nuveen Asset Management's Bob Doll is one of them. He acknowledges that a potential cryptocurrency crash could have a spillover effect, even though it's not included in his official 2018 stock market forecast.
"It's sort of been until recently pretty isolated. We can't have a conversation without bitcoin showing up," the firm's chief equity strategist said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "Somebody will get scared if bitcoin drops by 30 percent in a short period of time."
He believes the longer the bitcoin mania goes, and the bigger it gets — the worse it is for the stock market. Doll sees it creating jitters "even though the fundamental overflow is pretty nonexistent."
Right now, Doll's annual forecast calls for more gains. He has a year-end price target of 2,800 on the S&P 500. That's about 5 percent higher from current levels.
His biggest economic-related risk to the rally is inflation. Doll says he isn't seeing hints of it yet but is conscious of the negative role it will eventually play.
"A little bit of inflation is good for the revenue line. When it becomes evident that the Fed has to sit on it by becoming punitive and raising rates faster than the curve suggests, that's when we worry," said Doll. "That's when we tend to get the inverted yield curve. They are in our future."
The Federal Reserve on Wednesday nudged up its federal funds rate by a quarter point, the fifth rate hike since December 2015.


As the bull market heads into its ninth year, the list of potential risks that could stop its run is growing.
The wall of worry starts in Washington, but the sources of potential risk come from around the globe — including North Korea, China and the Middle East.
Domestically, the Alabama U.S. Senate vote this week suggests that the 2018 midterm elections may not go smoothly for congressional Republicans and President Donald Trump as they try to hold onto the GOP majority next year. That threatens the Republican agenda and makes it possible that the tax reform vote, expected next week, could be the final big GOP initiative to make it through Congress.
"I think the most enduring risks that investors face tend to come from domestic forces," said Marc Chandler, head of foreign exchange strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman.
On the geopolitical front, markets could face bouts of nervousness in the new year as the Trump administration is forced to find a way to deal with North Korea's nuclear ambitions, which increasingly threaten global security.
However, there is a solid list of positives, and analysts expect another up year for the market in 2018, but with more modest gains. Strong earnings growth, a new corporate tax plan and a stronger global economy should help provide fuel for the bull market for another year. CNBC's survey of Wall Street strategists shows a median forecast of 2,800 on the S&P 500, a gain of about 5 percent from current levels, versus 2017's 20 percent gain.
The economy and market are heading into late cycle, which should be a good period for both.
"You have the possibility of a record-long expansion," said Steven Wieting, chief investment strategist at Citi Private Bank. He said there are "the seeds of a decent late-cycle environment which is not producing any signs of future catastrophes so far. We should enjoy these."
Yet, for all the good news there are a few potential time bombs for markets.


Investors should buy Lululemon shares because of its growth prospects overseas, according to one Wall Street firm.
Deutsche Bank raised its rating for the apparel retailer's shares to buy from hold, predicting Lululemon will report sales above expectations.
The call sent the stock up 2 percent during Thursday's premarket session.
"Lululemon drives enormously strong customer loyalty, controls its distribution unlike other brands, leads the industry in full price selling, and is still in its infancy growing its International business," analyst Paul Trussell wrote in a note to clients Thursday.
The analyst raised his price target for the company's shares to $89 from $72, representing 20 percent upside from Wednesday's close.
Trussell noted how Lululemon reported strong 7 percent comparable sales growth in the past two quarters. He said the company's Asian stores grew sales nearly 100 percent and European stores grew 40 percent in the third quarter. The analyst cited how only 17 percent of the company's stores are outside North America.
"LULU's international growth pillar continues to reflect one of the company's most significant opportunities," he wrote. "We think LULU will likely beat 4Q expectations on robust SSS [same store sales] and leverage of expenses."
Lululemon stock has underperformed the market year to date with its shares up 14 percent through Wednesday, compared with the S&P 500's 19 percent return.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Twenty-First Century Fox – Fox announced a deal to sell film and TV assets to Walt Disney for $52.4 billion in stock. The companies expect the transaction to close by June 30, 2018.
CBS – Stephens began coverage of CBS with an "overweight" rating, focusing on the advantages of the media company's unique content creation, ownership, and distribution model.
Verizon – HSBC downgraded the stock to "hold" from "buy," saying its recent rally limits any potential upside.
Express Scripts – The pharmacy benefits manager raised its full-year 2017 earnings forecast to an adjusted $7.00 to $7.08 per share from the prior $6.97 to $7.05, compared to the consensus estimate of $7.01 a share. The company also issued a 2018 earnings outlook that comes in largely above consensus forecasts.
Pier 1 Imports – Pier 1 reported quarterly profit of 9 cents per share, 2 cents a share below estimates. Revenue did beat forecasts, but the retailer gave weaker-than-expected current-quarter guidance. CEO Alasdair James said November sales momentum has been fading this month.
Nordson – Nordson came in 5 cents a share above estimates, reporting adjusted quarterly profit of $1.38 per share. Revenue also topped forecasts. The industrial equipment manufacturer forecast a sales increase of 30 percent to 34 percent for the first quarter of 2018.
Delta Air Lines – The airline is expected to announce an order for 100 Airbus A321neo jets, sources said. The order is expected to be announced this morning ahead of the airline's investor day and is seen as a major win for Airbus and a loss for rival Boeing.
Gap Inc. – Gap was downgraded to "perform" from "outperform" at Oppenheimer, which also lowered its price target for the apparel retailer's stock. The firm still sees upside at Old Navy, but struggles at the Gap and Banana Republic chains.
Lululemon – Lululemon was upgraded to "buy" from "hold" at Deutsche Bank, which sees the athletic apparel and footwear sector on more solid ground than previously and that the yogawear maker is on track for more sustained profitable growth across its various operations.
Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, Dr Pepper Snapple – These stocks were among the beverages stocks rated "buy" in new coverage at Deutsche Bank, which said it is taking a constructive view on a sector where market sentiment is biased to the negative side.
Cheetah Mobile – Cheetah announced a deal to incorporate Microsoft's artificial intelligence-based technologies into the mobile internet company's products and services.
Callaway Golf – JPMorgan Chase began coverage on the golf equipment maker with an "overweight" rating, saying Callaway represents a "compelling" double-digit bottom line growth story based on an innovative product portfolio.
Valeant Pharmaceuticals – JPMorgan downgraded the drugmaker to "underweight" from "neutral," with the shares having doubled since reporting third-quarter earnings. JPMorgan points to significant patent erosion concerns that will impact earnings going forward, among other factors.


After the Federal Reserve raised interest rates on Wednesday, CNBC's Jim Cramer wanted investors to get a feel for the state of the U.S. economy.
"Higher rates can kill the bull if they make bonds competitive with the return you get from stocks. We aren't there yet," the "Mad Money" host said. "A quarter-point rate hike from these very low levels won't really do much damage to either the economy or the stock market."
Cramer used a quote from the late legendary investor, Sir John Templeton, to explain the current state of affairs: "Bull markets are born on pessimism, grown on skepticism, mature on optimism, and die on euphoria."
"We're currently in stage three. We're in optimism," Cramer said. "We're optimistic about 2018. We're optimistic that the Fed won't kill the economy, optimistic that inflation's under control, optimistic that more jobs will be created, augmented by the tax bill, and I'm optimistic that stocks can keep running."
Yet amid all this optimism, there isn't much euphoria, the "Mad Money" host said. There are still plenty of people skeptical that the stock market's gains can last. There's still money on the sidelines.
Cramer argued that the most euphoric part of the market is in the world of cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, which Fed Chair Janet Yellen said on Wednesday was still a "very small" segment of the payment system.
"I get the sense that when — not if, but when — they become big potatoes, the Fed will have a more forceful policy," Cramer said. "But right now, Yellen, even after repeated questioning, didn't seem to take the cryptocurrency bait. She just didn't think they're that important."
But there are still plenty of areas in the market to be concerned about, the "Mad Money" host said.
For one, there aren't enough high-skilled jobs being created in the United States, as established by Apple's $390 million investment in fiber optics company Finisair.
The money will fund 500 new jobs at Finisair and refurbish a closed-down facility in Texas, where Finisair will manufacture chips for Apple's latest devices.
"Without this injection of capital, I think Finisar would struggle versus foreign competitors," Cramer said. "Good work by Apple."
Second, long-term interest rates (which are not controlled by the Fed) have remained stagnant even in the face of aggressive bank deregulation by the government, meaning there's not enough lending. Cramer said he hoped that might change with new Fed Chair Jay Powell.
Most of all, the "Mad Money" host wanted investors to keep an eye out for the signs of euphoria.
"First, if we see a tremendous amount of insider selling and secondary stock offerings that get lapped up by the market, something that happened near the peak in 2000, we might be too euphoric," he said. "If we see people trading houses like they did back in 2007, we might be too euphoric."
"If we see investors taking down a gigantic amount of margin debt in order to buy stocks, we might be too euphoric," he continued. "If we hear outrageous price targets for stocks and start bidding up the prices of companies without any earnings or even any revenues, you better believe we're too euphoric."
But none of that is happening, Cramer said. Ten years after a financial crisis shook the economic system to its core, we're simply optimistic.
And there are still plenty of people in the United States who were so scarred by the 2008 recession that they don't want to invest ever again, Cramer added.
"Am I giving you permission to party down with stocks? No way," the "Mad Money" host said. "We need to be careful not to own the stocks of companies that are doing poorly. We need to remain vigilant against euphoria. We should always be willing to take something off the table. No one ever got hurt taking a profit. Build up some cash on the sidelines."


CME CEO and Chairman Terry Duffy may not own bitcoin, but he thinks it could change the world. That's why CME Group is launching bitcoin futures Sunday – with some extra regulatory safeguards.
"Regulation is important to any product – when you look at cryptocurrencies or anything else you trade -- so we continue to evolve," Duffy said on CNBC's "Fast Money."
Competitor Cboe, which launched bitcoin futures Dec. 10, will offer contracts as low as 1 bitcoin. But CME is only offering contracts on 5 bitcoins, in part to ward off retail participants.
"The last thing I want to have happen is for participants that have never traded futures contracts before to enter into CME's markets and begin trading bitcoin futures," Duffy said. "We're targeting the more professional type trader and the institutional investor."
To determine pricing, CME will tie futures to a bitcoin reference rate, which is an average of four exchanges.
To offset bitcoin's notorious volatility, CME has already raised initial margins – or the amount put up at the start of the trade – to 47 percent from 35 percent, and set maintenance margins at 43 percent. Duffy said CME has no qualms about raising the rate again.
"If, in fact, this thing starts to move precipitously, our margins will increase, our velocity logic will kick in and other functions we have, as well," Duffy said.
Duffy doesn't own bitcoin personally, but he believes the cryptocurrency may well change the future of finance.
"I think we're going through a major change in finance," Duffy said. "For us not to list it and to miss potentially helping something that could change the world would be wrong, too. I think we're taking a very measured approach."


Walt Disney's widely anticipated deal to buy Twenty-First Century Fox's entertainment assets reminded CNBC's Jim Cramer of his experience founding TheStreet.com.
"Scale. Gotta have scale. I remember when I first heard that term, "scale." It was when I started TheStreet.com 22 years ago. I would meet with bankers, of course begging for money, and they'd say, 'Jim, you aren't scaling fast enough,'" the "Mad Money" host recalled.
Being large enough to compete with major industry players is a requirement for any company that wants to secure funding and get ahead, as Cramer later found out.
"If you aren't dominant, then you won't win, or worse, you might not even survive," he said. "Disney's in the position that I was in 22 years ago. It really doesn't matter how much they pay, they'll be getting huge scale, and with this deal, ... they need that scale badly."
So ahead of a potential Thursday deal in which Disney would buy Fox's movie, television and regional sports network assets, valued at $60 billion according to sources, Cramer broke down the offensive and defensive drivers behind the purchase.
Cramer said the combination of Disney's ESPN and Fox's regional sports content would give the entertainment giant a "hammerlock" on sports programming. That side of the deal would bolster Disney's prospects for BamTech, its digital sports streaming arm, he added.
If the deal goes through, Disney would also get the rights to more key Marvel Comics characters, adding the potential for more film franchises and theme park rides.
The "Mad Money" host argued that the prospective deal is offensive in the sense that it might help Disney overcome its cord-cutting concerns and get its content in front of consumers, no matter where they want to watch it.
"But it's also defensive," he said. "There's not a lot of beachfront property out there. Fox's entertainment assets are a prime piece of real estate. Again, Disney had to pay up for it, but they didn't want that beachfront property going to the FANGs," Cramer's acronym for Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet.
With Fox's assets under its belt, Disney could package ESPN and Fox Sports as a separate public company or a unit within the larger parent company. It could use the sports division to build out BamTech into a catch-all sports streaming colossus.
"Either way, Disney has bought itself time and boxed out its real enemies, the digital titans who can decide that they want to take Disney's business, meaning the business of getting you to watch them," the "Mad Money" host said. "Netflix and Amazon don't care whether you watch on TV or your phone or your computer."
And with this deal, Disney might not have to care, either.


Companies that enforce employee-centric and customer-centric cultures are likely to see better financial gains than their competitors, Just Capital's Dan Hesse told CNBC on Wednesday.
"What we've seen from a financial performance point of view is that you have ... [a] higher return on equity of these companies that do good things," Hesse, the former CEO of Sprint, told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer.
Just Capital, a private, non-profit research firm, recently conducted a survey of 72,000 individuals across the United States to hear about what they wanted to see from the nation's top companies.
On Tuesday, Just Capital and Forbes released a ranking of the top 100 most "just" U.S. companies based on the results.
Hesse, a board member of Just Capital, acknowledged that many leading technology companies landed high in the ranks, with Intel, Texas Instruments and Nvidia taking the top three spots.
"Part of it, I think, is keeping up with one another," he said of the tech players. "They're competing for the same talent. They're competing for the same customers."
But one of the most sweeping commonalities was how consumers felt about tax reform, Hesse said.
While investors might get excited about the potential for share buybacks and dividend increases if corporate tax reform is passed, consumers couldn't be less thrilled about it, Hesse said.
"If there's one overall theme in the data, it's that they believe companies are focused too much on just shareholders versus all the other stakeholders," he told Cramer.
"They'll say shareholders, yes, important, but your employees are No. 1 and your customers are No. 2," Hesse continued. "So are the communities, the environment, a lot of other stakeholders. So they will want to see companies take this money and invest in their employees and in some of these other areas."
And given the deep political divides in the country, sewn in part by the 2016 election, Hesse said the 72,000 survey participants agreed on more than they probably thought:
"With all of the differences politically, the results between Democrats and Republicans were amazingly similar in this survey."


The Federal Reserve came through on a widely expected interest rate hike Wednesday following its two-day policy meeting and sharply raised its economic growth forecast for 2018.
In their decision, the central bank policymakers mostly followed the script, though they did indicate that one less hike is on the way for 2019. Two Fed presidents voted against the increase — Charles Evans of Chicago and Neel Kashkari of Minneapolis.
The move will push the target range to 1.25 percent to 1.5 percent. The rate is pegged to a wide variety of debt instruments, such as credit cards and adjustable-rate mortgages.
One of the more notable developments came from the expectations Federal Open Market Committee members set for gross domestic product next year. The committee collectively raised its GDP estimate from 2.1 percent in September to 2.5 percent.
That comes following two consecutive quarters of 3 percent growth or higher and estimates that the fourth quarter could hit that level as well.
However, the burst may be short-lived. Growth is projected to come back down to 2.1 percent in 2019 and 2 percent in 2020, though both are above the respective 2 percent and 1.8 percent forecasts three months ago.


This is a comparison of Wednesday's FOMC statement with the one issued after the Fed's previous policymaking meeting on October 31.
Text removed from the October statement is in red with a horizontal line through the middle.
Text appearing for the first time in the new statement is in red and underlined.
Black text appears in both statements.


Jeffrey Gundlach, a renowned bond investor, believes a tax cut is not going to be positive for all companies over the long run and could hurt values of junk credit.
"There's probably going to be some unintended consequences from all this tinkering around with the tax code," Gundlach told CNBC's Scott Wapner on "Halftime Report." "I think it will probably harm some companies, some sectors."
Gundlach, CEO of DoubleLine Capital, which manages more than $100 billion, also said the new tax plan could "lead to a narrative about defaults in the junk bond market."
Republican lawmakers and the Trump administration have been pushing hard for a revamp of the U.S. tax code this year. Their plan would lower the corporate tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent starting in 2018.
Equities have risen sharply this year as investors bet on a cut to the corporate tax rate. The Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500 are up 24.6 percent and 19.2 percent for the year, respectively. On Wednesday, they reached record highs.
But the tax plan would also raise taxes in states like California, New York and New Jersey, which are already high tax-paying states. Gundlach said it would likely make people in those states less willing to buy stocks and risk assets.
"I do believe the narrative will develop that there are negative parts, unintended consequences to this tax package," he said.
Gundlach also found it interesting that junk bonds haven't followed equities higher this year. The SPDR Bloomberg Barclays High Yield Bond exchange-traded fund (JNK) is up just 0.9 percent in 2017.


Apple's investment in Finisar is a "fantastic" deal, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday, and now the chipmaker is an "entirely different company."
Finisar's stock jumped Wednesday after Apple announced the second investment from its $1 billion Advanced Manufacturing Fund, committing $390 million to Finisar.
The company will use the money to reopen a shuttered plant in Sherman, Texas, and create 500 jobs.
Apple CEO Tim Cook told Cramer earlier this year about the fund to promote advanced manufacturing jobs in the U.S. Cook said he hoped the investment would spur even more job creation.
"Finisar is a heavily shorted stock because they've missed a couple of quarters and people feel we're losing our leadership overseas," said Cramer, whose charitable trust owns shares of Apple. "Well guess what, when you get a check from Apple it really does help."
"If you were short Finisar before, you should realize it's an entirely different company after this," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "They are people who fight it, but I say don't fight the feeling."
The announcement came a couple days after Apple confirmed it would buy music recognition app Shazam. News of that deal was first reported by TechCrunch.
Cramer agreed that Apple's appetite may be getting more "acute." "I think that they're stepping up," said the host of CNBC's "Mad Money."
Cramer said the investments may be "excess" for Apple, which has a market cap of more than $800 billion, but it is "killer" for companies who are on the receiving end.


Disney's "Star Wars: The Last Jedi," which premieres in U.S. theaters on Friday, could mean hundreds of millions of dollars in unanticipated box office revenue for IMAX, according to JPMorgan analysis.
As the latest installment in the sci-fi epic, "The Last Jedi" has received a swell of positive reviews from film critics in recent days, leading JPMorgan analyst Alexia Quadrani to speculate that weekend traffic could be strong.
"The Last Jedi" "could drive upside to our fourth-quarter estimates with overwhelmingly positive reviews for the film," wrote Quadrani on Tuesday, giving a nod to the film's 93 percent Rotten Tomatoes score. "Overall, assuming solid performance for The Last Jedi, we believe there could be upside to our fourth-quarter IMAX global box office estimate of $285 million, +15 percent year-over-year."
The film will be released in a record number of IMAX theaters worldwide — starting with 775 domestic and international screens for its opening weekend and an additional 503 screens in China next month, according to a company spokesperson. Pre-sale IMAX tickets are now the second-highest in IMAX history, exceeding Christopher Nolan's final Batman movie, "The Dark Knight Rises."
Some scenes were shot using IMAX's extremely high-resolution cameras, providing audiences with better image quality in the company's exclusive aspect ratio.
The film is so popular that NASA is partnering with Disney to screen the film for its astronauts in outer space.

Looking back at the 2015 release of "Star Wars: The Force Awakens," Quadrani noted that global opening set a weekend box office record for IMAX, which added $48 million over a few days. The film would ultimately gross about $130 million in IMAX box office in the fourth quarter of 2015.
While she expects "The Last Jedi" to perform "modestly lower" than "The Force Awakens," Quadrani explained that the new film has the advantage of one additional weekend in the month of December.
Though up 21 percent in the past three months, IMAX shares slipped 0.4 percent Wednesday.


Shares of Overstock.com surged Wednesday after its CEO announced a joint venture for a global property registry based on bitcoin's blockchain technology.
Overstock Chief Executive Patrick Byrne and the company's blockchain-focused subsidiary Medici Ventures are partnering with well-known Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto to establish the for-profit venture called De Soto.
An earlier report said the venture would be nonprofit, but a company spokesperson confirmed to CNBC that the venture will be for profit.

Byrne also has hired Guggenheim Partners to explore options for selling Overstock, which is primarily an online home goods retailer. A multibillion-dollar investment fund has already approached Overstock, and interest from Asia has been especially strong, according to the company.
The stock briefly climbed 8.79 percent to $58.15 a share Wednesday. Overstock.com shares have leaped more than 220 percent this year following news the company is planning to launch a licensed digital coin trading platform through its subsidiary tZero and raise funds through an initial coin offering. On Friday, Morgan Stanley Investment Management disclosed in a filing that it had an 11.4 percent stake in Overstock.com.
"If [Byrne] executes properly on blockchain I think the stock's worth somewhere between $200 and $400," said Marc Cohodes, a noted short seller and independent investor who turned positive on Overstock.com in October. "I own a lot of this thing. I bought a lot more the other day when it pulled back."
"These guys have spent real money" on blockchain, Cohodes said. "Global property management on the blockchain. How big is that market?"
Overstock.com is the third-most active corporate investor in blockchain technology over the last five years, according to data company CB Insights. Japan-based SBI Holdings ranks first and Google, Alphabet's subsidiary, is second, the data analysis showed.
Blockchain technology creates a permanent, open record of all transactions on a network. The technology allows two parties to interact directly without an intermediary. Proponents say blockchain can help speed up financial transactions and improve security of personal identification, among other applications.
One of economist de Soto's major arguments is that formal documentation of land ownership is the key to alleviating poverty in underdeveloped countries. The De Soto venture plans to use the blockchain to document the informal records of local property ownership.




Boeing's recent run has been nothing short of amazing.
Boeing is on track for its best annual performance since 1978. The stock has soared more than 86 percent this year, adding about $77 billion in market cap and around 892 points to the Dow.
Boeing was trading at yet another all-time high on Wednesday at around $295.
But as the stock trades at record highs, one technician is warning that Boeing may have soared too far, too fast, and the meteoric run could soon come to a close.
Matt Maley of Miller Tabak says two technical indicators suggest the rally has gotten long in the tooth, with the first being the stock's Relative Strength Index. The index essentially measures the degree to which a stock is overbought.
"If you look at its RSI chart, it's in the high 80s," Maley said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "It hasn't been this high very often at all, and the last time it was this high was the very end of 2013 just before the stock rolled over and came down 15 percent."

Maley also points out that the stock is up almost 90 percent from its 200-week moving average, a gap that hasn't been so high in the last 20 years.
"Premiums above their 200-day moving average or 200-week moving average or anything like that are not necessarily good timing tools, but they do show the stock is getting way ahead of itself," he said. "It makes it really tough to put new money into the stock at these levels."
Mike Binger, a senior portfolio manager at Gradient Investments, mentioned that his firm had sold Boeing, and while it may have gotten out a bit too early, now may not be the best time to buy the stock.
Binger pointed out that while Wall Street analysts are generally bullish on the stock, "after about a 125 and 130 percent run …there's not a lot left in this stock."
According to FactSet, of the 28 analysts who cover Boeing the average rating is overweight with a $289.46 price target, roughly in line with where the stock is currently trading.
According to Binger, Boeing is still vulnerable to competition, and airline traffic trends that could hinder its production. This leads the portfolio manager to emphasize that while investors who hold the stock shouldn't necessarily sell Boeing, investors looking to put new money to work should avoid the stock for the time being.


Another day, another digital currency surge.
Ripple, or XRP, leaped 37.5 percent from Tuesday's close to a record high of 51.37 cents Wednesday, according to CoinMarketCap. The gains pushed ripple past litecoin into fourth place by cryptocurrency market capitalization at $18.23 billion, according to CoinMarketCap. Ripple last traded slightly off its highs around 47 cents, according to CoinMarketCap.
Ripple is officially the name of the startup using bitcoin's blockchain technology to develop a payments network for banks, digital asset exchanges and other financial institutions. XRP is the digital coin network participants use for transactions.
Ripple seven-day performance

Source: CoinMarketCap
Like much of the recent gains in digital currencies, there was no apparent fundamental reason for ripple's surge other than positive momentum.
Since bitcoin jumped Monday following the launch of the first bitcoin futures contract on a major exchange, less popular cryptocurrencies have alternately surged. Litecoin and ethereum soared to record highs Tuesday. On Wednesday, ripple became the largest gainer.
"The launch of bitcoin futures by Cboe Global Markets earlier this week has been seen as a celebrity endorsement and a stamp of approval on crypto," Standpoint Research's Ronnie Moas said in an email. "Ripple is very promising … and many people are excited about this particular coin. It is in a powerful position and serves as a payment network … allowing you to transfer dozens of different currencies worldwide in lightning speed."
With Wednesday's gains, ripple is up more than 7,000 percent from its 0.65-cent price at the start of this year.
Bitcoin traded little changed near $17,152 Wednesday, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index. The digital currency has a market value of about $287 billion, the largest among the cryptocurrencies,  followed by ethereum and bitcoin's offshoot, bitcoin cash.


Laser chipmaker Finisar's stock soared Wednesday following the news of a $390 million Apple investment.
Shares were up 28 percent Wednesday morning.
Apple announced the investment as the second from its $1 billion Advanced Manufacturing Fund. Finisar's chips enable depth and proximity sensing, making possible some of the iPhone X's standout features like Face ID, Animoji and ARKit.
With the investment, Finisar will transform a shuttered, 700,000-square-foot manufacturing plant in Sherman, Texas, into a high-tech facility developing more of the iPhone X-enabling chips.
--CNBC's Josh Lipton contributed to this story.


Janet Yellen could use her final news conference as Federal Reserve chair to sound off on a variety of issues, from the move toward bank deregulation to the central bank's critics to the state of the country under President Donald Trump.
Expect none of that.
Instead, Yellen is likely to offer the same approach to her last Q&A with the media as she did the first: diplomatic — reserved and with a healthy smattering of wonky Fed speak aimed at addressing questions without pinning the central bank to some future course of action.
The former head of the San Francisco Fed likely will yield to Fed Governor Jerome Powell, who has been nominated for the post by Trump and likely will get the full Senate's confirmation.
"My guess is she wants to make the handoff as quiet and smooth as possible," said Ed Keon, managing director and portfolio manager at QMA. "She knows it's not going to be her calling the shots next year. She's not a showboater. I think she will want to offer a dignified exit and leave things to her predecessor."
Powell will ascend to the chair at an interesting time.
The Fed is on a slow but consistent rate-hiking course that likely will be called into question next year if inflation continues to miss the central bank's 2 percent target. At the same time, the Fed is reducing — again, slowly but surely — its $4.5 trillion balance sheet of bonds it accumulated in its three rounds of stimulus known as quantitative easing.
If Yellen does veer away from the traditional parley with reporters, it may be too blow the Fed's horn at least a little for navigating those changes without causing major disruptions to the economy.
"To some extent she will want to go back and in a humble way declare victory by pointing out the progress that the economy has made on so many fronts," said David Donabedian, chief investment officer of CIBC Atlantic Trust Private Wealth Management. "She will strenuously avoid anything that sounds like she's telling Jay Powell what he should do. She will as much as possible tout the achievements of her term but not create any expectations for the new guy."
Markets widely expect Powell to continue monetary policy in a fairly status quo manner. Fed officials currently have indicated that three more rate hikes are likely in 2018, though the market is expecting only two.
Where the two may differ is on regulation, with Powell a bit more open to relaxing some of the banking rules put into place after the financial crisis.
The reaction to his approach will be interesting. Yellen had a few missteps early on with public statements, so the market may have to allow her successor at least a bit of a learning curve.
"History suggests there's a little tolerance there," Donabedian said. "If you remember back to Yellen's first couple of months, she made a couple of stumbles and was correctly forgiven for it, and has been just spot on as a messenger since then."


Apple shares are surging so far this year as investors are bullish on the iPhone X product launch, but one Wall Street firm says the rally can continue through next year.
Citi Research reiterated its buy rating for the smartphone maker's shares Wednesday, citing several reasons why Apple stock will rise in 2018.
"While we acknowledge smartphone growth remains tempered, we continue to see positive tailwinds for Apple's fundamental growth drivers," analyst Jim Suva wrote in a note to clients.
Apple has crushed the market this year with its shares up 48 percent year to date through Tuesday, compared with the S&P 500's 19 percent gain.
Suva shared his five top reasons why the company's stock can go higher:
1. "Super upgrade cycle continues into FY18 as production issues have resulted in elongated lead times vs prior cycles, thereby likely to drive better than seasonal demand in March quarter." 2. "Tax reform benefit from reduction in corporate taxes and cash repatriation." 3. "Sticky User Base Which Drives Continued Services Revenue Growth ... continued momentum in mobile commerce, mobile gaming, mobile entertainment will continue to drive sticky services revenue growth." 4. "Enterprise Push Mid Term, Applewood Longer Term ... enterprises are spending more efforts to upgrade mobile device hardware which is positive for Apple. Longer term we believe Applewood (Apple's move to gain traction in India & more services) will eventually become material." 5. "Attractive Valuation – Shares are trading at a 20% discount to the SP500 in line with their 5 year median despite improving fundamentals described above."
The analyst reaffirmed his $200 price target for Apple shares, representing 16.5 percent upside to Tuesday's close.


Deregulation and a global equity bull market will propel Morgan Stanley in the new year, according to Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, which specializes in coverage of the financial sector.
With major changes expected to the Federal Reserve's financial crisis banking regulations, Morgan Stanley should be set for a stock swell in the next 12 months, wrote KBW analyst Brian Kleinhanzl.
"We are expecting regulations will be eased for the largest banks beginning in earnest in 2018 and we expect Morgan Stanley will be one of the larger beneficiaries of regulatory change over time," wrote the analyst on Tuesday. "We expect changes to [the Fed's] Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) will occur and the benefit will be improved returns over the long term."
While Morgan Stanley is already up more than 27 percent this year and 16 percent over the past three months, Kleinhanzl believes that the bank's stock will reach $59 by next December. That implies roughly 10 percent upside from Tuesday's close over the next 12 months.
Shares of Morgan Stanley closed down 1.24 percent Wednesday after the call.
The analyst added that continued global growth is likely to drive equity markets higher, buoyed by quantitative easing outside the United States and the possibility of Republican tax cuts.
"We believe that Morgan Stanley is more levered to equity markets than peers due to exposure to equities within Wealth and Investment Management and Morgan Stanley's leading equity trading franchise," explained Kleinhanzl. "Lastly, there is a high probability that tax reform could happen in 2017 or early 2018, and we expect that tax reform could be a further catalyst for markets should consumer and corporate cash flows improve."


Whether or not bitcoin is in a bubble, the cryptocurrency's performance "dwarfs" nearly all bubbles, including the 1929 stock market crash, investor Ken Fisher told CNBC on Wednesday.
Bitcoin, which has surged more than 1,500 percent this year, has many market participants warning of a bubble.
Fisher suggested looking at the peak of prior bubbles with that of the popular digital currency.
"If you look at bitcoin coming up to this point today and overlay it with the peak, it dwarfs all those other bubbles," the executive chairman and co-chief investment officer of Fisher Investments said. "Gold a couple of times, 1929. Nineteen-ninety with the Nikkei, 2000 with the Nasdaq. You can just go down the list: boom, boom, boom, boom, boom."
"This one in magnitude, whether it's a bubble or not, the price move around that dwarfs every bubble that's ever occurred," Fisher added in an interview on "Squawk Box."


This was a terrible year for the tech industry.
That’s an odd thing to say at a time of record growth and profits. In 2017, large American tech companies have kept hauling in more money, more users, and — to a degree that might seem dystopian — they continued to expand their foothold in our lives. This was a year in which Amazon created a way for its delivery drivers to let themselves into your house, and Apple created a phone you can unlock with your face.
Yet underneath this apparent success was a momentous shift in how the tech business deals with the world. Five or 10 years from now, we will come to regard 2017 as a turning point.
Why? Because this year, for the first time, tech giants began to grudgingly accept that they have some responsibility to the offline world. The scope of that responsibility, though, is another matter entirely.
Let me explain how this is all playing out.


Bitcoin has made some investors quite wealthy, but one Wall Street veteran won't touch it.
The Lindsey Group's Peter Boockvar believes the bitcoin boom is a classic mania that will ultimately inflict a lot of pain. He calls it a "gigantic price chase based on nothing."
"If bitcoin went to $50,000 or $5 tomorrow, I don't think either price would surprise anybody," the firm's chief market analyst said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now." "Its concept I get — an alternative currency, an alternative form of transacting for goods and services. But the price itself is nothing more than a historic bubble."
In just the past six months, bitcoin has surged 541 percent and is now bouncing above $17,100. Bitcoin futures are up 12 percent since trading made its debut at the Cboe.
The big gains extend to its smaller competitors such as litecoin. It has ripped 260 percent higher over past week, gaining 70 percent on Tuesday alone.
"The problem with cryptocurrencies generally is that there's potentially an infinite amount. I mean even bitcoin is now forking and sort of spawning brother and sister coins like bitcoin cash," said Boockvar. "What good is it if you can spawn a new one every day?"
Boockvar, a CNBC contributor, is more comfortable investing in an asset that's thousands of years old versus one that's only 10.
"If bitcoin is being perceived as this alternative currency, where gold is one as well, ...  I would not be surprised when the day comes when bitcoin falls. Maybe that's when gold eventually rallies," he said. "It's much more difficult getting gold out of the ground than having a laptop and creating some new cryptocurrency."
He said a variety of factors could spark a cataclysmic cryptocrash. The currencies could flame out, lose their novelty or a vital regulatory issue could emerge, according to Boockvar.
And, there's one particular vulnerability that's partial to the cryptospace.
"It could be hacked. It could be someone who loses their coins," Boockvar said.


The choice you make for how you want to receive professional financial advice can make or break your portfolio.
Investors today have four main choices for how they want to receive financial advice, Ron Carson, founder and CEO of the Carson Group, said in an interview with CNBC.com.
You can either go the traditional route and work with a human financial advisor or opt to work exclusively with a robo-advisor. Or you can select a bionic offering, which is a combination of both, or choose to work with a financial advisor on a retainer-fee basis.
More from Investor Toolkit: Advisors turn to life coaches and counselors Retirees leave $100B in Social Security benefits on table How much those advisor fees are costing you
The decision you make should be based on your personal goals, needs and objectives, Carson said, and how you are most comfortable interacting with and receiving advice.
The direction you choose will have a big impact on your financial future.
"Your behavior is going to drive performance," Carson said.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Honeywell– The industrial conglomerate said it expected adjusted 2018 earnings of between $7.55 and $7.80 per share, compared to the current consensus estimate of $7.79. It also narrowed current quarter earnings guidance toward the upper end of prior projections.
Finisar – The manufacturer of optical communications components was awarded $390 million by Apple from its Advanced Manufacturing Fund. The fund is designed to support innovation by American manufacturers.
Eli Lilly – The drug maker expects 2018 adjusted earnings of between $4.60 and $4.70 per share, compared to a consensus estimate of $4.64. Lilly also said it expects several key experimental treatments to make their way through the regulatory procedure in 2018.
Amgen – The biotech firm raised its quarterly dividend 15 percent to $1.32 per share.
Western Digital — The hard disk drive maker and Japan's Toshiba settled their long-running dispute over Toshiba's planned sale of its memory chip unit to Bain Capital for $18 billion. The two companies had been long time partners in the operation of Japanese chip plant.
Toyota – Toyota President Akio Toyoda said he wants electrified vehicles and hybrids to account for 50 percent of the automaker's sales by 2030. Toyoda made his statement at a news conference announcing an expansion of Toyota's battery partnership with Panasonic.
AT&T – AT&T is testing powerline-based high speed internet service in Georgia as well as a non-U.S. location. The Georgia test is taking place in a rural area, although the company said it could potentially be instituted in more populated area as well.
Verifone Systems – Verifone reported adjusted quarterly profit of 44 cents per share, beating estimates by a penny, while the payment systems company also saw revenue beat forecasts. However, the shares came under pressure after its outlook fell short of analyst estimates.
MongoDB — MongoDB lost 44 cents per share in its first quarterly earnings report following its October initial public offering. The database company's loss was 4 cents smaller than expected, while its revenue beat forecasts.
TiVo – TiVo was downgraded to "neutral" from "buy" at B. Riley/FBR, which doesn't think the DVR maker's issues with Comcast will be resolved quickly. The two sides are in a patent dispute involving technology contained in Comcast set-top boxes.
O'Reilly Auto – O'Reilly was upgraded to "outperform" from "sector perform" at RBC Capital, which cites valuation among other factors for the auto parts retailer.
Walt Disney – Disney would have the Murdoch family as a 5 percent stakeholder after a potential sale of cable assets to Disney by 21st Century Fox, according to London's Daily Mail.
Morgan Stanley – The investment firm was upgraded to "outperform" from "market perform" at KBW, which cites an improving regulatory environment as well as an attractive valuation.
Home Depot, Lowe's – The two stocks were both rated "buy" in new coverage at Guggenheim, which said both home improvement chains will benefit from a favorable housing industry backdrop and superior supply chains, among other factors.
Disclosure: Comcast is the parent company of NBCUniversal and CNBC.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are mixed after Tuesday's record high closes for the Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500, but a slight loss for the Nasdaq. Most of the focus today will be on the Fed decision coming out at 2 p.m. ET.
-The latest read on consumer inflation is due out this morning and is expected to come in at 0.4 percent.
ALABAMA ELECTION/SENATE
-Democrat Doug Jones defeated Roy Moore to win the Alabama U.S. Senate election. This reduces the Republican majority in the Senate to 51 to 49. Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton is expected to announce his choice to replace Sen. Al Franken today. Franken promised to resign amid sexual misconduct accusations.


Stanley Druckenmiller believes the overly easy monetary policies by global central banks will have disastrous consequences.
"The way you create deflation is you create an asset bubble. If I was 'Darth Vader' of the financial world and decided I'm going to do this nasty thing and create deflation, I would do exactly what the central banks are doing now," he told CNBC's Kelly Evans in an exclusive interview airing Tuesday on "Closing Bell."
"Misallocate resources [with low interest rates], create an asset bubble and then deal with the consequences down the road," he said.


Investors should pocket gains after a strong rally in major stock markets and scout bargains in the energy and technology sectors next year, a senior strategist at TD Ameritrade said Tuesday.
Equity markets have had an ebullient 2017 with the S&P 500 rising 18.8 percent so far this year and the Nasdaq clocking a 27.7 percent gain.
"This has been a tremendous rally, and if you're overweight in certain sectors such as technology, your portfolio might be a little bit out of whack as to what your goals are," said JJ Kinahan, chief market strategist and managing director of TD Ameritrade, which manages $1.16 trillion-worth of assets for its global clients.
"Bulls and bears make money and pigs get slaughtered, so taking a little money off the table might not be the worst thing in the world to do," he added.
"Put a little money in your pocket and lower the basis for the rest of your investments."


Tesla shares have surged 12 percent in the last week, but one equity strategist sees trouble on the horizon.  The stock has risen for three-straight sessions on a slew of news the market appeared to like: CEO Elon Musk said last week the electric car manufacturer was working toward custom artificial intelligence hardware and PepsiCo said Monday it had reserved a fleet of 100 Tesla Semi trucks.  Despite the rally, Matt Maley of Miller Tabak has reservations for the stock heading into 2018. Here are his reasons why.  • Tesla continues to see production problems related to its Model 3, as Miller Tabak's research partners at Cascend Securities point out. This means if someone has not already ordered a Model 3, it may not arrive until 2019. This would in turn allow other auto companies to play catch-up.  • Tesla is also going to have to issue more debt in 2018. This may not prove to be a major long-term concern, but a lot of what investors are getting in shares of Tesla is long-term oriented.  • If the broader market sees meaningful weakness in 2018, Tesla would likely become quite vulnerable. If the stock market sees a correction, investors might be more comfortable holding shares of a company that have more solid immediate- to long-term profits, thus prompting profit-taking in the stock.  • The key level to watch in Tesla, if weakness becomes apparent later this month or in early 2018, is the $290 mark. This is the level at which Tesla shares bounced several times this year. Furthermore, it was the stock's high back in 2014. Once this was broken to the upside last spring, the stock rallied meaningfully. This may be a case of the old technical analysis adage, "Old resistance becomes new support." If $290 is broken to the downside in any meaningful way, this would be quite negative on a technical basis.

Bottom line: Tesla stock has risen meaningfully over the past week, but Maley sees trouble ahead.


One of the leading Wall Street veterans now investing in cryptocurrencies said Tuesday he would sell digital currency litecoin after its surge.
"I don't think it will have the same legs that bitcoin would. I would sell it here versus buying bitcoin," Michael Novogratz, formerly a macro hedge fund manager at Fortress Investment Group, said on CNBC's "Fast Money."
Novogratz is now CEO of Galaxy Investment Partners and he said Tuesday the firm is launching its cryptocurrency fund by the end of this week. News that Novogratz was launching a $500 million cryptocurrency fund first broke at the end of September.
"The best investments by a long shot have been these exchanges. The exchanges are printing money right now," Novogratz said. "You wish you owned a big chunk of Coinbase, or Bitfinex, or any of these big exchanges."
Litecoin briefly climbed 59.5 percent for the day to a record high of $341.72, up more than 7,700 percent this year, according to CoinMarketCap. At one point, litecoin was up more than 70 percent over the last 24 hours. The website showed the digital currency had a market value of $18 billion, ranking fourth behind bitcoin, ethereum and bitcoin cash.
A key differentiator between litecoin and bitcoin is transaction cost. The median transaction fee for litecoin on Monday was about 7.9 cents, versus $14.17 for bitcoin, according to BitInfoCharts.
However, Novogratz said he expects bitcoin's gains to accelerate. "I think at this pace it could hit $40,000 in three months, two months," he said, noting the only risk is that the price surge generates too much negative attention from regulators.
Jay Clayton, chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, warned in a lengthy Monday statement about the dangers for investing in cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings.
Meanwhile, some of the world's largest futures exchanges are eager to launch bitcoin futures. Cboe became the first major exchange to do so on Sunday, and CME is set to launch its own product this coming Sunday.
Institutional investors are "absolutely not" invested in cryptocurrencies yet, but they are watching them carefully, Novogratz said.
"All of these guys are looking at this as a potential asset class," he said, citing a recent visit to one of the biggest pension funds in the world. "Mark my words, when Goldman Sachs starts trading it, you're going to see the big pensions start coming in."
Goldman Sachs said in a statement Monday it will "clear bitcoin futures contracts for certain clients," but overall participation by the major banks was little to none. Trading volume Tuesday in the Cboe bitcoin futures dropped to less than half of Monday's already relatively low level.
Novogratz also apologized Tuesday for his rather scathing comments about his fellow former Goldman partners Steven Mnuchin and Gary Cohn. They are now respectively treasury secretary and chief White House economic advisor.
"I should apologize and you should never call someone an idiot," Novogratz said, adding that his remarks about Cohn were taken out of context.
When asked earlier this week about the Treasury Department's one-page analysis of the GOP tax plan's economic impact, Novogratz told a Bloomberg reporter that "Steve Mnuchin never even modeled the thing — idiot, I-D-I-O-T" and that "Gary Cohn shouldn't be able to live with himself."
— CNBC's Liz Moyer contributed to this report.


CNBC's Jim Cramer doesn't like to look at the stock market as a whole.
"There's no such thing as the stock market, not the way most people talk about it," the "Mad Money" host said. "Instead, you have a market of stocks, and that's an important distinction, particularly in Cramerica, because stocks are like snowflakes: no two are the same."
Even though Cramer thinks investors' first $10,000 should go into a broad-based index fund, he prefers looking at individual companies for the most illuminating market information.
Take Walt Disney. Shares of the entertainment giant have been rallying ever since the news broke that Disney is in talks to buy Fox's non-news assets and regional sports network.
The deal would expand Disney's film library to include Avatar and the Marvel characters, hopefully shifting the narrative away from the company's ESPN subscriber losses.
If Disney CEO Bob Iger is able to secure a deal, which is looking increasingly likely, Disney's narrative would change overnight. Investors would once again see it as an entertainment powerhouse with an unbeatable sports network and highly successful franchises, Cramer said.
"Spending on new content that can be so additive to earnings and so easily swallowed? Holy cow, what a windfall," he said. "After the deal on Thursday, people will be buying this stock hand over fist."
Pharmaceutical company Valeant is also seeing a turnaround under CEO Joe Papa, the "Mad Money" host said.
Now at $21 a share, Valeant's stock was trading at a measly $8 a share in April, when Wall Street raised concerns about, in Cramer's words, its "hideous" balance sheet.
"I'm sure many of you rolled your eyes … about the notion that Papa could clean up this love canal of debt, but that's exactly what happened," Cramer said. "Papa saved this company and now he's taking it to levels that seemed impossible six months ago."
Cramer also called attention to the consumer food cohort. Stocks in the space have been struggling of late as food companies report earnings miss after earnings miss.
But then there's PepsiCo, with a stock about $2 away from its all-time high and a Cramer-fave CEO, Indra Nooyi, at the helm. McDonald's shares have barely been hit since CEO Steve Easterbrook came on board.
"That's really my point. People who look at this market and worry about taxes or the Russia investigation or North Korea or a host of big-picture problems problems … simply don't realize that we do have some phenomenal value creators all over the place," the "Mad Money" host said.
In the athleisure retail space, Lululemon CEO Laurent Potdevin is bucking the sector's downtrend too after a strong earnings report, Cramer said.
So for investors who are worried about entire sectors or cohorts, Cramer offered some advice: view companies on a case-by-case basis.
"Management matters," the "Mad Money" host said. "When you've got a fabulous CEO working for you every day of the week and the weekend, for that matter, it makes a difference, often a big difference. That's why you need to judge companies on their own merits rather than just taking your cue from the amorphous blob that is the market."


After the Dow Jones industrial average hit yet another all-time high on Tuesday, CNBC's Jim Cramer had to investigate to see if the white-hot index is showing any signs of cooling.
"I think it's worth asking which red-hot groups will have the staying power once 2018 rolls around," the "Mad Money" host said. "And as far as hot sectors go, nothing has been as hot as the industrials, powered by tremendous economic growth both here and overseas."
With a White House infrastructure plan and a congressional tax overhaul seemingly on the horizon for 2018, industrial stocks could still get a boost from the federal government's actions.
So Cramer called on technician Bob Lang, the founder of ExplosiveOptions.net and one of the three minds behind TheStreet.com's Trifecta Stocks newsletter, to see if the industrials' already lengthy rally can continue into the new year.
Cramer began with the daily chart of Caterpillar, the global manufacturer of construction equipment and machinery. Caterpillar's stock is up 55 percent for 2017, a stone's throw from its all-time highs.

Lang liked the stock's high trading volume, an indicator technicians use to verify dramatic moves. High volume means that there are a lot of buyers pushing the stock higher, so Lang thought the move was telling the truth.
Better yet, Caterpillar's moving average convergence divergence (MACD) indicator just made a bullish crossover — a reliable signal that it can go even higher — and the stock has a floor of support at $139, down roughly $4 from where it closed on Tuesday.
"Put it all together and this chart's got a lot going for it," Cramer said. "Lang says Caterpillar is his favorite name in the group, and this combination of positives makes him think the stock could take a run at $155 or even $160 early in the new year."
Next, Cramer turned to the daily chart of Emerson Electric, an industrial focused on engineering and automation.

Since Emerson gave up trying to acquire Rockwell Automation last month, its shares have been on a tear, with a 13 percent gain just since mid-November. Just like Caterpillar, the stock has showing high volume and a bullish MACD indicator.
"Lang says the V-shaped bottom pattern tends to be quite bullish — he could see this stock ... take a run at $75 in the not-too-distant future," Cramer said. "At the moment, the stock's trading at $66. Lang says he'd love to buy it on a pullback to $63, where Emerson has the support of the 50-day moving average ... but who knows if you'll get that kind of decline?"
Honeywell's stock also surged in November on high volume, according to its daily chart, but lately, it looks like it's run out of steam.

Lang said shares of Honeywell may have gotten overheated, but noted a few positives: the pullback happened on lower volume, meaning there aren't any major sellers, and the stock has been holding above its floor of support.
"Put it all together and as far as Lang's concerned, Honeywell just needs to re-charge," Cramer said. "He could potentially see this $153 stock running up to $170 near the beginning of the new year, which would be stupendous."
Finally, Cramer and Lang inspected the daily chart of United Technologies, an industrial stock with aerospace exposure that has consistently been reaching new highs.

"Lang thinks this is a very powerful trend," Cramer said. "He sees the $123 stock possibly going to the $130s before too long, although ideally he recommends waiting for a pullback to $120, where UTX has a nice floor of support."
But, like with the others, Cramer warned that United Technologies may not see much lower levels again in the near future, at least not again in 2017.
"It's a good time to be an industrial company, and the charts, as interpreted by Bob Lang, suggest the industrial stocks are going to continue to have a good time right into year-end," the "Mad Money" host concluded. "He likes Caterpillar, he likes Emerson Electric, Honeywell [and] United Technologies, and I've got to say I agree with him. All we can do is hope that these stocks come in and give us better prices as part of some sort of market-wide sell-off that has nothing to do with their businesses. Why? Because their businesses are red-hot."


Executives must enforce cybersecurity as part of company culture if they want to have a safer, more protected workplace, McAfee CEO Chris Young told CNBC on Tuesday.
"One of the things that I talk about all the time when I talk to other CEOs is you've got to have a culture of security. It's got to matter," Young told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer. "Ten years ago, if I were to ask a CEO about cybersecurity, he might say, 'Yeah, I've got some guy in IT that's working on this.' Now everybody cares and I think that's going to make a big difference."
High-profile cyberattacks at firms like Equifax and WannaCry rattled consumers in 2017 as the world woke up to the possibility of mass-scale hacks.
And every day, the volume, complexity and speed of cyberattacks are on the rise, Young told Cramer.
"The problem's getting worse," the CEO said. "These guys are moving faster than ever."
McAfee, a privately-held cybersecurity firm that was once owned by Intel, oversees 432 million total endpoints for 103,000 corporate customers and is in many ways on the front lines when it comes to cyberattacks.
Young, who formerly ran end-user computing for VMware, said that one of McAfee's latest challenges has been in the area of ransomware, a type of cyberattack that holds the victim's information hostage until a sum of money is paid.
"Ransomware is one of the fastest-growing attacks that we have seen out there right now," Young said. "You look at some of the big attacks we've seen this year like WannaCry or NotPetya. [Hackers are] using those as a way to test where to go next."
A lot of cyberattackers request that the ransom be paid in bitcoin, the digital currency that's exploded in popularity and price this year.
Ironically, Young said that blockchain, the digital ledger that tracks all of the transactions made with bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, can offer some valuable lessons on cybersecurity.
"I actually think blockchain offers a lot of interesting things that we could do with security," Young said. "It's all crypto-based, so in particular, identity is something that blockchain could offer a lot of new solutions around."


U.S. companies on balance already are paying well below the 20 percent tax level targeted in the Republican reform plan, according to an analysis by Yardeni Research.
In fact, the typical effective tax rate — the amount paid minus deductions — could be as low as 13 percent over the past years, Yardeni concluded when looking at a cleaner number of how much the government is really collecting.
That's well below other estimates that sought to clarify the impact of the tax reform proposal that would take the current nominal rate from 35 percent to 20 percent. Multiple firms have concluded the benefits will tilt to specific sectors and provide a limited aggregate windfall.
The Institution on Taxation and Economic Policy, for instance, looked at 258 Fortune 500 companies that were "consistently profitable" from 2008 to 2015 and found they paid an effective rate of 21.2 percent.
But Yardeni found those estimates may be overstating what the government is actually getting from corporations. For instance, the Bureau of Economic Analysis, which compiles quarterly GDP reports, includes taxes collected from state and federal governments as well as the hundreds of billions the Fed remits to the Treasury each quarter from its $4.5 trillion bond portfolio.
The Fed's profits from the bonds it bought during three rounds of quantitative easing swelled from $27 billion at the beginning of 2009 to a record $105 billion in the second quarter of 2014.

The bureau uses something called the National Income and Product Accounts that Yardeni said could be distorting the corporate tax picture by including the state and local as well as the Fed receipts.
"The obvious conclusion is that measuring the average effective federal corporate tax rate using the NIPA data will overstate it by the amount of 'taxes' collected from the Fed and by the amount of taxes paid to taxing authorities other than the IRS," Ed Yardeni, founder of Yardeni Research, said in a note.
Still, even using the NIPA-based data yields an effective rate below 25 percent since 2008, and 20.7 percent over the past four quarters. Excluding the Fed's contribution to that data set takes the effective rate all the way down to 13 percent, Yardeni said.
Yardeni concedes that there could be some holes in his method, such as the small business contribution, but he sees on whole the numbers are right.


Despite bitcoin's immense gain in popularity, Wall Street's top economists and market strategists remain unconvinced.
Eighty percent of respondents to the December CNBC Fed Survey said the current valuation of bitcoin is a bubble. Only 2 percent of respondents said the valuation is based on fundamentals, and 17 percent responded that they don't know or are unsure.
In 2017 alone, bitcoin's price has jumped more than 1,000 percent, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index. After launching on Sunday evening on the Cboe Futures Exchange, bitcoin futures surged nearly 20 percent, to $18,545, on their first full day of trading, according to the January futures contract.

"We remain cautious on current domestic equity valuations even though we see very few areas that look cheap, and see a speculative quality to assets overall at this point (see Bitcoin…)," wrote John Roberts, director of research at Hilliard Lyons.
Wall Street also does not seem convinced of bitcoin's role as a currency. Of the 44 economists, fund managers and strategists surveyed last week, 66 percent said bitcoin does not qualify under the definition of a currency, while 17 percent said it does.

Unlike bitcoin, when it comes to the stock market, market participants are not resoundingly alarmed about valuations.
Sixty-six percent said they do not believe valuations are at a level where the Fed needs to raise rates to cool the market, compared with 24 percent who said the Fed should hike rates to cool the market.
Wall Street is also not convinced the Fed is worried about stock market valuations. Five percent said Fed members are "very concerned" about valuations versus 20 percent who said Fed members are "not at all concerned." A 68 percent majority said the average Fed member is "somewhat concerned."
Still, domestic stock valuations are looking frothy, warned Scott Wren, Wells Fargo  Investment Institute's senior global equity strategist. This is "unless you assume margins will expand meaningfully in the coming two years and earnings growth will accelerate meaningfully from here in 2018/19 (this is in addition to any tax reform)." Wren says both scenarios seem unlikely.
The survey forecasts the S&P 500 to reach 2,775 on average by the end of 2018 and 2,862 by the end of 2019.


Wall Street strategist Tom Lee sees significant gains ahead for bitcoin because young investors are interested in it.
"I think what viewers have to appreciate is, this is a millennial story," Fundstrat's Lee said Tuesday on CNBC's "Squawk Box." "The average millennial is 25 today. The boomers were 25 in 1982, so what did the boomers drive from 1982 to the peak population of the boomers, which was '99? The S&P 500."
"Millennials have great interest in digital businesses, social media and bitcoin," Lee said, adding that "the millennial population is not going to peak until 2040."
Lee was chief equity strategist at JPMorgan before co-founding Fundstrat in 2014. He is the only major strategist on Wall Street to issue price targets for bitcoin and expects the digital currency to hit $11,500 by the middle of next year and $25,000 by 2022.

Source: Deutsche Bank
The S&P 500 has climbed more than 18 percent this year to record highs, while bitcoin has surged 1,700 percent to above $17,000. Major exchanges such as the Cboe and CME are vying to launch bitcoin derivatives products, which could allow institutional investors to buy into the cryptocurrency trend and pave the way for a bitcoin exchange-traded fund.
An October survey found 27 percent of millennials would prefer to invest in $1,000 of bitcoin versus the same amount of stocks. Harris Poll conducted the online survey of more than 2,000 U.S. adults on behalf of cryptocurrency venture capital firm Blockchain Capital.
However, CNBC also reported in October that Vlad Tenev, co-founder of stock trading app Robinhood, expects stocks to stay in favor. At the time, about 78 percent of Robinhood's more than 2 million customers fall into the so-called millennial category, those ages 18 to 35.


Activision Blizzard's upcoming franchise title launches will be big blockbuster sellers, according to one top Wall Street firm.
Goldman Sachs raised its rating for Activision Blizzard shares to buy from neutral, predicting the company will report profits above expectations in 2019 and 2020.
"We believe the recent sell-off in Video Game stocks has largely been due to technical factors relating to positioning around tax reform, and does not reflect any change in fundamentals for the group. We therefore see attractive entry points across our coverage, particularly for ATVI," analyst Christopher Merwin wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "We are raising our 2019 and 2020 estimates on account of a robust multi year pipeline of games — Diablo, Overwatch 2, and a Blizzard mobile title — which we don't think Street estimates are fully taking into account."
Activision Blizzard shares are up 75 percent year to date through Monday compared with the S&P 500's 19 percent return. The stock is 6 percent off its Nov. 3 52-week high of $67.03.
The analyst increased his 12-month price target for Activision Blizzard shares to $73 from $67, representing 16 upside to Monday's close.
Merwin predicts the company's next "Diablo" game will be released in 2019 and sell 15 million units. He also forecasts "Overwatch 2" will launch in 2020 and sell 20 million units in its first year. The analyst noted how the previous "Diablo" and "Overwatch" titles sold 30 million units in three years and more than 16 million units in its first year respectively, according to his estimates.
"When adding in the potential for non-recurring titles — Diablo, Overwatch 2, and Blizzard mobile — we believe Street estimates … seem rather conservative, particularly in 2019 and 2020," he wrote.
As a result, Merwin estimates Activision Blizzard will generate earnings per share of $3.04 in 2019 versus the Wall Street consensus of $2.90. He also predicts the company will report earnings per share of $3.40 in 2020 versus the $3.19 average estimate.
Activision Blizzard shares are up 1 percent Tuesday after the report.


Verizon will leave its earnings "plateau" behind in 2018 thanks to an over-the-top platform launch by year's end, according to Nomura.
"After three years of stable to declining earnings per share — Verizon's self-described 'plateau' — we think the company is finally poised to resume earnings per share growth," wrote Kvaal on Monday. "Verizon has teased OTT since September ... Unlike AT&T, Verizon need not bundle its over-the-top service to reduce churn or be overly mindful of its existing video base as its pay-TV base is minimal relative to rivals."
Investors got a first glimpse into a broader OTT platform Monday, when Verizon announced a partnership with the NFL to distribute live football games on Monday, Thursday and Sunday nights. Such a move by Verizon would put it in direct competition with AT&T's DirectTV Now service.
The NFL partnership will allow fans on any mobile carrier to stream professional football games on their smartphones. Until the agreement, only Verizon customers could watch live games on their phones.
And while Kvaal expects "more to come" in terms of OTT content, he also added that the telecommunications company's 15 percent stock appreciation over the past month reflects mounting optimism around the Republican tax efforts, which could add 20 percent to earnings per share.
Verizon declined to comment for this story.
The analyst raised his price target to $61 from $47, representing 18 percent upside from Monday's close.

Shares were up 1.9 percent Tuesday, set to add to the stock's 15 percent climb over the past month. Verizon's latest and greatest developments in data speed likely spell upside as well.
By the end of the second quarter, Verizon experienced more subscribers migrating up to an unlimited plan from a lower-priced, fixed data capacity plan than subscribers migrating downward, noted Kvaal. While that trend alone is expected to drive revenue, profits should also pop with the introduction of 5G service and migration to Verizon's 4G Advanced service, said the analyst.
The addition of LTE Advanced and 5G should lower the cost per gigabyte of data by a factor of 10x, explained the analyst, spelling greater savings for Verizon and allowing the company to segment its market by speed and usage.


Another hedge fund has fallen prey to seemingly unbeatable markets.
John Burbank's Passport Capital is shuttering its flagship Passport Global Fund at the end of this year because of "unacceptable" returns over the last two years that "cause me to rethink how to manage money in this environment," he said in a letter to investors Monday.
The manager, who gained prominence with a winning bet against subprime housing before the 2008 financial crisis, joins others who are calling it quits lately.
Earlier this year, Eric Mindich returned money to investors in Eton Park Capital Management. In September, Whitney Tilson said he would shut down his Kase Capital Management, and last month Neil Chriss said he would close Hutchin Hill Capital and return money to investors.
Fund managers are having difficulty finding winning bets as markets continue their record-setting climb. Even managers who are still in the game have complained about the treacherous markets. Earlier this year, David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital questioned whether value investing is still a viable strategy.
Burbank said he would continue to focus on the Special Opportunities Fund and Saudi share class, which he calls "differentiated investment opportunities" where they have a significant edge. "I am confident that focusing on a small number of high conviction long term ideas will continue to yield positive results," Burbank said in his letter.
He founded Passport 17 years ago with less than $1 million. He closed a long-short strategy fund earlier this year, Bloomberg reported, and the firm was hit with investor withdrawals.
Burbank said in his letter that Saudi equities are an opportunity because almost no foreigners own any yet, and the firm will continue to invest in technology winners and "old economy losers." He also left open the possibility of opening a new fund.


Litecoin, the fourth-largest cryptocurrency in the world by value, has hit a record high and rallied nearly 5,800 percent this year, beating rival bitcoin's rise.
The price of litecoin reached an all-time high of $255.42 on Tuesday, according to industry website Coinmarketcap.com, which takes the volume weighted average of all prices reported on different exchanges to work out the price.
On January 1, litecoin was trading at $4.36. The rally to date marks a 5,758.2 percent increase.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are a bit higher after Monday's modest rally. The two-day Fed meeting begins today and we get a reading on wholesale inflation this morning.
-SEC Chairman Jay Clayton is warning Americans about investing in bitcoin.
-Mattel is warning of weak holiday sales.


One of the dot-com boom's biggest investors says he hasn't been this bullish on tech in years.
Paul Meeks, who ran Merrill Lynch's technology and internet funds, predicts this year's high-flying tech stocks will soar 10 percent more regardless of market conditions.
"I actually think that technology will outperform the S&P 500 next year," Meeks said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."  "I believe in technology, particularly in key industries like public cloud computing."
The Nasdaq has been having a banner year — rising nearly 28 percent. The index closed up by a half percent to 6875.08 on Monday, helping it recoup recent losses.
Plus, the Nasdaq 100 extended its win streak to five.
Meeks singles out FANG stocks — Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet — as likely winners again.
"I do believe they're going to outperform again," said Meeks, chief investment officer for Sloy, Dahl and Holst.
He's most bullish on Facebook and Google. Shares of the social media giant have surged 55 percent so far this year, while the internet stock rose nearly 33 percent.
"I don't think they're too expensive," he said. "The P/E ratios of both Facebook and Google are actually not outrageous at all."


The Fed is expected to raise interest rates Wednesday, but it's how the Fed responds to the tax bill that is the wild card for markets.
Many strategists and economists expect the Fed to leave its interest rate forecast in place, but there's a case to be made that Fed officials could acknowledge the tax bill could create stimulus, bumping their outlook for GDP and interest rates. One argument against that is that it is the second to last meeting for Fed Chair Janet Yellen, and the Fed may stick with the status quo ahead of the expected transition to Jerome Powell as Fed chair early next year.
"The surprise we have to look for is how the Fed may interpret tax changes going forward. They've had three rate hikes for 2018. Does this move them to four? There's a very low threshold to move up to four hikes. It just takes three voters. That's really what people are going to focus on," said Jim Caron, portfolio manager and fixed income strategist at Morgan Stanley Investment Management.


Bitcoin futures fell in low volume Tuesday in their second day of trading on the Cboe Futures Exchange.
Trading volume in the most popular contract, which expires in January, was less than half what it was the prior day at just over 1,500 around the 4:15 p.m., ET, settle. Volume had already topped 800 about two hours after the futures launch Sunday night and was near 3,000 by 9:30 a.m. Monday morning.
The Cboe bitcoin futures, listed under the ticker XBT, settled 2.83 percent lower at $18,020 after earlier falling more than 3.5 percent. The contract had soared nearly 20 percent in its Monday debut, with a total 4,127 contracts traded and about 20 firms participating, according to Cboe.
However, some of the largest banks, such as Goldman Sachs, offered limited to no support for the Cboe bitcoin futures as of Monday.
A Cboe spokesperson said the exchange did not have a separate statement on Tuesday's trading volume, but noted that its CEO and Chairman Ed Tilly has said Cboe expects a slow and steady increase in the bitcoin futures' volume and open interest.
Open interest in the bitcoin futures was 1,372 Monday, versus 650,765 for Cboe Volatility Index (.VIX) futures, according to Cboe.

Bitcoin briefly rose more than 5 percent to a high of $17,615.47, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index, which tracks prices from digital currency exchanges Bitstamp, Coinbase, itBit and Bitfinex. The digital currency has surged about 1,700 percent this year as investor interest has grown despite criticism that bitcoin is in a bubble.
The gains came despite two of the largest exchanges for U.S. dollar-bitcoin trading reporting technical issues Tuesday.
A spokesperson for Coinbase, one of the leading platforms in the U.S. for buying and selling bitcoin, said in a statement that "the site is seeing high traffic volume at the moment and some users may be experiencing intermittent service outages." Coinbase's GDAX exchange website also said there is a "partially degraded service," as of 4:23 p.m., ET.
Coinbase also said in a 12:01 p.m. status update that, after about one-and-a-half hours, it had resolved an issue that temporarily disabled the purchase and sale of digital currencies ethereum and litecoin. The company reported a second suspension of ethereum buys and sells for about 45 minutes later in the afternoon.
Ethereum briefly surged more than 23 percent Tuesday to a record high of $637.62, according to CoinMarketCap, while litecoin temporarily climbed 59.5 percent for the day to a record high of $341.72. The bitcoin offshoot, bitcoin cash, jumped more than 14 percent to $1,628.95, according to CoinMarketCap.
Litecoin seven-day performance

Source: CoinMarketCap
"Because bitcoin might see more stability [due to Sunday's futures launch], we might see more activity in the other coins that don't have a derivatives market," said Paul Puey, CEO of Edge, which sells software for buying, selling, storing and transacting bitcoin securely. Edge has about 700,000 accounts and is adding about 1,000 a day, Puey said.
Another major exchange, Bitfinex tweeted Tuesday morning that it is once again under a DDoS, or distributed denial-of-service attack, which attempts to paralyze a system with a flood of information.
Tweet
Bitfinex has suffered a "sustained denial of service attack" since last week and took the website down briefly Tuesday "to mitigate further issues for customers," an exchange spokesperson said in a statement to CNBC. "We are constantly improving our systems to ensure that we're able to both accommodate the immense volume of trading that occurs on our platform while also fending off sustained DDoS attacks."
Bitfinex had the largest share of U.S. dollar-bitcoin trading volume late Tuesday afternoon at 28 percent, while Coinbase had about 24 percent, according to CryptoCompare.
Cboe's bitcoin futures launch comes a week ahead of CME's own product in a race by major exchanges to launch bitcoin derivatives. Cantor Fitzgerald and Nasdaq are also planning their own derivatives products.
Cryptocurrency enthusiasts say the launch of bitcoin derivatives will allow institutional investors to buy into the digital currency trend, helping establish bitcoin as a legitimate asset class and pave the way for an exchange-traded fund. VanEck refiled for a bitcoin ETF on Monday.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
PespiCo — An executive for the soda maker said PepsiCo has reserved 100 of Tesla's new Semi trucks, marking the largest pre-order of the vehicles to date.
Verizon Communications — The telecommunication giant's stock was upgraded to "buy" from "neutral" at Instinet. Instinet also raised its price target on the stock to $61 per share from $47 a share, representing a 17.7 percent upside. "Better visibility into subscriber growth, rising [average revenue per user], and cost control fuels our confidence EPS growth will resume in 2018," it said.
Abbott Laboratories — BMO Capital Markets upgraded Abbott to "outperform" from "market perform," noting the health-care company "faces easier 1H18 comps, a shifting FX environment, and its revenue and EPS growth rates are at the high end of its peers." BMO also raised its price target on the stock to $65 per share from $58 a share, representing an 18.3 percent upside.
Mattel — The toy maker said it expects fourth-quarter gross sales to be hit by key partners tightening up inventory management and by underperforming brands. Mattel also said it expects a mid-to-high single-digit percentage drop for fiscal 2017 gross sales.
Mylan — Mylan shares were initiated with a "buy" rating at Guggenheim Securities and a price target of $59 a share. In a note to clients, Guggenheim says it gives Mylan's generics and specialty segments a "premium multiple" given the company's "risk/benefit profile, its diversification outside the U.S., and its pipeline containing biosimilars and hard-to-manufacture, complex products."
Stitch Fix — The e-commerce company was initiated with an "outperform" rating and a $29-a-share price target at RBC Capital Markets. Analyst Mark Mahaney said in a note that Stitch Fix is "revolutionizing fashion through direct shipments of apparel that has been selected through the combination of data science and personal stylists."
Activision Blizzard — Goldman Sachs upgraded the video game maker's stock to "buy" from "neutral," noting Activision's "discounted valuation relative to peers … ahead of accelerating earnings growth over the next 2-3 years." Activision shares rose 2.5 percent in the premarket.
WestRock — Packaging manufacturer WestRock has agreed to acquire nearly all of Plymouth Packaging's assets for an undisclosed amount.
Alphabet — Recode reported that Alphabet's Google is once again sending more traffic to publishers than Facebook. For a time, Facebook had surpassed Google in web referral traffic. But Facebook sent 25 percent less traffic to publishers this year, while Google's traffic rose by 17 percent, the report says.


I first invested $5,000 in bitcoin back in 2013 at $72 per coin and now own approximately 69.2 bitcoins.
While I had first heard about bitcoin in 2011, it wasn't until I watched a documentary and started reading forums about the cryptocurrency that I decided to buy it. It was easy to see how bitcoin could disrupt the entire financial system.
I decided to buy as a long-term experiment and used less than 1 percent of my net worth at the time to buy into bitcoin. Sure, I wanted to make money on it, but if I lost everything, it wasn't going to change the course of my life.
As of this writing, bitcoin is trading at $16,600, which makes my bitcoins now worth $1,148,720. It took me five years working 80-hour weeks to make over $1 million saving and investing in the stock market, but with bitcoin, my coins have increased to over $1 million in 2017 alone. It's by far, without a doubt, the easiest money I have ever made.
But I don't recommend you invest in Bitcoin today.


Goldman Sachs is expecting the commodities sector to generate returns of almost 10 percent next year, more than other assets over the long run.
Robust demand growth for raw materials worldwide should underpin the case for investors to own them, Goldman said in a research note published Monday.
Jeffrey Currie, global head of commodities research at the U.S. bank, said "a positive carry in key commodity markets and already strong global demand growth across the commodity complex reinforces the case for owning commodities. And hence we maintain our 12-month overweight recommendation, now with a forecasted return of almost 10 percent."
Unlike equities, which discount future growth, commodities rise as the current levels of demand offset the amount of available supply, according to Goldman.
The bank said it does not anticipate the oil market to shift back into contango — when futures prices for a commodity are higher than the current spot price — in 2018. Therefore, a positive roll yield in oil will bring returns of around 15 percent next year, Goldman analysts said. The roll yield refers to an amount gained when the futures price converges to the spot price as time passes.
While Goldman said it had "significant divergences" regarding its views on metal commodities, its analysts were most bullish on copper and most bearish on aluminum.
"The difference lies in the supply dynamics … While copper supply is likely to become increasingly constrained over the coming years, aluminum supply should become more abundant," Goldman analysts said.


Chamath Palihapitiya, who first bought bitcoin years ago at an average price of about $100, still believes the cryptocurrency has much further to go despite the monster rally this year.
"I think this thing is a $100,000 a coin probably in the next three to four years. And I think it is in the next 20 years a million dollars a coin," he said in an interview Tuesday with CNBC's "Squawk Box."
The venture capitalist said he and two other friends in Silicon Valley at one point in 2013 owned 5 percent of the entire float of bitcoin. His initial dollar cost average for his investment in the digital currency was $100 a coin. He did sell some on the move higher.
Palihapitiya still thinks investors should put 1 percent of their net worth in the cryptocurrency.
"This is now a confidence game. There is no real utility in this. This is a fantastic fundamental hedge and store of value against autocratic regimes and banking infrastructure that we know is corrosive to how the world needs to work properly,"  Palihapitiya said. "You cannot have central banks infinitely printing currency."


For people looking to get in on cryptocurrencies without having to bet on a single one, a new money management firm is trying to make crypto-investing as easy as buying the S&P 500.
Bitwise Asset Management has just started accepting investors into Hold 10, the world's first crypto-index fund, which lets people put money in the 10 largest cryptocurrencies as weighted by the total value of coins outstanding.
The fund was announced in October and is now open to accredited investors. On Tuesday, Bitwise also said it has raised $4 million from some of the best-known investors in financial technology, including Keith Rabois (through Khosla Ventures), David Sacks and Naval Ravikant.
"We and our investors believe that a vehicle like this, or passive index investing as an approach, is a great way for many people to participate in cryptocurrency," Bitwise CEO Hunter Horsley told CNBC.
The Hold 10 index is the latest investment vehicle to launch in the cryptocurrency space. Just this week, bitcoin started trading in the futures market, while dozens of actively managed hedge funds have opened this year. Initial coin offerings, which let investors buy and trade cryptocurrencies created by individual companies, have raised over $3.7 billion in 2017, according to CoinDesk.


Bitcoin is the new gold. The Federal Reserve is tightening. Interest rates are going higher. So, there is no need for gold anymore.  Wrong.  Sure, the yellow metal has declined nearly 7 percent since September, now trading below its 200-day moving average for the first time since July, the Fed is about to hike rates and, finally, tax reform legislation is in the works.
It's easy to forget that gold, now facing pressure ahead of the central bank's meeting, was up as much as 18 percent this year.  We're not concerned.  After violating support near $1,260 and $1,270, gold's price action began something of a cleansing, working off the overextended net-long ratio of 20 to 1 (speculative long positions to short ones). The Commitment of Traders report for the week ended Dec. 5, released last Friday, reflected a reduction in this ratio by 33 percent. Furthermore, weakness in gold during previous years for the month of December is not uncommon for a number of reasons, including hawkish Fed language, tax-selling and strong seasonals in the equity market.  This year, we expect a less hawkish or even a potentially dovish Fed, coupled with overshadowing political issues heading into the new year.  The final piece of the bullish puzzle is gold's strong seasonality for the month of January; gold has finished the month of January higher in nine of the last 12 years.
Of those years, the first it failed to do so was in 2010, when it rose by more than 6 percent in January before finishing about 1 percent lower. The second year gold ended lower was in 2011, when it gained as much as 35 percent when it hit all-time highs in September.  We believe that gold, should it move lower over the next three weeks, should not be a death sentence for the metal, but instead should be viewed as a buying opportunity.


Is bitcoin the new gold? Goldman Sachs doesn't think so.
In a client note released Tuesday, the investment bank said that with the launch of the Cboe bitcoin futures contract, many investors have been asking if the cryptocurrency is taking demand away from gold.
"We believe the answer is no," Goldman Sachs said.
Cboe launched the bitcoin futures under the "XBT" ticker symbol on Sunday, with the first full day of trade on Monday.
Goldman outlined its reasons for why it sees a lack of substitution by investors from gold into bitcoin.
First, the investor pools are "vastly different" with those buying gold through various products are covered by anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing regulations, the investment bank said. But it's still unclear how cryptocurrencies could comply with such rules.
Secondly, there has been "no discernable outflow of gold" from exchange-traded funds (ETFs). An ETF is a financial product that tracks the price of an asset such as a commodity. Goldman said that ETF holdings had recently hit their highest level since mid-2013.
Finally, the analysts said that the "market characteristics of gold and cryptocurrencies are vastly different." Goldman said that bitcoin is attracting "more speculative inflows relative to gold."
"The net effect is that bitcoin has demonstrated much higher volatility and lower liquidity/price discovery compared to gold. The market cap of bitcoin is circa $275 billion versus gold at $8.3 trillion. Even all of the cryptocurrencies combined have a market cap less than $500 billion," the bank's note said.
"While the lack of liquidity and increased volatility may keep bitcoin interesting, it is unlikely to convince investors looking for the kind of diversification and hedging benefits which gold has proven to possess over its long history."
Many commentators have dubbed bitcoin "digital gold" because it has a finite supply and has at times seen price rises due to geopolitical tensions.
Goldman concluded in a separate note in October that bitcoin is not a good store of value versus gold.


Plenty of people are worried about the stock market's seemingly endless rally, but CNBC's Jim Cramer is more interested in the drivers behind it.
"Stocks have indeed come very far very fast, we're right on the cusp of multiple rate hikes, there was a terrorist attack in Times Square, we've got a special prosecutor investigating the White House and last week we almost had a government shutdown that was only temporarily averted. Yet stocks [are] in great shape," the "Mad Money" host said.
With some seasoned Wall Streeters calling a top to the action and warning investors to get out of the market now, Cramer found some tangible factors that could be responsible for the gains.
First on Cramer's list was employment. High employment can have a positive effect on the economy, he said. Consumers buy homes, cars and expensive iPhones. Confidence rises.
Second, it's important to look at the kinds of jobs being created, Cramer said. In November, the U.S. economy added 31,000 manufacturing jobs, a better gain than Cramer's seen in years.
"The manufacturing sector [is] incredibly robust ... because the United States now has found abundant natural resources that we tend to take for granted," he said.
The sheer amount of energy, particularly renewable energy, in the United States has made the country a lead exporter of cheap crude oil, gasoline and liquefied natural gas.
Even though that wasn't supposed to happen (OPEC's cuts were meant to balance oil markets, not skew them in favor of the United States), Cramer said it's brought huge benefits to U.S. oil producers.
Now, those companies are producing energy at lower costs, finding more oil with fewer rigs and are flush with business even at historically low oil prices.
"That's why this rig count we follow on Friday and the oil inventories on Wednesday ... really don't matter that much anymore," Cramer said. "We're getting much more out of each rig. That matters. Who cares about storage when we're exporting oil at a record pace?"
"In short, jobs are being distributed more broadly in places that had been fallow," Cramer added.
Third, the GOP's attempted overhaul of the U.S. tax code would bring benefits for businesses, particularly those that pay high taxes.
Corporate tax cuts would enable giants like Boeing, for example, to return more money to shareholders via dividends and buybacks and invest in their companies via hiring and research and development.
"We know they have far more plane orders than they can handle. They need to expand their capacity. Maybe they get the money to make that happen," Cramer said. "Bullish."
Fourth, the White House's push for deregulation has breathed new life into small businesses, spurring hiring and increased confidence, the "Mad Money" host said.
"You may think this really bad, [but] I'm not talking politics. Purely from an economic standpoint, deregulation is good for the stock market," Cramer said.
Paired with the comebacks in left-for-dead stocks like Valeant and the once-pronounced-dead retail cohort, Cramer said that the environment is just right for stocks to keep running.
"Last week, I did present a list of worries when we were hitting all-time highs again, like today, that I'm always ruminating on," Cramer said. "But I think the reason why this market keeps hanging in there matters a lot more. The truth is, when the economy's this good, you are indeed unlikely to get a sustained decline."


For those looking to invest in experience and lifestyle, golf might be their next ace in the hole.
At least that's what Erik Anderson, the co-chairman and CEO of privately-held entertainment company Topgolf, told CNBC on Monday.
Topgolf, a budding chain of sports-bar-meets-driving-range entertainment centers, has been growing in popularity among non-golfers. (Golf equipment maker Callaway Golf has a 15 percent stake in Topgolf.)
Anderson told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer that Topgolf's customer breakdown is 40 percent golfers and 60 percent non-golfers (or people who play fewer than eight rounds of golf per year).
"It appeals to everybody," the CEO said, adding that the demographic breakdown is roughly 35 percent women.
Topgolf's centers feature interactive driving ranges that use tracking chips to show how far and where each golf ball went. The facilities also have food and drink options, event spaces and training classes for budding golfers.
"Golf certainly hit a peak at one point in the U.S. ... but I think it's stabilizing," Anderson told Cramer. "We're seeing real growth again. And I think golf starts to get growing in a couple of ways. If you count our activity, golf actually has grown. So I think it's just expanding the audience and how people get to it."
Topgolf has mainly been expanding its audience by opening new locations — the company will open its 38th facility on Friday — and by partnering with related organizations like Formula One.
Anderson said that Topgolf's interactive system can be set up anywhere, so his company has been introducing the game outside its "regular venue" to gain traction.
And according to the company's breakdown, which shows that 53 percent of its customers are between the ages of 18 and 34, it's gaining traction among a key segment of the population: millennials.

Anderson said that he's trying to provide a "dense parallel experience" for younger customers that speaks to their love of multitasking. At a Topgolf, millennials can play golf, meet with friends or colleagues, eat food, have a drink, watch TV and, best of all, document the experience.
The CEO said one of his biggest wins as a company leader came when NFL quarterback Drew Brees took a photo of his Topgolf score and posted it on Snapchat.
"I knew we were really onto something when ... he took a Snapchat, a little picture of the screen that said, 'This was my score.' And I said, 'I'm winning,'" Anderson said. "I'm winning as an owner, as a CEO when people are taking a picture of the screen and telling me, 'Hey, can you beat my score?'"


The midwinter bounce in auto parts stocks O'Reilly Automotive, Advance Auto Parts and AutoZone did not go unnoticed by CNBC's Jim Cramer.
"First AutoZone and O'Reilly bounced from their lows over the summer, then Advance Auto Parts seemed to bottom last month. It's now up 28 percent from its lows on Nov. 8," the "Mad Money" host said. "That's a magnificent move. More important, if the auto parts business is really back on track, then these stocks are dirt-cheap in a market where we're constantly hearing people fretting about sky-high valuations."
All three stocks served shareholders well from 2013 to 2016, when people were less eager to buy new cars following the financial crisis and, as a result, had to replace car parts more often.
But starting in 2017, all three fell off a cliff. The proximate cause? Amazon's rumored foray 
 into the auto parts industry.
In late January, Wall Street started buzzing about the e-commerce giant's potential disruption in auto parts, and shares of O'Reilly, Advance Auto and Autozone all got slammed.
Shortly after, auto parts retailers started issuing dismal earnings reports. Even though the weakness had nothing to do with Amazon, it looked bad given the worries about potential competition.
In February, Advance Auto and AutoZone both reported shortfalls. O'Reilly's results, usually the strongest of the three, still beat estimates.
By spring, all three were struggling: Advance Auto's earnings missed expectations by far, with same-store sales were down 2.7 percent; AutoZone reported a gigantic miss; and O'Reilly disappointed analysts despite giving decent guidance.
"So what caused these hideous numbers? The one thing that all three companies kept citing as an alibi for their poor performance was the very mild winter, [the] second mild one in a row," Cramer said.
Cold winters tend to raise the need for car maintenance and part replacement, so mild winters result in less overall demand for replacement car parts.
Last year's mild winter also resulted in dramatic sell-offs for the car parts plays. Advance Auto slid from $169 a share at the beginning of 2017 to $78 a share when it bottomed a month ago; AutoZone fell from $789 to $491 at its July lows; O'Reilly tumbled from $278 to $169.
But come fall, all three stocks started gaining strength. Advance Auto gave Wall Street a big earnings beat and re-affirmed its full-year guidance; AutoZone delivered a strong quarter; and O'Reilly beat estimates and raised its full-year forecast.
"I think the market may have overreacted in the first half when these companies reported a wave of shortfalls and everyone was freaking out about 'Death Star' Amazon," Cramer said.
"I've even recommended Advance Auto Parts as a takeover target at the Deal Economy conference a couple weeks ago because Jeff Smith, who runs Starboard Value, the activist fund, is Advance Auto's chairman. I bet he'd love to get [a deal] out of this one," he added.
And all three stocks are still fairly cheap, Cramer said: Advance Auto trades at 17 times next year's earnings estimates, AutoZone at 14 times and O'Reilly at 19 times.
"The sell-off was a total rush to judgment," the "Mad Money" host concluded. "Which one should you buy? ... You can take your pick. You can buy best of breed, that's O'Reilly. You can bargain-hunt with AutoZone or you can speculate on a takeout with Advance Auto Parts. Boy, this industry, it's got something for everybody."


After doing some homework on the "roller-coaster" stock of Acadia Pharmaceuticals, CNBC's Jim Cramer came back with a surprisingly positive take on the pharma play.
"A lot of people don't like roller-coasters, so even if you like what I'm about to say about the stock, it may not suit you. That said, I think that Acadia's got enough going for it that this stock is indeed worth speculating on, meaning you can invest a small portion of your discretionary mad money portfolio in Acadia," the "Mad Money" host said. "Not for your retirement money, but I like this one."
Acadia is a biotechnology company that develops treatments to central nervous system disorders, particularly mental illnesses and symptoms associated with Parkinson's disease.
Sadly, the markets for Acadia's drugs are huge: 8 million people in the United States suffer from dementia-related psychosis, 1 million from Parkinson's and 3 million from schizophrenia.
Acadia's aim for its treatments — some of which are the only ones of their kind on the market and some of which are in clinical trials — is to reduce the severe side effects that come with treating serious psychosis.
And even though its stock has been whipped around in the last few years, Cramer thinks the company has the makings of a good story.
"As far as I'm concerned, the bullish story is intact, it's just that this stock goes through periods of being overly liked followed by periods of excessive hatred. Frankly, this was, I would say, the most volatile stock that I've ever done the work on," he said. "Bottom line? Acadia's been a real wild trader, but it's got a very impressive anti-psychotic drug that could have many different indications, so I think the stock is absolutely worth speculating the next time it pulls back."


Shares of Overstock.com briefly surged more than 23 percent Monday after Morgan Stanley Investment Management disclosed an 11.4 percent stake in the company.
The investment management division of Morgan Stanley has $447 billion in assets under management and its products include mutual funds and hedge funds. The unit said in a 13G filing Friday with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it owned nearly 2.87 million shares of Overstock.com as of Nov. 30.
A 13G filing is typically used for passive stakes of between 5 and 20 percent of a company. Representatives for Morgan Stanley Investment Management and Overstock.com did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

With Monday's gains, Overstock.com shares were on pace for their best day since Nov. 9. The stock leaped 30.7 percent that day, after D.A. Davidson analyst Tom Forte predicted more than 60 percent in gains for it. Forte pointed to indications on Overstock's third-quarter earnings call that the company could sell its home goods e-commerce business to focus on bitcoin's blockchain technology through its Medici Ventures division.
Forte maintained his $85 price target on Monday, still nearly 52 percent above Monday's session high of $56.05 a share.
Overstock's gains accelerated in the last few months after news that the company is planning to launch a licensed digital coin trading platform through its subsidiary tZero and raise funds through an initial coin offering. The shares are up more than 200 percent this year.
Bitcoin leaped more than 9.5 percent to above $16,500 on Monday, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index, after the launch of bitcoin futures on the Cboe Futures Exchange Sunday night.


Semiconductor stocks outperformed the market handily this year and one Wall Street analyst believes several companies in the sector will continue to surge higher next year.
The iShares PHLX Semiconductor ETF has rallied 37 percent year to date versus the S&P 500's 18 percent gain through Friday.
"Looking ahead, we expect the semiconductor industry to continue exhibiting relatively stable and less cyclical growth," JPMorgan analyst Harlan Sur wrote in a note to clients Monday. "In addition to further industry growth in 2018, we expect M&A/consolidation and aggressive capital returns will likely drive valuation support in our stocks through the year."
Here are four overweight-rated semiconductor stocks recommended by JPMorgan, along with the firm's current price targets.


Bitcoin futures are up and running, but trading volumes are on the light side.
Cboe CEO Ed Tilly is saying the start of bitcoin futures has been a success. "Our regulated market experienced a smooth operational open and orderly markets throughout the evening trading session. We look forward to the growth of this new derivatives market."
There were two trading halts, but they were part of the product design and were not unexpected. The Cboe website briefly experienced difficulties as so many tried to access the site when trading started at 6 p.m. ET on Sunday, but it quickly came back up.
Others also felt that while the volume was small, the interest level was sufficient to be considered a success. JB Mackenzie, managing director of futures and forex for TD Ameritrade, told me, "The first trade session was very orderly with good liquidity and volume. More than 2,000 contracts traded before midnight which shows that the marketplace was engaged."
Still, the roughly 3,000 contracts that have traded since the start of trading represents a notional value of only $50 million, tiny compared with established futures markets like gold, which can trade 400,000 contracts a day at a price of roughly $125,000 per contract.
"Trading was orderly, though there is not a lot of liquidity," Bobby Cho, head trader at bitcoin trading company Cumberland told me. "There is very limited access because a lot of the brokers aren't giving access to their clients yet."
Brian Kelly from Brian Kelly Capital also said the start, while small, could be considered a success: "I would expect more volume as people prepare for CME futures." That is a reference to bitcoin futures set to begin trading this coming weekend at the CME.
Though bitcoin has attracted tremendous interest, the bitcoin market is still remarkably small compared with other major asset classes.
Bitcoin versus other assets
Bitcoin: $300 billion
Gold: $6 trillion
U.S. stock market: $25 trillion
U.S. bond market: $38 trillion
Some investors are convinced bitcoin could join the big leagues of major asset classes. Cameron Winklevoss, an investor in the Gemini exchange that is behind the Cboe futures contract, told CNBC over the weekend, "Long term, directionally, it is a multitrillion-dollar asset — I don't know how long it takes to get there."


On a bitcoin bet, it's the exchanges that will come out ahead, according to Alpha One Capital Partners founder Dan Niles.
"You don't go out and mine for gold, you go ahead and you sell the picks and the shovels," Niles told CNBC's "Squawk Alley" on Monday.
"We don't think it's a real currency, but we think it's going to continue to grow especially the underlying blockchain technology."
IBM and Walmart have already started using blockchain technology to improve on food safety, Niles said, and bitcoin futures started trading on official exchanges this weekend.
Chip companies AMD and Nvidia saw a bitcoin bump, too, as the powerhouses GPUs behind the mining of digital currency. But Niles said there's already too much hype around those names to buy in.
The coins are fast approaching a bubble, he said, and the thing with bubbles is, "they can always go a lot higher than you anticipated, then you get a shakeout, and then things start to grow."
"We've got a shakeout coming at some point."


The launch of bitcoin futures on the Cboe Futures Exchange over the weekend was a "very big victory" for the digital currency, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Monday.
Bitcoin futures, trading under the ticker symbol XBT, debuted Sunday night on the Cboe. The futures price climbed 10 percent in the first two hours and triggered at least two trading halts due to rapid price gains.
"I was hoping we'd get some price discovery. If this is the price discovery, it can head much higher," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
"This is a very big victory for bitcoin last night," Cramer said, "and I think a lot of people felt it would be inconceivable that when you had a two-sided market that somebody would come in. We do have other exchanges coming in." CME is launching bitcoin futures contracts on Dec. 18.

Reports that claimed bitcoin could eventually replace gold as a repository also helped the cryptocurrency "mightly," he said.
Cramer has been a vocal critic of bitcoin, warning investors that it's like "'Monopoly' money" and people would be better off going to Las Vegas.
Critics, including JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon, have doubted the legitimacy of bitcoin. Proponents argue bitcoin is a good medium of exchange and a way to store value like gold.
Cramer said Monday that "so many people" who wanted the cryptocurrency to go higher and were overwhelmed by "any short interest, short attempts, to drive it down."


UBS Wealth Management is not a believer in bitcoin becoming a legitimate currency even as the launch of futures lead some investors to believe the cryptocurrency will become a more stable market.
"The bubble to end all bubbles continues. Cryptocurrencies only have value if accepted as currencies. However, they cannot be used for the most important transaction in an economy, and cryptocurrency supply can only rise and never fall (making them a poor store of value)," global chief economist Paul Donovan wrote in a post Monday. "To date, using cryptocurrencies requires (effectively) a simultaneous asset sale and purchase of goods or services."
The economist said in an October report that bitcoin's extreme price volatility detracted from its ability to be a "store of value," which is an essential feature of being a currency.
"A twenty-fold increase in bitcoin prices in just two years, and an absence of any fundamental economic backing, cryptocurrency prices are almost certainly a bubble," he wrote in that report.


The launch of bitcoin futures could "have a material negative impact on the price of bitcoin," a well-respected technology analyst said Monday.
With the futures, "investors will have an easier time betting against bitcoin," and "investors could move towards trading futures contracts and out of bitcoin itself," Gene Munster, co-founder of venture capital firm Loup Ventures, said in a research note Monday. Munster was a widely followed Apple analyst at Piper Jaffray before launching Loup in January to focus on artificial intelligence, robotics, virtual reality and augmented reality.
Munster pointed out that since the bitcoin futures contracts settle in dollars, the derivative product gives investors "better liquidity than bitcoin." "For institutional investors, betting on bitcoin without having to conduct bitcoin transactions is likely to prove easier," Munster said.
Bitcoin's initial reaction to the launch of futures on the Cboe Futures Exchange on Sunday evening was positive. The digital currency was 9 percent higher Monday morning near $16,380, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index.
Bitcoin 12-month performance

Source: CoinDesk
The new futures soared nearly 20 percent overnight, triggering two trading halts in their Sunday debut. CME is set to launch its own bitcoin futures contract Dec. 18.
The launch of bitcoin futures on two of the world's largest futures exchanges marks a step toward legitimizing the digital currency as an asset class for institutional investors, and could pave the way toward a bitcoin exchange-traded fund. Enthusiasts predict bitcoin futures will allow large investors to buy into the cryptocurrency trend.
However, the overarching worry is that bitcoin's dramatic price surge is unsustainable. The digital currency surged more than 1,700 percent to a record $17,364.56 on Thursday, according to CoinDesk.
"Fundamentals don't seem to support [bitcoin's] move," Munster said, pointing out that using bitcoin for retail purchases is still not easy. "It's more likely than not that bitcoin is in a bubble and the price of bitcoin will be extremely volatile, especially as more futures exchanges open."
The biggest red flag for Munster follows the adage "when your barber gets in, it's time to get out."
"Well, it's 2017 and our Uber drivers may be just as good of a measure. Two weeks ago, we had an Uber driver ask us how to buy bitcoin. We showed her how to sign up on Coinbase and she made the purchase before the end of our trip. A cautionary one-off story that illustrates the bitcoin investor shift over the past year from tech-futurist, to professional investor, and now the general public."


Electronic Arts will reinstitute in-game purchases in its "Star Wars Battlefront II" title despite recent wavering by one of its top executives, according to a Wall Street firm.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch lowered its price target and profit forecasts for Electronic Arts shares due to poor sales of the "Star Wars" game.
"EA has had a challenging C4Q, beginning with the shutdown of Visceral Games and now Battlefront 2 (BF2) controversy," analyst Justin Post wrote in a note to clients Monday entitled "Lowering ests for BF2; Stock weakness sets up for a better 2018." "As controversy subsides post-holidays, we expect investor interest to pick up ahead of a stronger FY19 title slate, renewed digital optimism, and operating leverage potential. Battlefront MTX relaunch and FIFA World Cup content launch are key 1H events."
Post maintained his buy rating and reduced his price target to $130 from $137 for Electronic Arts shares, representing 23.5 percent upside to Friday's close.
The analyst noted how EA shares have "materially underperformed" since the end of September falling 11 percent versus the S&P 500's 5 percent return. He said November U.S. physical game unit sales of "Star Wars Battlefront II" declined 52 percent versus 2015's "Star Wars Battlefront" in its first month, according to NPD sell-through data.
As a result, Post predicts the title will miss the company's guidance of 14 million unit sales by 2.5 million. The analyst lowered his earnings estimates for EA's fiscal 2018 earnings-per-share to $4.22 from $4.28. He also reduced his fiscal 2019 forecast to $5.02 from $5.14.
Electronic Arts announced Nov. 16, a day before the "Star Wars Battlefront II" game's official launch, that it is temporarily turning off all in-game purchases for the game in response to negative sentiment from gamers.
"It's clear that many of you feel there are still challenges in the design. We've heard the concerns about potentially giving players unfair advantages. … Sorry we didn't get this right," EA wrote in the post.
The company told gamers then it will change the micro-transaction model for the game in the future. However, EA's chief financial officer, Blake Jorgensen, at NASDAQ investor conference on Dec. 5 seemed to be open to turning off micro-transactions permanently for the title.  "Over time, we'll address how we will want to bring the MTX either into the game or not and in what form we'll decide to bring it into," he said.
Post still predicts EA will relaunch micro-transactions for the "Star Wars" game.
"Battlefront 2 MTX likely to return next year," he wrote. "Perhaps the biggest stock negative from the BF2 MTX issues is the potential negative impact on FY19 MTX revenues … That said, even with 12mn in total units sold and an average of $10 of MTX per game sold, BF2 could still do over $100mn in MTX."
Here are the different ways the analyst suggested EA can add in-gaming purchasing back into the title:
EA's stock is up 34 percent year to date through Friday compared with the S&P 500's 18 percent gain.
The company declined to comment on this story.


Fueled by an investor appetite for liquid alternative investment strategies, hedge fund conversions have been a growing trend over the last few years.


Putting aside money to invest in the stock market can be intimidating, which is, in part, why nearly half of American adults have $0 in stocks, reports Gallup. But if you do it right, it can be the most reliable and effective way to grow your money.
According to Mark Hamrick, Bankrate.com's senior economic analyst, most people think investing in real estate is a better bet but, in fact, it's the stock market that gives the best returns. So it's no wonder, especially in the middle of a bull market, that those who fail to invest often regret it later in life.
In a recent GOBankingRates survey, 11 percent of the 5,000 some American adult participants even called not investing their No. 1 financial regret.
It was the third most popular answer overall and matched the percentage of those who most regretted falling into debt. Meanwhile, 23 percent pointed to "Spending money on non-essentials" and 36 percent said "Not saving enough money."


Bitcoin futures rallied Monday in their first full day of trading on the Cboe Futures Exchange.
The new futures contract, which expires in January, settled 19.9 percent higher at $18,545.
The digital currency itself rose more than 14 percent Monday to $17,261, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index. The index tracks prices from digital currency exchanges Bitstamp, Coinbase, itBit and Bitfinex.

Cboe launched the bitcoin futures under the "XBT" ticker symbol on Sunday following a giant leap in the digital currency's price this year and a surge of investor interest.
The debut of the first futures contract on an established exchange was relatively orderly, in contrast to expectations of high volatility and traders short selling, or betting against, bitcoin.
Initial interest in the new bitcoin futures product appeared to overload Cboe's website, but the issue was quickly resolved. "Due to heavy traffic on our website, visitors to http://www.cboe.com may find that it is performing slower than usual and may at times be temporarily unavailable," the exchange said in a statement Sunday. "All trading systems are operating normally."
The new futures also handled sharp price moves smoothly. About two hours after their 6 p.m. ET launch on Sunday, the new futures had climbed 10 percent, triggering a two-minute trading halt. By 10:05 p.m., the bitcoin futures had soared 20 percent, triggering a five-minute trading halt.
The halts followed the exchange's rules, similar to the way that trading in stocks is halted after sharp price moves.
However, price limits may be more relevant for bitcoin, which is notoriously volatile. Many cryptocurrency proponents see the launch of bitcoin futures as a step toward legitimizing the digital currency in the eyes of big, institutional investors.


Wall Street will be watching bitcoin this week as futures trading, which allows traders to bet against the cryptocurrency, began on Sunday evening.
Plus, a lot of news coming out of Washington this week: There's a big Federal Reserve meeting, a critical deadline for the government's spending powers and one really big vote that big media companies everywhere will be watching closely.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are higher this morning. The Dow Jones industrial average and the S&P 500 posted record-high closes.
BITCOIN TRADE
-Bitcoin futures trading began on the CBOE Sunday night and the action has been volatile.
TERROR/DEFENSE
-In a surprise move, Russian President Vladimir Putin is ordering Russian troops out of Syria.



Goldman Sachs upgrades ADP, saying the payroll processor with a largely domestic footprint will be an "outsized beneficiary" of the corporate tax cut.
Goldman also cited strong new bookings for its upgrade. Shares of ADP closed up 1.6 percent Monday.
A reduction in the corporate rate to 20 percent as proposed by congressional Republicans will drive earnings higher, argued analyst James Schneider, who raised the stock to buy from neutral. The new rating makes Goldman one of just a few companies on Wall Street with a buy rating on the company, which just successfully fought off activist Bill Ackman from taking a board seat.
"We estimate that tax reform could be 14 percent accretive to ADP's calendar year 2019 earnings per share, assuming a 20 percent corporate tax rate and the repeal of certain corporate tax deductions," Goldman analyst James Schneider wrote on Monday.
Seeking to clinch their first major legislative victory in 2017, Republicans have been scrambling to live up to campaign promises by cutting tax rates. With the House and Senate now in conference, investors are betting on a lower corporate tax rate and better results for companies with domestic exposure.
The Goldman analyst argued that ADP "stands out" from other companies in the information technology sector thanks to its higher U.S. sales exposure. While information technology has lower U.S. sales exposure than the overall S&P 500 (48 percent versus 71 percent), ADP is far ahead of its peers domestically with 85 percent U.S. exposure, according to Goldman.
Schneider increased his price target on ADP to $135 from $110, representing 16 percent upside over the next 12 months. A relaxed corporate rate should improve ADP earnings, but rising interest rates may also prove to be a boon.
Though Goldman is above consensus in predicting four increases in the federal funds rate in 2018, rising interest rates should benefit the company's float income, added Schneider.
"Our economists expect steady interest rate increases over the next few years; they expect the Federal Funds Rate to increase by 100 basis points in both 2018 and 2019," explained the analyst. "This would lead ADP's portfolio yield to inflect higher and drive significant earnings per share accretion … Based on the current trajectory of interest rates, we see the potential for roughly 6 percent upside to fiscal year 2019 earnings per share if rates increase an additional 50 basis points."
Just one other firm has a buy rating on ADP, according to TipRanks.com: Bank of America Merrill Lynch.


It isn't too late for investors to hop into cryptocurrencies after the bitcoin futures launch on the Cboe, an analyst told CNBC on Monday.
"Relative to assets, you're talking $100 trillion in investable assets," said Brian Kelly, founder of BK Capital Management. "All you would need is 1 percent of those assets to be allocated to this and you've got a double in bitcoin."
"It's so early," Kelly added in a "Squawk Box" interview. "You haven't missed the train yet."

Bitcoin futures, trading under the XBT ticker symbol, debuted on the Cboe futures exchange on Sunday night. The futures price climbed 10 percent in the first two hours and triggered at least two trading halts due to rapid price gains. The new futures eased back on Monday from its initial surge.
For the time being, the digital currency will be "incredibly inefficient" but will eventually mature. Kelly said. "Bitcoin itself has been around for eight or nine years now," he said. "The trading markets are really just maturing. It'll get more complicated. More strategies will come in."
"But clients calling you saying, "Hey, how do I get in?' To me that's a bullish sign," he added.
Bitcoin, which has surged more than 1,500 percent this year, has some market participants warning of a bubble. Critics, including Jamie Dimon, have doubted the legitimacy of bitcoin. But on Friday, the JPMorgan Chase CEO seemed to be softening his tone on cryptocurrencies. He still declared that he remains "highly skeptical."


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Fitbit — Fitbit announced Friday it had reached a "global settlement" with former wearables maker Jawbone which ends all outstanding civil litigation. Jawbone sued Fitbit in 2015, claiming they trade secrets and market research, among other information.
Juno Therapeutics, Celgene — Juno and Celgene shares rose in the premarket after the companies released study data of a drug aimed at treating a type of non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma. The data showed a three-month overall response rate of 74 percent to the drug.
ADP — Goldman Sachs upgraded the human resources management company's stock to "buy" from "neutral." The bank also raised its price target on ADP to $135 a share from $110. "We expect fundamentals to inflect in 2018 as bookings rebound and client retention improves," Goldman said.
U.S. Steel — The steel producer's shares were upgraded to hold from sell at Axiom, with analysts noting U.S. Steel will benefit from "protectionism from the Trump administration" and "positive seasonality."
HSBC — Europe's biggest bank said a deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Justice Department has expired, ending the threat of further punishment for lapses in its anti-money laundering controls. HSBC paid $1.9 billion and agreed to a five-year deal with the DOJ after failing to prevent Mexican cartels from laundering millions through the bank.
LKQ — Auto parts company LKQ agreed to buy German wholesale distributor Stahlgruber for $1.77 billion. LKQ expects the transaction to complete in the first half of 2018.
Xerox — Jonathan Christodoro, a former managing director of Icahn Capital, announced his resignation from Xerox's board of directors in order to pave the way for Carl Icahn to submit board nominations for next year's annual meeting.
Xylem — Xylem agreed to buy infrastructure company Pure Technologies for $397 million in cash. The deal is expected to close in the first quarter of 2018.
—Reuters contributed to this report.


Bitcoin leaped an astonishing $2,000 on Monday after investors flocked to Chicago's Cboe futures exchange to bet on price movements.
The digital currency was seen trading at a spot price of $16,571.09 at 10 a.m. ET, according to data on industry website CoinDesk, whose bitcoin price index tracks prices from cryptoexchanges Bitstamp, Coinbase and Bitfinex. It was up 10.22 percent for the session.
Trading at $14,557.07 just a minute before the introduction of Cboe's hotly anticipated futures contracts, bitcoin's price saw an immediate hike in value of more than $1,000 in the first five to 10 minutes of trading.
Bitcoin futures, meanwhile, were trading at $18,040, up more than 16 percent for the session.
Futures contracts allow investors to agree to buy or sell a particular asset at a predetermined price at a later date. This enables price movement speculation and the avoidance of volatility in the market.
Bitcoin's total market capitalization — which is calculated by multiplying the price by the volume of tokens in circulation — stood at $277 billion, higher than that of U.S. banking giant Citigroup.


A key trend in the gold market has just been broken, and bitcoin could be to blame.
The gold miners ETF (GDX) had fallen nearly 15 percent from its September highs while gold has plunged to lows unseen since the end of July. This is curious, says Larry McDonald, head of U.S. macro strategy at ACG Analytics, as the move lower in gold has also been followed by a move down in bond yields, which according to the strategist is very rare.
"Over the last two years, every time rates have come down, and this week rates have moved lower, you had gold go up," he said Friday in a "Trading Nation" segment on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "Almost every time, there has been an 82 percent correlation between gold and bonds. This week, for the first time, that correlation broke down, and I do think it has something to do with bitcoin."
According to McDonald, there could be even more downside for gold, given the rapid growth of cryptocurrencies, bitcoin and otherwise.
"If you add up all the cryptocurrencies and the liquid gold that's in the market right now, the cryptocurrencies in market cap are now 23 percent of the liquid tradeable gold," he said. "That's up from 2 or 3 percent a year ago, so cryptocurrencies are definitely eating into the gold play."
In fact, while gold has fallen more than 2 percent in the past month, bitcoin has actually more than doubled its value in that time, according to Coinbase.
Following the launch of bitcoin futures contracts on the CBOE, bitcoin soared and was around $16,800 Monday morning. Gold, on the other hand, was still sitting near its July lows.
Phillip Streible, senior market strategist at RJO Futures, says that the performance of bitcoin futures contracts, the first of which began trading on the Cboe on Sunday, will be a key determinant of gold's next move.
"If all of a sudden we see bitcoin futures go into a free fall and collapse, [gold will benefit]," he said last week on "Power Lunch." "Safe haven, store of value, it will start to get people back."
The next exchange to launch bitcoin futures contracts will be the CME on Dec. 18.


CNBC's Jim Cramer is always on the hunt for strong secular growth trends, and lately, he's been eyeing one that he just can't seem to brush off: protein and millennials' obsession with it.
"I know this sounds silly. They made fun of me on 'Squawk on the Street' when I said it. 'They like protein.' I know, it's been kind of a staple for millions of years," the "Mad Money" host said. "More important, aren't millennials supposed to be going vegan or vegetarian at alarming rates?"
"As it turns out, the younger generation does love protein, and the one they really love is chicken," Cramer continued. "I think millennials are so image-conscious — well, of course, they're Instagramming each other — that they'll do anything to avoid eating carbs, including going full carnivore."
Cramer believed in this trend so much that he attributed two high-profile deals — Roark Capital taking Buffalo Wild Wings private and Burger King parent Restaurant Brands buying Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen — to its dominance.
"One chicken chain getting acquired [might be an] isolated incident, but two? I think two's the beginning of a pattern," Cramer said, pointing to an Axios story that reported Roark subsidiary Arby's has more acquisitions planned.
The "Mad Money" host added that the "poultry bull market" has more players in it than just restaurants.
Shares of Tyson Foods, a Cramer-fave food distributor specializing in chicken, beef and pork, have been running thanks to the company's poultry business, he said.
Tyson's management has helped by adopting millennial-friendly initiatives like selling antibiotic-free chicken and embracing sustainability. In turn, the company has been seeing increased demand for chicken with no signs that it will stem in 2018.
Cramer didn't want investors to overthink investing in the protein bull market, though. He still liked the stock of Tyson because the company's fundamentals are still improving.
On the restaurant side, Cramer liked the stock of Wingstop, a chicken-wing-focused chain that, in a rare move for restaurant chains, is still putting up new stores.
But the stock's strength couldn't be denied. Wingstop trades at 50 times next year's earnings estimates, a pricey multiple compared to its 17 percent long-term growth rate.
"And I don't expect it to be taken private," Cramer said. "After all, Wingstop used to be private. Guess who owned it? Roark Capital, the same guys who just bought Buffalo Wild Wings, until the IPO in 2015."
The other big public player in protein is Yum! Brands, the parent company of Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC. With a stock up over 30 percent for 2017, Cramer pointed to Taco Bell and KFC as its main drivers.
"What can I say? People can't get enough protein. But Yum trades now at 26 times next year's numbers," he said. "This one isn't cheap anymore."
Still, even though it wasn't his favorite, the "Mad Money" host gave investors his blessing to buy shares of Yum, particularly on a pullback, because of its savvy management.
"Here's my bottom line: it may sound like a silly thesis and people laughed initially, but protein is red-hot, I think because image-conscious millennials are desperate to avoid eating carbohydrates," Cramer said. "The best way to play it? Stick with Tyson Foods. Yum's worth holding. Wingstop could be attractive into weakness. Tyson is a buy, buy, buy."


If someone had told CNBC's Jim Cramer that he would someday see nonfarm payrolls increase by 228,000 without an immediate rise in interest rates, he would've called them insane.
But that's exactly what Friday's jobs report from the U.S. Department of Labor showed, with jobs in education and health services, professional services and manufacturing making up most of the gains.
Specifically, some 54,000 jobs were added in education and health services; 46,000 in professional and business services; and 31,000 in the manufacturing sector.
"The manufacturing jobs are in diverse industries like fabricating metal products, plastic and rubber, electronic products, just the kind of higher-skilled blue collar jobs we want to see," the "Mad Money" host said. "Normally, though, this kind of number would be accompanied by inflation, and inflation sends interest rates soaring."
However, rates didn't surge higher. Cramer said this was because jobs grew rapidly, but wages didn't — average hourly pay only ticked up by 5 cents, to $26.55, and yearly wages increased by 64 cents.
That 2.5 percent annual wage increase explained exactly why interest rates held their ground, the "Mad Money" host said.
"We literally have not just growth, but growth without any real inflation, and guys, that's the holy grail of economics. I can't stress enough how rare this is," Cramer said. "Growth without inflation is one of those things that's supposedly possible in theory, but you almost never see it in real life, at least not in a fully industrialized country like the United States."
Cramer said Friday's inaction in the bond markets could have been made possible by technology, specifically companies using it to automate operations rather than hiring expensive human workers.
The other possible drivers? The White House's deregulation and tax overhaul efforts, two pro-business initiatives that could spur growth, at least according to top advisor Gary Cohn.
Cramer couldn't disagree with any of these analyses, adding that part of the growth could've been due to Texas and Florida rebounding after the summer's hurricanes.
But he knew that it wouldn't necessarily last. Autonomous driving — which could hit roads much sooner than expected — and cashier-less checkouts in stores may lead to lower employment, Cramer said.
"At least for the moment, though, this is indeed a fabulous economy and it buttresses the notion that the stock market's run isn't all that crazy," the "Mad Money" host said. "Remember, in normal times, strength sowed the seeds of its own destruction by leading to inflation and then multiple Fed rate hikes just growing up like weeds. But at least for the moment, that's not the case. My take? Enjoy it. Moments like this one don't come around very often."


Sometimes, CNBC's Jim Cramer is content with taking things at face value.
That's at least how the "Mad Money" host felt about the U.S. Labor Departments nonfarm payroll report on Friday, which showed healthy job growth with little inflation.
"The jobs report, frankly, had something for everyone," Cramer said. "Good manufacturing growth, ... tame wage growth — I know that's not great for the vast majority of people who work for a living, of course, but it is terrific if you're a business that wants interest rates to stay relatively low, and those businesses tend to have stocks attached to them. At the same time, there was enough ammo for the Fed to tighten when it meets next week."
With this set-up in mind, Cramer turned to the stocks and events he'll be watching next week.
Sunday marks the first day that non-miners will be able to trade bitcoin futures on Cboe, creating the first two-way market in the digital currency.
"I bet they start to tame the bitcoin phenomenon," Cramer said. "I don't necessarily mean it'll go down, although I have my suspicions that short-sellers will use the futures to blast bitcoin lower. What I mean is that, so far at least, bitcoin is the least transparent financial bubble I've ever seen."
Cramer is curious to see how bitcoin fares trading on a prominent exchange with possibilities for hedging and high-volume trading.


One of Wall Street's top strategists and a longtime bitcoin fan has unveiled his top stock ideas to clients as a way to play the cryptocurrency craze.
Fundstrat's Tom Lee was the first major strategist to issue an official price target on bitcoin and now becomes the first to give clients direct bitcoin equity plays.
Many investment mandates require managers to steer clear of volatile assets and stick to traditional equity markets; despite bitcoin's stellar success over recent weeks, the cryptocurrency may be too volatile for standard investment rules.
In addition to recommending stocks, Lee noted his $25,000 year-end target for the price of one bitcoin.
"We believe investors should have exposure to blockchain, particularly given bitcoin has essentially zero correlation to equities, bonds and commodities — hence, as a portfolio strategy, bitcoin is a good diversification tool," wrote Lee in a note Friday.
The digital asset took Wall Street by storm Thursday, jumping from $13,000 to highs above $19,000 in roughly one day. Bitcoin has since cooled off a bit, now trading just under $16,000.
The first group of bitcoin plays Lee highlighted includes the CME Group, Chicago Board Options Exchange (Cboe) and Goldman Sachs.
Cboe, the largest U.S. options exchange, announced in August its plans to launch its own bitcoin derivatives trading products, offering cash-settled bitcoin futures to both institutional and retail investors. They begin trading Sunday evening. Bitcoin fans argue that the launch of such products by Cboe and others help legitimize the trade and may help stabilize the otherwise volatile token.
For its part, CME followed suit in October with Chairman Terry Duffy saying, "Given increasing client interest in the evolving cryptocurrency markets, we have decided to introduce a bitcoin futures contract." Fundstrat's Lee included Goldman in the group because he expects the bank "to be the first investment bank to be involved in bitcoin trading."
Though options exchanges and investment banks may see upside thanks to the bitcoin mania, technology and chip companies are also set to climb, added Lee. Chipmakers like Nvidia and Advanced Micro Devices that produce graphics processing units (GPUs) necessary for bitcoin "mining" should perform well if bitcoin presses upward.


The good times are not over yet for U.S. stocks, according to John Stoltzfus, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer Asset Management. On Friday, Stoltzfus forecast the S&P 500 to reach 3,000 next year, making him the biggest bull on Wall Street.
"Going forward we expect many of the same thematics from 2017 to apply in the New Year as investors look to determine whether improving economic conditions and corporate fundamentals can boost stock markets higher for a third straight year," Stoltzfus said in a note to clients Friday. Some of those thematics include improving global economic conditions and rising corporate profits.
U.S. stocks have risen sharply in 2017, with the S&P 500 spiking nearly 18 percent to record highs.
Stoltzfus thinks this market still has more room to run, so long as the Federal Reserve's policy remains consistent.
"What it really needs to keep moving along is modest growth of inflation, modest wage growth, a Federal Reserve that remains very sensitive to the needs of the economy," Stolfuz said Friday on CNBC's "Fast Money."
"I would say the biggest risk would be if all of a sudden you've got a sense the Fed thought inflation was moving ahead of itself, and they had to increase the pace of the normalization," he added.
His 3,000 target on the broad index — the highest among major Wall Street strategists as of Friday morning — implies 13.8 percent upside from Thursday's close of 2,636.98.
To be sure, other major Wall Street strategists are also very bullish on stocks heading into 2018, but not as much as Stoltzfus. Morgan Stanley's Mike Wilson expects the S&P 500 to reach 2,750 over the next 12 months, while Deutsche Bank's Binky Chadha and Credit Suisse's Jonathan Golub have price targets on the index of 2,850 and 2,875, respectively.
Stoltzfus expects S&P 500 earnings to rise 13.5 percent to $146 per share, driving the gains in stocks.
"Improving fundamentals are likely to support higher stock prices and P/E multiple expansion next year," he said. "We remain constructive on further improvement for corporate fundamentals and see opportunity for growth in both the top and bottom-line. We expect forward guidance from corporate management teams to remain positive as global economies continue to improve at a sustainable rate of growth."
Corporate earnings have grown nicely this year, gaining at least 10 percent in the first two quarters of the year and advancing more than 6 percent in the third quarter.
Stoltzfus recommends investors buy tech stocks in 2018.
"While Info Tech has performed exceptionally well in 2017, we believe accelerating revenue and earnings growth in many segments supports such performance and augers well for the next year," he said.
Tech is by far the best-performing S&P 500 sector this year, having soared more than 35 percent.
Stoltzfus also has an outperform rating on consumer stocks, which "will continue to benefit from increased consumer confidence, improved employment and modest wage trends," industrials, health care and materials.
"In our opinion skeptic and bear capitulation appears to have just begun in the fourth quarter of 2017 and contributed to the number of this year's equity benchmark record highs. We believe that it is early in this process and multiples could expand further than we currently anticipate should the capitulation gain momentum," notes the strategist.
CNBC's Chloe Aiello contributed to this report.


Steinhoff shares plunged another 50 percent on Friday, before recovering as traders booked profits on short positions taken out after the South African retailer disclosed accounting irregularities earlier this week.
More than $12 billion has been wiped off the market value of the owner of Conforama furniture stores and Poundland discount shops since Wednesday, when it announced an independent investigation into its accounts and said its CEO was leaving.
At 6:35 a.m. ET, the stock was down 12 percent in Johannesburg after earlier touching a 14-year lower of 5 rand. It was down 2.4 percent in Frankfurt, where the group has a primary listing.
"This buying we are seeing now is people that sold the shares short when it was in the fifty-fives and the sixties," said Cratos Capital equities trader Greg Davies.
Short-sellers borrow shares for a fee and sell them into the market, in the hope of repurchasing them at a lower price and pocketing the difference.
More than half of Steinhoff's shares that are available to borrow are currently out of loan, according to Markit, a data provider more than doubling from August and up from 40 percent on Monday. The figure is a record for Steinhoff and the highest for any South African company tracked by Markit.
The cost for short-sellers to borrow shares for a year has more than doubled from its twelve-month average of 1.4 percent to 3.1 percent, according to Astec, another data provider. Both Markit and Astec estimate it would take around ten days of trading for short-sellers to close all their positions.


I have long believed that to be a financial advisor is to serve in a noble profession.
In fact, given the impact finances can have on our lives, I consider the financial advisory profession approaching the importance of what physicians may do to positively impact patients' physical and mental well-being, or what clergy do to positively impact the spiritual well-being of people of faith. As financial advisors, we have a tremendous opportunity and, similarly, a tremendous responsibility to positively impact our clients' financial well-being.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are higher after Thursday's modest rally. The focus this morning will be on the November jobs report.
-The Labor Department said 228,000 jobs were created last month, beating expectations of 200,000, and the unemployment rate held at 4.1 percent.
BITCOIN TRADE
-Bitcoin continues to move wildly. It hit the $17,000 mark Thursday before falling back to $14,500 this morning.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
General Motors — In a roundup of auto companies, Piper Jaffray wrote in a note that General Motors is "very cheap" compared to others in the industry. The firm views GM as "the second least-risky" company in its coverage and named the motor city giant as one of its top picks.
Nike — Guggenheim raised its outlook on Nike ahead of the company's second quarter earnings later in December, saying in a note the athletic brand offers an "attractive" balance of risk to reward for investors.
Alexion Pharmaceuticals — Biopharma analysts at Leerink Partners answered investors' calls for an outlook on Alexion's drug ALXN1210, which is being evaluated for the treatment of patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. Leerink wrote in a note it sees Alexion shares rising 30 percent in a base outcome from Phase 3 trials for the drug.
Trivago — Deutsche Bank raised its rating on the travel services company to "buy" from "hold," saying in a note Trivago should benefit from a stabilizing bidding environment among its more substantial customers.
TE Connectivity — The board of TE Connectivity announced it was repurchasing $1.5 billion in company shares and raised the company's quarterly dividend to 44 cents per share from 40 cents per share.
Transocean — The offshore drilling contractor announced that wealth advisory firm Wilmington Trust filed a lawsuit against Transocean-subsidiary Global Marine, alleging the company is in default of $300 million. Transocean said it intends to "vigorously defend" the suit.


Could the market's new darling become its next black swan event 
?
The bitcoin craze could pose a real risk to the broader market next year, Deutsche Bank warned last week, ahead of the cryptocurrency's launch on futures exchanges, scheduled to take place Sunday. Torsten Slok, the firm's chief international economist, sent to clients a list of significant risks to the market in 2018. Included on that list: A crash in the price of bitcoin, higher inflation and the threat of North Korea. Bitcoin has emerged as a financial phenomenon this year as the digital currency sees $1,000-plus swings within hours. At this juncture, as the cryptocurrency has advanced quadruple digits this year, Slok said the markets have not correctly priced in the broader impact bitcoin could potentially have.
Deutsche Bank's risks to the market in 2018

"It is something that I think financial markets so far have been discounting as a small issue," the economist said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." He said he worries about whether bitcoin and its wild price swings could become "more systemic" next year if the current trends continue.
"The worry, of course, that one can have is that it's catching on quite substantially. And of course with the speed with which prices are going up, then you do wonder where prices will be even by the end of 2017. But we do think that in 2018, this, of course, will continue to be a topic, and there are a number of questions that remain unanswered," Slok said.
While bitcoin has more than its share of true believers — many of whom have sent its price on a dizzying rally to around $19,000 just last week — the digital currency's volatility and lack of transparency has earned it a fair number of critics.
Last week, "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer likened bitcoin trading to "an abstruse casino game that seems to have only winners and no losers. You've got to like that, right? I think, though, that could change," Cramer said.
Specifically, questions persist around regulation of the cryptocurrency and transparency in what exactly investors hold, according to Deutsche's Slok. The cryptocurrency's price rose above $19,000 for the first time on Thursday before tumbling more than 20 percent, according to Coinbase data. Its volatility could intensify in days ahead as exchanges prepare to launch bitcoin futures trading.
--CNBC's Liz Gurdus contributed to this report.


The cryptocurrency market has had a banner year thanks to the meteoric rise in bitcoin prices and the huge popularity of initial coin offerings as a new way of fundraising.
Many people are buying into new digital tokens with the assumption that those virtual currencies will appreciate over time at levels similar to bitcoin, or its rival ether. And while price action has hardly been staid this year, market watchers told CNBC they expect more dramatic movements in the cryptocurrency market in 2018.
Those developments could include a spike in funds being raised through ICOs, clearer guidelines and crackdowns from regulators and the mainstream acceptance of bitcoin, they said.


A lot of people are talking about cryptocurrencies these days, probably because they've gone so much higher this year.  The most important thing to remind ourselves is that anything to do with bitcoin or ethereum right now is pure speculation. Prices are rising because there is a finite supply and people are betting that other people are going to buy at higher prices later. There are zero fundamentals involved because these digital assets produce no cash flows, like a stock or a bond.  Whether or not cryptocurrencies represent the future of commerce or are just in a giant bubble, people are curious about how they can experiment.  I do not recommend that people risk their money in cryptocurrencies, but I have been experimenting personally, just to learn and see for myself what it's all about. This video is for people who are curious and it's not an endorsement of any particular coin or service.  Okay, with that disclaimer, I'll tell you a little bit about how I've been doing my research.  I chose to use Coinbase.com to buy my first bitcoin this July. It's a brokerage and handles storage for people who want to buy and sell digital assets.  To get started, I created a login and an account. I was then prompted to link a bank account, which took 48 hours to establish. I was able to execute my first purchase, locking in my price immediately, although it took almost a week before the money was transferred in from my bank and the coin purchase showed up on the screen. The first thing you'll see when you log in is a dashboard. It defaults to showing you Bitcoin's recent price activity, although you can toggle over to see prices of Ethereum and Litecoin, the other two digital assets Coinbase currently allows you to buy and sell.  Below, you'll see the holdings in your account.  The buy/sell page is where you place an order. It looks like an online stock brokerage page, and that's probably not an accident. You have the option of buying fractional amounts of cryptocurrency. You don't have to buy one whole coin at a time. I believe that this has sped adoption among young speculators first starting out with lower dollar figures.  You can also see that there is an option to place a fixed dollar amount at a specified interval. For example, you can have the same dollar amount move into your account daily, weekly, biweekly or monthly, making an automatic purchase regardless of price. It's sort of like dollar cost averaging.  The most popular news source for all things crypto is called Coindesk. Coindesk has set itself up to be something like the Wall Street Journal for digital assets. The news coverage goes on throughout the day, written by analysts and journalists who cover the space.  It is, of course, highly biased toward being bullish on crypto in general so it's important to take everything you read with a grain of salt.  Let me remind everyone that so far, Bitcoin has had a parabolic rise and has turned into something of a mania, and there is no reason to think that this could go on uninterrupted. In fact, one of the most enduring features of the crypto-space is the periodic crash, which comes without any warning, even though all of the crashes have led to higher prices so far.  Storage and custody is another tricky issue, with hacks of these exchanges having occurred on a regular basis. For that reason, many players have been taking their digital coins off of the exchanges and storing them on a chip that is not connected to the internet.  Timing a mania or a bubble is very difficult, so my attitude is to expect that every dollar I experiment with could be lost.  The world of cryptocurrencies is both exciting and fraught with danger, volatility and the chance of theft. It's very early right now and anyone experimenting should do so with eyes wide open and a high risk tolerance.  Good luck out there.


Bitcoin futures are set to begin trading Sunday at the CBOE and a week later at the CME, and retail brokerages are bracing.
Interactive Brokers' founder Tom Peterffy said on  CNBC's "Fast Money" on Thursday, his concern is that the cryptocurrency could continue to rise to $100,000 or more before crashing to zero, and could pull down small brokerages in the process.
Bitcoin's price has skyrocketed just this week from $12,000 to $19,000 and back down below $16,000. Futures trading is only seen as further legitimizing bitcoin even as some prominent market participants say a dangerous bubble is forming.


Jobs grew by 228,000 in November, with strong hiring across the board in manufacturing, construction and professional jobs.
Employers were expected to have added about 200,000 jobs in November and wage growth was seen as strong, two trends reinforcing that the Federal Reserve will raise rates when it meets next week.
The employment report showed the unemployment rate held at 4.1 percent, and average hourly earnings rose 0.2 percent, slightly less than the 0.3 percent expected. Year-over-year, wages rose 2.5 percent pace, up from 2.4 percent in October. For more, read the latest on November job gains.
Economists expect to see some continued recovery in hiring after Hurricanes Harvey and Irma  hit Texas and the Southeast in August and September.
"I think it's going to be a pretty firm report," said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at Amherst Pierpont. "I have 210,000 for payrolls. I think it's that high because there's a little bit more of the post-storm recovery."


The stock of Allergan seems to be on a one-way path of struggle and endless competition, CNBC's Jim Cramer said on Thursday.
"It can't catch a break," the "Mad Money" host told a caller in the lightning round. "Sage Therapeutics has got a competitive drug to something that they may be doing for depression. The other day we saw another company, Revance [Therapeutics], have a competitive product to Botox. Doesn't matter that the CEO, Brent Saunders, just bought a lot of stock. Nothing matters. This stock is a one-way stock."
Cramer even compared Allergan's stock to bitcoin, the wildly popular digital currency that also seems to be on a "one-way" path to $20,000 and possibly beyond.
"It is the anti-bitcoin," Cramer said.


With the CBOE, CME and Nasdaq hopping aboard the bitcoin train to offer their own derivatives of the wildly popular cryptocurrency, CNBC's Jim Cramer issued a warning about the craze.
"After its recent ascent, bitcoin's become some sort of abstruse casino game that seems to have only winners and no losers. You've got to like that, right? I think, though, that could change," the "Mad Money" host said. "Whenever any security runs from $5,000 to $10,000 to $15,000 to $19,000 in a matter of weeks or even hours, you've gotta wonder how long it will be before it bursts."
Given the buzz around bitcoin, Cramer said that it could still have room to run even after Thursday's rally, which brought the digital currency above $19,000 for the first time.
But the "Mad Money" host still came up with five reasons to be suspicious of the trend.
"First, no one knows who created it. Second, no one knows how much the creator reserved for themselves. For all we know, there are tons of these things sitting on the sidelines somewhere. Third, there's virtually no transparency into the underlying system," Cramer said. "Fourth, there's no government backing — obviously — there are no underlying assets backing it up and there's no military support for the bitcoin system, unlike real currencies."
Fifth, despite the professed protection of blockchain, the secure way to trade bitcoin, Cramer pointed out the bitcoin is software. And software, as we know all too well, can be hacked.
"When, not if, but when, that happens, it will be a total loss as there's no insurance and no fiat backing," Cramer said. "With those five considerations, sooner or later, this thing's going to run out of steam."
Cramer said that the real driver behind the rally could be hidden buyers hoarding bitcoin because they want to keep the supply tight.
That's part of the reason why bitcoin is often cast as the "death knell" to gold, which remains a precious metal because only 1 percent of the world's supply is mined each year, Cramer said.
But the three major exchanges creating bitcoin futures will make the digital currency a two-way market, putting people on the other side of the trade. Not only would that help eliminate hoarding, but it'll introduce shorting possibilities, the "Mad Money" host predicted.
"Once we get an orderly market in bitcoin, I think a top won't be far behind," he said. "Look, I want to congratulate everyone who was early on this story, everyone who ... sold it at $19,000, everyone who's made a fortune in bitcoin. You're smart, you're good, you're fabulous. But when the other side of the trade develops, bulls make money, bears make money, and pigs get slaughtered. And I do not want you to be a pig and get slaughtered."


Hong Kong-based private equity and venture capital firm First Eastern Investment Group is betting big on China's burgeoning financial technology sector, its chairman and chief executive told CNBC.
"I'm putting my money on Chinese fintech, particularly the payments sector going global," Victor Chu said Friday on the sidelines of the Fortune Global Forum in Guangzhou, China.
Alibaba's Alipay and Tencent's WeChat Pay, which currently dominate the payments landscape in China, have already had some expansion outside of their domestic market. And as Chinese tourists travel abroad in greater numbers, the two payments companies are expected to "follow their customers" and sink their feet in more countries, Chu said.
First Eastern Investment Group is already helping both Alipay and WeChat to expand into Europe, Chu told CNBC.
"If they (Chinese tourists) go to London and WeChat Pay is accepted like Visa, it's very easy, they don't even need to exchange foreign currency," he said, noting that the number of Chinese outbound tourists is projected to exceed 200 million in five years from the current 110 million.
"So they have to go out because they have to follow their customers, but sooner or later, WeChat Pay and Alipay, with innovation, can be very competitive," he added.


The analyst who accurately called oil's bottom in in 2015 sees a boom for U.S. shale producers.
Tom Kloza, who runs the Oil Price Information Service, is crediting OPEC for his optimistic 2018 forecast.
"OPEC basically gave a Christmas gift to U.S. shale producers," the company's global head of energy analysis said this week on CNBC's "Futures Now."
The oil cartel decidedlast Thursday to extend production cuts through the end of next year. The purpose is intended to boost crude prices and prevent a glut.
But it comes with a price. In return, non-OPEC countries, such as the United States, have more of an incentive to increase their output.
Kloza said the U.S. surpassed 9.7 million barrels a day in crude output, including shale, on Wednesday — something that hasn't happened since April 1971. Kloza predicts the number will get to 10 million by early next year.
"We may be at a record right now for shale," Kloza said. "It establishes a stronger bottom for crude oil."
He predicts West Texas Intermediate crude will hover around $55 a barrel and Brent bubbling around $60 next year. Right now, WTI is trading in the mid-$50s and while Brent is just over $61.
"You hear these people talking about $70. Look, $70 is possible but it's probably as possible as the Jets making it to the Super Bowl. So, it's very, very improbable," he said. "It would take an event, it would take some sort of disruption in Libya or Nigeria beyond what we've seen in the last couple of years."


Investors should be careful of the euphoria that's propelled bitcoin to past $19,000 a day after crossing $14,000 because it's very early days in cryptocurrencies, BK Capital Management founder Brian Kelly told CNBC on Thursday.
"If you look at the internet in 1995, that's where you are in digital currencies," said Kelly, portfolio manager of the BKCM Digital Asset Fund.
While bitcoin is the largest, with a market value of around $250 billion, and a nearly 1,900 percent increase in the past 12 months, there have been a wave of cryptocurrencies in recent years. Two other big ones, ethereum and litecoin, have seen even larger 12-month gains, 5,100 percent and 2,600 percent, respectively, according to a main digital currency platform CoinBase.
"To be clear, there will be Pets.com in this space. There are Pets.com," said Kelly, referring to the online pet supply retailer that's become one of the symbols of the dot-com excess of the 1990s. Founded in 1998, Pets.com, which even advertised during the Super Bowl, went public in February 2000 and shortly after achieved a $100 million market value. But it went out of business about eight months later.
"I have no idea if bitcoin is going to be one [to prevail]," he admitted. "Just like the internet."
In the meantime, Kelly who calls himself a "value speculator" in digital currencies is investing in bitcoin, which he said traded more than Apple shares last week. He said there's plenty of liquidity on the platforms that enable trading in digital currencies, so investors who want to sell won't have problems finding buyers.
"As much as I love bitcoin, an asset that goes straight up, investors have to be careful," said Kelly, author of "The Bitcoin Big Bang — How Alternative Currencies are About to Change the World." "That being said, there's a massive runway here digital currencies."
Kelly also said he sees greater opportunity in ethereum than bitcoin. "There are thousands of the smartest minds working on building stuff on top of [ethereum]."
In addition to trading bitcoin in the unregulated cash market, CME Group and Cboe Global Markets are set to unveil bitcoin futures, which add a layer of federal government oversight.
Andrew Busch, chief market intelligence officer of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which approved the exchanges' plans, told CNBC on Wednesday, "Our role as a derivatives regulator is to make sure the futures contract it's not manipulated. We're going to do that for sure."
Cboe bitcoin futures are set to begin trading on Sunday. The CME contracts are slated to launch on Dec. 18. Nasdaq, meanwhile, plans to launch its own bitcoin futures as early as the second quarter of 2018.


Shares in Skyworks Solutions, Cirrus Logic, and Qorvo traded higher on Thursday after fellow Apple supplier Broadcom hinted the late launch of iPhone X would help revenue rise.
"As we look into the first quarter 2018, unlike the last 2 years, we expect wireless revenue to continue to grow sequentially as the ramp in demand from our North American customer this year was pushed out compared to prior years," Broadcom CEO Hock Tan told a conference call on Wednesday.
Analysts say the 2017 performance of component suppliers to the California-based tech giant has been weighed down by Apple's decision to push back the launch of the 10th anniversary iPhone until November.
Many have also said suppliers who support the phone's functionalities ranging from image and motion sensors to power management would see gains now that the phone has launched.
"I would expect stocks like SWKS, QRVO, CRUS to react positively today from AVGO (Broadcom) as well as the entire sector," said Loop Capital analyst Betsy Van Hees.
Shares of Skyworks were up 2 pct, while Cirrus rose 1.2 pct and Qorvo 1.9 pct in premarket trading on Thursday.
"While our fundamental thesis remains unchanged for QRVO and SWKS, for traders we wouldn't dismiss the opportunity for QRVO and SWKS to trade higher off this call," Cowen analyst Karl Ackerman wrote.
Earlier this week Ackerman said detailed field research on Apple production had pointed to better than expected iPhone builds for the fourth quarter of 2017 and first quarter of next year.


Shares of Sage Therapeutics soared 70 percent on Thursday after the company announced positive results in the testing a major depressive disorder (MDD) treatment.
Sage said in a release that 64 percent of patients achieved MDD remission using the SAGE-217 drug in the 15th day of treatment.
This is the second successful drug trial result in as many months for Sage. On Nov. 9, the company said brexanolone — a drug aimed at treating moderate and severe postpartum depression —  met its main goal in two late-stage studies. The stock shot up 54.2 percent that day and is up 44.1 percent over the past month.

"These very encouraging data suggest the potential of SAGE-217 in the treatment of MDD as well as other mood-related disorders that we may pursue," CEO Jeff Jonas said in a statement. "The positive activity and safety findings of SAGE-217 in MDD support advancing the program into later stage clinical development."


Those who track the markets commonly describe stocks and bonds as arguing about the economic future — with the odds typically tilted toward bonds, for their tight focus on the core macro forces and record of prescience.
The headlines are familiar:
"Bond Markets Have a Message About the Economy That Stock Investors Might Not Want to Hear"
And:
"The Bond Market Is Giving the Stock Market a Stern Warning"
This foreboding signal of economic weakness purportedly comes from stubbornly low 10-year Treasury yields and a narrowing spread between short and long rates at a time of buoyant equity indexes.
But here's the thing: The first headline above is from June 2016, the second from June of this year. Stocks and the U.S. economy have done just fine in the interim; the S&P 500 has climbed at a 15 percent annual rate since both those dates, up 25 percent since June 2016 and more than 8 percent the past six months.
The 10-year Treasury is, in fact, higher now than at those moments over the past 18 months when it seemed its skimpy yield was wagging a finger at stocks and admonishing them to "be careful."
Yet much talk on Wall Street today again involves the stickiness of that 10-year note under 2.4 percent, and the compression of its spread to two-year Treasurys to below 0.55 percentage points, despite a peppy run of economic growth here and abroad and swelling investor risk appetites in other markets.
So is there any reason to think now that the bond market is conveying an alarming message that should be heeded?
Probably not — at least no urgent warning of distress particularly soon. There are several big-picture reasons yields are still subdued despite years of predictions for them to race higher, and they don't include "the economy is in trouble."
First, demand for U.S. Treasury paper is persistently strong in a world suffering a relative shortage of safe yield.
The German 10-year note yields around 0.3 percent, leaving its American counterpart a full two percentage points higher and unable to widen that gap more.
Hedge-fund manager Mark Dow, who also blogs at Behavioral Macro, points out that there is very little triple-A rated corporate debt in circulation after ratings-agencies turned stricter. Vast amounts of capital is wielded by price-insensitive institutions, from insurers to pension plans to banks, which are now required to hold more high-quality securities. And, of course, central banks are holding trillions in government debt.
This makes the 10-year Treasury a balky gauge of cyclical economic prospects, Dow argues in a blog post:
"This isn't to say yields don't react to economic info or don't say anything about the state of the economy. Of course they do. But the dominance of financial drivers after 30 years of global financial deepening has made attempts to extract economic information from the level and shape of the US yield curve unhelpful–or worse, vulnerable to false positives."
A "false positive," in this case, would mean an untrustworthy signal of sharp economic slowdown.
It's worth noting that in the past week or so, as the 10-year yield has ebbed and the yield curve pressed to new lows for this cycle, bank stocks have held up well and utility and REIT shares have sagged.
Might this be the equity market's way of looking through the current bond action, betting the economy will be good enough for a run of Fed rate hikes and implying that a rush to much lower long-term yields is not in the offing?
Second, bond yields also might simply be saying consumer inflation is low and is likely to remain so. The whole story of aging populations and galloping technological disruption isn't new but still persuades.
Cathie Wood, chief investment officer at growth-stock shop ARK Invest, has pointed out that in the late 19th century the yield curve was flat for years thanks to an innovation-driven deflationary economic boom.
The two-year Treasury is driven by Fed rate-hike expectations for the next several quarters. The ten-year is influenced by the longer-term outlook for inflation's effect on bondholder returns
Third, perhaps the squeezed yield curve is also about the economic cycle simply pushing into a later phase, but not yet nearing its end.
If that's the case, and Treasury prices are set up for a few more rate hikes before the Fed tightening cycle is done, we could be six months to two years away from the economy tipping into recession. Importantly, corporate high-grade and speculative-grade debt are priced at sturdy levels, a virtual "all clear" from the credit markets about the underpinnings of the economy.
Strategist Tony Dwyer of Cannacord Genuity notes that over the past three cycles, once the 2-to-10-year Treasury spread narrowed below 0.6 percentage points, the median S&P 500 gain to the ultimate market peak was around 60 percent, and a recession was "at least two years away."
Only three cycles might not be statistically airtight. And this has been an unusual cycle, with rates kept near zero for years and markets having outperformed the economy for much of the time. So maybe such "rules" won't be followed too closely.
But it's at least some comfort to those hearing shrill warnings about what bonds are supposedly telling us.



Stronger business travel in 2018 will likely mean higher profits for hotels, airlines and car rental providers, but online travel company Expedia won't be in on the windfall.
Growth concerns have dogged Expedia throughout the year, and MKM Partners analyst Christopher Agnew says these worries aren't likely to resolve themselves soon.
Shares of Expedia fell 0.3 percent Thursday; the stock is down 17.5 percent over the past three months.
"The stock gapped down in October and has been unable to even attempt to fill that gap, an indication of weakness," wrote Agnew on Thursday. The analyst downgraded Expedia to neutral from buy. The stock's 200-day moving average — a key metric for Wall Street technical analysts — has begun to flatten out and is at risk of moving lower.

Expedia's bookings were light in the third quarter as reported in October. Gross bookings grew by about $2.1 billion, or 11 percent year over year, and overall nights stayed through all Expedia lodgings brands increased just 16 percent year over year.
The stock "has really lost momentum," added Agnew, who has a $115 estimate on Expedia shares, which is 3.5 percent lower than Wednesday's closing price. While the outlook is gloomy, the analyst noted that Expedia's HomeAway, a direct Airbnb challenger, may benefit from strong leisure travel.


A correction hasn't shaken the historic market rally yet, but Wall Street legend Byron Wien says it's "definitely" coming.
"A 10 percent correction could come along at any time, and particularly when the market has done as well as it's done. I mean basically it's gone straight up since Donald Trump was elected," Wien warned on Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
If a correction of that magnitude were to hit today, the Dow would suffer a 2,400 point blow.
Wien, vice chairman of Blackstone's Private Wealth Solutions group, gives a 50 percent probability for a deep sell-off by year-end. He's been in the correction camp all year — and says he's concerned it hasn't happened yet.
"The market is overbought and investors are optimistic," said Wien. "An overbought market with optimistic investors is vulnerable, and the question is what triggers the vulnerability?"
It's not an easy answer, according to Wien. His hunch is a geopolitical development, such as a major conflict with North Korea, could trigger a correction by causing instability. But it's also possible the rally could just pause on its own.
"Maybe the market just spontaneously begins to fade," added Wien, who believes the markets are already borrowing performance from 2018.Regardless of how it materializes, Wien doesn't see it as a sign that a bear market is around the corner. He believes stocks would bounce back quickly, and ultimately end 2018 higher than current levels.
"Fundamentals are very strong," Wien said.
The Dow, which is up 32 percent since Trump was elected, saw its second negative session in a row on Wednesday after falling about 40 points. It closed at 24,140.


Biotech stocks have lagged recently, as the Nasdaq biotech ETF, the IBB, has declined for three-straight sessions and is down more than 10 percent from its October high. On a technical level, the group's charts concern Miller Tabak equity strategist Matt Maley. Here's why: • On Wednesday, the ETF broke below its 200-day moving average, which has proven solid support for the IBB for much of 2017. This is a red flag for the stocks into year-end and into 2018.

• The IBB has rallied nearly 16 percent this year but began pulling back in October. This raised concern that it could see a decline akin to the one in 2015 amid political uncertainty around drug pricing. • Two more key levels Maley is watching are 105.5, which was the IBB's high in early November and early December, and 101.5, which is the low touched in August and November. A break below 101.5 would be quite bearish for the IBB.  Bottom line: Biotech stocks just broke below their 200-day moving average, which could have negative implications for the group.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Shake Shack — The fast casual chain got a positive bump from Morgan Stanley, which raised its rating on the stock to "equal weight" from "underweight." Shake Shack new store openings have consistently outperformed, the firm wrote in a note, and this next year should see heavy investment by the burger makers.
Expedia — Both Priceline and Expedia were lowered to a "neutral" rating by MKM Partners. The firm lowered its outlook from "buy" on both of the online travel companies, saying in note the future holds a "significantly lower earnings outlook."
Dollar General — The discount retailer's third quarter earnings came in a penny below the 94 cents per share which analysts surveyed by FactSet expected. Dollar General said hurricanes accounted for 5 cent negative impact on earnings.
Sage Therapeutics — Shares of the biopharmaceutical company ripped higher after announcing positive results from Phase 2 testing of its depression drug known as SAGE-217. Leerink Partners wrote in a note that Sage now has 90 percent odds of approval for the drug.
Broadcom — The chipmaker reported first quarter earnings 7 cents above what Wall Street expected with earnings of $4.59 per share, as well as a healthy $4.85 billion in revenue. MKM Partners and Drexel Hamilton both issued notes saying the results were "solid," with the former firm noting that investor focus is now on Broadcom's proposed acquisition of Qualcomm.
Vail Resorts —The Colorado company reported an earnings loss of $2 per share for its first quarter, missing Wall Street anaylsts' expectations of $1.83 per share loss.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are mixed after Wednesday's flat close. We get weekly jobless claims numbers this morning ahead of Friday's monthly jobs report.
-GE is cutting 12,000 jobs in the electrical power division.
BITCOIN BOOM
-Bitcoin has soared past $15,000, just hours after crossing $14,000. Leading banks are trying to block the launching of bitcoin futures exchanges. Hackers have stolen about $70 million worth of bitcoin from a major cryptomining website.



Suddenly, housing stocks have gone from hot to not.
The iShares U.S. Home Construction exchange-traded fund, the ITB, has fallen more than 1 percent in the last week after advancing more than 50 percent year to date. The ETF is still the best-performing U.S. industry group ETF this year, according to an analysis from Bespoke Investment Group.
A relatively strong fundamental backdrop has set the homebuilders up for their hot streak, said Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global. She cited rising wage growth, consumer sentiment ticking higher and mortgage rates remaining historically low. Still, she spots emerging risks on the horizon.
"We have seen tightening inventories. Regionally, these are different stories. So what's happening in California is going to be different from what's happening in Nevada. However, that is going to continue to be a problem," Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global, said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
The pending tax bill also provides an air of uncertainty regarding mortgage rates on a state-by-state basis, she added.
Technically speaking, the charts of the housing stocks look strong, said Rich Ross, head of technical analysis at Evercore ISI.
Looking at a chart of the ITB, Ross noted that a slight pullback after a strong run is to be expected. Zooming out and looking longer-term, he noted that the ITB has recently emerged from a four-year sideways trading range despite its recent lagging.

"What we know about technical analysis is when we emerge from these patterns, whether it's a multiyear range or a multiyear base, the moves coming out of that pattern tend to be larger in both duration and magnitude than people anticipate. That's what's going on here with the homebuilders," he said.
The ITB was modestly lower in Wednesday trading.


Wall Street banks have raised objections to the introduction of bitcoin futures trading, highlighting fears that the financial system can't cope with the cryptocurrency's volatile price swings.
Bitcoin has rocketed higher Thursday, crossing the $15,000 mark less than 48 hours after topping $12,000.
The U.K.'s  Financial Times has reported that a letter from the Futures Industry Association, which counts the world's biggest banks among its members, is to be sent Thursday to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in the U.S.
The letter reportedly criticizes the introduction of bitcoin futures and states that the Chicago exchanges, CME Group and CBOE Global Markets, should not be allowed to launch bitcoin futures under a self-certifying regime.


CNBC's Jim Cramer knows that part of smart investing is learning from everyone.
So when Carlyle Group co-CEO David Rubenstein said that the only thing he's worried about for the next two years is some sort of unexpected geopolitical event, it got Cramer thinking.
"The only thing we have to worry about, I think, in 2018 and 2019 is some unanticipated geopolitical event, the so-called black swan," Rubenstein told CNBC's Net/Net dinner in Washington, D.C. on Tuesday.
While Cramer doesn't like the phrase "black swan" because he wants to be ready for anything and everything, he did compile a list of 10 concerns he has going into 2018.
"A black swan is the thing you don't see coming, but we've got more than enough concerns that can be anticipated," the "Mad Money" host said. "Let me tell you what weighs on me every day."


As he rounds out his last few months as CEO of the now-private Panera Bread, Ron Shaich told CNBC that one of his biggest worries is the "pervasive short-term-ism" of the public market.
"The greatest competitive advantage Panera had, the reason we produced these results we did, is because we could think long term," Shaich told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer on Wednesday. "And the reason I took our company private is I'm increasingly worried about our ability to do that in a public market."
Shaich, who co-founded Panera and remained at its helm for two decades, highlighted a sea change he's noticed in his 26 years as CEO of a public company.
After issuing and watching the results of more than 100 quarterly earnings reports, the restaurant industry veteran said that traders, not institutional investors, increasingly run the show in the stock market.
"What's driving today's shareholdings are traders on the market," Shaich said. "We had large shareholders like [Capital Research & Management], Goldman Sachs, Baron Funds, but the reality is, they don't drive the price. What drives the price are the traders who are betting on next week's comp. And that affects the entire organization."
"Do you think this is good for economic growth?" the CEO added.
Shaich called attention to the recent upheaval in Buffalo Wild Wings to cement his point. Over the summer, activist firm Marcato incited a proxy fight that ended with the resignation of the chain's CEO, Sally Smith.
Shaich said that Smith called him when the proxy fight started, and they talked about "drawing a line in the sand" to push back against the activists.
"Her management supported her. Her franchisees supported her. She lost the proxy fight, the stock popped 10 percent for a couple of weeks and then it fell 40 percent. And they were forced to sell the company for no more than it was trading at at the beginning," Shaich said.
Shaich expressed his frustration with activists who take minority stakes in companies only in order to boost the stock price in the near term.
As Shaich sees it, the long-term view often serves companies much better than the day-by-day, quarter-by-quarter sentiment that today's market has adopted.
"The greatest competitive advantage of the FANG stocks – Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google – is they have the ability to be long term. They have a capital structure that's long term,' Shaich said. "I think that increasingly, if we're going to have change, we need to really express this. We need to recognize how these markets have changed."


When "momentum stock" Autodesk lost its mojo after a less-than-perfect quarter, CNBC's Jim Cramer knew he had to take another look at the software company's business to vet the decline.
Autodesk, which makes computer-aided design software for an array of industries from architecture to entertainment, posted a small earnings beat on Nov. 28. Cramer didn't find many negatives in the report, but after it was released, the stock tanked 16 percent.
"When you see a market darling turn on a dime like this and get slammed, you've got to circle back to the story and ask yourself a simple question: are we dealing with a broken stock or a broken company?" the "Mad Money" host said. "In other words, did Autodesk merely hit a speed bump, or did it crash into a retaining wall at 80 miles an hour?"
Before the latest quarter, Autodesk was one of the S&P 500's top 20 best-performing stocks for 2017. Shares of the software play had run up over 70 percent for the year.
But even though its third-quarter results beat Wall Street's earnings and sales estimates, management also lowered its full-year guidance and announced a restructuring plan replete with roughly 1,150 layoffs, according to an SEC filing.
"It implies that things aren't going well. And since when does Autodesk need to turn things around?" Cramer said. "You typically don't roll out a restructuring plan when your business is firing on all cylinders."
And until the latest quarter, Autodesk did appear to be firing on all cylinders. The company is a leader in design software that Cramer called "the best tech company you've never heard of."
The "Mad Money" host recommended Autodesk's stock after the company started moving operations to the cloud, concurrently reporting a series of strong quarters. In August, Autodesk delivered a strong top- and bottom-line beat with a 94 percent increase in cloud revenues.
Soon after, the stock was peppered with a series of analyst upgrades: Guggenheim, Canaccord, KeyBanc and RBC Capital all raised their price targets on the name, with Guggenheim taking it from "neutral" to "buy."
"Now, I'm a big believer in the idea that you need to be wary when a stock runs dramatically going into the quarter, and all these supremely bullish analysts sure didn't help," Cramer said.
In fact, the bulls effectively set Autodesk up for failure, he continued: unless the earnings results were utterly perfect, the stock was doomed.
And this quarter came with more than a few flaws. The earnings beat was smaller than Wall Street was used to from Autodesk.
To make matters worse, the restructuring plan, which management said was done to pay for the cloud transition, took analysts for a spin, raising four separate questions about the move on the conference call.
The guidance was also fairly dismal. Autodesk's sales forecast for next quarter was weaker than expected, and management slashed the high end of its full-year subscription forecast from 675,000 to 650,000. Worse yet, executives said they expected a bigger-then-expected full-year loss.
"This has become a 'show me' story," Cramer said. "While I'm still a believer in the company's long-term prospects, I have less conviction than I did the last time Autodesk was at these levels over the summer. It's actually not as cheap as it was back then, at the same level, because we now have to deal with a whole new set of risks about the future. My verdict? If you own Autodesk, hold it — feel free to ring the register on part of it, absolutely, though — and if you don't like this new level of uncertainty but you think it's a buying opportunity, I suggest you be patient. I think you're going to get a better one."


Bitcoin is a pure gamble, and those interested in the cryptocurrency should just go to Vegas, CNBC's Jim Cramer warned on Wednesday.
The cryptocurrency, which has surged more than 1,000 percent this year, broke above the $12,000 mark on Wednesday morning, according to industry site CoinDesk. Bitcoin's rapid gains have prompted some market participants to warn of a bubble.
"It's kind of like 'Monopoly' money," Cramer said on "Squawk Box."  "Obviously, there's people who use it. If you ever say anything bad about it, there's like this 'bitcoin mafia' that comes after you. But it is an oddity that has nothing to do with us" as investors.
"It's just pure gambling at this point," Cramer continued. "I mean if you want to gamble, go to Vegas. Vegas is fabulous."
"I mean honestly, what's the difference between bitcoin and trying to figure out the Super Bowl? I mean it's gambling," the host of CNBC's "Mad Money" added.
Late last month, Cramer said the cryptocurrency's velocity is a sign that its surge is "parabolic," and that could mean the rally won't last.


It's one of the most common questions on Wall Street: Where has all the volatility gone?
Between D.C. drama, geopolitical uncertainty surrounding North Korea and President Donald Trump's tweets, investors have had ample reasons to hit the sell button. But 2017 is shaping up to be one of the least volatile years on record.
And according to a new report by Credit Suisse, big market moves may not return anytime soon.
The firm says the market's lack of volatility is the result of stocks moving independently of one another, a dynamic broadly referred to as correlations. According to Credit Suisse's research, three-month correlations in the market have fallen to their lowest level since 2000.

"The extreme sector dispersion explains why index moves have been so muted this year, as the market has really been driven by sector rotation," wrote Mandy Xu, chief equity derivatives strategist at Credit Suisse and author of the report on sector correlation breaking down.
In other words, while the market appears calm on the surface, many stocks are seeing big moves independent of one another; however, those moves in single stocks cancel each other out when they are grouped into a broader index, leading to muted daily market moves.
Xu points to tax reform uncertainty and investors being caught off guard in the recent sector rotation as the drivers of low correlations in the market. According to the strategist, as long as stocks continue moving independently of each other, the broader market will remain calm.
"If this continues, expect to remain in a low volatility regime for longer," she added.


Social media giant Facebook will lead the "FANG" stocks higher in 2018 with no correction in sight, according to Evercore ISI.
In fact, given the large addressable markets that are on the cusp of disruption, analyst Anthony DiClemente argues that the next wave of technology growth could be even larger than the last.
"Today's leading tech companies are leveraging the internet to disrupt and take profits from large established industries, a dynamic that is driving real earnings and free cash flow growth," DiClemente wrote to clients on Tuesday. "Beyond that, smartphone ubiquity, the transition from offline to digital marketplaces, and continued growth in user adoption of emerging/established digital platforms are providing fuel for the next legs of growth."
The analyst, who worked previously for Nomura Instinet, initiated coverage on a slew of companies in the space Wednesday with most of the so-called FANG stocks among his favorites.
By issuing a $225 price target on Mark Zuckerberg's social media giant Facebook, the analyst believes that the company's shares will rise 30 percent over the next year.
"Between 2013 and 2017, the share of web traffic coming via Facebook has grown five-fold to exceed 40 percent, during this same period the value of the overall digital ecosystem has effectively doubled," wrote DiClemente. "Perhaps the most striking dynamic within social media is the incredible growth of Instagram over the past three years. Based on the company's disclosure in late September, Instagram's user base now stands at 800mn, a four-fold increase relative to just three years prior."
Investors have also been keeping a close eye on Facebook's digital video ambitions, including its new "Watch" platform and ventures into sports content. The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this year that the company is willing to spend up to $1 billion on original video content.
As for Amazon, DiClemente was also quite optimistic on everything from Amazon Web Services to Alexa and Prime Instant Video. His $1,350 price target reflects 18 percent upside over the next 12 months.
"Within both e-commerce and cloud computing, Amazon has established itself as the clear market leader," he added. "Amazon's competitive advantage, driven by its vast global infrastructure should ensure continued attractive returns in our view."
DiClemente also issued an outperform rating on Google parent Alphabet accompanied by a $1,230 price target, representing 21 percent upside over the next 12 months. With the ongoing shift to mobile platforms and web searches, the analyst argues that Google will "outpace" the growth of the overall search industry.
As the only FANG stock that did not receive an outperform rating, Netflix may be facing a maturing subscriber base in the U.S., the analyst noted.
While DiClemente sees a long runway for subscriber growth overseas, a possible slowdown in domestic user growth may force the company to consider its price power. In October, Netflix announced that its $10/month high-definition plan now costs $11, sending shares soaring at the time of the announcement.
To be sure, the analyst's $210 price target does spell meaningful, 14 percent upside for the company over the next year.


Shares of AeroVironment, a military drone maker, closed 26 percent higher and hit an all-time high on Wednesday after the company posted strong quarterly sales.
The company's revenue for fiscal second-quarter 2018 hit $73.8 million, marking a 47 percent year-over-year increase. AeroVironment attributed the sales surge to a $23.2 million gain in drones sales.
AeroVironment's strong revenue tricked down to its bottom line, as the drone maker's earnings per share shattered Wall Street expectations. The company reported a profit of 29 cents a share, while analysts polled by Reuters expected a loss of 6 cents a share.
"Our outstanding team delivered another solid quarter of financial and operational results driven by robust, global customer demand across our business and continued effective execution," CEO Wahid Nawabi said in a release.
AeroVironment's stock has already had a stellar 2017, having risen 61.2 percent entering Wednesday's session.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Alphabet — Evercore ISI initiated coverage of a group of internet companies, saying that "the best is yet to come for internet disruptors." The Google-parent company was among those the Wall Street firm rates as out-performers, as well as Facebook, Amazon, InterActive and Match Group.
Alibaba Group — Susquehanna began coverage of the Chinese e-commerce giant on Wednesday. The firm highlighted Alibaba's two retail platforms, Taobao and Tmall, as "impressive," writing in a note that both advertising businesses have "amply runway ahead."
AeroVironment — The military drone maker shares soared after the company posted strong second quarter sales. AeroVironment crushed Wall Street's expectations, reporting a profit of 29 cents per share, while analysts polled by Reuters were anticipating a loss of 6 cents per share.
UnitedHealth Group — Optum, division of the health care giant, expects to close a $4.9 billion deal for DaVita Medical Group next year. DaVita said it plans to use the sale proceedings to pay debts and buyback stock over the next couple of years.
Discovery Communications — The cable programming giant is taking a majority interest worth $70 million in the Oprah Winfrey Network, which was previously a joint venture between the TV star and Discovery. The deal increases Discovery's ownership to 75 percent, while Winfrey will continue as OWN's chief executive.
Home Depot — The home improvement retailer increased its fourth quarter stock buyback program to $15 billion, replacing a previous plan to purchase $2.1 billion in shares.
Fred's — The regional pharmacy announced it would not pay out its quarterly dividend and instead would put the money toward paying down more debt. The move came as Fred's reported a third quarter loss that was worse than anticipated.
Dave & Busters — The entertainment company reported better-than-expected earnings at 29 cents per share, above the 24 cents per share analysts polled by FactSet expected.



A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are down after Tuesday's losses. We get economic data today on private sector job growth and worker productivity this morning. Bitcoin has broken over $12,000 for the first time. Mortgage refinance applications surged 9 percent last week as rates fell back.
-Home Depot has announced a $15 billion share buyback program.
DEALS/NO DEALS
-Merger talks between Disney and 21st Century Fox have resumed. As part of the deal, James Murdoch could end up replacing Bob Iger as Disney CEO.


Emerging market equities have been lagging recently, falling over 3 percent in the last week alone. But we're still long emerging markets, and I believe it's a larger story than just the recent sell-off in Chinese technology stocks.  That sell-off has raised concerns regarding the health of the emerging markets trade. However, the drivers of this dip came from Chinese authorities and were largely expected. The drivers of emerging market equities reach far beyond China, and commodities are now being driven by increased manufacturing and a global trade boom. For these reasons, we continue to remain optimistic on emerging markets.  What happened in China?  The Chinese government instituted tough new regulations on online consumer lending platforms, which are made up of payday loans and peer-to-peer lending. Some of them are associated with large holdings in the emerging markets exchange-traded fund like Ant Financial, an Alibaba Group affiliate.  Many of these platforms conduct business without proper government licenses; the China Banking Regulatory Commission has suspended the issuance of all new licenses to online micro lending and is said to be scrutinizing online lending practices. More importantly, banks are being prohibited from buying loans underwritten by these platforms because they are deemed too risky.  Finally, securitizing these loans is now forbidden to avoid an outcome similar to the U.S. subprime crash.  How does this all impact emerging market equities?  While much of this is a continuation of the Chinese debt bubble, the move suggests that it has gotten out of the regulators' control. As they move to let the air out of this bubble, we are seeing faling prices for industrial metals and other raw goods. Many of these loans were being used to purchase homes, keeping the housing bubble in China inflated.  This will hit commodities exporting nations, but not as hard as one might expect.  What is offsetting this?  We see a global trade boom continuing to drive emerging markets as global Purchasing Manager indexes show continued growth in demand for manufactured goods. For example, Korea is already registering signs of slowing Chinese demand but is still showing 9.6 percent year-on-year growth for November exports. However, we continue to watch the tone out of Washington, since a shift toward more protectionism could put a dent in this.


The market has a problem: there's nothing left to rotate into.
Stocks sold off again midday Tuesday for the second day in a row.
On the surface, the tax bill that has been such a market mover got push-back from Democrats who organized protests against what they view as tax cuts for the rich.
I have already warned that the tax bill is not a fait accompli, but for different reasons: It is not clear if corporate tax cuts will be a 2018 or 2019 event (the Senate bill pushes it out to 2019) and President Donald Trump has intimated that the corporate tax cut may only be 22 percent, not 20 percent.
That is a half a loaf for traders, who are anticipating tax cuts in 2018 and a 20 percent tax cut.
But the markets have already indicated there may not be too much juice left in the whole "tax cut" trade, even if it passes.
We have been in a frenzy in the past week as traders have bought sectors that would benefit from tax cuts (banks, telecoms, industrials) and sold those that would benefit very little (technology).
But we may be reaching the limits of that trade.
Two days in a row, markets rose mid-morning, then sold off.
On Tuesday, the S&P 500 ETF (SPY), widely used by active traders to quickly get in and out of the market, spiked down decisively around 2:15 p.m. when it dropped notably below the early morning low, as well as Monday's low.
That is a bad technical indicator.
It doesn't help that the recent market leader — banks led the charge down. As with Monday, the bank stocks weakened midday. The Bank ETF (KBE) also saw a volume spike midday when it, too, dropped below the early morning close. But this time most closed down, with many regionals down nearly 2 percent. Banks were down since midday Monday, with the KBE was down almost 3 percent from Monday's high.
They have also grabbed almost every underperforming sector, regardless of tax implications: transports, retail and small caps (Russell 2000).
But all that reversed Tuesday. The biggest losers were the last week's biggest gainers: telecom, banks, retail, Russell 2000, transports.
This tells you traders are now seeing the limits to this "land grab" of buying underperforming sectors and playing the "tax cut" game.
Who can blame them? Take Macy's. It was $18 three weeks ago. It hit $26 Tuesday before selling off, up 40 percent.
Macy's up 40 percent in three weeks? Really? What happened to Macy's in three weeks? Oh sure, Thanksgiving was OK and the earnings were a modest surprise, but up 40 percent?
Or take bank stocks. The regional banks went nuts. BB&T was up 10 percent in four days. So was U.S. Bancorp. Zions Bancorp was up even more. Really?
You can't help but start to think we are stealing a bit from next year's gains.
Here's a bigger question: The whole market this year has been based on tech momentum. Will traders take the chance to buy some of the (modestly) beaten-down tech names?
Take Facebook. It's in another one of its periodic downdrafts, down about 7 percent in the last week. Facebook has had several downdrafts this year, most recently in September and October, and volume spiked each time. But ultimately, buyers bought on the dip.
Will that happen this time? Ask the same question for Nvidia or Alibaba. There's been endless demand on weakness.
The difference this time: There's not much in the way of other "beaten-down" stocks to buy.


A market that already has broken a multitude of records is about to set another one — this time for cash poured into stock-based funds.
Equity exchange-traded funds are on track to pull in $300 billion this year, after another solid showing in November. The month saw $30.6 billion in inflows, taking the running total for 2017 up to just shy of $294 billion, according to State Street Global Advisors.
For perspective, that would bring the total inflows for stock-based ETFs alone to more than the entire $3.4 trillion industry has ever taken in during a year.
A market that has seen 64 record closing highs for the Dow industrials is also seeing plenty of participation from investors.


A head of one of the largest U.S. private equity companies said a geopolitical surprise is the only thing for markets to worry about in the next two years.
"The only thing we have to worry about I think in 2018 and 2019 is some unanticipated geopolitical event, the so-called black swan," David Rubenstein, co-CEO of The Carlyle Group, said Tuesday at CNBC's Net/Net dinner in Washington, D.C. He pointed to a possible North Korea missile launch or an event similar to the Sept. 11 attacks.
"But right now, short of those kind of things, I think the economy's in reasonably good shape and probably going to be spurred on a little by the tax bill," he said. Rubenstein said the tax bill should have "very favorable consequences for the economy" and he doesn't see any negative surprises from inflation or the labor market.


Bitcoin has almost doubled in value since November, when commodities king Dennis Gartman last disparaged the cryptocurrency. Bitcoin's biggest bear still won't bite, though.
"Bitcoin on a volatile day moves 15 and 20 percent,"  Gartman said on CNBC's "Fast Money."   "How can you margin something that can move 15 to 20 percent on a regular basis? It's the volatility that frightens me."
Volatility is a theme that routinely comes up in Gartman's rebukes of the cryptocurrency, which he maintains is a bubble waiting to pop.
"Bitcoin is the modern day Tulip Bulb mania. I will let others trade it, I won't trade it," Gartman said on CNBC's Fast Money.
Last month, Gartman told "Fast Money" the cryptocurrency "is a market ... for criminals, this is a market for millennials."
He softened his tone slightly Tuesday in light of the development that Cboe Global Markets will launch futures trading in the cryptocurrency beginning Sunday.
"It is gaining some sense of legitimacy by the Cboe," he said.
Still, Gartman maintained he doesn't think the cryptocurrency is out of the woods just yet.
"When they begin to pay taxes on it, when it ceases to be an avenue for avoiding taxes, when it ceases to be a place where drug dealers are trading and making transactions, then I'll be interested," Gartman said.


Stocks could see more bumpy trading ahead, after the S&P 500 and Nasdaq each suffered their first three-day string of losses since August.
But the seasonal tailwinds of December could take over and send stocks higher after more rocky trading, technicians and strategists say.
"When you have a reversal like you had [Monday] traditionally you have anywhere from two to seven choppy trading days after it," said Art Cashin, director of floor operations at UBS. "Like today, there will be some up, some down, but they can't really make progress."
The S&P 500 fell 9 points Tuesday to 2,629, while the Nasdaq fell 13 points to 6,762. The Dow, which was positive Monday, lost 109 points to 24,180. The small cap Russell 2000 was hardest hit, losing 1 percent to 1,516.
Stocks tried to rally but failed Tuesday. The tax rotation trade of the last week slowed. Tech, which had been pounded, was the only S&P sector to end with a gain, albeit just 0.2 percent. Investors have been moving money out of technology, since it will not benefit as much as other sectors from tax legislation, and it may even be hurt if a corporate AMT element stays in the bill.
"For that sector especially, ultimately, we'll get a signal that it's washed out. Today's action is reaffirming there's more room to come in, before ultimately sounding the all clear," said Todd Sohn, technical analyst with Strategas Research. "Around the first two weeks of December, when you look historically at the seasonality, there is a mild bout of weakness in usually the first 10 days of December. Then you get the rally after that."
Sohn said the volatility could be a warning of market behavior in the new year.
Oppenheimer technician Ari Wald says he's not concerned about the shakeout, adding that he thinks it is not likely to be the prelude to a big sell-off.
"Let's talk tech in particular, which is down in the last few sessions. Taking a step back, there's no damage done" technically, he said. "It's simply just a function of the terrific rally going into the most recent pull back. ...The market is battling some near-term overbought conditions, so some sideways consolidation would be reasonable."
Wald said timing the choppy period is difficult, but he believes the trend is higher and dips should be bought.
"Seasonally, December is  a good time for stocks. Santa rallies are the last five trading days of the year and the first two of the new year. December is usually positive for stocks. It's never been the worst performing month of the year going back to 1928. ...There's a tailwind. We're not expecting a big pullback," said Wald.

Scott Redler, partner with T3Live.com, said after Tuesday's trading, he was more convinced that Monday set the high for the year in the S&P 500.
"The gap up today was sold again. It was basically more methodical," he said. "I think the market is more vulnerable versus being in a rush to buy here. ...It seems like traders are less in a rush to put bigger amounts of money to work."
Redler said the market could calm down later in the month.
"The question is, does a bid show up closer to Christmas or not?" he said.


DoubleLine CEO Jeffrey Gundlach said Tuesday that historical and economic indicators point to a likely buying opportunity for commodities such as oil and gold.
"If you ever thought about buying commodities, ... maybe you should buy them now," Gundlach said in a webcast organized by his firm.
He pointed out that by comparing total returns of the S&P Goldman Sachs Commodity Index with the S&P 500 over the last several decades, there are clearly defined points at which commodities outperformed stocks, leading to a sharp increase in stocks, and vice versa. For example, stocks far outpaced commodities during the dotcom bubble of the late 1990s into 2000. But commodities went on to rally hard until they peaked during the global financial crisis of 2008.
"We're right at that level where in the past you would have wanted commodities instead of stocks," Gundlach said, noting that commodity prices stopped falling in 2016 and the global economy is "definitely hanging in there." He said he does not see a recession likely for at least the next six months.
The S&P GSCI is up nearly 56 percent from its low in January 2016 after plunging more than 30 percent in 2015. The index is up just over 6 percent this year, while the S&P 500 has rallied more than 17 percent.
Gundlach also expects the U.S. dollar index's next major move will be lower as the Federal Reserve is unable to tighten monetary policy as much as they plan. A weaker dollar also helps commodity prices and emerging market assets, which Gundlach said he still likes.
In a response to a question about whether having 10 percent of a portfolio in gold is "too much," Gundlach said he would rather put 10 to 15 percent of his investments in commodities broadly rather than gold alone.
The investor also said the falling yield curve between the 2-year and 10-year Treasury yield is "getting to the point where it's worth watching." That fact that "people are starting to explain away the yield curve" indicates to him the U.S. economy is closer to the middle of the tightening cycle than the beginning.
"It's pretty relentlessly flattening," Gundlach said. "If the [yield curve] goes to zero then we get a flashing yellow light for [a] recession."
DoubleLine's $54 billion Total Return Bond Fund is up 3.6 percent year to date, according to Morningstar.
This summer, Gundlach put a big bet on the return of volatility to the market, predicting the Standard & Poor's 500 would tumble. He bought a bunch of put options on the index, a bet that it would fall and a move he described as a bullish bet on volatility. In August, Gundlach predicted the VIX would double to 20.
Just the opposite has happened for most of this year. The S&P has climbed while volatility as tracked by the CBOE's Volatility Index, or VIX, is down 20 percent. Only recently has Gundlach's bet been in a position to benefit. The VIX is up 21 percent this month and 16 percent so far this quarter.
Gundlach said on Tuesday's webcast that since the VIX jumped from below 10 to above 17 a few days after his August forecast, "I'm going to call it good enough."



Cryptocurrencies' total market value edged up to another record high Wednesday, surpassing that of the U.S.' largest bank.
The combined market capitalization of all digital currencies reached an all-time high of more than $370 billion at about 6:50 a.m. London time, according to Coinmarketcap data. This figure is worked out by multiplying the prices of cryptocurrencies by the total volume of those digital currencies in circulation.
Their market value overtook that of JPMorgan, which is currently at $366.8 billion. Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief executive, has been a notorious critic of bitcoin, the world's largest cryptocurrency. Dimon has called bitcoin a "fraud" that will eventually "blow up."


CNBC's Jim Cramer remembers the days when kids bought the same brands as their parents, afraid that deviating would mean they were questioning their elders' judgment.
But now, consumer patterns are suggesting that the exact opposite idea has taken hold.
"Customer loyalty? Hard thing to come by these days," the "Mad Money" host said. "Now that the internet gives you the ability to comparison-shop for just about anything, younger people just reach for what's on sale or what can create the most exciting experience. Those choices are roiling the whole market and I think a lot of investors fail to understand their implications."
When Cramer was younger, he used Old Spice deodorant because his grandfather did, shaved with Gillette because his Pop liked the brand, drove a Ford because Pop drove one and filled his prescriptions at the local drugstore where the employees knew him by name.
Now, everything is fundamentally different. Cramer's favorite deodorant has too many chemicals, Unilever's Dollar Shave Club sends razors straight to his doorstep and his local drugstore was replaced by a Walgreens, where nobody knows who he is or, frankly, cares.
Cramer used to shop at the same few stores, occasionally browsing the local mall for bargains or scouring the weekend newspapers for good deals.
Now, people use Google to search for anything under the sun and Amazon to find bargains. A single $24 movie ticket equals three months of Netflix, and cars are growing obsolete to younger people thanks to ride-hailing services like Uber and Lyft.
"In this environment, unless a brand has enough cachet that it's worth posing with on Instagram ... it becomes very difficult to value all sorts of companies," Cramer said. "That's why we spend a huge amount of time trying to figure out what certain stocks are worth as this next generation takes over."
The few companies that have customer loyalty in this day and age are Alphabet (the parent company of Google), Amazon and Facebook, the "Mad Money" host said.
All three use swaths of data to perfect their respective search, retail and creative outlets, giving consumers high-quality platforms to replace newspaper-browsing and window-shopping.
"That's why FAANG, my acronym for Facebook, Amazon — if I stretch the A, Apple — Netflix and Google, have such staying power," Cramer said.
People tend to squawk about Apple's eventual demise, but they talk and text about it on their iPhones, using Apple's ecosystem in a rare case of brand loyalty, Cramer said.
Cramer added that brand loyalty among consumers is eroding because national chains are reaching a point where they all feel interchangeable.
"At a certain point, national chains start feeling indistinguishable from each other," he said. "If I put you in a Lowe's, would you know whether you're in a Lowe's or a Home Depot? A Dollar Tree versus Dollar General? Would you know if you're wearing Nikes versus Adidas? You get the picture."
But this millennial-driven "homogenization" shouldn't deter investors from investing in individual stocks, the "Mad Money" host said.
For example, airlines and cruise lines like Carnival and Royal Caribbean transport younger people to the perfect backdrops for their Instagram-documented adventures, Cramer said.
"They like pets, that's Idexx. They like protein, that's Tyson Foods. They like restaurants, that's Yelp. They like trips, that's Expedia," he continued.
So as incomprehensible as the younger generations may seem, index funds aren't the only or best way to play the stock market's shifting landscape.
"The bottom line: if you're looking for long-term themes you can fall back on when the market's unsettled, remember that the baby boomers no longer rule the earth," Cramer concluded. "The millennials are inheriting it as we speak, and the handful of companies that they like — and they really only like a handful — are the only ones that really benefit from any kind of brand loyalty here. That's going to be the story for years to come. Get used to it. And if you want to be on the right side of it, I say you better do it now, or else."


After a brutal rotation out of the technology stocks that came on the heels of the Senate passing its tax reform bill, CNBC's Jim Cramer wanted to check in with tech.
Tech stocks recovered on Tuesday after Monday's storm of selling, caused in part by investors trying to buy shares of domestic companies that stand to benefit from corporate tax reform.
So Cramer called on technician Carolyn Boroden, one of his colleagues at RealMoney.com and the brain behind FibonacciQueen.com, to help him get a better outlook on the tech sector.
"Specifically, we're going to drill down into the action in the now-despised and left-for-dead roadkill that are Facebook, Apple and Netflix," the "Mad Money" host said. "The big question: when we look back on this moment a year from now, will the pullbacks in these stocks look like fabulous buying opportunities?"
Boroden's methodology for predicting these moves might seem obvious. She uses ratios developed by medieval mathematician Leonardo Fibonacci, who discovered that certain patterns repeat themselves in nature in things like snail shells and pine cones.
Funny enough, these patterns also tend to show up in the stock charts. The Fibonacci Queen's specialty is looking at past swings in a given stock or index and applying the ratios to find when a stock might change trajectory.
"I know it sounds like pseudo-science, a kind of stock market astrology or alchemy, but the fact is, it does work," Cramer said.
And when it comes to the stocks of Netflix, Apple and Facebook, Boroden found that all three recently reached key Fibonacci extensions of their prior swings.
In plain English, that means the stocks repeated an entire previous move, then ran up some more, which Boroden often takes as a sign to get more cautious.
Looking at the weekly chart of Netflix, Boroden liked that the stock's latest pullback was very similar to its last few declines.

Netflix's stock lost roughly $27 in its last pullback in late summer. In the pullback before that, it also shed about $27. Last week, it lost $26, meaning the most recent decline could be over.
Better yet, the $27 declines were followed by much bigger rallies that made up for the declines and then some. While that might not necessarily happen again, Boroden was confident that if Netflix's $177 to $178 floor of support holds, the stock could run to $211 a share.
"However, if Netflix does start falling again and breaks down below the floor of support, the next one is at $167 to $168 — that's the level to watch if the big tech sell-off picks up again," Cramer said.
Just like with Netflix, Apple's weekly chart suggests the stock is experiencing a "garden-variety pullback," Cramer said.

Apple's last few pullbacks each lasted for about $14, meaning the now-$170 stock could decline to $160. But the stock has so many floors of support between $170 and $160 that Boroden isn't worried.
"There's the floor at $166 to $167, another floor at $164 and $165, and there's one at $159 to $161," Cramer said. "That's a lot of areas where things could turn again, and the stock's rallied slightly today so it's possible that the pain is already over."
Like the others, Facebook's last few pullbacks of $10 or $11 suggested that the stock's current decline — down over $10 from where it traded a week ago — might be done after today's rally.

That said, Boroden did point out some levels to watch for Facebook: one floor of support from $169 to $170, another from $162 to $166, and a third at $157.
"As long as the price holds above one of these floors, even the lowest one, Boroden's optimistic," Cramer said.
All in all, Fibonacci ratios, especially when imparted on stocks by the Fibonacci Queen, can be so predictive that they're "almost creepy," the "Mad Money" host said.
"The charts, as interpreted by Carolyn Boroden, suggest that the recent declines in Netflix, in Apple and in Facebook are really nothing to get too worked up about," he concluded. "My view? These tech titans may not be in the sweet spot to benefit the most from tax reform, but they're still fabulous companies. I'd use any further weakness to gradually buy some more on the way down, even as they've been thrown away as if they were never worth anything to begin with."


CNBC's Jim Cramer knows how hard it is to compare stocks using their individual valuations.
The only tools investors really have to value a stock are the given company's total addressable market and its price-to-earnings multiple, or the share price relative to the earnings per share.
"In the end, valuing stocks is either totally straightforward or totally mystifying — one or the other," the "Mad Money" host said. "For a certain group of stocks, it's much more of an art than a science."
For example, investors trying to pin down the value of Netflix will run into trouble because the streaming giant barely has any earnings, Cramer said.
"You're hostage to the total addressable market, or TAM, for internet entertainment around the world," he explained. "Without that kind of thinking, no one would ever believe it was reasonable for Netflix the company to be worth almost four times as much as CBS."
Valuing Amazon is just as tricky. Cramer thinks Amazon's retail and cloud businesses could be worth $750 billion and $250 billion respectively, which would mean the $1,140 stock could still double.
If investors considered that possibility, the recent technology stock sell-off would make shares of Amazon seem like a bargain over the long term.
How about Tesla? It's no secret that Cramer thinks the automaker's value is entirely in the eye of the beholder considering its lack of earnings, shoddy projections and star power of its CEO, Elon Musk.
But for those who view Tesla as a tech stock and not an auto stock, the $303 share price seems reasonable, Cramer said.
To prove his point, Cramer pointed to the valuations of respected consumer goods stocks like Colgate and Clorox. Colgate has a 7 percent growth rate and a 24 times price-to-earnings multiple; Clorox also trades at 24 times next year's earnings and has a growth rate of 5 percent.
"We all accept these valuations in the consumer packaged goods space despite uninspiring growth rates and now-meager dividends," Cramer said. "It's stereotyping, plain and simple."
Meanwhile, stocks like Apple, Alphabet and Facebook are viewed as too expensive despite having larger addressable markets and faster growth than the consumer goods names, he said.
Apple's growth rate, for one, could go as high as 25 percent by some estimates. Still, the tech stock has a price-to-earnings multiple of 14, a huge discount to the consumer goods names.
Similarly, analysts put Facebook's growth rate at 21 percent with a 21 times price-to-earnings estimate for 2019. Alphabet has a 17 percent growth rate and sells at 24 times 2018 earnings estimates.
All of this tells Cramer one thing: that the stocks he likes and owns for his charitable trust are cheaper, on a price-to-earnings basis, than household consumer goods names.
"People love to claim that Facebook or Alphabet or Apple have gotten so expensive that you can't possibly own them, but when you actually do the exercises I do and you get all arithmetic ... you don't get that conclusion," Cramer said. "Yep, tech's much cheaper than you think. It just doesn't usually get explained in comparison to what's really expensive that we all hold so dear."


CNBC's Jim Cramer remembers the days when kids bought the same brands as their parents, afraid that deviating would mean they were questioning their elders' judgment.
But now, consumer patterns are suggesting that the exact opposite idea has taken hold.
"Customer loyalty? Hard thing to come by these days," the "Mad Money" host said. "Now that the internet gives you the ability to comparison-shop for just about anything, younger people just reach for what's on sale or what can create the most exciting experience. Those choices are roiling the whole market and I think a lot of investors fail to understand their implications."
This millennial-driven shift has created a "void" where bank, housing, materials and health care stocks trade together, while hard-to-value stocks like Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, Apple and Alphabet reign supreme.
But that shouldn't deter investors from investing in individual stocks, Cramer said.
"This is why so many professionals just say go buy an index fund, it's too hard to pick individual companies. I come back and say, no it isn't," he said. "The mores and methods of the next generation are not unfathomable."


Goldman Sachs remains pro-risk in equities, but the investment bank's top strategists say "time is running out for Goldilocks."
An economy growing at just the right speed to support stock prices but not trigger inflation will soon end as consumer prices and rates start creeping higher next year, according to the report from the global Goldman equity strategist team, led by Christian Mueller-Glissmann.


Steve Schwarzman, chairman and CEO of Blackstone, calls the tax reform working its way through Congress a "game changer."
The billionaire former advisor to President Donald Trump as part of his policy forum, told CNBC's "Halftime Report" on Tuesday that the bill was "actually sort of a game changer because there has been enormous frustration in terms of getting legislation passed."
Sure the tax plan isn't a love letter to private equity, he acknowledged. The bill proposes to eliminate the deductibility of interest, something Schwarzman said would be a slight negative for private equity firms, which buy companies using financing.
It also proposes that ordinary income tax be applied to investments of fewer than three years, a longer timeline than the one year threshold currently applied, something that is also not a positive for his firm, he said.
Still, passage of the tax plan would be a sign of progress during a year in which Trump struggled to push his agenda through Congress, losing out on health-care reform after multiple attempts. Schwarzman led the president's policy forum, which disbanded this summer as CEOs revolted against Trump's comments in which he failed to condemn violence at a white nationalist rally.
Tax reform is seen as a critical goal of Trump's first year in office.
Schwarzman told CNBC on Tuesday: "This is a whopper. There is no doubt about it in terms of its impact, scale and the fact that many people thought that this wouldn't work. It seems at this point a pretty good shot that this is going to get resolved before Christmas."


The trading environment is decidedly less exciting than it was during last year's post-election rally, as JPMorgan Chase's chief financial officer points out.
Revenue from sales and trading at the bank is running 15 percent lower so far in the fourth quarter compared to this point in the same period last year, Marianne Lake told an audience at the Goldman Sachs financial services conference on Tuesday.
"The volatility remains pretty low across the spectrum," she said in response to a question about the trading business. It "hasn't been that exciting." Markets revenue in JPMorgan's investment bank for the full fourth quarter of 2016 was $5.7 billion.
The reverse trend is true of investment banking, she noted, where activity levels have been high, "up high single-digits."
JPMorgan Chase is mulling how to assist customers who want to trade bitcoin futures, which is something being rolled out in the coming weeks at CBOE, CME and, ultimately, Nasdaq. The largest U.S. bank's CEO, Jamie Dimon, has publicly derided bitcoin as a "fraud" but Lake's public comments have been more measured.
The firm, she said earlier this year, is "open-minded" to the potential uses of the digital currency.


The continuing rapid ascent of global equities combined with rising interest rates has some financial analysts predicting inevitable recession in the near future.
"We think the (Federal Reserve) will continue to tighten pretty steadily over the course of the next couple of years or so, but we're starting to think that the end of the cycle, you can start to see it now. So we're saying 2019: recession," Robin Bew, CEO of the Economist Intelligence Unit, told CNBC on Tuesday.
Central banks are gradually tightening monetary policy, moving to raise interest rates and withdraw the stimulus they pumped into their economies following the 2008 financial crisis.
More hawkish positions from the U.S. Federal Reserve to the European Central Bank have rattled some investor sentiment, as the former aims to shrink its balance sheet and the latter draws down its quantitative easing program.
Bew said that as the U.S. economy grows and unemployment continues to fall, it is "gradually soaking up more spare capacity," or more slack in the economy. "Our team is already thinking about when that's going to go wrong for the U.S. economy." He believes that year will be 2019.
Liquidity provided by central banks is "the central piece that we have to understand, to make sure we understand how the market reacts," argued Sonja Laud, head of equity at Fidelity International.
Shrinking liquidity can result in a sell-off of equities, Laud warned. "If we take away excess liquidity, you will obviously find the odd bottleneck in some parts of the market where you cannot freely trade as you thought you could," Laud added. "And then normally what does happen is you sell the most liquid asset class available, and equities is normally the area of choice."
Tightening liquidity combined with what's been widely described as an overvalued stock market has for some time now been prompting the question of whether a crash is around the corner. However, a tightening fiscal policy doesn't inevitably lead to a market crash, and there are analysts that believe stock markets will continue to push higher over the coming years.
The prolonged period of investor optimism of the last few years — the second-longest bull market in history — has seen stock prices climb to record highs. Adjectives like "inflated" and "overstretched" are used daily to describe stock market valuations, pointing to what many analysts warn will lead to an eventual market correction or even a full-blown recession.
The Dow Jones industrial average has spiked 5,500 points in the last year, with the U.S. benchmark hitting an all-time high of 24,536 points on Monday before settling to 24,400. Retail stocks are currently booming as confidence grows in the U.S. government's ability to pass a Republican-led tax plan that promises to slash corporate tax rates from 35 percent to 20 percent.
Meanwhile, Germany's benchmark DAX and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 both hit all-time highs in November.
History points to lofty valuations preceding market crashes: indeed, the Daily Telegraph  reported that the only times market valuations have been higher than today's (adjusted for inflation) were just before the dotcom bubble of the late 1990s and the 1929 Wall Street crash.


Investors need to be careful on small-cap names heading into 2018 despite better-than-expected performance this year, according to Jefferies.
Though strategist Steven DeSanctis admits he was "way too conservative" with his 1,410 Russell 2000 target, he isn't necessarily changing his wary views.
"We see another year of low returns for small with the Russell 2000 rising to 1664," DeSanctis said in an investor note Tuesday. "Even with a big boost from tax reform, valuations are way too high. Volatility is lowest level EVER and should go higher."

The Russell 2000, one of Wall Street's widely followed small cap equity indexes, has posted a healthy 13 percent climb this year.


Shares of the Snapchat's parent company jumped more than 8 percent Tuesday, and CNBC's Jim Cramer said it may finally be at a good level to buy.
Cramer cited a note on Snap stock by investment bank Barclays, which upgraded the stock to overweight from equal weight and raised its price target to $18 a share from $11. "We've been on the sidelines since the IPO, but feel now is a good time to start accumulating shares," Barclays analyst Ross Sandler wrote.
"I thought this was a very good upgrade. ... I like this piece," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "Ross Sandler has been historically very good. I've known Ross Sandler for years. ... Ross Sandler does quality work."
When asked whether Snap has reached an "entry point" for investors, Cramer said, "I have felt that there is a level where you just have to accept the fact that younger people like this."
"This whole notion that Facebook is killing [it] — that seems to be a narrative we could live without in a sense that there's room for more," said Cramer, the host of CNBC's "Mad Money."
Cramer said he also appreciated some of the changes coming to the social media company, including a redesign.
"I've been trying to find an entry point for it," Cramer said. "I think that it is down for the year, so you may have some people with tax law selling. You see the stocks that are down aren't coming back. But (the upgrade) was very clever."
Snap shares had fallen nearly 45 percent since going public in early March.


Shares of Bank of America rose 0.3 percent in Tuesday midday trading after the bank announced it would be buying back an additional $5 billion worth of shares.
The board of directors approved the additional repurchase, which will occur through June 2018. The company had previously announced plans to repurchase $12 billion in common stock earlier this year.
In a statement from Bank of America, the repurchase program "will be subject to various factors, including the company's capital position, liquidity, financial performance and alternative uses of capital, stock trading price, and general market conditions, and may be suspended at any time."
Bank of America shares are 31 percent higher this year, with a 4 percent jump in the last one month alone, as investors bet that banks will be one of the top beneficiaries of tax reform.
CEO Brian Moynihan is speaking at the Goldman Sachs financial services conference Tuesday morning and will also be appearing from there in an interview on CNBC.


Snap shares rose 10.1 percent on Tuesday after Barclays said the social media company could hit a "turning point" next year.
The investment bank upgraded Snap to overweight from equal weight and raised its price target to $18 a share from $11, implying a 32.7 percent upside from Monday's close.
"We've been on the sidelines since the IPO, but feel now is a good time to start accumulating shares," Barclays analyst Ross Sandler said in a note Tuesday. "Snap may start hitting or exceeding consensus revenue estimates and accelerating growth in 2018 now that the pricing transition is [in the] late stage."
Sandler also said Snap could benefit from a narrative change away from 2017's "Facebook is killing Snap" to "these companies can co-exist" like Priceline Group and Expedia.
Snap shares have fallen nearly 45 percent since going public in early March, as the company has failed to meet investor expectations. Mounting pressure from Facebook has also pressured the stock lower.
Disclosure: CNBC parent NBCUniversal is an investor in Snap.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are mostly higher after Monday's modest gain for the Dow Jones industrial average and losses for the Nasdaq. That trend looks to continue at the open. We get some economic data on the service sector and the trade deficit this morning.
BUDGET BATTLES
-House Republicans have introduced a two-week stop-gap bill to fund the government and the children's health insurance program. President Trump is scheduled to meet with top Democrats later this week to hammer out a deal on a longer term budget.
RUSSIA PROBE
-Special counsel Robert Mueller has subpoenaed Deutsche Bank for info on accounts held by President Trump and his family.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
AutoZone — The auto-parts retailer posted better-than-expected quarterly earnings and revenue, sending its stock nearly 7 percent higher in premarket trading. Same-store sales — a key metric for retailers — rose 2.3 percent in the quarter, also surpassing estimates.
Toll Brothers — Toll Brothers reported weaker-than-forecast earnings and sales, pushing its stock 6.3 percent lower before the bell. The company said in its fourth-quarter report that its results were hurt by higher labor and raw material costs. Toll also said it experienced the slowest orders growth in six quarters.
Ford Motor — Ford said it will launch 50 new vehicles in China by 2025, including 15 electric vehicles, in an effort to boost slowing sales.
McDonald's — Analysts at Jefferies upgraded the fast-food giant's stock to buy from hold and hiked their price target to $200 a share from $50. In a note to clients, they said McDonald's "use of data and technology … should attract a higher multiple over time, while leading to higher returns." McDonald's shares closed Monday's session at $170.65.
Snap — The social media company's stock was upgraded to overweight from equal weight by analysts at Barclays. The analysts see revenue upside for Snap in the fourth quarter and believe the company's pricing transition will be "in the rear-view mirror" next year. Barclays also raised its price target on Snap to $18 a share from $11. The stock finished at $13.57.
Humana — The health insurance giant said it expects Medicare Advantage membership to approach the higher end of its growth range by the end of 2018, according to an 8-K filing released Tuesday.
SL Green Realty — The real estate trust's stock was upgraded to buy from neutral by analysts at BTIG, who noted the company has "proven its ability to win in a challenging NYC office market." The analysts also raised their price target on SL Green's stock to $122 a share.


Traders are watching Tuesday's opening action after the S&P 500 rallied hard, reversed gains and ended Monday lower — a sign of potential trouble.
"Today was your first overall S&P signal that we could have weakness to come. It gapped up on news, and sold off and closed on the lows of the day. Money didn't rotate to tech and those names got pressured further," said Scott Redler, partner with T3Live.com. "The best set up for traders would be a down open, where buyers return to high beta tech."
Tech was a drag all day Monday, following a trend started in the past week when it first looked like the Senate would approve its tax bill. Now with that bill passed, the market has been rewarding companies with high tax rates and pounding the high-beta and other tech names that often have lower tax rates.
The divergence between the tech-driven Nasdaq and the S&P 500 is now the greatest it has been in a five-day period since the early days of the bull market, according to Bespoke. The S&P 500 is up 1.5 percent in the past five days while the Nasdaq is down about the same amount, and Bespoke founder Paul Hickey said the only time the difference between the two was greater in the bull market was in May, 2009 when the spread was 4.7 percent.
The market is already beginning to count on a 20 percent corporate tax rate even though the House and Senate must reconcile their tax bills before tax changes become law.
Telecommunications companies, consumer discretionary, staples, financials and industrials all ramped higher Monday, as tech rolled over. The Nasdaq finished down 1 percent at 6,775, while the S&P 500 ended down 2 points at 2,639 after surging to 2,665. The Dow, meanwhile, ended up 58 points to 24,290.
While analysts say it's healthy to see market leadership expand beyond a few big cap tech names, those stocks have been huge drivers of the bull market. FANG – Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet, all slumped along with other big cap tech names, like Microsoft and Apple.
"The divergences in the Dow and Nasdaq have been pretty glaring over the last week and heading into today," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at B. Riley FBR. "There's not enough of a basket of value that they rotated into that can support the amount of damage that's being done to momentum names."
Hickey said to put the move in perspective, tech has been sensitive to the "Trump trade," where domestically oriented companies benefit more.
"Tech also lagged after [President Donald] Trump first got elected, the Trump trade being the more cyclically sensitive sectors. There's a brief adjustment period but after a short period of divergence, the trend will likely reassert itself," said Hickey. "Last June when we had the selloff in the tech stocks, within a few weeks it was back to the old grind. What I think the bigger issue will be for those would be if you started to see interest rates really moving higher."
When the Nasdaq and S&P diverged in 2009, the market was more volatile and the Nasdaq was more than 3 percent lower a week later but it resumed its rise, and was up 6 percent a month later. The S&P 500 also was pressured, losing about 4 percent in the first week but it was up 1 percent after a month. Since then there were other times the spread was greater than 2 percent, and in each of those occasions, the Nasdaq was higher a week later as was the S&P.
Redler said it will be important to see if there are dip buyers, which have prevented the market from having any sort of sizable correction this year. The S&P tech sector is still up 34 percent year to date, while Nasdaq is up 25.9 percent. The S&P 500 is up 17.9 percent.
"The trade changed for tech Nov. 28 when most of the high beta tech lost momentum levels," said Redler, who follows short term technicals. He said the big cap tech names fell below their 8-day or 21-day moving averages. He said it would be a positive to see the QQQs or the Power Shares QQQ Trust ETF hold its 50-day moving average, which is just about 2 points below its $152.71 close.
"It feels like we have five different markets right now," he said. "There's been a lot less continuity in the last week that we've seen for a long time."
Redler said he puts 60 percent odds on the possibility that Monday's S&P intraday high of 2,665 will be the high for 2017.
"If you reduced risk a week ago, now you have the opportunity to see if there's a better dip to buy buy, but that has to happen soon. Otherwise, some real damage could set up," he said.
Besides the progress of the tax bill, markets will be watching the Senate Banking committee hearing and vote on Jerome Powell for Fed chairman, which begins at 10 a.m.
There is also international trade data at 8:30 a.m. ET, services PMI at 9:45 a.m., and ISM manufacturing data at 10 a.m.
Autozone, Toll Brothers, HD Supply and Bank of Montreal report before the opening bell.


China's stock market is having a banner year, and Asia expert Stephen Roach sees reasons for investors to be optimistic — but not without a caveat.
If the right steps aren't taken, he warns, a stock market shock could come from outside its borders.
"There's just been a progression in the advances that North Korea has made in terms of nuclear weapons capability and in missile delivery capability. And now, we're at a really dangerous point," the Yale University senior fellow said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
Roach, who spent five years as chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, has been arguing that China's economy is in the early stages of a "long-heralded structural transformation." He's been closely following China's evolution into a services and consumer-oriented economy.
"My base case for the fundamentals of the Asian economy remain constructive," said Roach, who visits China five to six times a year. "China is in a period of addressing a lot of its structural challenges."
The Hang Seng stock index has surged more than 32 percent this year. There have been concerns that China's economy has been overheating, and too much speculation is baked into its stock market.
Roach doesn't share those concerns but says it's vital for North Korea to abandon its nuclear ambitions for China's growth story to continue.
"This is a potentially destabilizing threat with a very aggressive leadership that seems absolutely fixed on developing a capability and a presence in a nuclear club," he said.
Roach believes sanctions are necessary, and China could set up the most effective ones.
"China is North Korea's largest trading partner," he said. "There's no question that China has leverage."
China provides key items such as fuel and food to North Korea, which has been dealing with serious shortages.
"It's just a question of whether or not they have the willingness to use it or whether or not we have the ability to put pressure on them to use that leverage," Roach said.


When the stock market soars to new altitudes, as it has this autumn, there's usually uneasiness among many investors about a potential drop or correction, promoting concerns about portfolio volatility.


We may be testing the limits of how far we can push the "tax cut" trade.
Since early last week, when momentum in Washington really picked up, sectors that would see the biggest earnings boost from tax cuts have been notable outperformers.
But there may be limits to how far investors can push this trade.
Last week, Cannacord, working with Thomson Reuters, published a study on the sectors that would get the biggest boost from a 20 percent corporate tax cut. Four of them — energy, financials, industrials and telecom — would see notable double-digit gains in earnings. One sector, technology, would see almost no boost:
Biggest gainers from 20 percent tax cut
(boost to 2018 earnings)
Energy 21.5 percent
Financials 18.5 percent
Industrials 13.2 percent
Telecom 15.5 percent
Tech 1.5 percent
Source: Cannacord/Thomson Reuters
Not surprisingly, the movement of these sectors in the past week has reflected the prospects for earnings improvement from tax cuts, and, in the case of technology, the lack of such improvement:
Sector gainers and laggards
(since last Tuesday)
Banks up 7.7 percent
Energy up 3.7 percent
Industrials up 3.6 percent
Telecom up 8.4 percent
Technology down 3.9 percent
This also helps explain the recent outperformance of so-called value stocks versus growth stocks. Value stocks (financials, energy, telecom) would simply fare better under tax cuts. Growth (technology) would not.
However, in the middle of the day, bank stocks, which have had huge gains in the past week, began selling off aggressively. Most ended the day positive, but well off their highs, on heavy volume. Other market leaders like industrials and telecom also ended off their highs.
This suggests traders are taking profits on the outsized gains, and we may be approaching the limits to the current rally.
Regardless, the tax cut is healthy because it creates a new base of stocks that can see their earnings boosted. It takes attention away from a small group of technology stocks (semiconductors, FAANG) that have received enormous attention this year.
"It ought to mean a rotation in asset allocation given that equity investors up to now have concentrated their portfolios into a small group of 'super-performers' that benefited from the disinflationary environment," said Sean Darby, chief global strategist for Jefferies.
However, we are not out of the woods yet. The Senate bill would put off corporate tax cuts until 2019, and President Donald Trump hinted over the weekend that the final corporate tax rate may not be 20 percent, but 22 percent. That will lower the expected earnings boost, and this combination could be a significant disappointment to markets.
Beyond the tax bill, traders are split between those who "sell on the news" and those who argue that any correction will be met by more buying in early 2018.
The "sell on the news" crowd has considerable support, arguing that stocks are seeing a final blowoff on the tax cut news and that it is simply unreasonable, and against the weight of history, to see stocks continue to advance.
But that's where the split occurs. Most traders believe some correction is coming, but a surprisingly large group feels that the sell-off will be met by more buying.
Tony Dwyer, chief market strategist for Cannacord, has been in the bull camp, arguing that "in our view, investors are not adjusting expectations up enough to reflect headwinds that have become tailwinds for growth."
Dwyer makes two arguments. First, he argues that the combination of global growth, a weak dollar, improving capital spending and a still-accommodative Fed will continue to help markets, though he admits some short-term correction may occur.
He also goes farther than most strategists by insisting that the S&P 500 can support a rather large multiple of 20 times forward earnings, close to where it is now.


The race to get bitcoin futures is now on. The CBOE announced Monday it would begin trading bitcoin futures on Sunday evening at the start of global trading hours.
The first full day of trading would be on Monday, Dec. 11. That would beat the CME, which has announced it, too, will begin trading bitcoin futures on Dec. 18, a week later, and the Nasdaq, which is also planning to introduce futures trading in the first half of 2018.
Bitcoin enthusiasts are hopeful that a bitcoin ETF might be coming. The SEC denied applications to start bitcoin ETFs earlier in the year on the grounds that the cryptocurrency was "unregulated," but CBOE head Ed Tilly said he plans to reapply with the SEC for a bitcoin ETF.
The argument seems to be a simple one. The presence of a futures market will demonstrate that the cryptocurrency is sufficiently "regulated" to allow ETFs to start.
The argument may be helped by two features that will be a part of the bitcoin futures: price limits and margin rates.
The CBOE and CME will have margin rates of 30 percent and 35 percent, respectively.
In addition to being able to short bitcoin, there's considerable speculation about whether futures will lower or increase the volatility level of bitcoin. The CME, for example, says it will be using price limits that kick in during gains or losses of 7 percent, 13 percent and 20 percent that would slow and in some cases halt trading. In particular, prices will not be allowed to move up or down more than 20 percent from the prior day's close. If that limit is hit, trading can only continue at or within the +/- 20 percent limit for the remainder of the trading session.
There may even be a price war developing for the business. The CBOE made a point in its press release this morning to say trading would be free through December, but doesn't say how much it would be after.
The CME says bitcoin futures will be priced at a premium to standard Equity Index futures, but in line with the pricing conventions of other premium products.


The ISM non-manufacturing index is due out Tuesday shortly after the market opens, and one strategist is watching the report for clues to broad economic health and whether its bullish market sentiment is supported. The non-manufacturing report is set to come out days ahead of the closely watched U.S. employment situation report on Friday morning, said Boris Schlossberg, managing director of foreign exchange strategy at BK Asset Management. He'll be watching the ISM's data closely for several reasons; here's why. • The non-manufacturing survey, which measures activity in areas such as construction and agriculture, is the second-most-important economic indicator after the employment report, Schlossberg said. The ISM's monthly report will be strong foreshadowing for the non-farm payrolls report on Friday, he added. • Both reports will reflect not only the strength of the U.S. economy but the inflation outlook, as well as the next move for the Federal Reserve and whether it will maintain its relatively positive outlook. • Schlossberg said there is a chance that key parts of the employment report, such as wages, could disappoint the market, as recent personal income and personal spending data has been relatively soft. Furthermore, the ISM's data due out on Tuesday will likely preview that weakness. • If the data on Tuesday misses estimates, the first market to feel the disappointment will be the U.S. dollar, Schlossberg said. The fixed income market would also likely see bond yields fall on a soft print. As far as stocks go, disappointing non-manufacturing data would prove neutral or positive for equities as it would indicate the Federal Reserve may tamp down its tightening plans. The market is expecting a reading of 59.0 on the ISM non-manufacturing index, according to FactSet data. This reflects a slight month-over-month drop; a reading over 50 percent is traditionally seen as bullish for the economy.  Bottom line: The ISM non-manufacturing data due out on Tuesday will be a key indicator of the inflation outlook, the non-farm payroll report on Friday, and whether or not the Fed's bullish outlook is supported.


It's been less than six months since Amazon announced its deal to buy Whole Foods, but for CNBC's Jim Cramer and many of the country's supermarket chains, it's felt like years.
"On that fateful day, June 16, the whole supermarket sector got beaten to a pulp, with many of the grocers seeing their stocks fall 5 to 10 percent in a single session," the "Mad Money" host said. "The whole group suddenly needed to be re-rated lower now that the retail Death Star had them in its crosshairs."
Initially, the declines were brutal: Supervalu shed 14.4 percent, Kroger dropped 9.2 percent, Costco fell 7.2 percent, Sprouts sank 6.3 percent and Target and Wal-Mart each slid about 5 percent.
The grocers' weakness continued for several months. Cramer said that it felt "like an Armageddon" for the group, which saw Amazon as the ultimate bringer of doom.
But lately, the cohort has reversed, with many of the leading stocks up 20 to 40 percent from their summer lows.
Oddly enough, much of the group is trading above where it was before Amazon announced the Whole Foods deal, so Cramer investigated to find out what the positive action might mean.
"How is it that supermarket stocks have managed to rebound? Isn't Amazon totally toxic to anyone it competes with?" he wondered. "Sure, nobody in their right mind wants to go up against Amazon — I mean, maybe CVS did this big deal with Aetna because they're worried — but entire industries don't come undone in a single day."
Simply, Wall Street got ahead of itself, the "Mad Money" host said. As soon as Amazon made its takeover public, analysts raced to slash their estimates on every possible competitor.
What they didn't account for was the near term. Amazon has yet to expand Whole Foods' several hundred stores to a level that truly competes with local supermarkets, even though it would likely pose a serious threat once that was complete, Cramer said.
The grocers' latest earnings results only confirmed that the analysts jumped the gun. Kroger delivered strong results last week. Supervalu beat Wall Street estimates in October. Costco reported better-than-expected earnings and Sprouts. Target and Wal-Mart followed suit.
Additionally, Wal-Mart upped its forecast and announced a $20 billion stock buyback, a whopping 8.5 percent of its market cap at the time.
Still, Cramer acknowledged that the long-term outlook is bleak for some. Supervalu, for one, was too risky for him to recommend, even though he felt more secure about Kroger, Sprouts, Costco and Wal-Mart (which he saw as the only true challenger to Amazon).
And with corporate tax cuts on the horizon, Cramer said that he couldn't blame the buyers who believe that the worst is over for the supermarket chains, which may soon pay lower tax rates.
"Here's the bottom line: when Amazon declares war on a particular industry, it's not an immediate death sentence for the incumbent players," Cramer concluded. "Sure, Amazon crushed the bookstores and the record stores, but it took many, many years to play out and their balance sheets weren't as good as some of these. That's why the sell-off in the supermarket stocks ... was excessive, and why I think these stocks can continue to climb even after the huge rebounds that they've already had."


Wall Street is declaring Gap Inc. the "weekend winner" as strong department store traffic over Thanksgiving and Black Friday hints at a better-than-expected holiday season.
While analysts were impressed with mall shopping overall, several said Gap companies including Old Navy were the biggest surprises.
"Traffic and conversion appeared solid on Black Friday, despite sales continuing to be dispersed throughout the entire weekend and an ongoing migration of Black Friday shopping online," wrote Jefferies analyst Randal Konik. "Old Navy and Gap both offered a 50 percent off store-wide sale, essentially flat to last year, which seemed successful in driving traffic and conversion."
"We believe holiday is off to a strong start at The Gap and reiterate our buy rating."
Konik also said that Gap and Old Navy's performance came even though its discounts were similar to those in prior years.  He noted that Banana Republic broadened its 50 percent-off discount to all regular-priced merchandise.

Shares of Gap have outperformed the market this year — up more than 32 percent versus the S&P 500's 16 percent climb. Shares closed up 1.2 percent Monday. SunTrust analyst Pamela Quintiliano also praised Gap's strong showing.
"Old Navy was the on-mall holiday weekend winner followed by American Eagle and Express," Quintiliano wrote on Monday. "Our biggest surprise was mall traffic, which was above our expectations despite online continuing to gain broad-based momentum. Throughout the weekend, traffic and conversion were consistently higher than we have seen in years."
Citing retail researcher ShopperTrak, the analyst noted that the "big win" was that traffic was down under 1 percent on Black Friday and declined just over 1.6 percent for Thanksgiving and Black Friday combined. Adobe Analytics calculated that Thanksgiving online spending rose 18 percent.
"The weekend looked pretty good," retail expert Dana Telsey said on CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Monday. "For the most part, promotions were the same as last year. That's encouraging. The fact that traffic was essentially flat is a good thing. You're not seeing the deterioration."
"You know, Gap, Old Navy? There were lines out the door," she added. "Gap is probably the one that's going to be one of the surprising ones."


Square's foray into bitcoin trading merely extends an "overdone" stock rally and puts off an impending correction, according to one analyst.
The company recently created a buzz with a trial that enables some users of the Square Cash app to buy and sell bitcoin, but this may be too risky for investors to stomach, said BTIG analyst Mark Palmer, who downgraded Square shares to sell on Monday.
The shares dropped more than 16 percent Monday, on pace for their worst day since May 2016, after the call.
"We believe Square's valuation already reflects emphatic and unimpeded growth while failing to factor in competitive, credit-related and macro risks that did not go away when some investors suddenly viewed its shares as a play on a trendy cryptocurrency," wrote Palmer on Monday. "We believe Bitcoin could provide a marginal contribution to Square's revenues if the trial succeeds, it becomes a permanent feature for all Square Cash users, and the company starts to charge a fee for trades."
He added, "It is not optimal from a risk standpoint for Square to have its fortunes tied to those of a cryptocurrency that has frequently displayed extreme volatility."
The analyst also cut his price target to $30, which is 39 percent lower than Friday's closing price.
Investors are already skittish when it comes to Square's stock.
With the company's shares up nearly 220 percent since January (as of Monday morning), anything less than perfect performance from Jack Dorsey's second major company tends to send the stock tumbling. Square handily beat Wall Street expectations in its latest quarterly earnings report, but its stock fell roughly 1.3 percent anyway.
After the company told investors about its plans to launch the bitcoin trading function on its Square Cash application, shares soared 11 percent as fascination with the cryptocurrency intensifies.
"It's dangerous for a stock to become tethered to a cryptocurrency," Palmer said on CNBC's "Closing Bell" later on Monday. "The other thing that happens when you see a craze along these lines is that investors forget about the risks — the other risks associated with the story. In this case, what we see with Square is they're getting increasingly involved in credit."
"At a time when PayPal is selling its credit portfolio to Synchrony Financial, Square is running into the fire."
Bitcoin surged over the Thanksgiving holiday, according to CoinDesk, and continued its relentless climb on Monday, last seen trading above $9,600.


Closely followed economist Jim O'Neill thinks Brent crude oil might surge to $80 a barrel in the next year before falling back to roughly $60 by next November.
That would mark a 26 percent run-up from today's price of about $63.50 a barrel. International benchmark Brent prices have already rallied about $20 a barrel, or more than 40 percent, from the year's lows in June. Brent hit a nearly 2½-year high of $64.65 a barrel earlier this month.
Conventional wisdom holds that prices won't budge much over the next year, says O'Neill, but the former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management and creator of the "BRIC" acronym is not running with the herd.
"While oil prices could be about $60 per barrel in November 2018, my guess is that they will have risen to about $80 per barrel in the meantime," O'Neill wrote in Barron's this weekend.
O'Neill, now an economics professor at the University of Manchester, says the market is finally waking up to the fact that global economic growth is gaining momentum and likely expanding at 4 percent or higher. That means there will be more demand for oil.


Broad agreement seems to be spreading on Wall Street that we are late in this economic and market cycle.
But what exactly does that mean for investors when no one knows for sure how long it can "stay late" — or how generous the market might be before the cycle turns from "late" to "over?"
Perhaps it's no surprise that strategists are checking their watch and eyeing the door at this stage. For the literalists who date the start of this bull market to the March 9, 2009, bear-market low, this has been the second-longest advance on record without a 20 percent drop. The U.S. economy has been expanding almost as long, and equities are as expensive as they've been at plenty of bull-market peaks, if not all of them.
As some veteran strategists give their outlook for the market in 2018, it's as if they hear a clock ticking loudly in the background.
Michael Hartnett, global strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, has been correct in his bullish stance this entire year, which he describes as the emergence of an "Icarus trade" embracing risk and courting overconfidence. He now foresees a "big top" in risk markets in the first half of next year after perhaps another 10 percent gain in the S&P 500, as faith in growth and central banks peak together.
Wharton School professor Jeremy Siegel, best known for his predominant bullishness and for authoring "Stocks for the Long Run," told CNBC last week he expects "one more push" up to new highs for the indexes. But he suggested stocks were "clearly near to a top," and 2018 could be positive but less rewarding and more volatile for investors.
Ned Davis of Ned Davis Research has also described the bull market as being in the "very late innings." Doug Ramsey, chief investment officer at Leuthold Group and a student of market cycles, says the sturdy rally still deserves the benefit of the doubt and shows few typical signs of an imminent peak. But he confesses "very limited visibility into 2018," given how expensive and well-loved equities are, and the fact that the factors keeping him bullish are the most short-term ones.
And in a column on Friday, CNBC's Patti Domm nicely portrayed the way individual investors have been embracing stocks more eagerly, which tends to happen in the latter phases of a market ascent.
It's hard to dispute any of these observations outright by using a broad sampling of economic data or market stats.
David Rosenberg, chief economist at Gluskin Sheff (who admits to having turned cautious early the past couple of cycles) detailed in recent months where things stand now across 15 economic and market indicators versus the average expansion. Measures such as the drop in unemployment, gain in consumer confidence, increase in corporate profit margins and high-yield bond spread decline have already achieved 100 percent of the average improvement of past cycles.
Of course, part of this is explained by the fact that the last recession was far deeper than preceding ones, so these indicators started at unusually depressed levels. And the fact that they've already notched the "average" improvement of prior cycles ahead of a recession simply means this is an "above average" cycle in terms of duration and cumulative progress.
Similarly, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin shows the median stock in the S&P 500 has almost never been more expensive in measured history across eight metrics. Yet he's calling for about another 10 percent advance in the index next year — in a report titled "Rational Exuberance." The forecast effectively acknowledges that bull markets tend to overshoot "fair value" when a shock doesn't come along to prevent it, and he figures this cycle can get closer to the stupendous gains of the 1990s run.
The chart below shows the S&P 500's valuation across eight metrics, according to Goldman Sachs:

One late-cycle indicator that has the worrywarts running full tilt is the narrowing Treasury yield curve. Short-term yields, such as on the two-year note, tend to rise faster than the 10-year yield as a cycle matures. This gap is now below 0.65 of a percentage point, generating a fair amount of worry that the bond market is signaling an oncoming recession.
Yet in the past, there was no worthwhile stock-market signal from the yield curve unless it "inverted," with short yields higher than long yields. And the average time from inversion to the start of a recession was more than a year.
If the flatter yield curve today is mostly saying that inflation remains structurally restrained and the Federal Reserve is likely to be just about finished tightening within a year or so, just how scary is that message today?
Complicating all this "late-cycle" talk is the fact that stocks often do just fine in this phase — sometimes even accelerating higher in the final quarter of a bull market.
Consider a scenario Hartnett considers a risk to his "big top" prediction: "Tech bubble ... AI/robots cause wage deflation extending era of excess liquidity, bond yields fall, Nasdaq exponential; 'Icarus unleashed' bubble could end in 2019 with bear market on hostile Fed hiking, Occupy Silicon Valley and War on Inequality politics."
Quite a contrast to a cycle ending in a whimper.
What "late-cycle" might mean for investors in practical terms is that long-term return expectations should remain modest and volatility should pick up from record-low levels. But radically cutting back on equities is a long-odds strategy, given that it can stay late for quite a while.
It would not be surprising, though, if next year the main source of turbulence and anxiety turns toward "late-cycle eruptions," such as rising labor costs pinching profit margins in certain sectors and bouts of agita about the Fed being "behind the curve" and needing to tighten faster.
Late or not, that might be more interesting than this year's orderly, low-drama climb.


Don't panic, but there is now a 70 percent chance of a U.S. stock market correction, according to research conducted by fund giant Vanguard Group. There is always the risk of a correction in stocks, but the Vanguard research shows that the current probability is 30 percent higher than what has been typical over the past six decades.
Vanguard, which manages roughly $5 trillion in assets and is a proponent of long-term investing, isn't sounding the alarm bells to scare investors out of the market. But according to Vanguard's chief economist Joe Davis, investors do need to be prepared for a significant downturn.
"It's about having reasonable expectations," Davis said of the research, which attempts to provide investors with a view of what can occur in the markets in the next five years. "Having a 10 percent negative return in the U.S. market in a calendar year [within a five-year forward period] has happened 40 percent of the time since 1960. That goes with the territory of being a stock investor." He added, "It's unreasonable to expect rates of returns, which exceeded our own bullish forecast from 2010, to continue."
In its annual economic and investing outlook published last week, Vanguard told investors to expect no better than 4 percent to 6 percent returns from stocks in the next five years, its least bullish outlook since the post-financial crisis recovery began.





Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Qualcomm – Broadcom is considering raising its offer to buy its rival chipmaker, according to a Reuters report. Broadcom's last offer consisted of $60 per share in cash and $10 per share in Broadcom stock, but sources say top Qualcomm shareholders want at least $80 per share.
SandRidge Energy – Investor Carl Icahn bought a 13.51 percent stake in SandRidge and indicated he would vote against the firm's proposed purchase of Bonanza Creek Energy.
UPS – UPS acquired a manufacturing pharmacy license from Georgia regulators, allowing it to relabel pharmaceuticals as well as ship them.
CBS – CBS and Dish Network agreed on a new carriage contract that ends a three-day blackout of CBS channels for the satellite TV service's subscribers.
Amazon.com – Amazon workers in Italy and Germany are planning a strike for Black Friday. The Italy walkout follows a failure to agree over bonuses, and German workers are striking in an ongoing dispute over pay and working conditions.
Raytheon, Boeing – The two defense contractors were reportedly selected to sell about $7 billion in munitions to Saudi Arabia, according to sources quoted by Reuters.
Teva Pharmaceutical – Teva plans to cut 20 percent to 25 percent of its workforce in Israel, according to the financial news website Calcalist. The drugmaker employs nearly 6,900 workers in Israel.
Nektar Therapeutics – An experimental pneumonia treatment developed by Nektar and partner Bayer did not meet its primary goal in a phase III study.


CNBC's Jim Cramer may not be a chartist, but he understands why charts are so important for predicting the market's major moves.
"You must consider them as if they are footprints at a scene of a crime," the "Mad Money" host said. "These footprints trace out what big money managers might be doing with their buying and selling of stocks."
Cramer cares about charts because there's a remarkable, self-fulfilling nature of charting stocks. Some of the best investment ideas can come from chart-inspired brainstorming sessions, he said.
But for Cramer, the best way to produce results is by carefully analyzing both a stock's fundamentals and its technicals for more comprehensive results.
A good technical analysis means being able to find the indicators that will help to determine the overall direction of the market, especially since so many stocks are influenced by S&P 500 stock futures.
Sometimes, technicians start by comparing the chart of an individual company to the chart of an average to determine the legitimacy of a move, a tactic known as confirmation.
For instance, if the Dow Jones industrial average hits a new high, historically, it is not sustainable unless the Dow Jones transportation average also hits a high, confirming the breakout status of the Dow itself.
If both the industrials and the transports hit new highs, Cramer feels secure blessing the move as legitimate.
Other indicators that Cramer watches are the banking index, the housing index, the semiconductor index and the ETF that encompasses large retailers.
"I like to see all of these indexes move up in sync before I truly bless a market move," the "Mad Money" host said. "You get all of these indexes rolling higher, and you have to put the maximum amount of chips on the table."
The inverse is also true. If there's a move up without confirmation from a majority of the indexes, then the whole rally could be fake and shouldn't be trusted. Cramer saw this occur right before the 2008 financial crisis, when there was no participation from the financials, retail or tech.
The "Mad Money" host also considers stocks' advances and declines, which indicate if a rally is too concentrated. He likes to see a market with good participation from many different groups.
Additionally, Cramer looks at the new-high-to-new-low ratio, since stocks that make the new-high list are worth watching. It's not easy to get on the list, so any company hitting new highs must be doing exceptionally well, be part of a strong sector, and be privy to strong geopolitical forces pushing it higher, he said.
"You may not be a technician, but you need to know what the charts are saying and you need to know how to read the internals to verify a real move or a phony one," Cramer added.


CNBC's Jim Cramer likes to work with a combination of analyzing both fundamentals and charts to spot the next big moves in the market.
Charts are especially helpful for determining the best entry and exit points in a stock, which is why Cramer waits to pull the trigger on a stock until after he looks at the charts.
"I would consider looking at the chart of the stock you like as part of the homework, making it ingrained into your thinking," the "Mad Money" host said.
When an investor buys a stock, he is betting from the start that the stock will go up. That means understanding the historical patterns of the stock's charts and where it might be headed.
Sometimes, finding a bottom after a long decline can be incredibly lucrative. In 2009, when the market was in severe decline, Cramer had the sense that the decline was slowing, so he started to look for the most bulletproof stock he could find.
He came up with AT&T, which seemed to have promising prospects, with a roll out of a new Apple iPhone that was expected to produce record profits for the company.
Cramer first checked with four chartists, who all agreed that AT&T's stock had a strong foundation. They also agreed that it had established a bottom of $21 in 2008, amid the tsunami of selling. They figured this out by looking at the volume and seeing that it had expanded to a level far beyond a normal period's trading. That was a sign that the sellers were exhausted.
"As long as sellers overwhelm buyers with their dumping, no base can form," Cramer explained. "A climax is a sign that those potential sellers who had been holding on for some time are finally giving up en masse."
Additionally, when a chartist sees that trading volume has grown but the stock has not gone down, it often means that the stock has finally found its floor and is now safe to buy. In other words, the buyers' power to determine the direction of a stock is finally equal to the sellers'.
Chartists also look at the advance of a stock, which happens when the stock takes out its resistance overhead.
Rather than simply looking at a stock's closing price and graphing it against the previous day's close, technicians use what is known as a moving average to better represent a stock's movement. They calculate the moving average by taking a stock's closing prices over a period of time, adding them up, and then dividing by the number of days in that period.
So when AT&T cracked through the ceiling of resistance marked by its 200-day moving average, it signaled to Cramer that the stock was finally a good investment or trade — its old roof became its new floor.
"When you see this kind of reliable pattern, as AT&T demonstrated, despite what the fundamental analysts might be saying, you have to use the discipline that these technicians give you to pull the trigger and take advantage of a fabulous buying opportunity," Cramer said.
Otherwise, that opportunity could be overlooked whenever the market takes a beating, simply because the charts were not taken into consideration.


The most simple and reliable chart pattern out there is one that Jim Cramer dreads.
Unfortunately, Cramer learned not to ignore the head-and-shoulders pattern the hard way when his charitable trust bought Alcoa — which spun off its aluminum business in November 2016 under the name Alcoa and is now known as Arconic — in 2010, when the stock price was in the low teens, and ultimately took a loss because it was too early to buy.
"Yes, just like a human's head. That is the most frightening pattern in the chart book," the "Mad Money" host said.
Shares of Alcoa saw a healthy run from the winter of 2010 to February 2011, rising from $13 to $17. The stock ran to $18 on the eve of its quarterly earnings report, and Cramer thought it was a fine quarter when it reported.
What worried him was that even after an initial positive reaction, the stock dropped. Several days later, however, Cramer assumed it would take out its $18 level and went back to buy more.
But Cramer was wrong — extremely wrong.
What the "Mad Money" host did not realize is that the fluctuation in price had traced a perfect head-and-shoulders pattern.
It turns out that during the time when the head-and-shoulders pattern was forming on Alcoa's chart, Europe and China's markets started to slow down, sending aluminum into a glut.
Ultimately, while former CEO Klaus Kleinfeld could control his own company, but not the price of the commodity itself.
On the other hand, if a head-and-shoulders pattern signals trouble ahead, then the inverse head-and-shoulders formation signals the opposite — a chance for glory.
"The key with this pattern is the neckline, the line that connects the high to the two shoulders. When a stock breaks out above that line it tells a technician that you are about to witness a big move higher," Cramer said.
At the end of the day, patterns matter. So when you see a head-and-shoulders pattern, no matter how confident in the stock you might be, Cramer believes you should sell. And when the reverse head-and-shoulders develops, then you should consider buying.
That is just how powerful these moves are. The chart work is more often right than most would ever think possible.


CNBC's Jim Cramer may not be a chartist, but he understands why charts are so important for predicting the market's major moves.
"You must consider them as if they are footprints at a scene of a crime. These footprints trace out what big money managers might be doing with their buying and selling of stocks," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer cares about charts because there is a remarkable self-fulfilling nature of charting stocks. Some of the best investment ideas can come from chart-inspired brainstorming sessions, he said.
But for Cramer, the best way to produce results is by carefully analyzing both a stock's fundamentals and its technicals for more comprehensive results.


Technicals and fundamentals are Jim Cramer's key tools for determining when a stock is ready to explode.
"Typically, when a stock gets overbought, it is ripe for a pullback because overbought stocks, ones with many buyers reaching to take in supply, tend to snap back after they have gotten too far away from their longer term trend line," the "Mad Money" host said.
Investors can determine whether a stock is overbought or oversold by charting the ratio of higher closes, also known as the relative strength index, or RSI. This is a momentum oscillator that measures the direction of a given stock and the velocity of its move.
To find moments in an individual stock's trajectory where its strength stands out — a potential sign of a pending move or change in momentum — Cramer matches the stock's RSI to something else, such as the relative strength of its sector or a wider index, and then measures the past price action.
But the inverse can also be true, as a stock can also fall so fast that investors should expect it to snap back because it is technically oversold. These patterns are reliable indicators that a change in direction is about to occur, and tend to be stellar action points.
So, for investors who are debating whether they should buy a stock and have done all the research to find that said stock is overbought, Cramer suggests waiting for the inevitable pullback that almost always happens.
Some stocks, however, can break through all the traditionally measured ceilings and stay overbought for weeks at a time.
"They defy the notion of the inevitable gravitational pull of the old equilibrium line and can't be contained by any of the various ceilings that overbought conditions usually bump into," Cramer said. "When you spot these highly unusual moves, you may be able to strap yourself into a real moon shot."
Volume is another key tool that chartists use to find pivots. It is often said that volume can be a lie detector for investors to tell if a move is real or not. For example, when a small move happens on light volume, technicians ignore it.
Chartists use volume to determine if large money managers are starting to accumulate or distribute the stock in an aggressive way.
Technicians also measure something called an accumulation distribution line. This involves charting whether a stock closes higher on greater volume on any given day, versus lower, or on low volume.
Most brokerage firms offer this kind of charting on their websites, and while Cramer considers the method to be somewhat arcane, he trusts it because it goes against the grain of conventional thinking and offers a fresh way to look at stock movements.
Cramer saw this occur with shares of Monsanto in July 2012. Though he did not care for the stock of the company at the time, the accumulation distribution line showed that the stock had down days with light volume and up days with heavy volume.
To Cramer, that was a sure sign that more money was flowing into the stock, rather than out of it.
It turns out that Monsanto's stock had started correlating with the price of corn, which was going higher because of new demand for ethanol brought about by federal price supports. Cramer was too concerned about near-term earnings and worries about a shortfall to recognize what was happening.
"Powerful moves can, and often do, elude those who are only focused on the underlying companies and not the action of the stocks themselves," Cramer said.


Despite recent disappointments over a possible T-Mobile-Sprint deal, investors should favor shares of T-Mobile and expect a buyback, according to JPMorgan.
Calling the mobile provider "the best long-term idea in wireless," analyst Philip Cusick told clients in a note that the company is likely to initiate a share buyback sooner than originally projected.


The Nasdaq's record run is nothing short of "amazing," and it's showing no signs of stopping, technical analyst Louise Yamada says.
The tech-heavy index hit another record on Tuesday, closing at 6862.48 for its 66th high this year. According to Yamada, the charts are pointing to an even bigger breakout.
"I think the Nasdaq has been very impressive. It's up almost 57 percent, it's well above the 50-day moving average. … We're headed towards 7,000 next, and then we'll calculate something higher," she said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now." "Monthly and weekly momentum are positive for the [index], and [while a few of the FANG stocks took a rest] from June to October, now they're going on to new highs."

Yamada is referring to the recent rally in big tech that has driven the Nasdaq composite index to new highs. Apple, Microsoft and Amazon, to name a few have all soared to record highs in the last month. Chip stocks like Micron and Nvidia have also been on a tear this year, contributing to the Nasdaq rally.
Yamada believes other indicators also point to more record highs.
"We don't see a top," she said." "The advance-decline line is supporting the advance, and we would have to see three to six months of negative divergences" for things to change.
The Nasdaq composite is outperforming every other major U.S. index this year, up 27 percent.


Housing stocks are on a tear this year, and it may not be too late to get in on the rally.  One large-cap homebuilders ETF, the XHB, has advanced 25 percent in 2017 and has climbed to its highest level in over 11 years. Its top holdings, D.R. Horton and PulteGroup, have gained a whopping 81 percent and 78 percent, respectively. Instead of playing pure homebuilder stocks, investors should look at home construction stocks to capitalize on the move, said Mike Binger, senior portfolio manager at Gradient Investments.  "The homebuilding industry in and of itself is in pretty good shape right now," Binger said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Deere & Co. – The heavy equipment maker reported quarterly profit of $1.57 per share, beating estimates by 10 cents a share. Revenue also beat forecasts, with Deere saying the overall market improved and sales in South America saw a particularly strong rebound.
Rockwell Automation – The maker of industrial automation systems rejected a revised takeover bid from Emerson Electric, saying it undervalued the company and was not in the best interests of shareholders. Emerson had increased its original $215 per share bid to $225 per share in cash and stock last week.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise – Meg Whitman will step down as chief executive officer on February 1. She will be succeeded by the company's president, Antonio Nieri. Separately, the computer networking company reported adjusted quarterly profit of 31 cents per share, 3 cents above estimates, with revenue also beating forecasts.
HP Inc. – HP Inc. matched Street estimates by reporting adjusted quarterly profit of 44 cents per share, while the computer and printer maker saw revenue above forecasts. Its 2018 outlook is also in line with analyst forecasts.
Salesforce.com – Salesforce came in 2 cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly earnings of 39 cents per share. Revenue also beat projections. The cloud software company did give current-quarter revenue guidance that falls slightly below Street forecasts.
GameStop – GameStop beat estimates by 12 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 54 cents per share. The video game and console retailer saw revenue beat estimates, as well. GameStop was helped by the ongoing popularity of the new Nintendo Switch gaming console.
Guess – Guess matched Wall Street estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 12 cents per share, but the apparel maker's revenue missed forecasts on a sales drop in its Americas region.
Microsoft – Microsoft's Skype phone service has been pulled from Apple and Android app stores in China. In a statement, Apple said the Chinese government had told it the app violated local laws.
Intel – Chips made by Intel are the subject of a government warning, with officials urging businesses to follow an alert issued by the chipmaker about security floors in some widely used microprocessors. Intel has said it knows of no cases in which hackers exploited the vulnerabilities in those chips.
JPMorgan Chase – JPMorgan is looking into possible business opportunities involving bitcoin, despite CEO Jamie Dimon calling bitcoin a "fraud." According to The Wall Street Journal, the bank is mulling whether to provide clients with access to a potential bitcoin product being considered by CME Group.
Walt Disney – Disney senior creative director John Lasseter is taking a six-month leave of absence, due to "missteps" that he said made some workers feel "disrespected and uncomfortable."
Mallinckrodt – The drugmaker's stock was downgraded to "perform" from "outperform" at Oppenheimer, which points to a lack of visibility regarding the growth of arthritis treatment Acthar, among other factors.


Energy stocks are about to play catch-up to the rest of the market, one strategist says.  Larry McDonald, founder of the Bear Traps Report investment newsletter, has been watching closely the apparent disconnect between strong global growth and lagging oil stocks. After all, domestic and international stock markets are near all-time highs, he pointed out. While energy has been lagging other sectors this year, the group is about to play catch-up as oil prices rise, he said. Here's why.  • OPEC is scheduled to meet next week in Vienna, and McDonald believes the group of oil producing nations is going to position for a further reduction in output; this could in turn buoy oil prices.  • Political tension in oil-rich nations like Saudi Arabia "could be very disruptive for the global oil market and create a supply shock," McDonald said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."  • Furthermore, he said, "you've got India and China growing at the fastest pace in years. So you've got an economic pickup globally, and it's just setting up for a situation where oil and oil producers are coming into, potentially, a sweet spot."  • To capitalize on this growth, McDonald said investors should look to play one large energy exchange-traded fund, the XLE. He holds a $78 price target on the XLE in the next six to nine months, implying nearly 16 percent of upside from current levels.  Crude oil and the XLE settled higher on Tuesday.  Bottom line: McDonald believes the fundamental backdrop supports higher oil prices ahead, and energy stocks will benefit.


The retailers that are being crushed by Amazon have rallied in the past two weeks ahead of the holiday shopping period, but if history is a guide, they could underperform again after Thanksgiving.
Bespoke Investment Group's "Death by Amazon" index includes 62 brick-and-mortar retailers whose businesses have been hurt by Amazon and internet shopping. Since its peak in September 2015, the index has lost a third of its value, and it has declined by 15 percent this year alone, while the S&P 500 is up 15 percent.

But so far this month, retail stocks have bounced with the XRT, SPDR S&P Retail ETF, up 5.3 percent, while the S&P 500 is up just 0.9 percent. In the same period, Amazon is up 3 percent.
"The retail stocks have done great this month," said Paul Hickey, co-founder of Bespoke. "I don't think necessarily people are going to start changing their habits, going back to brick-and-mortar this holiday season. … The only argument you can make in their favor is they're down so much."
Since 2000, the S&P retail sector on average has underperformed the broader market from Thanksgiving through year end. The median move has been a 0.4 percent gain, compared with the 1.5 percent move in the S&P 500.
Amazon in the same period has been up 70 percent of the time with a median move of 1 percent, since 2000.
Hickey said Apple's new iPhone X could steal some of the gift-shopping business from retail this year. "I think Amazon will still have a pretty good year ... but if it's anyone, it's the traditional retailers that could have the most headwinds," said Hickey.
Among the stocks in the Death by Amazon index are Macy's, Kohl's, TJX, Ulta, Wal-Mart, Williams-Sonoma, Bed Bath and Beyond, Big Lots, CVS, Costco Wholesale, Foot Locker, Fred's, Target GNC Holdings, J.C. Penney, Nordstrom, Kroger and Sears Holdings.




When CNBC's Jim Cramer talks about the "era of good feelings," he's not referencing the U.S. history books.
"No, I'm talking about this week of Thanksgiving, where the buyers pay up and the sellers walk away," the "Mad Money" host said. "It's almost as if there's a selling ban."
Cramer found more than a few examples of this in Tuesday's market layout, beginning with the stock of Apple.
Even with several articles casting Apple's new HomePod as worse than the Amazon Echo and news that the smart speaker's release will be delayed until next year, shares of Apple steadily climbed intraday.
"Negative, negative, negative, negative. What does the stock do? Rallies three bucks. Why? Because the sellers are on strike," Cramer said.
Shares of Facebook were also rising despite a Buzzfeed story about the social media giant's trepidatious standing in Russia, a piece about Chinese tech player Tencent surpassing Facebook in valuation and an unfavorable tweet from Mark Cuban:

The stocks of Micron and Western Digital, which some fear may eventually overwhelm the market with supply of DRAM and flash chips, also lifted on Tuesday.
"In this era of good feelings, money managers suspend their critical faculties," Cramer said. "It's almost as if these longtime worries have up and vanished. But nothing's changed. The sellers are just letting the stocks lift and the buyers are reaching like mad."
Certainly, there were several areas where the sellers remained on Tuesday, namely the turbulent oil stocks, the discount retailers after a disappointing quarter from DSW and the stock of General Electric after a brutal price target cut by Deutsche Bank.
Cramer said that this lapse in selling is typically a "Thanksgiving phenomenon," but given the state of the bull market, even the "Mad Money" host wasn't so sure when it would end.
"Maybe investors have simply decided they should pay more for the same earnings numbers, giving us the gift of multiple expansion," he said. "The bottom line? I've got an idea: if you really are scared of this market like so many are, if you truly believe there will be a crash or something terrible is out there — a view I do not subscribe to — then feel free to use the era of good feelings to lighten up. Nobody ever got hurt selling into strength."


It drives CNBC's Jim Cramer crazy when people say that stocks are dangerous and overvalued "at this point in the cycle."
"I put air quotes around that phrase because whenever people say it, I feel like they're trying real hard to put the stock market in the context of some sort of game," the "Mad Money" host said on Tuesday. "It's the ninth inning, it's the fourth quarter or whatever time frame that resonates as well as the obvious meaning, which is something like, 'We haven't had a recession yet, but we're about to, and if that's the case, stocks are way too expensive.'"
What irritates Cramer most is that he sees plenty of bubbles out there, but the stock market is not one of them.
One such example is bitcoin, the wildly popular cryptocurrency used by traders hungry for its rapid-fire gains and by companies to pay off hackers using ransomware.
In the meantime, wealthy citizens in Venezuela, Zimbabwe and Brazil are purchasing bitcoin as a way to get money securely away from the "failing regimes," Cramer said.
"So you have this currency that's been bid up to $8,000 by people anxious to move their money without government scrutiny for whatever reason," Cramer said. "A year ago, one bitcoin was worth $750. You mean to tell me that's not a bubble? You think that's a safe place, a reasonable approximation of value versus the stock market?"
Cramer also called attention to the Leonardo da Vinci painting that sold for over $450 million, breaking all-time art auction records.
The sale was a prime example of too much money being poured into too little product, the "Mad Money" host argued.
"This one was either a ridiculous outlier or the new benchmark of wealth in the world," he said. "Either way, a painting is not something that generates income and this particular painting may be a fake. Isn't that the definition of overvalued?"
Perhaps the most overvalued portion of the market Cramer found was junk bonds, which are low-yield, high-risk, fixed-income investments with credit ratings of BB or lower (by the Standard & Poor's standards).
And then there's the stock market, where Cramer saw only three stocks that truly eschew the boundaries of traditional valuation: Netflix, Amazon and Tesla.
But Cramer said that Netflix's valuation could still be driven higher by the entertainment giant's distribution network and that the market hasn't caught up with Amazon's still-undervalued web services arm.
"Tesla remains a free association situation where anyone can put any value on it," Cramer acknowledged. "But in the last six months, we've gone from having three cult stocks that were impossible to value on the fundamentals to having just one. That's reassuring."
So as certain areas of investment explode in value, Cramer maintained that stocks are one of the few portions of the market where prices actually run true.
"Look, the stock market does not exist in a vacuum," the "Mad Money" host said. "And as long as everything else is totally crazy and bubblicious, stocks are looking good. I don't care where we are 'in the cycle,' I care where we are in the supermarket of investing, and right now, stocks are the only aisle with real and obvious value."


Marvell Technology Group President and CEO Matt Murphy told CNBC that he wasn't expecting the market to react so positively to Marvell's $6 billion deal to buy fellow chipmaker Cavium.
"We're actually pleasantly surprised," Murphy told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer on Tuesday. "The reaction we've gotten over the last few days as I've met with investors is they love the fact that you're getting a pure play infrastructure, cloud-levered, [internet-of-things]-levered company that really takes care of all the interconnections within the cloud and to the edge."
In a fairly unusual move for an acquirer's stock, shares of Marvell surged on news of the deal, closing up 7.8 percent on Tuesday. Shares of Cavium closed up nearly 4 percent.
Murphy, who took the helm of Marvell in July 2016, classified the move as part of a larger restructuring the semiconductor company is doing under his leadership.
Upon joining the chipmaker, Murphy said he set up three main objectives: spruce up the financials, build a management team and re-focus the company as a whole.
"The thing about Marvell is it's an iconic company. It's got great technology, great bones and great engineering and products," Murphy told Cramer. "We re-focused fundamentally on storage, networking, cloud and infrastructure as the key drivers for our company's future, and that's now set us up over the last year to grow our top line, make a ton of progress with customers, and then enable us, with the balance sheet we've got, to actually go off and combine with Cavium."
Combining with rival Cavium will help diversify Marvell's client portfolio and business, reducing the hard drive business, which used to garner 40 percent of Marvell's sales, to only 25 percent of the company, the CEO said.

"Of that 25 percent, a good portion of that is actually growing within hard drives. All the drives that go into the data center or enterprise, the big-capacity drives, the near-line drives, that's a growing segment of the hard drive market," Murphy said.
Better yet, the CEO said the combination will create a leading player in "silicon, software and solutions for the cloud," presented to the market as "the industrial internet of things."
"We think that this combination is fantastic on a number of levels," Murphy told Cramer. "Once the data gets onto the internet, that goes all through Marvell and Cavium technology."


Stocks are overpriced, but that may not be a problem, Peter Costa, president of Empire Executions, told CNBC on Tuesday.
It seems that no matter what, the market continues to drive higher and higher. On Tuesday, the S&P 500, the Dow Jones industrial average, the Nasdaq composite and the Russell 2000 all closed at record highs.
"There's a confluence of really good things. There's good earnings, [and] low interest rates, even with the rate hike next week or next month or whenever it is. You've got a really good environment for stocks," Costa said on CNBC's "Closing Bell."
This environment also means that stocks are "absolutely" overpriced, Costa said.
JPMorgan Chief Global Strategist David Kelly agreed, saying, "We're pricing in a lot of optimism here."
Still, Costa said, "I don't know if overpriced is an issue anymore."
Although hiccups are inevitable, he continued, "I don't think there's anything within the next couple of months that we're going to see that's going to slow [the market] down."


Bank of America Merrill Lynch sees a scary good news-bad news scenario unfolding in 2018: A solid push higher in the first half followed by all sorts of potential trouble after.
The S&P 500 would peak out around 2,863 in the scenario, or about 11 percent higher than Monday's close. Bond yields are expected to rise, with the benchmark 10-year Treasury note hitting 2.75 percent as global GDP growth reaches 3.8 percent.
That setting assumes three things: the "last vestiges" of stimulus from the Fed and other central banks, the passage of tax reform in Congress, and "full investor capitulation into risk assets" on better-than-expected corporate earnings.
After that, though, things get considerably sketchier as the second-longest bull market in history runs into trouble.


Tesla shareholders are in for a roller-coaster ride next year, according to the most widely followed analyst covering the stock.
Morgan Stanley reiterated its equal weight rating for electric car maker's shares, predicting the stock will rise then fall in the coming year.
"We expect Tesla shares to be extremely volatile in 2018, divided into two stages: (1) The alleviation of production bottlenecks with strong cash inflow, and (2) mounting concerns over the sustainability of the competitive moat," analyst Adam Jonas wrote in a note to clients Tuesday entitled "Tesla 2018: $400 then $200?"
The analyst reiterated his $379 price target for Tesla shares, representing 23 percent upside to Monday's close.
"We believe such upside [to the firm's price target] is less interesting on a risk-adjusted basis. From a shorter-term trading perspective, we anticipate Tesla's stock price may reach highs in the range of $400 or more over the next few months before facing some more serious headwinds later in the year," he wrote.
Jonas expects Tesla will fix its battery production issues in the coming weeks as the company put more resources on the problem. However, he predicts more electric car and autonomous transportation announcements from direct competitors next year will hurt investor sentiment.
The electric car maker's shares are outperforming the market this year, up 44.5 percent through Monday compared with the S&P 500's 15.3 percent return.
Tesla did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Its shares are up 0.6 percent in the Tuesday premarket session after the call.


The stock market is in for another strong year in 2018 so long as Congress is able to pass tax reform, according to a Goldman Sachs forecast.
With tax reform, the S&P 500 should close next year at 2,850, a healthy 10.4 percent gain from Monday's close, the Wall Street investment banking giant said in a look ahead released Tuesday. Should Congress fail to get a bill through, that outlook dims considerably, with an expected level of 2,450, which would represent a 5 percent pullback.
The prediction represents a considerably more bullish tone for Goldman, whose chief U.S. equity strategist, David Kostin, has been reserved in his expectations. In fact, the firm had predicted the S&P 500 to close 2016 at just 2,400, a mark it passed in late May and never looked back.
That brighter view also comes days after the firm's economists released their own buoyant projections for the year ahead, with expectations for greater growth both in the U.S. and globally and a domestic unemployment rate at its lowest level since 1969.
"Our 'rational exuberance' rests on a combination of above-trend US and global economic growth, low albeit slowly rising interest rates, and profit growth aided by corporate tax reform likely to be adopted by early next year," Kostin said in a report for clients.


Chip stocks have been on fire this year, and one technician says the hottest name in the group is showing no signs of cooling off.
Micron is the best-performing technology stock this year, up nearly 120 percent, and according to Rich Ross of Evercore ISI, the stock has could rally another 25 percent from current levels.
"There's been no stronger trend than semiconductors and technology, and this is the strongest stock within the group," he said Monday on the "Trading Nation" segment of CNBC's "Power Lunch." "We think it's going to [$60] here by virtue of that multiyear base breakout ... the trend has not even come close to exhaustion," he added. That's roughly $15 higher than where the stock is trading, and would put the stock at its highest level in 17 years.


But even from a fundamental basis, Chantico Global CEO Gina Sanchez believes that the semiconductor space in general will rally on. Semis as a group are up about 46 percent this year, and industry trends, says Sanchez, will only drive stocks like Micron higher.
"You have augmented reality, virtual reality, AI, smart tech, smart manufacturing, and smart automotive," she said on "Trading Nation." "These are all massive trends that aren't going away."
Year to date, shares of Micron are up 117 percent.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Lowe's – The home improvement retailer earned $1.05 per share for the third quarter, three cents a share above estimates. Revenue topped forecasts, and comparable-store sales were up 5.7 percent compared to the Thomson Reuters consensus of a 4.6 percent increase. Like rival Home Depot, Lowe's benefited from extra sales related to the quarter's hurricanes.
Hormel – The food company edged estimates by a penny a share, with quarterly profit of 42 cents per share. Revenue also came in above estimates and Hormel announced it would merge its grocery and specialty foods businesses.
Medtronic – The medical device maker earned an adjusted $1.07 per share for its latest quarter, nine cents a share above estimates. Revenue came in above forecasts, as well. The beat comes despite declines related to the sale of a unit to Cardinal Health, the quarter's hurricanes, and the California wildfires.
DSW – The shoe retailer fell eight cents a share shy of consensus estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 45 cents per share. Revenue fell short of expectations and comparable-store sales posted an unexpected decline. DSW is among the companies saying its sales were negatively impacted by the quarter's hurricanes.
Campbell Soup – The food company reported adjusted quarterly profit of 92 cents per share, five cents a share shy of estimates. Revenue also missed forecasts and Campbell said higher costs for logistics, transportation, and carrots impacted its bottom line.
Dollar Tree – The discount retailer earned $1.01 per share for the third quarter, 11 cents a share above estimates. Revenue and comparable-store sales also beat Street forecasts.
AT&T — The Justice Department sued AT&T to block its proposed $85.4 billion acquisition of Time Warner. The suit claims the deal would raise prices for consumers and would slow the transition to other distribution models. AT&T said the move was a "radical" departure from decades of antitrust regulation.
Intuit – Intuit reported adjusted quarterly profit of 11 cents per share, six cents a share above estimates. The financial software company's revenue also above forecasts. The results were helped by more subscriptions for the company's QuickBooks Online service, but the shares are being pressured by a forecast which was merely in line with analysts' estimates.
Urban Outfitters – Urban Outfitters came in eight cents a share above estimates, with quarterly profit of 41 cents per share. The apparel retailer's revenue beat estimates, as well. Urban Outfitters also gave investors a pleasant surprise with an unexpected increase in comparable-store sales.
Palo Alto Networks – Palo Alto reported adjusted quarterly profit of 74 cents per share, five cents a share above consensus estimates. Revenue also came in ahead of analysts' forecasts. The cybersecurity services company is among those in its field that have seen increased business since the Equifax data breach and ransomware attacks.
Broadcom – Broadcom would make major changes to Qualcomm's controversial patent licensing business if its bid to acquire its rival chip maker is successful, according to The Wall Street Journal. Broadcom has not made it clear, however, exactly how it would change that business.
Dish Network – The satellite TV provider's customers are without CBS television stations, with the two sides unable to reach a new carriage agreement. Dish said CBS refused to extend the contract while talks continue — CBS accused Dish of punishing its subscribers rather than negotiate a fair deal.
BHP Billiton – The mining company and Brazilian partner Vale received a 150-day extension to negotiate a settlement of a $48 billion damage claim related to the 2015 Samarco mine disaster which killed 19 people.
21st Century Fox – Fox struck a $90 million dollar settlement of a shareholder lawsuit, stemming from the sexual harassment scandal at Fox News channel. The defendants – which included Fox officers and directors – did not admit wrongdoing in agreeing to the settlement.
Mellanox Technologies — Activist investor Starboard Value acquired a 10.7 percent stake in the high-speed computing company and urged it to explore a potential sale. Starboard said the company is spending too much on research and development and other expenses compared to its peers. Mellanox said it welcomed Starboard's input.
Deere – Deere was upgraded to "outperform" from "neutral" at RW Baird, which cites stronger than expected demand for Deere's heavy equipment.


"Robust demand" for Boeing's commercial aircraft presents a compelling investment opportunity, according to a Jefferies analysis.
A persistent pileup of commercial jet orders will lead Boeing to grow deliveries 6 percent annually through the next 10 years, Jefferies analyst Sheila Kahyaoglu said in a note toclients Tuesday. She reiterated her buy rating and bumped up her 12-month price target.
"We have increased confidence that Boeing can grow EPS at a low double-digit rate supported by robust demand for its commercial aircraft and higher productivity," Kahyaoglu wrote. "Given the size of the backlog, near-term production is well supported, but the opportunity set should likely keep backlogs at elevated levels."
Boeing has been a Dow Jones industrial average leader this year, up nearly 70 percent. The jet manufacturer hit a record on Nov. 8.

Shares traded 0.5 percent higher Tuesday morning.
The analyst sees a marked increase in production of Boeing's popular 787 Dreamliner from the current 12 units per month to 14 by 2019. While much of the current swell in demand for aircraft stems from expansion in the Middle East, European and U.S. capacity is likely due for replacement, she said.
In the case of United and Delta, Kahyaoglu said the average age of a wide-body aircraft is in excess of 15 years.
"While order backlogs for the Middle Eastern carriers look full, there appears to be some under penetration for U.S. and European carriers that have older fleets, with little in the way of backlog," she wrote. "Delta Airlines has a fleet of 163 widebody aircraft with an average age of 17 years. The airlines order backlog is for 49 aircraft."
The craze for planes is set to keep earnings per shares elevated in the years to come, added the analyst. She now expects adjusted EPS of $12.51 in 2019 and raised her 12-month price target to $312 from $300, representing 18 percent upside from Monday's close.


Shares of shoe retailer DSW fell 11 percent Tuesday after the company posted earnings below Wall Street expectations.
The footwear company reported earnings of 45 cents per share in the third quarter, below the 53 cents analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters expected. DSW also reduced its fiscal 2017 earnings expectation to a range of $1.40 to $1.45 a share, down 5 cents on the low end and 10 cents on the high end.
"An unusually severe hurricane season" hurt DSW's same store sales and earnings, CEO Roger Rawlins said in the earnings release. Hurricanes brought the last quarter's earnings down by 5 cents per share, according to DSW.
Hurricanes weren't the only headwinds for DSW. "Warm weather in the quarter hurt sales as cold weather product underperformed," Susquehanna analyst Sam Poser wrote in a note Tuesday. The extended period of high temperatures across the nation hurts the sales of winter staples such as boots, a crucial part of DSW's business.
DSW stock was little changed for the year through Monday.


Campbell Soup, which missed Wall Street estimates for first-quarter profit and revenue, said harvest delays of its carrot crop in California and higher costs are likely to hurt its earnings in the current quarter.
Shares of the company were down 7 percent at $46.39 in late morning trading.
The company, which sells the Bolthouse Farms of fresh juices, said severe weather hurt crop production, leading the world's largest soup maker to delay supply of carrot-based products to its customers.
Campbell, which expects delays to pick up in December, said transport disruptions have led to a big rise in supply-chain costs.
"Given the seasonality of our business and the timing of these unforeseen cost issues, we expect to see significantly weaker performance in the second quarter, followed by improvements in the second half," Campbell's Finance Chief Anthony DiSilvestro said on the conference call.
The company also said delays in finalizing an agreement with a key customer over a promotional program would deepen its soup sales losses in the United States in the first half of the year.
J.P. Morgan analyst Ken Goldman said Campbell's weak results underscore the lower demand that packaged-food companies have been facing.
"But we remind investors that the two major problems (a lost promotion at Wal-Mart, carrots) are CPB-specific," Goldman said.
The company's fresh food unit, which includes Bolthouse Farms and Garden Fresh Gourmet brands, has been witnessing sales declines since last year due to a premature harvest of carrots and recall of protein drinks.
In the first quarter, the Pepperidge Farm snacks maker said gross margins fell 2.4 percent, leading the company to cut its fiscal 2018 adjusted profit to $2.95 to $3.02 per share from previously stated $3.04 to $3.11.
This was below the analysts' average estimate of $3.05 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Excluding items, Campbell earned 92 cents per share on revenue of $2.16 billion in the first quarter ended Oct. 29.
Analysts on average expected revenue of $2.17 billion and profit of 97 cents per share.


Dollar Tree, the biggest U.S. dollar-store chain operator, on Tuesday reported third-quarter comparable store sales and profit that beat Wall Street estimates, helped by higher customer traffic and spending at its stores.
Sales at stores open for more than a year rose 3.3 percent, above the 2.4 percent rise expected by analysts, while same-store sales at Dollar Tree's namesake chain rose 5.2 percent, beating the 3.2 percent rise analysts had expected, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
While other grocery retailers like Wal-Mart Stores and Kroger have been cutting prices to compete with the likes of Amazon, Dollar Tree has been relying more on its smaller store sizes and smaller product assortments to draw in customers.
Net income rose to $239.9 million, or $1.01 per share, in the third quarter ended Oct. 28, from $171.6 million, or 72 cents per share, a year earlier.
Net sales rose 6.3 percent to $5.32 billion.
Analysts on average had expected earnings of 90 cents per share on sales of $5.28 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Shares of Dollar Tree, which is reporting its first quarterly results under the leadership of new Chief Executive Gary Philbin, where slightly up in premarket trading.


Next year will likely bring lower returns and perhaps a "pause" for the stock market, longtime bull Jeremy Siegel told CNBC on Monday.
In fact, he believes the market is "clearly near to a top."
"We have one more push and I think it's connected with the corporate tax reform," the Wharton School finance professor said in an interview with "Closing Bell."
While he's not warning everyone to sell everything, he sees valuations and political uncertainty slowing down the stock market in 2018.
"Clearly now at these valuations we're not going to get the double-digit returns that certainly we've gotten over the last six or seven years, on average," he said.
Siegel expects returns under 10 percent. "What do you look forward to in 2018 that could keep this market … as buoyant as it's been this year? It's been a great run," he said. "We might have a pause."
Siegel is known for his bullish predictions. In July 2015, he said the Dow Jones industrial average could hit 20,000 by year-end. In November of that year he pushed his timeline back to 2016. The Dow broke the mark on Jan. 25, 2017.
In February, he told CNBC that Dow 22,000 was "on the horizon." The blue chip index hit that level in August.
His latest call is for Dow 24,000 by the end of 2017, but has said it is predicated on the passage of tax reform.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told CNBC on Friday that he expects a GOP tax cut bill to be sent to President Donald Trump to sign by Christmas.
— CNBC's Tae Kim and Berkeley Lovelace Jr. contributed to this report.


Forecasts for the holiday shopping season are strong, because economic indicators generally are as well: the stock market, wages and consumer confidence are all up.
Bain & Company is forecasting growth 3.5 percent to 3.9 percent. The National Retail Federation is anticipating a rise between 3.6 percent and 4 percent.
Those numbers though, don't tell the whole story. An uptick in sales will not benefit all retailers uniformly. There will be winners and losers in the holiday season. This is what, and how, industry advisors and executives will be watching the next two months.
Discount spiral
Same-store sales is an important metric for the Street, but what industry advisors are most concerned about is how much money retailers make during the season.
Avoiding the discount spiral can be challenging. With a few clicks on a smartphone, shoppers can quickly see where they can buy the cheapest items. Further, retailers in bankruptcy — or trying to avoid bankruptcy — are likely to have blowout sales. Sears, for example, has already put the whole store on sale, offering "first-of-their-kind" discounts ranging from 10 to 50 percent at Sears stores, and 10 to 40 percent at Kmart. Those sales may have an impact on competitors like J.C. Penney, who has been looking to encroach on Sears' territory with appliance sales.


CNBC's Jim Cramer always pays attention to this week, the week where major Wall Street investors "anoint" and buy the stock market's best performers going into the end of the year.
"So how does a stock qualify to become anointed? Well, first, they need to be having a great year," the "Mad Money" host said. "Second, there has to be a long-term thesis to justify what would otherwise look like nosebleed valuations. Third, you need a belief that nothing can go wrong for the company between now and year-end."
Portfolio managers "anoint" stocks because they want to show their clients they invested in the year's winning names, Cramer said.
So Cramer went through the top 15 stocks he thinks will become "anointed" this year, in alphabetical order, to give homegamers a better picture of Wall Street's most wanted.


It's rare for CNBC's Jim Cramer to see an interview that "rocks [his] whole investment world," but David Faber's interview with Liberty Media Chairman John Malone last week did just that.
"Rarely do you come across an executive who's so comfortable in his own skin that he can speak his mind about so many different companies," the "Mad Money" host said. "Most execs insist they can only speak about their own businesses — they don't want to step on anyone else's toes."
But Malone isn't one of those executives, and he proved it by drawing the now-pervasive comparison between Amazon and the Death Star, the evil Empire's battle station in the "Star Wars" franchise that had the power to destroy entire planets.
By using scale, reduced cost and heightened convenience to reach consumers, Amazon is moving "into striking range of every industry on the planet," Malone said on Thursday.
Judging by the scramble among pharmacy operators after Amazon expressed interest in entering the drug retail business, Cramer thought Malone was spot-on.
And to Malone, scale — particularly the kind built on artificial intelligence and fueled by the stock market — will propel the success of giants like Amazon and Netflix in the future.
Backed by money from the market and major film studios, Netflix co-founder and CEO Reed Hastings has developed an international platform that uses AI and price controls to satisfy consumers while giving directors more free will than traditional studios.
"It's a built-in edge that puts Netflix on the path to world domination," the "Mad Money" host said. "Netflix will beat anyone trying to scale. They've got the directors willing to work for them. And that's why Malone said 'it's way too late' for the cable companies to band together to stop Netflix."
That got Cramer thinking about Netflix's $83 billion valuation, a far cry from CBS Corporation's $22 billion valuation or Twenty-First Century Fox's $57 billion.
While Cramer could argue that both CBS and Fox still have hidden value that could be unlocked by takeover bids, he was more taken by what Netflix may still have to offer.
"If anything, $83 billion seems too small a valuation for Netflix. Do we really think an international content distribution company with local artificial intelligence and the ability to make its own AI-driven programming should only be worth $83 billion?" Cramer wondered. "I could make a compelling case that this worldwide operator ought to be worth a lot more."
All in all, Malone's comments about Amazon and Netflix (and the echoes that followed) made Cramer even more bullish on the two companies' power to defeat any rival with scale, better information and AI.
"Amazon and Netflix are like Big Brother — they know you better than you know yourself. How can anyone beat that?" the "Mad Money" host said. "After watching that interview with Malone, I've gotta tell you that, if anything, I think Netflix's stock is cheap at these levels and I think it can go higher. Maybe much higher."


Investors who want a lucrative investment but can't sink their money into a $450 million Leonardo da Vinci painting should consider the stock of Intuitive Surgical, CNBC's Jim Cramer said on Monday.
"I think it's safe to say that this is the da Vinci of stocks, and not just because they stole the guy's name," the "Mad Money" host said, referring to the company's robotic surgical system named da Vinci. "Just like the painting that sold last week, Intuitive Surgical's share price keeps roaring higher, more than doubling over the past two years, up over 86 percent since the beginning of 2017."
Over the years, Intuitive Surgical has carved out a place for itself as one of the few providers of minimally-invasive, robotically-assisted surgical equipment.
And even after its last several quarterly earnings reports, both of which beat Wall Street estimates, the expectations for Intuitive Surgical are still too low, Cramer said.
"You may not be able to afford an actual painting by da Vinci, but you can absolutely try to participate in the upside from Intuitive Surgical's brilliant da Vinci machine," Cramer said. "The stock has been on fire. I don't blame anyone who wants to take some profits. But the next time you get a pullback in ISRG, remember that weakness in this name has often turned out to be an excellent buying opportunity."


Hardly anything has made CNBC's Jim Cramer want to reconsider his bullish thesis on discount retailer Ollie's Bargain Outlet Holdings since he recommended it in early 2016.
"Ollie's, both the store and the stock, [is] en fuego. And it makes sense. After all, this company is an off-price retailer, and that's the best acting portion [of retail]. It means when other merchants are struggling, Ollie's comes in and buys their excess inventory for very low prices," the "Mad Money" host said. "Very often, the rest of retail's pain is their gain."
With shares up nearly 63 percent year-to-date, it's hard to deny that Ollie's own version of "buy low, sell high" is working, Cramer said.
Merchants need to sell their excess inventory in order to get the financing for new products, and that's where Ollie's bargain comes in: the company buys the excess and sells it for more, still at a drastically reduced cost to the consumer.
"In a way, these off-price retailers are like scavengers," Cramer said. "When all sorts of big national chains are shutting down locations left and right, like they're doing right now, they generate a ton of closeout inventory. Ollie's feasts on that stuff."
That's why the "Mad Money" host was so surprised when a Citigroup analyst initiated coverage on Ollie's with a "sell" rating, slapping a $39 price target on the $46 stock.
The bearish note took guts in a landscape where most analysts still have "buy" ratings on Ollie's, Cramer said, unpacking both arguments to get a better picture of the debate.
"The bullish thesis has been the dominant theme here ever since Ollie's came public, and that was back in the summer of 2015," Cramer said.
Bullish analysts favored Ollie's off-price business model, which offered consumers deeper discounts than competitors, a "treasure hunt experience" in stores and a strong loyalty program, the "Mad Money" host said.
Analysts also liked the retailer's growth opportunities. When Ollie's came public, management planned to grow its 200 stores to around 950. Now, the company has 240 stores and a distribution network that can support 400, Cramer said.
And the earnings have so far supported the bulls' thesis. In Ollie's latest quarter, sales increased by 20.5 percent and earnings grew by 28.6 percent, beating Wall Street's expectations.
"The reason? Because while things might be very tough for retail in general, that's exactly the kind of environment where Ollie's thrives because it means they can get more merchandise from stores that are shutting down," Cramer explained.
But that didn't stop Citi from issuing its bearish call. That thesis hinged on lofty expectations for Ollie's, which could prompt a sell-off if it only narrowly beats them in its third-quarter earnings report.
Citi was also worried about competition from the dollar stores and other mass-market retailers including Amazon, even as manufacturers prohibit many of Ollie's brand-name products from being sold online.
Much of the bear thesis was forward-looking. The analyst raised concerns about the retailer's planned construction of a new distribution center narrowing its margins in 2020.
Citi also called into question the profitability of Ollie's newly opened stores, which analyst said could cannibalize their own market.
"That said, Citi's 'sell' recommendation has so many caveats that I have trouble considering it all that bearish," Cramer said. "Put it all together and Citi's basically saying that the stock has run very far very fast, and while the business sure looks good right now, there are all sorts of ways things could potentially go wrong."
All in all, Cramer wasn't swayed by Citi's thesis, even as he thought the stock was far from cheap at $46, trading at 32 times next year's earnings estimates.
"Here's the bottom line: when you're dealing with red-hot stocks, you always need to be cognizant of what the bears are saying," he said. "With Ollie's, I think the bulls are dead right about the fundamentals, but the bears have a point when they say that the stock has run a great deal. So let me give you a synthesis — let's hope Ollie's stock comes down, perhaps after it reports in less than three weeks — because this is exactly the kind of name that's worth buying into a pullback because the long-term story remains very much intact."
In an emailed response to CNBC's request for comment, Mark Butler, the president and CEO of Ollie's, wrote:
"We appreciate Jim's insight and analysis on Ollie's, and sharing our passionate pursuit to sell bargains. Our stores are loaded with brand names at drastically reduced prices, as America's love for a bargain will never, ever go out of style."


Investors are too optimistic and taking on too much risk in this low volatile environment, setting the stock market up for a potential downfall, according to strategists at investment bank Societe Generale.
"In a goldilocks scenario of low interest rates, abundant liquidity, stable growth and a focus on the 'good' Trump, investors continue to push asset prices, volatility and leverage to historical extremes," said Alain Bokobza, head of global asset allocation at Societe Generale, in a report Monday. "Yet, a low volatility carry environment with rather extreme positioning is a dangerous combination, which we recently likened to dancing on the rim of a volcano."
Bokobza also compared U.S. stocks to the boiling frog that doesn't realize the trouble surrounding it.
"Today's current dynamics put the US equity market at a similar risk as the frog," he said.
U.S. stocks have been on fire this year. The S&P 500 is up more than 15 percent in 2017, boosted by strong corporate earnings, expectations of a U.S. tax code overhaul and improving global economic conditions. Monetary policy — which has been a boon for stocks since the financial crisis — also remains loose compared with historical standards.
But Bokobza said the S&P 500 is richly valued despite the uncertainty around Congress and the Trump administration passing tax reform.
There is "a growing risk that tax cuts cannot be passed in Washington, or will be more modest than expected. Such an outcome could raise the risks of a recession," Bokobza said, adding that some expectations of tax reform have already been priced into the market.
The House passed a bill last week that would immediately lower corporate taxes to 20 percent from 35 percent. But the Senate still has to vote on its own bill and there are key differences between the two.
The most significant difference between the chambers' plans is the treatment of state and local tax deductions. The Senate plan would eliminate those deductions entirely. The measure could alienate some House Republicans who voted for the chamber's bill that would allow up to $10,000 in property tax deductions.
Valuations have also been boosted by investors' fear of missing out (FOMO) on the latest bull rally and continuous inflows from stocks via passive investment strategies, Bokobza said. "Passive flows into the US equity market have been high over the past few years as has the momentum trend, exacerbating the S&P 500's bullish trend."
Another red flag the market is raising is growth in margin debt levels among companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
"The growth in margin debt has not reached exorbitant levels yet, as was the case just before the 2000s and 2007s market crashes," he said. "However, we expect to enter a bear equity market environment, and the sell-off may be exacerbated by margin calls being triggered."
Overall, Bokobza said he and his team do not expect a market crash or a financial crisis to hit near term. "However, we believe that the S&P 500 is showing an asymmetric risk/reward profile," adding that a bear market "is not so far in the distant future."
Societe Generale expects the S&P 500 to fall 22.5 percent from its Monday levels to 2,000 by the end of 2019.
— CNBC's Patricia Martell contributed to this report.


If you are looking for easy answers or reassuring platitudes, do not check in with Jack Bogle, the 88-year-old founder and retired CEO of the world's largest mutual fund company, Vanguard, which manages $4.5 trillion in assets.
"I seek the truth," he said. "In my long experience, one thing I know is that truth is elusive."
And even when it's painful, he believes in facing up to it.
Forty-two years after he founded Vanguard, and nearly two decades after relinquishing the CEO spot the same year he had a heart transplant, Bogle still keeps up a grueling schedule.
This fall he released the 10th edition of one of his best-selling books, The Little Book of Common Sense Investing. In a few weeks he is sitting for a Q&A at the Council on Foreign Relations. In early December, Bogle is speaking at the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the accounting-industry watchdog at the center of a brewing controversy over the scant  qualifications of the Senate Republican staffer in line to be the new chairman. Bogle has consistently advocated to make the PCOAB a tough regulator.
In an interview with CNBC, he offered a handful of predictions on the global investment market in 2018 and beyond.


Amazon's dominance over multiple industries and markets will only get larger, according to one Wall Street firm.
Nomura Instinet reiterated its buy rating for Amazon shares, saying the internet giant will maintain its leadership position because of its massive investment spending.
"With nearly all retailers playing defense, the few willing & able to go on the offensive have been digging ever increasing moats to take ever increasing share," analyst Simeon Siegel wrote in a note to clients Monday titled "Analyzing the Forbidden: Margin Deep Dive LeavesUs w/Increased Optimism."
"To this end, we took a deep dive into Amazon's margin structure, & backing into segment GMs [gross profit margins], we believe that mix shift alone could drive 1000+bps of LT GM lift, powering a $160bn investment into deepening Amazon's moat."
Amazon shares have rallied 51 percent this year through Friday, compared with the market's 15 percent gain.
The analyst noted how the company's profit margins are expanding as it grows its more profitable businesses, such as cloud computing and the third-party marketplace seller platform. He estimates Amazon's grow margin can potentially rise to 45 to 46 percent by 2022 from an estimated 35 percent this year, enabling up to $160 billion of incremental investment spending.
Siegel increased his price target for Amazon shares to $1,360 from $1,100, representing 20 percent upside to Friday's close. The analyst's new target is the second-highest out of the 40 analysts who cover Amazon, according to FactSet.
Amazon shares were little changed on Monday after the report.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Wal-Mart – Goldman Sachs downgraded its outlook for the retail giant, lowering the firm's rating on Wal-Mart to "neutral" from "buy." In a note, Goldman said Wal-Mart "has solidified its transition to a winner" and sees the market's price for the stock as having caught up to the company's investments in its business.
General Motors – Guggenheim, anticipating GM's autonomous event on November 30, upgraded the stock to "buy" from "neutral." The firm also raised its price target to $52, saying it expects the automaker "to showcase the advanced status" of its autonomous technology. Guggenheim believes this announcement could give GM a competitive advantage in monetizing the next generation technology.
Cavium – Shares of the semiconductor builder popped more than 6 percent in premarket trading after chipmaker Marvell announced it would acquire Cavium for $40 per share in cash and 2.2 Marvell shares for each Cavium share. Marvell said the acquisition expands the company's addressable cloud data and service market to over $16 billion.
Verizon – The investment arm of Wells Fargo upgraded its outlook on Verizon's stock to "outperform" from "market perform." The firm said "much of the bad news is behind" the telecom giant and expects to hear "a convincing case for both revenue growth and cost containment" from Verizon's fiber initiative.
Qualcomm – The chipmaker is one step closer to completing its $38 billion acquisition of NXP Semiconductors, Reuters reported. The company is set to win antitrust approval in Japan, with the green light expected as early as the end of this year.
Live Nation Entertainment – The live concert specialist had its stock downgraded by Evercore to "inline" from "outperform." The firm said the market has caught up with Live Nation and now adequately values the business.
Equifax – Fidelity sold approximately 1.2 million shares of Equifax on Friday, according to FactSet. Fidelity is the fourth-largest shareholder among mutual funds.
Cardinal Health – Morgan Stanley cut its rating of the health-care services company to "underweight" from "equal-weight."


Most of the upside for Wal-Mart's stock is now behind it after its big run this year, according to Goldman Sachs.
The firm on Monday lowered its rating for Wal-Mart shares to neutral from buy, citing valuation.
In a note to clients, analyst Matthew Fassler wrote that Goldman downgraded Wal-Mart because of the company's "progress in growing earnings while investing in its business has been recognized by the market, as the stock's multiple has surged."
Shares of Wal-Mart were down more than 1 percent in Monday's premarket. Through Friday, they were up 41 percent this year versus the S&P 500's 15 percent return.
Fassler noted the retailer's forward price-to-earnings multiple is 21 times, which is a 15 percent valuation premium to the S&P 500.
"From here, though, the stock looks fairly valued," he wrote. "Benchmarked vs. global peers, even on our new, higher numbers, the stock does not offer value for its underlying growth."
The analyst raised his 12-month price target for the retailer to $100 from $91, representing 3 percent upside to Friday's close.
Wal-Mart declined to comment.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


Amazon is gearing up for a "blowout" holiday season with earnings in the fourth quarter likely to beat Wall Street expectations, one noted technology analyst said Monday.
Daniel Ives of GBH Insights said in a research note that he believes Prime customers, those signed up to Amazon's subscription service, are estimated to spend 20 to 25 percent more this holiday season from last year. This, coupled with growth in the number of U.S. and international Prime members is "setting the stage for a blowout holidays season," he said.
As a result, Amazon could beat the Street's fourth-quarter top-line estimate by 3 to 5 percent. Amazon is expected to report revenue in the three months to December of $59.7 billion, according to data from Thomson Reuters.
Ives raised his price target on the e-commerce giant's stock from $1,185 to $1,270. That would represent a more than 12 percent rise from Friday's close. Amazon shares were up fractionally in premarket trading Monday. They are up more than 50 percent this year.
"While shares have had an eye popping run to date, we believe there is more fuel left in the tank as Amazon only appears to be in the middle innings of an unprecedented growth cycle across both the consumer and enterprise segments," Ives said.
The analyst said that the $13.7 billion acquisition of Whole Foods will continue to help Amazon increase Prime membership and the cross-selling of products. Amazon has been cutting the price of Whole Foods items and integrating those products into its Prime offering. Ives called this a great "one-two punch" that should increase sales from Prime members for 2018 and is "still underappreciated by the Street."
Further investment in new areas such as health care and pharmacy will also help Amazon tap new markets, Ives said.


It's been hip to be Square this year.
Shares of the mobile payment stock have surged 222 percent in 2017, including 13 percent last week alone following the announcement that it would begin testing bitcoin on its app and a big analyst upgrade. Evercore ISI upgraded Square to outperform on Friday and doubled its price target, citing Square's "new products with strong, omni-channel capabilities."
Despite the rally, Miller Tabak's Matt Maley believes the red hot tech stock will soon cool off.
"It's [trading] at a 90 percent premium to its 200-day moving average," Maley said Friday in a "Trading Nation" segment of CNBC's "Power Lunch." "You look at Facebook and during its first two years as a public company, it didn't get to a premium even half that big."
Square, led by Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, celebrated its second anniversary of being public over the weekend with the stock up nearly 400 percent from its $9 IPO price.
"It's getting very stretched, and unless you think this is the next Facebook, this stock is going to have to pull back a bit before it goes any higher," Maley said. "And I question if it can go any higher from here at least in the near term."

Mark Tepper, CEO of Strategic Wealth Partners, also warns against Square's high valuation and what he perceives as weakness in their business model.
"Square has a good track record of losing money, and there's just no clear path to profitability in the near future," he said on "Power Lunch." "They've got good technology, but it's just not disruptive, and that's what you need in the industry."
In fact, Tepper finds the prospect of competition concerning for Square, given that its fees are high and its low profitability could put it in danger of other big names in the space like PayPal.
"When a competitor does enter their space, how will they be able to lower their fees so they can continue to compete?" Tepper asked. "We'd be staying away from Square at this point."
According to data from FactSet, 53 percent of Wall Street analysts covering Square have a buy rating on the stock, though the average price target is $38.56, well below Friday's levels.


In the week leading up to Black Friday and in the days thereafter, the clear outperformers in the stock market are the retailers participating in the holiday shopping phenomenon themselves.
The shares are already on the comeback trail heading into Thanksgiving week 2017, as companies including Nike, L Brands, Wal-Mart, Gap, Ulta Beauty and Foot Locker all finish the week on a positive note. The S&P 500 Retail ETF (XRT) was up more than 2.8 percent alone on Friday.
Since 2007, the top U.S. equities sector in the period spanning from one week before to one week after Black Friday has been retail, a CNBC analysis using hedge fund analytics tool Kensho found.
A grouping of S&P 500 retail stocks, on average, posts returns of 5 percent during that time frame, according to Kensho. That compares with the S&P 500 index's average return of about 3 percent, and consumer discretionary stocks seeing about 4.5 percent growth in their share prices.

The search looked at the last 10 Black Friday periods.
To be sure, competition is heightened this holiday season as traditional retailers pit themselves against e-commerce platforms such as Amazon.com.
But a recent slew of upbeat quarterly earnings hints that many companies are optimistic about their holiday plans, with some even upping their full-year outlooks as they bet on a spike in sales to round out 2017.
Wal-Mart shares reached an all-time high, surging more than 10 percent, on Thursday after the big-box retailer posted earnings and same-store sales that outpaced Street expectations. The company also raised its earnings forecast for fiscal 2018.
"As usual, we expect Walmart to largely set the tone on multiple fronts and in multiple categories for the Holiday season," Moody's retail analyst Charlie O'Shea wrote in a note to clients.
Retail rival Target held a more conservative tone when discussing the upcoming quarter, sparking an alarm among investors and sending shares lower Wednesday. But Target's stock was climbing again nearly 4 percent by Friday afternoon.
Off-price brands are giving retailers another reason to celebrate — shares of Ross Stores and Old Navy's parent company, Gap, were climbing 8.5 and 7 percent, respectively, by Friday afternoon. Both companies reported earnings and sales Thursday after the bell that topped analysts' expectations.


With the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate taking a few steps forward on tax reform this week, one strategist told CNBC he has identified the biggest winners from a GOP tax plan.
According to Bill Stone, chief investment strategist at PNC Asset Management Group, not only will tax reform pass before 2018, but the repatriation clause of the bill, in particular, could be a huge boon for certain companies. The current tax plan would cut the tax rate on U.S. companies' overseas income.
Stone believes that given the terms of repatriation as it currently stands in the tax bill, health care names like Pfizer would be a big beneficiary.
"I mention Pfizer because they recently beat on earnings and raised guidance, and they're also looking at perhaps spinning off their consumer health division," he told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Friday. "Not to mention [the stock has a] pretty high dividend yield of over 3 percent."
In Pfizer's case, Stone believes the 'Big Pharma' name could use the cuts from repatriation to acquire the rights to more drugs.
Along with health care names, Stone believes tech names would be a strong bet given the amount of foreign cash they acquire. In this case, the strategist is picking Cisco for a rally, should the tax bill pass.
The company "finally had a nice beat on earnings and raised guidance," he said. "[We also] think you're going to see a bigger picture in the economy in capital expenditures. Usually capital expenditures is technology spending, so I think Cisco's in that spot."
"You would definitely see [Cisco] do a lot of stock buybacks and raise the dividend, which is already over 3 percent," he added.
On Thursday, House Republicans passed the $1.5 trillion tax cut seemingly without trouble, although 13 GOP representatives did vote against the bill. The Senate's version of the plan, however, has been met with more opposition.
The Senate is planning to vote on the full resolution after Thanksgiving.


This has been a good year for the global economy, and 2018 will follow that trend, analysts at Goldman Sachs said.
Economic growth around the world has picked up steam this year. Germany — Europe's largest economy — grew an unexpectedly strong 0.8 percent in the third quarter. In Japan, the economy has grown for seven straight quarters. Meanwhile, in the U.S., the economy grew 3 percent in the third quarter.
"2017 is shaping up to be the first year of the expansion in which growth surprises to the upside," Goldman analyst Charles Himmelberg said in a note to clients Thursday. "We expect 2018 to deliver more of the same."
Himmelberg and his team expect the global economy to grow 4 percent next year for several reasons, including strong growth momentum, easing financial conditions, global monetary policy remaining "highly accommodative by historical standards" and the likelihood of fiscal stimulus in the U.S.


Investors may want to take cover soon.
Art Cashin, UBS' director of floor operations at the New York Stock Exchange, says a "split personality" is manifesting itself in the stock market, and it could hit Wall Street where it hurts at any moment.
"We've been setting record new highs, and often the breadth has been negative. We've had more declines than advances," Cashin said Thursday on CNBC's "Futures Now."
"We're starting to get more new lows than new highs; 30 percent of the stocks in the S&P [500] are down for the year. Those are very unusual combinations with new record highs."
The divergences aren't the only factor creating concerns for Cashin, who's been a fixture at the New York Stock Exchange since 1964.
"I'm troubled by the market internals, and I'm very cautious about what is going in Washington," he added.
He's citing risks surrounding the viability of the GOP tax reform being debated in Congress. If lawmakers can't pull off passing a lower corporate tax rate, Cashin warned, stocks could "roll over" — and not in a good way.
"It's not expected, but it would be very negative," he said.
Even though he thinks a sell-off may be coming, Cashin isn't sure how deep it will be.
"We haven't had a drop of 3 to 5 percent in an abnormally long period. So, that would be my first target," said Cashin, who points out he's never seen an environment quite like this one. "You want to play it cautiously."


One week ago, a full buffet seemed to open up in front of Wall Street's underfed bears.
Stocks in Europe and Japan, leaders all year, were in sharp pullbacks and Chinese growth numbers fell a bit short. Prices for high-yield corporate debt, a key support for equities, were sagging and their yields rising from historically low levels. And the stock market, already expensive and perhaps over-loved, had itself entered a cautious phase in November — smaller stocks lagging, bank shares struggling, defensive sectors holding up the indexes, more new lows littering the tape.
It all came together in some concerted selling that in most times would be a routine retreat from near record highs but in this calm, relentless rally passed for real downside drama: The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 150 points two mornings in a row, the S&P 500 Volatility Index spurted to a three-month high and cash fled from the junk-bond ETFs that many watch as gauges of risk appetite and market equanimity.

Then, as quickly as the worry surged, it ebbed, with the bears managing no more than a morsel.
Wednesday, traders gorged on cheap upside bets to buy the dip, with more call options trading on the International Securities Exchange relative to puts than any time in the past five years, according to Dana Lysons of J. Lyons Funds Management. Thursday stocks and junk-debt bounced hard, the key indexes holding right at levels below which the chart folks would have started sounding alarms.
Dow futures were lower by more than 50 points overnight Monday, but once again, the market rebounded and futures were about little changes by the time traders hit their desks in the morning.
Why the bounce? Because it's 2017 and that's how the market acts this year. We're on track to go an entire year without a 3 percent pullback for the first time since 1995. Economic data, especially on the industrial and housing fronts, came in strong. Overseas markets rebounded, banks got a lift as a hostile regulator exited, and Big Tech perked up again. Some of the bears' favorite hunting grounds — old media and traditional retail — caught a furious bid on media-merger buzz and encouraging results from several big store chains.

So was that the bears' last shot at a good feast for the year? It wouldn't be surprising of this soft patch in the markets — less severe even than the stunted pullbacks of March and August — has run its course. Beginning this week, seasonal tendencies start turning in favor of stocks (though Thanksgiving week has been less strong during the current bull market). Sure, seasonal patterns haven't been a great guide this year, but that's mostly been when weakness is indicated, such as after May or in September and October.
And every study of prior market years that acted like 2017 leaves the benefit of the doubt with the bulls. Whenever the S&P 500 has made a record high in September, or posted seven straight months of gains, or been up at least 15 percent through October (all applicable now) the ensuing months of the year have a better-than-average tendency to rise more than the norm.
Veteran market technician Mark Newton of Newton Advisors, assessing the mid-week recovery, says, it "likely puts the near-term bearish case back on the back burner for now." Newton has been emphasizing signs that the market could be vulnerable to waning momentum and other headwinds, but the market has refused so far to succumb. He now sees continued leadership from technology, and semiconductors in particular, as holding the key. The public seems to agree, for better or worse: Tech ETFs saw their two heaviest weeks of inflows the past two weeks.

One thing that has kept the market declines from gaining any momentum is that the market as a whole has not been blithely barreling higher. Correlations among stocks are near multi-decade lows, with many losers partially offsetting the winners. And the upside has been quite orderly and contained — the largest one-day gain this year of 1.38 percent is on track to be the smallest "best single day" of any year since 1964, according to Michael Batnick of Ritholtz Wealth Management.
Yet, even if last week was yet another fleeting wobble for stocks that quickly gives way to another run to record highs, the action showed how a real setback might unfold eventually. The tape grows ragged, with many stocks and sectors falling by the wayside as a narrower group of leaders rescue the indexes. Late-cycle characteristics surface here and there, such as pockets of souring corporate debt or profit-margin pressure from wage inflation. Overconfident investors get extended in a handful of trades and need to retrench. China gets the sniffles.

None of this might truly matter until 2018 corporate earnings forecasts are subjected to a true test. As long as the published projections of 11 percent further profit gains hold up for the first half next year and don't start seeming to need the help of a big, immediate tax-cut effect, it's tough to see the market failing in a dramatic way.

But fresh scrutiny might be cast on those 2018 expectations within the next few months, as a new Federal Reserve chair faces an economy running hot and financial conditions still inviting plenty of risk taking.


Gold prices are likely to be buoyed by the "new normal" of elevated geopolitical tensions over the coming years, Citi analysts said Monday.
The geopolitical case for gold investment has been emboldened in recent months and it seems as strong today than at any point over the last four decades, Citi analysts said. As a result, gold prices were forecast to "push north of $1,400 per ounce for sustained periods" through to 2020.
Elections and political votes, military attacks and macroeconomic crises were recognized by Citi as some of the key geopolitical events likely to influence investment into gold. And while analysts said there was not a consistent pattern for gold price performance amid such times of global uncertainty, prices were seen to have rallied more frequently during these periods.
Investors tend to move into safe-haven assets such as gold, the Swiss franc and the Japanese yen in times of geopolitical turmoil as traditional assets such as stocks and bonds are often perceived as a more volatile investment.


As stocks drifted down from their highs on Friday, CNBC's Jim Cramer urged investors not to blame earnings action for the market's failure to rally.
"Even the amazing numbers and the stock moves from Foot Locker, from Ross Stores, from Gap, even from Abercrombie & Fitch, they weren't enough to prop up the averages," the "Mad Money" host said. "But no one ever said the stock market had to be rational, and in fact, market irrationality often gives us exactly the kinds of great opportunities I talk about because we can try to make money by going against the grain."
Cramer said a lot of the market's moves have been mirroring overseas markets, a trend he called "stupidity" because foreign stocks often slide on a weakening dollar, which is a boon for U.S. companies.
"That said, while blowout earnings reports can't always save the broader market, a beat-and-raise quarter will almost always produce higher prices for the stock in question," Cramer said. "It's another reason why you have to pay attention to the individual earnings reports."
With that in mind, Cramer turned to the stocks and events he'll be watching next week:



As Amazon encroaches on nearly all aspects of retail, CNBC's Jim Cramer found himself asking a key question: "To be Amazon'ed or not to be Amazon'ed?"
"It's almost eerie that one company could play such a huge role in both the economy and, yes, for Cramerica, the stock market," the "Mad Money" host said. "As the legendary cable operator John Malone told David Faber yesterday, Amazon is a 'death star' moving in 'striking range of every industry on the planet.'"
Yes, Amazon has seemingly unlimited capital, a laser-focused founder, CEO and proverbial "evil emperor," Jeff Bezos, and a lack of exposure to the struggling brick-and-mortar landscape, rife with steep rents and crushing labor costs.
But Cramer said that its chief driver is that the consumer loves Amazon, which, which Prime, provides the most convenient and quickest way to get practically anything.
"For now, Amazon is indeed the death star," Cramer concluded. "As long as they continue to provide better goods at a better service, every conceivable competitor is right to be afraid. Be very afraid."


Initial public offerings seem to be coming back in style on Wall Street, so CNBC's Jim Cramer wanted to zoom in on one part of the market that caught CNBC's attention in recent weeks: Chinese IPOs.
"Now, it's not just that Chinese IPOs have been surging. According to the IPO experts at Renaissance Capital, we've had 149 deals so far in 2017, up more than 53 percent from this time last year," the "Mad Money" host said. "By my count, 11 of those IPOs were for Chinese companies. More important, we've gotten nine Chinese deals in just the past nine weeks."
Six of the eleven Chinese IPOs have gone up from where their deals priced:
China Rapid Finance, China's largest consumer lending firm; Bright Scholar Education, one of the country's biggest education groups; Best Inc., a logistics company with ties to e-commerce giant Alibaba; Zai Lab, a biopharmaceutical company; RYB Education, an education center operator; and Sogou, a search engine backed by Tencent.
Five of the eleven have gone down:
Secoo Holdings, a luxury online retailer; Qudian, an Alibaba-backed financial technology player; Four Seasons Education, a math education company; and Jianpu Technology, an online financial planning firm that came public on Thursday.
Cramer noted that "winners" Best Inc. and Zai Lab are down from when they started trading, having spiked the moment they came public and drifted down since.
"There's been a great deal of justifiable skepticism surrounding many of these names," the "Mad Money" host said.
For example, China Rapid Finance had to lower its IPO price range before coming public at the low end. That stock has since recovered, up almost 60 percent from the day of its IPO.
Best Inc. had to reduce the number of shares it was offering by 17 million and slash its price range by 25 percent, coming public at the bottom of its already-lowered range.
Cramer said Secoo Holdings' deal was also a "bust," with shares opening below its $13 IPO price at $12.10 and drifting down ever since.
Qudian, on the other hand, had a strong opening in October, opening $2 above the high end of its stated range and surging $10 on its first trading day.
"But QD got too hot too fast," Cramer said. "Investors quickly began to have second thoughts and by Oct. 26, barely more than a week after the IPO, the stock had traded down to $22.80 — more than a buck below where the deal priced — and it's only drifted lower since then. If you bought this thing when it started trading, you've been crushed."
Investors got tired of Rise Education quickly, too, selling the $16 IPO down to just above $12 in three days. This week, shares spent some time in the single digits before bouncing back.
Since then, the reception has only gotten worse, Cramer said. Four Seasons Education incurred a 5 percent loss on its first trading day. Shares of Sogou, so far the best-performing Chinese IPO from the last several months, have remained fairly flat since it came public last Thursday.
Jianpu Technology's stock opened for trading at $8 on Thursday and exited the week down over 10 percent, with shares at $7.17 as of Friday's close.
"Looking at all of these deals from the People's Republic, a couple of things jump out at me. For starters ... four of the 11 Chinese IPOs this year have been education companies," Cramer said.
This initially struck Cramer as odd, but then it made sense. The "Mad Money" host figured that, after seeing Bright Scholar Education's positive run, from $10.50 when it came public to just over $22 as of Friday, its competitors followed suit.
"Here's the bottom line of this sorry story: this recent spate of smaller Chinese IPOs are not for homegamers like you," Cramer concluded. "If you don't understand a company, you shouldn't be playing with its stock, which is why so many people have gotten burned on these deals. How the heck are you supposed to differentiate between BEDU, REDU and FEDU ... if you don't live in China? So if you want exposure to the resurgent Chinese economy, and I do want that, I say you stick with the big established names you can get your head around. Stick with Alibaba. Stick with Baidu. They have financials that look like American companies and they have been fabulous long-term winners. The others? Stay away."


Naming hedge-fund billionaire Nelson Peltz to the Procter & Gamble board will be beneficial to shareholders, Anne Sheehan, director of corporate governance at CalSTRS, told CNBC on Friday.
The activist investor won a proxy-vote recount for a board seat earlier this week after the initial results showed he failed to secure enough votes. P&G can still challenge the result.
Sheehan said after the vote is certified, P&G should give Peltz a seat at the table.
"Someone like Nelson would bring a fresh perspective to the boardroom at P&G. They really have had a lot of insiders there. They've done well over the years, but I think bringing a fresh set of eyes and a new start there would be beneficial to shareholders," she said in an interview with "Closing Bell."


Venezuela, one of Latin America's biggest oil producers, has an import problem that could shock the global market and send U.S. refiners on the hunt for replacement supplies.
Venezuela's crude production has been steadily declining as the oil-dependent state slogs through an economic crisis precipitated by years of government mismanagement and exacerbated by a prolonged oil price slump.
Now, a drop in critical energy imports has some analysts worried that state oil giant Petroleos de Venezuela, known as PDVSA, is struggling to fund its operations.


Traders are using options to make big bets on Deere, Palo Alto Networks, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise ahead of earnings next week.
Deere reports on Wednesday before the bell, and while traders are bullish on the stock ahead of the report, they're not anticipating a monster gain.
Last month traders bought more than 10,000 calls at the December 120 strike price, according to Jon Najarian,  Najarian Family Office co-founder and "Halftime Report" contributor. But they also sold more than 13,000 calls at the December 140 strike price, and more than 4,000 contracts at the 145 strike.
So while the options activity indicates a bullish view, the market doesn't expect the stock to far surpass $145. All of these calls expire at the end of December.

This could be part of a trading strategy to offset the cost of buying the more expensive in-the-money calls to execute a "call spread" – selling calls with a strike price above the stock's intrinsic value while simultaneously buying the in-the-money calls.
But this also limits the potential upside. In this case, the trader could have to hand over Deere at $140 or $145 if the stock price were to exceed these levels—should the buyer of the 140 or 145 calls exercise their right to purchase the stock. So the potential gains are capped.
Since an in-the-money call is essentially owning the stock, the stock option will move in tandem with the stock's performance. In this instance, the calls that were bought for $9.90 in mid-October were trading at $15.43 as of Thursday. In that same time frame, shares of Deere are up 5.24%.


Though stock market prices have held up in November, investors generally are running from risk at a near-record pace.
Judging from the flow of money out of high-yield bonds, investors are getting increasingly leery of a market that continues to hover around record levels, despite a handful of rough trading sessions in November and a rocky start Friday.
Funds that track junk bonds saw $6.8 billion of outflows over the past week through Wednesday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. That's the third-highest on record.
The sector is considered a key proxy for the stock market, with performance that has followed almost a perfect correlation with the S&P 500 in terms of direction. Bonds are normally thought as a safe-haven trade that benefits when stocks weaken, but high-yield represents a risk similar to equities.
The correlation in 2017 has varied: September was the high for the year at 76 percent, while June was just 42.4 percent, according to DataTrek Research. (100 percent would mean the assets move exactly in tandem.)
Despite the stock market rally, returns for high-yield this year are muted, with the iShares iBoxx $ High Yield Corporate Bond ETF up just 1.1 percent. The ETF has seen $1.4 billion in outflows over the past month, according to FactSet.
However, there's some optimism that the selling will be short-lived. Citigroup analyst Michael Anderson thinks high yield will rebound heading into the end of the year.
"Month to date, there have been more block-sized client buys than sells. This indicates to us that positioning is supportive and cash balances are fairly robust," Anderson said in a note to clients. "With a light pipeline ahead, we believe investors will not be looking to make room for new issues."
Funds that focus on stocks took in $3.2 billion for the week. However, that was distorted by a huge inflow of $9.9 billion into exchange-traded funds, while longer-term mutual funds suffered $6.7 billion in outflows, the most of 2017.
Investors were focused on safety, with investment-grade bonds gathering $4.8 billion in flows while Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities took in $400 million, the best showing in 38 weeks.
WATCH: High-yield bonds have a long history as a market tracker.


Shares of Foot Locker spiked 28 percent Friday after the shoe retailer posted stronger-than-expected earnings. If shares close at those levels, it will be the company's single best trading day since 1977.
Foot Locker posted adjusted earnings per share of 87 cents versus an average analyst estimate of 80 cents. The company also beat expectations on revenue, reporting $1.87 billion for the period.
"With the disruption we are witnessing in retail in general and the athletic industry more specifically, we will have to make many critical decisions as we shape our future," said Foot Locker Chairman and CEO Richard Johnson during Friday's earnings call.
"We are making solid progress on several fronts, including three of the biggest initiatives which I have discussed previously: our new digital e-commerce platform, our mobile app platform development, and our new point-of-sale technology," Johnson said. "Each of these multiyear projects will play a key role in enhancing how our customers experience and engage with our banners."
Third-quarter comparable-store sales decreased 3.7 percent.
The shoe store has been in hot water in recent months as Wall Street grows increasingly concerned with retailers. Fears that e-commerce giant Amazon.com may seek to expand into apparel have made it a tough year for Foot Locker shares, now down more than 50 percent since January.
In June, popular shoemaker Nike confirmed plans to sell a limited product assortment on Amazon's U.S. website. Since then, sales of Nike footwear on Amazon have outpaced those at Foot Locker, according to UBS analysis.
Thirteen percent of UBS survey respondents indicated that they prefer to purchase Nike products on Amazon compared with the 9 percent who said they prefer to purchase the same products at Foot Locker.
There have even been reports that the e-commerce behemoth may venture into its own line of athletic apparel. The company is said to be appealing to some of the biggest athletic apparel suppliers for the effort, according to Bloomberg.


Angry gamers are winning the war against Electronic Arts' in-game money-making strategy in its new "Star Wars Battlefront II" title.
Wall Street is taking notice and lowering its expectations for the video game's financial prospects.
The company announced Thursday it is temporarily turning off all in-game purchases in "Star Wars Battlefront II" in response to the negative sentiment from the gaming community.

"It's clear that many of you feel there are still challenges in the design. We've heard the concerns about potentially giving players unfair advantages. … Sorry we didn't get this right," EA wrote in the post. "We hear you loud and clear, so we're turning off all in-game purchases. … The ability to purchase crystals in-game will become available at a later date, only after we've made changes to the game."


Square's bitcoin testing adds to the company's innovative reputation and could spell earnings success down the road, according to one Wall Street analyst.
Evercore ISI upgraded shares of Square on Thursday, citing the company's new lineup of payment technology and rapid revenue growth.
"Following our meeting Wednesday with CFO Sarah Friar, we are upgrading Square to outperform," analyst Rayna Kumar wrote in a note to clients. "Square's introduction of bitcoin on Square Cash reflects its ability to innovate."
The analyst noted that while it may be a few years before Square sees any effect from the cryptocurrency on earnings, CEO Jack Dorsey's progressive outlook likely means good things for the payment company's bottom line.
"We believe Square could generate revenue growth of 40 percent and 35 percent in 2018 and 2019, respectively, similar to the 41 percent we estimate for 2017."
Square's stock jumped 5.4 percent Thursday after the company said it was testing support for bitcoin through its Cash payments app with a small number of customers. The stock was up more than 2 percent in early trading Friday.
Bitcoin was trading at $7,844.83 Friday morning after recovering from a sharp drop earlier this week. After news of Square's bitcoin testing broke on Wednesday, it bounced back from a 30 percent slide last weekend.
Shares of Square hit intraday and closing highs on Thursday, putting the payment processor up more than 200 percent this year.
"However, in the mid-term Square's early-stage, bitcoin pilot program remains immaterial to earnings," Kumar said.
While bitcoin reflects long-term ambitions, the analyst is also positive on the company's current ventures. In last week's impressive earnings report, Square launched Square Register, its first all-in-one point-of-sale hardware. The product offers more competitive pricing for larger volume merchants at 2.5 percent per transaction, below Square's usual pricing of 2.75 percent.
Square's gross payments topped Wall Street's expectations, posting volume of $17.4 billion, or 31 percent growth year over year.
"Products like Square Register and retail point-of-sale can attract larger customers, particularly restaurants, retail and services businesses who seek a full view of customer activity," said Kumar. "Square's new products with strong, omni-channel capabilities should advance its progression upmarket."
The analyst raised her price target to $51 from $25, representing 22 percent upside from Thursday's close.


Bitcoin hit a new record high Friday, coming within $2 of $8,000.
The cryptocurrency touched an all-time high of $7,998.40 in the early hours, U.K. time, according to industry website CoinDesk. The digital currency erased the days gains to trade slightly lower near $7,632 late Friday afternoon.
It's been a wild week for bitcoin, which sold off heavily last weekend, falling to around $5,500. Since Sunday, the cryptocurrency has risen from that low to Friday's high, marking a 45 percent increase.
In that time, bitcoin's market capitalization, or the total value of the digital coins in circulation, has risen from $92 billion to $133.5 billion, according to Coinmarketcap.com.
The price dip last weekend came after an upgrade to the bitcoin network, SegWit2x, which was planned for November 16, was called off. The aim was to increase the transaction speeds of SegWit2x, which has increasingly slowed down over the years. If the upgrade took place, it would have caused what is known as a "hard fork," causing a new bitcoin spin-off to be formed.
Two previous forks have already happened earlier this year, leading to the creation of bitcoin cash and bitcoin gold.
But support for the Segwit2x upgrade waned, causing developers to call off its planned implementation.
This appeared to be the initial catalyst for the sell-off.


CNBC's Jim Cramer didn't want to be so quick as to write off Thursday's rally to the House of Representatives passing its first iteration of tax reform.
Instead, the "Mad Money" host argued that much of the rally resulted from the performance of two stocks, Cisco and Wal-Mart, "which pleasantly surprised us with their numbers. These are both turnaround stories, people. Nothing proves the worth of a CEO like executing a turnaround."
Since Doug McMillon took on the role of Wal-Mart CEO four years ago, he has revamped the retail colossus to become one of Amazon's few formidable competitors.
"First thing he did, though, was drop a bomb: McMillon told us he'd spend as much as possible to take on Amazon, something that seemed fanciful at the time," Cramer said.
To Wall Street's dismay, McMillon lowered profit expectations while creating value and incentives for employees to provide better service and remain in Wal-Mart's workforce. Last year, he acquired Jet.com, which has only just started to really boost sales.
On Thursday, shares of Wal-Mart roared to an all-time high after the retailer reported a massive earnings beat with better-than-expected same-store sales numbers and 50 percent growth in online purchases.
"I can't tell you how unusual it is to see a large capitalization stock — Wal-Mart's now worth almost $300 billion — jumping $9.79, almost 11 percent in a single day," Cramer said. "But when you consider how much time and thought and effort McMillon put into this resurgence, all you can do is say, 'Congratulations, Mr. McMillon, for your visionary efforts.'"
Also worthy of congratulation is Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins, the "Mad Money" host said. Before Robbins took the helm, Cisco's revenue growth had ground to a halt.
When Robbins became CEO in 2015, he almost immediately went all in on the cloud, making strategic acquisitions to get Cisco's hands in the security systems and analytics areas.
Cramer added that Robbins was always frank with his shareholders, warning them two quarters ago that his changes would take time to pay off.
Sure enough, when the company reported on Thursday, shares of Cisco rallied roughly 6 percent on better-than-expected earnings and the possibility of 3 percent revenue growth next quarter.
"Must be taking share, right? And taking names, too," Cramer said. "Cisco may once again become a must-buy for businesses trying to build out their internet presence."
And with its cloud and security revenue lines gaining momentum and a large cash hoard under its belt, the $178 billion company could bring more bounty still to shareholders, Cramer said.
"Here's the bottom line: A successful turn requires the person at the top to truly change the company's culture while motivating the entire remaining workforce," the "Mad Money" host said. "These turns can occur, as Cisco's Chuck Robbins and Walmart's Doug McMillon showed us today. And when you find these stories, they are incredibly lucrative long term, as long as you can get into them right and stay in them for the long haul."


Shares of Nvidia have almost doubled this year, and Todd Gordon says the party's not over yet for one of the year's hottest chip stocks.
Nvidia shares have rallied more than 98 percent this year, making it the sixth-best-performing stock in the S&P 500.
"The strong story stock in the chip space here has done quite an interesting technical pattern here, pulling back into what I see is a good zone of established longs," the TradingAnalysis.com founder said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
Gordon is referring specifically to what he's calling an island reversal. In his own words, the trader describes an island reversal as consisting of a gap against a trend, in this case an uptrend, followed by a gap back in the initial trend direction. The stock has fallen 3 percent from its high last week, but a recent gap back up in Nvidia stock leads Gordon to believe that the chipmaker has returned to the uptrend it had followed, paving the way for more highs ahead.
"This stock is just all over the place. I love the upside here to go and retest the old highs up around $220," he said.

To play Nvidia for a move higher, Gordon wants to buy the Dec. 8 weekly 212.5-strike calls and sell the Dec. 8 220-strike calls for $3.10, or $310 per options spread. If Nvidia were to rally and close above $220, or roughly 4 percent from current levels, by Dec. 8 expiration, then Gordon could make a maximum reward of $440 on the trade.
But if Nvidia were to close below $212.50 on Dec. 8, then Gordon could lose the $310 premium he paid to make the trade. In order to avoid the loss, Gordon establishes a certain point for him to step out of the trade.
"If the $3.10 of premium we're outlaying gets cut in half, because the trade is not working, down to about $1.60 or so, cut the trade, contain the risk and simply move on," he said.
Nvidia rallied 1 percent on Thursday, still sitting near its all-time highs.


General Electric shares have fallen 42 percent this year, on pace for their worst annual performance since 2008.
While some may view the stock as a no-touch at current levels, Larry McDonald, founder of the Bear Traps Report, sees it as a "screaming buy," even with the company slashing it dividend in half. Here's why.  • "I'm watching GE because it's a spectacular opportunity. People are heading for the exits at a pace which we haven't seen since the Great Depression, or the 2008 financial crisis," McDonald said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." He added that this sets up a "very unusual opportunity" to buy the stock, which closed Thursday at $18.25 per share.  • Moody's Investors Service on Thursday downgraded GE's credit quality due in part to "extreme deterioration" in the company's energy business, though it maintained a stable outlook. This doesn't surprise McDonald, who said the credit markets are rather unconcerned with the company's credit quality.  • "It's really an intermediate story. Over the next six months the risk-reward on GE is fantastic, and it's really a screaming buy here," he said.  • The stock has fallen nearly 11 percent in the last week.  Bottom line: McDonald says General Electric stock is a buy at these levels given the risk-reward he sees, and how far the stock has tumbled.


Sweeping changes are coming to several key sectors in the S&P 500 next year, with big names like Amazon and Netflix likely finding a new home.
The changes don't take effect until September, 2018, but already Wall Street is trying to figure out what big names will will be moved around and which will affect those who own different slices of the S&P 500 through Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and many mutual funds.
Late on Wednesday, the S&P Dow Jones Indices and MSCI jointly announced an overhaul of the Global Industry Classification system, which is how the industry divides the stock market into different sectors. The Telecommunications Services Sector will broaden out to include more internet and media stocks in a beefed-up new sector called Communication Services.
Many argue the move to expand and rebrand was long overdue.
Traders have often complained that the telecom space is far too small to even be given its own sector. Almost two decades ago, the sector encompassed 14 companies. But after several waves of consolidation, that number has dwindled to just three names - AT&T, Verizon and CenturyLink.


It may not be a comeback.
Cisco shares surged to 16-year highs this week, as the '90s tech darling posted better-than-expected earnings, but one strategist warns the rally is nothing more than a short squeeze.
According to Larry McDonald, founder of the Bear Traps Report, short interest ratio in Cisco has tripled since May. "Heading into earnings, the shorts were lining up," McDonald said Thursday in a "Trading Nation" segment on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
Cisco shares surged 5 percent on Thursday for their best day since February.
Over the past couple months, the percentage of tradable shares sold short in Cisco has gone from 1.2 percent to 3.4 percent, as investors have increasingly bet against the tech giant's run.

When investors go short a stock, they are betting it will go down by selling borrowed shares. As the market rises, many of those investors are forced to buy back those shares in hopes of avoiding future losses. That buying can drive a stock even higher, a dynamic known as a short squeeze, which is what McDonald thinks is happening with Cisco.
"That tells me you want to sell that because typically short covering rallies like this are usually short-lived, like a week or so, and then the stock will settle back down to a normal trading range," McDonald said.
The tech company is one of the four horsemen of '90s tech, along with Microsoft, Oracle and Intel — all seeing a big revival this year. But while Microsoft and Oracle have been hitting record highs, Cisco and Intel have failed to regain their dot-com bubble highs.
Like McDonald, Kim Forrest, senior portfolio manager at Fort Pitt Capital Group, said she has reservations about Cisco. "I don't buy into the stock, but I buy into the story."
Forrest said that while routers and switches are a large part of Cisco's business, profits have continued to decline precipitously. She emphasized that despite strong earnings, the company's guidance was rather conservative. "In a tech name, we'd like to be the owner of something growing faster," Forrest said.
Cisco is up nearly 19 percent this year but is still underperforming the tech sector, which is up more than 37 percent in 2017.
Disclosure: Kim Forrest's firm holds Cisco shares in some clients' taxable accounts. Neither she nor her family owns the stock.


Several stocks are trading at extreme levels, and a top technician says one name has even more room to run. In the S&P 500, 17 stocks are trading 25 percent or more above their 200-day moving average. Among them are Nvidia, Michael Kors, PayPal, Estee Lauder and PulteGroup.

Although retailer Michael Kors is trading 36 percent above its 200-day moving average, Craig Johnson, chief market technician at Piper Jaffray, said it's an attractive pick. The stock has recently broken a major downtrend, Johnson noted. Shares of Michael Kors have been cut in half since hitting an all-time high in mid-2014, but since bottoming out in June, the stock has rallied more than 70 percent. Despite the recent move, Johnson says the rally hasn't yet run its course, and he'd be a buyer on any pullback.

"When I see these kinds of charts, what you typically see happening is a very strong momentum response when you first reverse the downtrend and then you ultimately back up and retest where you broke out from. I think that's exactly what's happening in Michael Kors," Johnson said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." Another name that looks interesting, among stocks trading well above their benchmark moving averages, is semiconductor manufacturer Nvidia, said Boris Schlossberg, managing director of foreign exchange strategy at BK Asset Management. "Nvidia effectively is a trade on bitcoin," Schlossberg said Wednesday on "Trading Nation," adding that should bitcoin keep surging as it has this year, Nvidia will surely follow. Both the stock and the cryptocurrency have risen triple digits in the past year. Shares of Michael Kors were higher on Thursday, hitting their highest level in over a year, while shares of Nvidia rose over 1 percent on the session.


Activist hedge-fund billionaire Paul Singer has taken a 7 percent stake in small American health-care company Mednax and is asking the board of directors to consider a sale of the company.
Singer's hedge fund, Elliott Management, disclosed the new stock acquisition on Thursday in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Elliott, which holds at least $34 billion under management, owns a combined $84.9 million in Mednax Common Stock. Of that amount, Elliott International, a Cayman Islands-based subsidiary, owns shares worth $57.7 million at the Nov. 3 closing price of $43.37 apiece.
In the government filing, Elliott argues that shares of Mednax, a Florida health-care company providing subspecialty medical services across the country, are "undervalued." The hedge fund says it seeks to "engage in a constructive dialogue" with regard to "strategic options and operational opportunities to maximize shareholder value."
Among those options, Elliott is asking the Mednax board of directors to consider "without limitation, a sale of the Issuer or certain of its businesses or assets ... as a means of enhancing shareholder value."
Mednax stock jumped more than 11 percent to $51.07 per share on Thursday.




Intuitive Surgical's robots will expand to new applications and boost the company's sales, according to a top Wall Street firm.
Goldman Sachs reiterated its buy rating for the surgical robot maker, predicting the company will report earnings above expectations next year.
"Our latest checks with management and physician users leave us incrementally bullish on the new product pipeline and opportunities for robotic surgery to expand into new applications," analyst Isaac Ro wrote in a note to clients Thursday.
We "see the potential for further upside if lung biopsy and hernia markets become significant. Our higher price target is a function of higher target multiples, which we justify given our increased confidence in the growth outlook vs. Med Tech peers."


Shares of RH popped 25 percent on Thursday after the company issued guidance stronger than Wall Street analysts expected.
The company expects adjusted earnings per share between $1.02 a share and $1.04 a share. Analysts were expecting RH to issue guidance of about 80 cents per share.
"Our updated third quarter guidance demonstrates the earnings power of our new membership model, and a dramatically more efficient operating platform," Chairman and CEO Gary Friedman said in a statement.
RH also raised its net income outlook for 2018 to a range of $82 to $87 million from $70 to $77 million.
The improved guidance "tells us that sales continue to rebound, as do margins as the company gains back the lost profitability from past missteps," Deutsche Bank research analyst Adam Sindler said in a note Thursday.
The home furnishings company's stock has been having a stellar year, soaring more than 240 percent in 2017.



Republicans passing a tax reform bill would be nice for stocks, but strong earnings are really what will take the market higher, closely followed strategist Bob Doll told CNBC on Thursday.
Tax reform "is important, but it's not the whole ball game," said Doll, Nuveen Asset Management's chief equity strategist. "The ball game is earnings. And earnings have kind of been off the charts. And that's why stocks have gone up 40 percent in the last 20 months."
U.S. stocks were higher on Thursday after falling in their previous two sessions. The Dow rose more than 150 points after Dow components Cisco and Wal-Mart reported better-than-expected quarterly earnings.
"Yeah, the tax bill would be icing on the cake, no doubt about it," Doll told "Squawk Box." "I think Republicans know if they don't do something it is a political suicide."
The Senate unveiled their tax reform plan last week, and the House is expected to vote on their version of the bill later on Thursday. On Wednesday, GOP Sen. Ron Johnson said he would not back the Senate plan in its current form. Republicans hold only a two-seat majority in the Senate, so the GOP has little margin for defections because Democrats are uniformly opposed to the plan.
"They have to come together," Doll said. "If it's a simpler bill, watered down from what it is ... and the president will sign whatever comes across his desk."
Doll predicts the plan will take some "tinkering" and Republican lawmakers won't pass a bill until next year. "I don't think anything happens this year. A lot of noise," he said. "They can't lose too many votes."
Regarding the market, Doll said there will be some down months along the way, but believes, "we're shifting from a gallop-higher market to a grind-higher market." The bull market is not over, he added, because "the earnings environment is still good."


Chinese traders on the Shanghai Futures Exchange are increasingly influencing the price for copper, rather than on the London Metal Exchange, analysts say.
"We're seeing the center of gravity in the metals pricing shift to China," said Dane Davis, commodities research analyst at Barclays.
China accounts for nearly half of the world's consumption of copper, according to Reuters. While traders for years have looked at Chinese data as an indicator on future copper demand, pricing typically followed trading in copper futures contracts from the London Metal Exchange and Chicago-based CME.
In the last three years, analysts said increased trading activity on the Shanghai Futures Exchange has made it more and more important for global markets. The Shanghai market also has a timing advantage, since it begins the trading day ahead of London and Chicago.
"LME is the global benchmark, but the Shanghai center [has] increasing input in how the LME price trades," said Colin Hamilton, managing director, commodities research at BMO Capital Markets.
Asia metals trading is growing so rapidly for CME, the world's largest futures exchange, that it is planning to launch on Nov. 20 a futures contract settled against spot copper prices in Shanghai. CME said its contract will be the first financial settled exchange-traded futures product for hedging exposure to Chinese copper.


Tesla plans to reveal an electric commercial truck on Thursday night, which CEO Elon Musk said will "blow your mind out of your skull and into an alternate dimension."
That dimension would best be one where electric trucks can compete with diesel, say a number of analysts.
The three main boxes the truck will have to check are range, payload, and price, said Seaport Global analyst Kevin Sterling. How the Tesla semi compares with diesel on each of these metrics won't be known at least until Tesla unveils its truck at 11 p.m. Eastern Time.
But other electric trucks and buses brought to market so far tend to have lower range and higher prices, Stifel analyst Michael Baudendistel told CNBC in an interview. The demand for electric trucks among long haul carriers just isn't there, he said.
"It is hard to make a business case for electric trucks," Baudendistel said.
The price is a particular sticking point, said Sterling, since these vehicles tend to be more expensive than diesel, sometimes significantly so.
Companies might want to pay a bit more if they aren't going to be paying for diesel fuel," Sterling said. "But they aren't going to pay $100,000 more."
Where electric vehicles tend to succeed is in markets where trucks only have to drive short distances, and in areas where stringent air quality or pollution regulations make electric either favorable or a necessity.
Interested customers are often non-profits or public sector groups, such as municipalities, Baudendistel said. These customers might be a bit more free to spend the extra money on greener technologies.
Some for-profit firms have invested in alternative fuels. UPS, for example, has a fleet of electric trucks, which work well for some of its shorter routes, he said.
But UPS is also drawing on government assistance along the way.  UPS said in early November the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority will provide $500,000 to develop a system for converting UPS's New York fleet from diesel to electric. If the program is successful it could lead to the conversion of about 1,500 trucks, about 66 percent of UPS New York City fleet.
Regulations may also drive purchases.
For example, the Port of Los Angeles and Port of Long Beach in southern California in July approved a plan to replace their current fleets of mostly diesel trucks with zero- or near zero-emissions vehicles by 2030.
It might be, at least in the short term, that Tesla's target market would be strictly Southern California, and other places like it, Baudendistel said.
Bernstein analyst Toni Sacconaghi said in a recent note he expects the company to reveal a truck with 300-450 miles of range.
That is less than the 500-600 mile ranges trucking analysts say customers would want from a Class 8 long-haul truck.
Sacconaghi said the addition of the semi tractor-trailer doesn't change his investment thesis, primarily because the total market Tesla can address is small.
Whereas the automotive market is about 100 million units, Sacconaghi said on CNBC's Squawk Alley on Thursday. Sacconaghi estimates the total addressable market for trucks is about 1 million units a year, including those long range trucks that Tesla might not be able to compete with.
"So you are looking at a 100 million cars vs maybe a few hundred thousand trucks in terms of an addressable market. Even if Tesla does well, it's really not going to change the story. It is all about cars."


Citing the "extreme deterioration" in the company's energy business, Moody's Investors Service on Thursday downgraded General Electric's long-term debt.
The ratings agency knocked the senor unsecured bonds down to A2 from A1, which is still investment-grade debt but is now six steps away from Moody's highest rating. A2 is considered upper medium grade.
The move comes the same week that GE rocked investors with news that it was slashing its dividend in half and making a multitude of other changes at the 125-year-old industrial conglomerate. GE shares were rocked on the news and are down nearly 10 percent on the week.
Moody's indicated that it's unlikely GE makes the changes anytime soon that will justify the former rating on its bonds.
Specifically, Moody's takes GE to task for using $25 billion from asset sales in 2016 and 2017 to repurchase stock in an effort to boost share price, taking out $10 billion of debt to fund acquisitions, and paying out a dividend higher than cash flows and as the company was downsizing key operations.
"The downgrades reflect the severe deterioration in the financial performance of GE's Power segment that will last through at least 2019," Rene Lipsch, senior credit officer, said in a statement. "Along with the challenges in the Oil & Gas business posed by continued weakness in the global oil field services industry and the downturn in the North American market for freight locomotives, GE has to contend with weak earnings and cash flows in several segments that represent in aggregate about 50% of expected revenues in 2017."
During Monday's investor day presentation, GE CEO John Flannery said the energy business is "challenged." Officials indicated that GE would be exiting the oil and gas industry while still maintaining its footprint in other sectors.
GE Power CEO Russell Stokes said the unit was looking for $1 billion in cost cuts as it seeks to offset some missteps in equipment purchases. Stokes also said his unit is lowering the amount of equipment it expects to sell in 2018.
"Moody's does not anticipate that GE will allocate a meaningful portion of any proceeds from planned asset disposals to debt reduction in the near term to help expedite the restoration of its credit metrics," Lipsch said. "Over the last several years, GE pursued an aggressive financial  policy that contributed to the weakening of its credit profile."
Still, Lipsch said GE remains a "formidable industrial enterprise." The company also received plaudits for the dividend cut and its stated desire to focus on the growing aviation business.
GE shares traded slightly higher after Moody's released the ratings news. Company officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
WATCH: GE CEO John Flannery faces a steep challenge ahead.


Charter Communications director John Malone tells CNBC several firms have talked to the cable company about a potential merger or acquisition.
The company has received "four different approaches," Malone said in an exclusive interview with CNBC's David Faber Thursday at the Liberty Media annual investor meeting.
"The problem is none of them at this point have made a pitch that was worthy of bringing it to the board and proposing it seriously to the board."
He mentioned the names of executives from Altice, Softbank and Verizon as potential acquirers of Charter. When Faber asked for the identity of the fourth company, Malone said "I'm not going to tell ya."
The investor explained the company has valued Charter's business using growth projections for the next four to five years. The company would need to see a bid above this internal estimate on a risk-adjusted basis to consider a sale.
"We have a wonderful business and wonderful business plan," he said. "Anything I'm involved in is for sale every day of the week. The store is always open … Have we seen anything yet that gets even close to ringing the bell? No."
Charter shares rose off its low after Malone's remarks aired on CNBC. The stock is up 1 percent Thursday morning.
"Nobody has made any real or official offers," Charter CEO Thomas Rutledge said later.
Malone is widely respected as one of the most astute deal makers in the media and cable industries.


Iran-Saudi Arabia tensions, a potential debt default in Venezuela and a territorial dispute in Iraq — those are just some of the reasons that geopolitics matters to the price of oil right now, according to the chief oil analyst at Energy Aspects.
Speaking to CNBC on Thursday, Amrita Sen said that there were a number of issues that could affect the oil price, with a particular concern being the lack of "inventory buffer" — a cushion of oil supply — if production was to fall from major oil producers for economic or political reasons.
"Even if there is a flare up in Iran (with Saudi Arabia) we don't see exports and production being lost, but Iraq is probably a bigger issue right now with the dispute between Baghdad and Kurdistan, we have lost a decent chunk (of output), about 300,000 barrels per day of volume from the north (of the country). In Venezuela too, production is absolutely plummeting," she said.
"And the reason that of all these become far more important is that there is no oil inventory buffer anymore. OPEC spare capacity is a lot lower and that's why geopolitics matters. If you think about the last three years, we've hardly had any geopolitical premium in the price but now, because we don't have a buffer, geopolitics will matter a lot more which can lead to spikey-ness in oil prices next year."
Sen's comments come amid an improving outlook for oil prices following the sharp declines seen since 2014 due to a glut in supply and lackluster demand. Brent crude was trading at $61.58 per barrel on Thursday and West Texas Intermediate at $55.18. Prices have been helped by major oil producers OPEC and non-OPEC producers, including Russia, agreeing to limit oil output in a bid to support prices.


Shares of Cisco rallied on Thursday after the enterprise technology giant wowed Wall Street with better-than-expected earnings.
Cisco also said it expects 1 percent to 3 percent year-over-year revenue growth next quarter, the first inkling of an increase after 8 quarters of declines.
The stock rose about 5 percent Thursday after about a dozen Wall Street analysts listed in FactSet raised their earnings expectations for Cisco going forward.



Will the stock market boom go bust or at least slow — and if so, when and why?
Not for at least another 12 months — and perhaps not until sometime after 2019 — and then most likely only due to "natural" causes, said speakers at the opening Tuesday night keynote at the Charles Schwab IMPACT 2017 conference in Chicago.
"Stocks have been rooted in better fundamentals of growth around the world," Jeffrey Kleintop, chief global strategist and senior vice president at Schwab, told many of those of the 4,000 registered investment advisors in town for IMPACT, who had gathered in a cavernous hall at the McCormick Place conference center for the presentation.
"That's been true through the Brexit vote, through the U.S. election, through the shift in central bank policies — even the North Korea risks. Stocks have remained anchored in better growth prospects," he added, with every one of the top 45 largest world economies — including the U.S. — recording positive growth in 2017, according to the OECD.
More of the same is said to be on tap for 2018. "That is a fantastic environment for investors," Kleintop said.
More from the IMPACT Conference: The 12 end-of-life-documents you need The wall of worry advisors are facing Advisors fighting elder financial abuse
The current pace of growth, the best and broadest in 10 years, "is lifting earnings, with little sign [and] little risk of recession or a bear market or bubble-bursting in the next 12 months," Kleintop said, also noting that the yield curve — the difference between short- and long-term interest rates and, historically, a good predictor of a coming recession — seems to indicate the all-clear for at least another two to three years.
Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist and senior vice president at Schwab, agreed. The yield curve, she said, indicates "very minimal lift at this stage in the risk of recession, and I think we really probably don't have to really worry about that until about 2019 or so."
Good news for sure, but optimism can eventually morph into investor euphoria. And Sonders reminded attendees that the American-born British investor and fund manager Sir John Templeton once famously quipped that, in the end, bull markets die on euphoria.
"We all know this has been a unique bull market, so I have my own take on this: That this bull market was born on despair, grew on disbelief, has matured on skepticism and may die on acceptance," Sonders said, referring to the somewhat tempered (historically speaking) optimism typical of today's investor.


Liberty Media Chairman John Malone believes Amazon will dominate the future and is the only company that has a chance to beat Netflix.
Netflix CEO Reed Hastings "has been successful in throwing hail Mary passes and then growing into them. And I think he is going to continue doing that. He's got a great service. He's disintermediating the studio industry by going directly to the talent," Malone said in an exclusive interview with CNBC's David Faber Thursday at the Liberty Media annual investor meeting.
"The only outfit right now that has a chance of overtaking them would be Amazon."
The investor noted the cable industry missed its opportunity to compete with Netflix in the past and said "it's way too late" now. He added that in today's media world Netflix has the lead position due to its size and subscriber base.
The internet "makes scale even more important in the media business, where scale always was important. It's all about scale," he said. Netflix was "the first wave. And I think Jeff [Bezos] is gonna be the most disruptive. As [his] Death Star moves into striking range of every industry on the planet."


Wall Street is eager to see Tesla's new semi truck and hear updates on its autonomous driving technology ahead of the company's event Thursday.
Tesla's leadership in autopilot technology and the semi truck's performance is critical for one analyst at Nomura Instinet, who reiterated his buy rating on CEO Elon Musk's electric car maker.
The Tesla event "will be about unveiling an electric semi-truck that does more than just out torque Class 8 heavy diesel trucks," wrote Nomura analyst Romit Shah. "Demonstrating a substantially lower cost of operation, among other things, will also be important."
Tesla has been struggling with profitability as it deals with "production bottlenecks" and low output. Manufacturing complications have crippled production of the mass market electric Model 3, a car widely considered essential to Tesla's future.
Following the announcement of the most recent production holdup, shares of Tesla fell 5 percent. The company reported third-quarter earnings that missed Wall Street's already-low expectations, stoking concerns that Tesla is lagging in self-driving innovation. Shares closed up 0.4 percent Thursday.
Musk, who has said the new truck will "blow your mind clear out of your skull," had previously scheduled the semitractor announcement for October but was forced to delay after the Model 3 production bottlenecks. Though information on the truck is scarce, many expect the prototype to be futuristic, visually stimulating and environmentally friendly.

"We believe that Tesla must demonstrate a lower cost of operation for the new truck," Shah said. "And given that the cost of the driver is the largest component ($0.30-0.40 per mile), the company's self-driving technology is an important part of the cost equation."
The analyst's $500 12-month price target remains the highest on Wall Street and is 61 percent higher than the current stock price.
While Tesla's shiny new truck may make headlines across the automotive world, investors are also looking for more general updates on the company's autonomous innovation. The company has been working closely with up-and-coming chipmaker Nvidia in its quest for smart cars.

Nvidia recently introduced its latest computing platform Pegasus. Thought to be the state-of-the-art technology that will make driving fully autonomous, the new hardware is capable of 320 trillion operations per second, 16 times faster than Tesla's current Drive PX2.
"Autopilot is an option that increases revenue per vehicle sold; however, its real significance goes beyond a spreadsheet," said Shah. "Tesla is recognized for incorporating next-generation technologies such as an electric powertrain, responsive infotainment, and autonomous driving capabilities that provide a great user experience."
Tesla recently said its neural network for vision processing has been "figured out," leading many to anticipate a "major" autopilot software update in the near future.
In its recent investor letter, Tesla management wrote:
"Now that the foundation of the Tesla vision neural net is right, which was an exceptionally difficult problem, as it must fit into far less computing power than is typically used, we expect a rapid rollout of additional functionality over the next several months and are progressing rapidly towards our goal of a coast-to-coast drive with no one touching the controls."


Shares of L Brands sunk about 6 percent before the opening bell on Thursday, after it continued to struggle with weakness in its Victoria's Secret business.
The once high-flying brand now competes against a host of new competition including American Eagle's Aerie. The brand has also been hurt by a decline in mall traffic.
Third-quarter comparable-sales at Victoria's Secret fell 4 percent. The decline was steeper, some 5 percent, when considering only Victoria's Secret's stores.
"We believe fundamental issues remain at Victoria's Secret ... and L Brands can no longer rely on this division as a source of stability,"  said Randal J. Konik, an analyst at Jefferies.
A stronger performance at Bath & Body Works offset pains at Victoria's Secret. The fragrance and body-care store saw all sales increase 4 percent for the quarter on a comparable basis. Within its stores, comparable-sales rose 1 percent.
However, Konik said he's sees Bath & Body Works' strong performance as a risk because the business could be "closer to peaking."  Both sales and margins slowed at the division in the third quarter.
The company said its earnings per share fell 29 percent to 30 cents, compared to 42 cents for the same quarter the year prior. Its net sales of $2.62 billion were an increase of 1 percent.
L Brands last year announced Victoria's Secret would stop selling swim and apparel to help streamline the brand and focus on its more profitable goods, like its bras. The company is still feeling the effects of that change, and said it contributed to a 2 percent decline in its comparable sales.
The company also has been hurt by shoppers preference for bralettes, which usually sell at a lower margin. Victoria's Secret has been attempting to increase sales of its higher-margin constructed bras but so far has seen "limited success," according to Konik.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Wal-Mart – The retail giant earned an adjusted $1 per share for the third quarter, beating estimates by 3 cents a share. Revenue also beat forecasts, with comparable-store sales rising more than analysts had anticipated.
Best Buy – The electronics retailer matched Street forecasts with adjusted quarterly earnings of 78 cents per share, but revenue and comparable-store sales fell below estimates. Best Buy's results were impacted by the quarter's hurricanes, among other factors.
Viacom – The media company missed estimates by 9 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 77 cents per share. Revenue topped forecasts. Viacom's results were impacted by the loss of some cable subscribers, although it did post a revenue rise on the strength of improved theatrical results.
J.M. Smucker – The food company came in 12 cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of $2.02 per share. Revenue beat expectations, as well. Smucker also raised the upper end of its full-year guidance by 5 cents, now forecasting adjusted earnings of $7.75 to $7.95 per share compared to the consensus estimate of $7.72. Results were helped by improved results for pet food and Dunkin' Donuts coffee, among other factors.
Rockwell Automation – Emerson Electric has raised its bid for Rockwell, now offering $225 per share in cash and stock, or a total of about $29 billion. The prior offer, rejected by Rockwell, was worth $215 a share.
Pandora – BMO upgraded the online music service to "outperform" from "market perform," noting better-than-expected subscriber numbers and positive results from audio ads, among other factors.
Cisco Systems — The networking equipment maker reported adjusted quarterly earnings of 61 cents per share, 1 cent a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts, and Cisco also gave an upbeat forecast, thanks in part to a jump in sales of software applications.
Procter & Gamble – The company's proxy fight with investor Nelson Peltz re-emerged as a recount showed Peltz had won by 43,000 votes out of 2.6 billion. The consumer products giant has not yet conceded, however, and said those results are still subject to review and a possible challenge.
L Brands – L Brands reported quarterly profit that was in line with Wall Street forecasts at an adjusted 30 cents per share. The Victoria's Secret parent's revenue topped forecasts, however the company reported a drop in comparable-store sales, including a 4 percent decline at Victoria's Secret.
RH – RH raised its current-quarter guidance to an adjusted $1.02 to $1.04 per share, compared to the consensus estimate of 80 cents a share. The operator of Restoration Hardware furniture stores said the increased forecast reflects the success of its new membership model and more efficient operations.
NetApp – NetApp beat estimates by 12 cents a share, with quarterly profit of 81 cents per share. The data storage solutions company's revenue also topped Street forecasts and NetApp gave an upbeat current-quarter outlook.
Mattel – Mattel has rejected Hasbro's latest takeover approach, according to a Reuters report. Mattel is said to have told its rival toymaker that its bid undervalues the company and also does not take into account possible antitrust issues with regulators.
GlaxoSmithKline – The drugmaker won approval from European regulators for its new three-in-one inhaler drug for chronic lung disease.
Time Inc. – Time is in talks to sell itself to Meredith Corp., according to multiple reports, with several banks and the billionaire Koch brothers set to lend financial support to Meredith for its pursuit of its rival magazine publisher.
BHP Billiton – BHP is hoping to sell off its U.S. shale business in two years, with the mining giant also seeking to sell its Australian nickel business. The intention to divest those assets came at BHP's annual meeting in Melbourne, Australia.
Dollar General – Dollar General was upgraded to "buy" from "hold" at Deutsche Bank, which thinks the discount retailer's third-quarter comparable sales will come in above the Street consensus of a 2.6 percent gain and also sees momentum continuing into 2018.
Regions Financial – Regions was added to the "Conviction Buy" list at Goldman Sachs, which sees the regional bank performing better than consensus forecasts.


While many in Silicon Valley focus on futuristic technology — ranging from cryptocurrency to drone delivery — a quiet movement is afoot among young entrepreneurs that have audacious ideas to change the world and help society.
To help these start-ups take flight, the $25 million Kairos Fund was launched Thursday. It will provide $250,000 to $1 million in seed financing to fledglings, as well as management guidance to help scale up their business.


Apple will be the first $1 trillion company within the next year thanks to the iPhone X, a "major upgrade cycle" and a "renaissance" in China, GBH Insights said in a note Thursday.
The tech giant's market capitalization — which refers to the total value of all of a company's stock in circulation — currently sits at $868.1 billion.
Analyst Daniel Ives of GBH Insights said that over the next 12 months, Apple's shares could trade between $210 and $230. At the higher end of this range, it would represent nearly 35 percent upside from Wednesday's closing price.
Ives explained the factors he expects to drive the share price higher.
Firstly, he said the iPhone 8, 8 Plus and X launches will sell more than the peak iPhone 6 upgrade cycle. This would mean 258 million iPhone units for Apple's fiscal year to the end of September 2018, exceeding the record 231 million shipped in the fiscal year ending September 2015.
GBH Insights forecasts that there are over 350 million users with iPhone models that are at least two years old. A "sizeable portion" of these users could upgrade.


Shares of Rockwell Automation jumped as much as 7 percent Thursday after Emerson Electric increased its takeover bid of the company.
Emerson raised its bid to $225 per share, valuing Rockwell at $29 billion. Rockwell rejected Emerson's $215 a share bid last month. Rockwell shares finished Thursday's session up 2.6 percent at $193.61.
"The industrial logic for this combination is clear. A combination of Emerson and Rockwell would create a leader in the $200 billion global automation market," Emerson CEO David Farr said in a letter to Rockwell CEO Blake Moret. "The combination of Emerson and Rockwell would accelerate our combined growth and position us for success for many years to come."
Emerson has made multiple offers to acquire the automation company. Shares of  Rockwell — which provides industrial automation power, control and information solutions to manufacturers —  closed at $188.73 on Wednesday and have risen more than 40 percent in 2017.

Rockwell Automation confirmed in a separate release that it had received Emerson's bid. Rockwell said its board of directors "will carefully review Emerson's proposal to determine the course of action that it believes is in the best interest of the Company."





Shares of Pandora jumped over 4 percent in middday trading trading Thursday after BMO Capital Markets upgraded its outlook on shares of the music streaming company.
Pandora's move to grow "non-music content," such as podcasts, is a key part of the company's attempt to reverse its steady share price decline, the analyst said. Pandora's stock has fallen more than 62 percent this year through Wednesday's close, according to FactSet.
"Up until now, Pandora has primarily been focused on recorded music and has offered limited forms of other content," BMO analyst Daniel Salmon wrote in a note. "Pandora now plans to expand the content available and we expect this to accelerate in 2018."
Pandora reported mixed results earlier this month, as active listeners declined slightly more than expected. CEO Roger Lynch told investors "there's no silver bullet that's going to come in and solve these problems," emphasizing that investments in advertising would begin to have an effect next year.
Salmon says that Pandora's changes to its business model "are being underappreciated." He cited music industry executives who have said they are optimistic about the potential growth of audio advertisements next year.
He said investors are also overlooking the success of Pandora's subscription offerings. Salmon says the streaming service has stronger revenue than both the firm and Wall Street expected in the last quarter. Pandora Premium now has more than one million subscribers.


Norway's trillion-dollar sovereign wealth fund is proposing to drop oil and gas companies from its benchmark index, which would mean cutting its investments in those companies, the deputy central bank chief supervising the fund told Reuters, sending energy stocks lower.
If adopted by parliament, the fund would over time divest billions of dollars from oil and gas stocks, which now represent 6 percent — or around $37 billion — of the fund's benchmark equity index. The aim is to make the Norwegian government's wealth less vulnerable to a permanent drop in oil prices.
Europe's index of oil and gas shares hit its lowest level since mid-October on the news and was trading down 0.27 percent.
The proposal came in a letter sent by the central bank to the finance ministry and signed by its governor, Oeystein Olsen, and the chief executive of the fund, Yngve Slyngsad, Deputy Central Bank Governor Egil Matsen said in an interview.
"Our advice is to simply remove the oil and gas sector, as it is defined in the FTSE reference index, from the fund's reference index," Matsen said.
"That would mean all companies that the FTSE has classified with the sector, should be removed from our reference index."
The fund is the world's largest sovereign wealth fund. It invests Norway's revenues from oil and gas production for future generations in stocks, bonds and real estate abroad.
It is among the largest investors in a wide range of oil companies, holding stakes at the end of 2016 of 2.3 percent in Royal Dutch Shell, 1.7 percent of BP, 0.9 percent of Chevron, and 0.8 percent of Exxon Mobil.
"The risk for the oil sector is how many investment funds will downsize their exposure to extractive industries," said Jason Kenney, oil analyst at bank Santander.
The fund also held 1.7 percent of Italy's Eni, 1.6 percent of France's Total and 0.9 percent of Sweden's Lundin Petroleum, among others.
At the end of the third quarter, Royal Dutch Shell was the fund's third-biggest equity investment overall, worth around $5.34 billion and exceeded only by its ownership in Apple and Nestle.
"It clearly stands out, perhaps not surprisingly, but not obviously, that indeed there is a substantial difference ... in return between the oil and gas sector and the broad stock market in periods when the oil price changes substantially," Matsen said.
"Oil price exposure of the government's wealth position can be reduced by not having the fund invested in oil and gas stocks."
The fund could still invest in the sector if other parts of the fund's mandate are fulfilled by having some investments in some of the companies, Matsen said.
"But clearly the direction is that ... if the ministry and the politicians think it is good advice and they say yes to it, clearly the investments in the oil and gas sector will decrease over time," he added.
Green campaigners welcomed the news.
"This is a victory for common sense. We have argued this for some time and there is no reason for Parliament not to approve this," Martin Norman, Head of Sustainable Finance Campaign for Greenpeace Nordic, told Reuters.
"Bravo Norway, and let's hope it gets through because the future of fossil fuel investment is looking shaky indeed," said Rachel Kennerley, climate campaigners at Friends of the Earth.
Oil and gas stocks would be replaced by investments in other companies.
"The straight answer is that all other sectors would be weighted up in proportion ... (under) our current mandate," said Matsen.
At the end of 2016, the fund's equity investments were split between investments in the financial sector (23.3 percent), industrial companies (14.1 percent), consumer goods (13.7 percent), consumer services (10.3 percent), healthcare (10.2 percent), technology (9,5 percent), oil and gas (6.4 percent), basic materials (5.6 percent), telecoms (3.2 percent) and utilities (3.1 percent).
The timing of the coming divestments is as yet unclear. The proposal has to be reviewed by the Finance Ministry, which in turn needs to decide whether to propose it to parliament.
At the earliest, the ministry's first opportunity could come in the spring, with a vote in parliament in June.
In addition to its holdings via the fund, Norway has exposure to oil and gas via large untapped offshore hydrocarbon reserves, as well as its 67 percent stake in the national oil company, Statoil.
The fund has grown so large that even though the Norwegian state is taking less than 3 percent of the fund's value every year for its fiscal budget in recent years, oil spending now accounts for one in five crowns spent by the state.


There are some days in the market when taking cues from stocks' movements can be detrimental, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday.
"I see stupid things happening all over the place, so I'm urging you not to jump to any conclusions based on the tape," the "Mad Money" host said. "Remember, the big money managers who control the day-to-day gyrations in stocks get things wrong all the time."
One example was Home Depot. Ahead of the retailer's Tuesday earnings report, its stock opened down $2 as sellers braced themselves for what they expected to be a mediocre quarter.
To their dismay, the home furnishings giant reported a sweeping earnings beat with dramatically higher-than-expected same-store sales growth, a key metric for the retail sector. Same-store comparisons came in at 7.9 percent year over year when analysts were expecting 5.8 percent.
As a result, shares of Home Depot popped roughly 2 percent on the news.
"Now, if you were just taking your cue from the action you would've decided that Home Depot had a terrible quarter," Cramer said. "Of course, Home Depot's stock got dinged again today thanks to the market-wide sell-off and the usual worries about what Amazon's going to do next now that it's devastated the supermarket space with its newfound price cuts. But home improvement is still very much Home Depot's wheelhouse. I think the stock's a buy."


There are some days in the market when taking cues from stocks' movements can be detrimental, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday.
"I see stupid things happening all over the place, so I'm urging you not to jump to any conclusions based on the tape," the "Mad Money" host said. "Remember, the big money managers who control the day-to-day gyrations in stocks get things wrong all the time."
One example was Home Depot. Ahead of the retailer's Tuesday earnings report, its stock opened down $2 as sellers braced themselves for what they expected to be a mediocre quarter.
To their dismay, the home furnishings giant reported a sweeping earnings beat with dramatically higher-than-expected same-store sales growth, a key metric for the retail sector. Same-store comparisons came in at 7.9 percent year over year when analysts were expecting 5.8 percent.
On the post-earnings conference call, Home Depot's management touted strong e-commerce and outperforming categories, as well as customer growth as millennials become homeowners.
As a result, shares of Home Depot popped roughly 2 percent on the news.
"Now, if you were just taking your cue from the action you would've decided that Home Depot had a terrible quarter," Cramer said. "It was right there, at $163, down $2, and a lot of people sold. It's just that the sellers turned out to be wrong, and you really don't want to be wrong in this business — it's too expensive."
The stock of IBM was Cramer's second example. While the technology colossus' latest quarter wasn't stellar, the market seemed to embrace it as the last of the company's bad quarters, sending the stock up from $146 to $162 a share in three days.
But since then, shares of IBM have been clobbered, drifting back down to $147.10 as of Wednesday's close.
The declines were partially fueled by Tuesday's news that billionaire investor Warren Buffett was cutting his firm's stake in IBM by more than 30 percent.
"For starters, we have no idea when Buffett will be done selling, and few investors like to own a stock that he's given up on," Cramer said. "That said, at these levels IBM's stock yields 4 percent, and to me, the stock feels like it's become an emotional juggernaut. I believe in the turn here. I think the stock can go a little lower, but boy, is it getting intriguing."
Finally, Cramer turned to The Walt Disney Company. Shares of the entertainment giant took a hit after the company's earnings report on Nov. 9, which posted year-over-year declines in most of its key businesses.
Disney's stock, which closed up 1 percent on Wednesday at $103.69 a share, was sent down to the $90s after its report, leading some to believe that the quarter was awful, plagued by losses from the hurricanes, cord-cutting and ESPN weakness.
But with the company spending on BAMTech, its baseball streaming franchise, a new Star Wars slated for December and a surge in Shanghai Disney, Cramer said Disney simply offers "too much to like."
Sometimes, the "Mad Money" host finds that the entire market can be wrong, grasping at reasons to justify declines or to trade in tandem with international markets.
"These days, if Germany's market is down 1 percent and Britain's down 1 percent and Japan's down 1 percent, we'll find a reason to sell off, like the Senate insisting on rolling Obamacare repeal into their tax bill," Cramer said.
"But here's the bottom line: do not take your cue from the action," he continued. "In this business, stocks are often wrong. Instead, you need to do your own homework, pick your prices, and then patiently wait for the names you like to pull back for a bad reason, something that happens with alarming frequency."


CNBC's Jim Cramer has found that millennials both hate and love change.
They hate physical change, so much so that they'd rather pay for a $4.32 purchase with a credit card than have to keep 68 cents jingling in their pockets or wallets.
But they love other kinds of change, the kinds that make companies more efficient, more "green" and more cost-effective.
"I've spent a huge amount of time on this show trying to figure out how millennials tick because they hold the key to growth for so many industries," the "Mad Money" host said. "You can't run a consumer business without appealing to the younger generation, and I tire of all the so-called experts who find kids these days to be unfathomable. In truth, they're anything but."
Cramer also found that the few things millennials are willing to pay premiums for help define their generation's spending activity.
First are ride-hailing services like Uber, perhaps because younger age groups can't afford cars or don't see them as a necessity.
Second are smartphones, particularly Apple's iPhone, which most generations, but particularly millennials, use for everything from work to communication to entertainment.
Third are cosmetics. As smartphones' camera quality improves, younger folks are turning to higher quality makeup products like Estee Lauder's to look picture-perfect.
But there's also a darker underbelly to their spending. As millennials increasingly move out of their parents' houses to become new homeowners, their wallets get stretched between paying off student loans, paying rent and paying for health care.
At the same time, their "green" streak is only blossoming. Cramer pointed to Conagra Brands' moves of reinventing old brands like Healthy Choice, putting out foods with fewer artificial ingredients and replacing plastic packaging with compost paper to make its products more appealing to millennials.
"Being in the frozen food aisle" has also given companies an unexpected advantage with younger generations, Cramer said.
Convenience, lower prices and the ability to stay at home draw millennials to frozen foods, so long as they have "clean labels," like International Flavors & Fragrances CEO Andreas Fibig told Cramer on Monday.
"If you can cut out the preservatives by flash freezing this stuff and keep the costs down, the freezer aisle can be a real profit generator," the "Mad Money" host said.
And while Conagra's no cruise line operator, many of which are getting boosts from bookings by millennials looking for Instagram-ready vacations, Cramer said it will still benefit from keeping pace with the changing landscape.
"Conagra understands and embraces the change that millennials are demanding. That's how you stay fresh. That's how you win, because my cohort? We think we're important ... but we're no longer clued in," Cramer said. "People my age are actually fine with antibiotics ... in our chickens and plastic? Oh, what the heck. It's fine. Millennials aren't fine with it. And like it or not, they're the future. I feel like my generation's become an irrelevant vestige of a branded past."
"Forget what you want," the "Mad Money" host concluded. "You need to know what the younger generation wants if you're going to pick winners in this stock market."


The stock market's best days are likely behind it as central banks around the world take away the high levels of stimulus they've provided over the past decade, Janus Henderson portfolio manager Bill Gross said Wednesday.
Though normally known for his bond expertise, Gross in recent days has been chiming in on the equity side, with a pessimistic view of the landscape.
"I'm not supporting a bear market, but sort of a market where you move into an old-age retirement community where the pace of activity and prices behave more maturely," he told CNBC's "Power Lunch" program. "So I think sort of the halcyon days are over."
Gross spoke as the bull market that began in March 2009 has hit a bit of a soft patch lately. The S&P 500 and Dow industrials are down narrowly in November after enjoying a powerful and almost uninterrupted run through most of 2017.
The culprit, he said, is the Fed and its global cohorts finally pulling back on stimulus after years of bargain-basement interest rates and trillions in money printing. With that support fading, investors are going to have to get used to lower returns, he said.
"I think double-digit increases are over, simply because the credit cycle itself is pulling back," Gross said. "The Fed is raising interest rates, the Fed is reducing its balance sheet, the ECB is reducing its balance sheet by half and ultimately raising interest rates. These are slight negatives that argue against a continuing bull market."
Such warnings, though, aren't terribly new for Gross, particularly since he left Pimco, the bond giant he co-founded, and began running the Janus Henderson Global Unconstrained Bond fund, which now has $2.2 billion in assets. The three-star fund has been a laggard this year, with a total return of 2.4 percent that places it in the bottom-third of similar funds, according to Morningstar rankings.
Nevertheless, he has been consistent in his warnings that stocks and bonds are in for lower returns.
He also is taking a dim view of the current tax plans in Washington, saying they are too focused on giving companies a break.
"Consumers haven't been getting a fair break," he said. "Without consumers, without tax breaks going to people as opposed to corporations, ultimately capitalism fails."




As it has been for the last five years, overall inflation in the U.S. was pretty tame: Prices were up just 2 percent in October from a year ago.
But that number is just an average. The headlines from the government's latest monthly report on consumer prices typically overlook the real impact on your pocketbook. Among the more than 300 categories of goods and services tracked by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, some items were up or down by as much as 10 percent.
A closer look at the data shows that your individual inflation rate depends a lot on your personal household budget.


General Electric, a member of the Dow longer than any other company, could get kicked out because of its sinking stock price.
The workings of the committee that determines which stocks stay in and which ones drop out of the blue chip index are a bit mysterious. For example, there's no clear price threshold that automatically gets a stock thrown out.
GE is $18 right now. But AT&T was $33 when it was removed in 2015, and Alcoa was $8 and Bank of America was $14 when both were removed in September 2013. Hewlett Packard was $22 when it was removed, and Kraft was $39. Citigroup had dropped to $3 when it was removed in June 2009, at the same time GM was dropped at 27 cents a share.
The price relationship between GE and other stocks may be important because the Dow is price-weighted. David Blitzer, the chairman of the index committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices, has said he prefers the ratio of highest- to lowest-price stocks to be less than 10-to-1.
By that standard, GE is definitely a candidate to get thrown out. The highest-priced stock in the index is Boeing, which at $261 is nearly 15 times the price of GE.
Another way to look at this is not by the price of the stock but by the state of the company. The committee dropped Alcoa because raw material companies weren't as important as they used to be.
But the best parallel to today's General Electric may be Hewlett Packard. The computer company was dropped from the Dow in 2013 because it was a former tech giant that had fallen on hard times. Back then, Hewlett's board of directors was struggling, and the company seemed unsure of what it should be doing next.
Sounds familiar.


As market volatility increases, Rich Ross of Evercore ISI has three stocks to buy on the dip.
The Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq opened lower for the sixth straight session on Wednesday, as the S&P tracks for its worst day in nearly three months.
"When volatility picks up in the broad market, I like to go back to a place where I know I'm loved," Ross said. And one of those places is tech giant Facebook.


Bitcoin has again recovered quickly from a sharp drop.
The digital currency briefly surged more than 11 percent Wednesday to a high of $7,336.80 , according to CoinDesk. That's within 10 percent of its record high of $7,879.06 hit last Wednesday. Bitcoin had fallen 30 percent below that record over the weekend amid controversy over the digital currency's future.
In the established stock market, a decline of at least 10 percent from a recent high sends a stock into "correction" territory, and a drop of at least 20 percent marks "bear market" territory.
Wednesday's gains in bitcoin came after news that Jack Dorsey's company Square is testing support for bitcoin through its payments app Cash. Early on Wednesday, Credit Suisse analysts published a report on the Square news describing how the "bitcoin buying option could help stock."


Apple shares have crushed the market's performance so far this year. But investors should not expect easy gains going forward, according to the newest Wall Street analyst on the stock.
Wells Fargo's Aaron Rakers began coverage on Apple shares with a market perform rating, saying the smart phone maker's immediate prospects are more uncertain after its recent iPhone product launches. Rakers joined the firm last month as its new IT hardware and networking equipment analyst.
The company's iPhone 8 and iPhone X were released on Sept. 22 and Nov. 3 respectively.
"We believe strength in shares of Apple have, in part, been driven by a 'chase-the-performance' trade ahead of the iPhone 8/X product cycle," wrote Rakers, whose LinkedIn profile shows he previously worked at Stifel Nicolaus, in the Tuesday note. "We think the shares could now see increased volatility, with a focus on incremental derivative demand and mix data points over the coming months."
Apple shares fell 1.2 percent in early trading Wednesday after the report. Its shares are up 48 percent year to date through Tuesday versus the S&P 500's 15 percent gain.
The analyst noted the risk of higher memory chip prices, which are essential components for the company's computing and smartphone products.
"Given the tight memory supply/demand dynamics, Apple's results could be negatively affected by lack of supply or higher-than-expected prices," he wrote.
Rakers started his price target for Apple shares at $195, representing 14 percent upside from Tuesday's close.
"While we applaud Apple's execution and continual ecosystem buildout, the inevitable shift to what's next should once again surface post the iPhone 8/X cycle," he wrote. "We expect some investors to continually question Apple's rate of innovation (focus on Apple's significant R&D investments) for the iPhone as competitors offer similar features and cheaper smartphones."
Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment.


Mobile payment company Square's willingness to test bitcoin on its app is "big" and could potentially drive the stock even higher, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday.
Shares of Square were 2.5 percent higher Wednesday, trading near $41 share, in the wake of the reports that the company is testing support for bitcoin through its Cash payments app. Square said the test does not allow individuals or businesses to send or accept bitcoin.
"I think this is something big and it's going to drive Square up, and it's going to make people feel better about bitcoin," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
Bitcoin traded more than 9 percent higher on Wednesday, according to CoinDesk, and has hit new record highs several times this year. The digital currency has risen more than 600 percent year to date.
Not everyone on Wall Street has bitcoin fever. JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon said in September that bitcoin is "a fraud" and that "eventually it will be closed." The CEO later said he would no longer talk about the cryptocurrency.
—CNBC's Evelyn Cheng contributed to this report.


A downbeat outlook for oil demand from a top energy watchdog and fears of rising U.S. output sparked a sell-off in crude futures this week, but analysts say the market was already poised for a pullback.
International benchmark Brent and U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude have both shed about $3 a barrel, or nearly 5 percent, from more than two-year highs struck last week.
Brent was trading at $61.63 on Wednesday, while WTI was at $55.15, both down about 1 percent after posting their worst daily performance in about a month on Tuesday.
It is a pullback from a recent spike fueled by signs of improving oil demand and a month of escalating tensions in the Middle East that threatened output from top OPEC producers.
U.S. crude 15-day performance

But on Tuesday, the International Energy Agency lowered its outlook for demand growth in both 2017 and 2018, in part because of warmer than expected winter weather. The energy policy adviser to developed nations knocked down its growth forecast by 100,000 barrels a day for each year, projecting that oil markets will remain oversupplied in the first half of 2018.
Global demand will struggle to sop up rising output by producers outside the 14-member OPEC cartel, particularly from the United States, IEA said in its monthly oil report. Recent weekly figures show U.S. drillers are pumping near all-time high levels.
"This is why, absent any geopolitical premium, we may not have seen a 'new normal' for oil prices," IEA concluded.
That view contradicted OPEC's projection, which had been released one day earlier. The producer group raised its forecast for demand growth by 130,000 barrels a day in 2018.
Adding to the commotion, oil futures got caught in a general commodities sell-off following weaker-than-expected economic data from China, which drives global commodity consumption.


George Soros' investment fund dumped its stock holdings in Apple and Snap in the last quarter while reducing stakes in other major tech giants including Facebook and Twitter, regulatory filings show.
The billionaire investor's hedge fund, Soros Fund Management, sold 1,700 shares of Apple, and 1.55 million of Snap stock in the September quarter. This wiped out the hedge fund's stake in both companies, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings released Tuesday revealed.
It's important to note that the fund's holdings in Apple were relatively small, worth just $291,278 at Tuesday's market close.
However the Snap holding is significant. The 1.55 million shares were worth $19.48 million at Tuesday's close.
There is a lot of bearishness around Snap, which has continued to miss earnings expectations and failed to grow its user base significantly. Snap shares are down over 48 percent since it went public in March. Wall Street analysts are also not sold on Snap. The stock has 19 "hold" ratings, nine "sell," and one "strong sell," according to Reuters data.
Soros Fund Management also reduced its stake in Twitter by 5,700 shares. It still holds 18,400 shares of the social media site.
Facebook also fell out of favor with Soros. The investor dumped 367,262 shares of the social networking giant in the last quarter. Soros Fund Management still owns 109,451 Facebook shares.
But not all names in the technology sector were sold off. Soros upped his stake in Microsoft by 99,000 shares and Amazon by 2,500 shares.
The SEC filings only show the change in share ownership of Soros' fund, but no commentary as to his fund's thinking behind the trades.
Major technology stocks have been on a tear this year, although some of the newly-listed names such as Snap have struggled.
Apple, which Soros' hedge fund also sold all its shares in, is up nearly 48 percent year-to-date. Analysts are excited at the potential of the new iPhone X, released earlier this month. Apple shares hit a record high last week.
Soros' position contrasts to Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway, which topped up on Apple shares in the last quarter. Buffett's conglomerate increased its holdings of the iPhone maker's stock by 3.9 million to 134.1 million, a SEC filing released Tuesday showed.


Stocks may have opened lower for the sixth session in a row, but veteran market watcher Ed Yardeni argues bullish activity in commodities suggests the stock market will break more records.
He says the rise in oil and industrial metal prices is likely to continue — a sign that demand is stimulating economies across the world. As a result, it should give the equities rally more juice.
"I watch commodities very closely," Yardeni Research' president said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now." "They are really, really good at telling us what is going on in the global economy."
West Texas Intermediate crude oil has rallied 21 percent in just the past four months, even though it fell by 1.9 percent to settle at $55.70 a barrel on Tuesday.
"The old adage in the commodity pits is 'the best cure for high commodity prices is high commodity prices'," said Yardeni.
As for industrial metals, Yardeni notes they've been accurately reflecting the improving global economy since 2016, despite some recent, temporary sluggishness.
"It's still sort of Goldilocks for the global economy. It's strong, but not too strong," he said.
Yardeni has been one of Wall Street's most consistent bulls. He turned positive a few days after the S&P 500 hit an intraday low of 666 on March 6, 2009.
"The latest version of the bull case got started late last year, and it wasn't just President Trump winning and the perception we were going to have tax reform, less regulation and tax cuts," said Yardeni. "The global economy started to show more strength, and I think that had a lot to do with earnings turning around and showing better comparisons this year."
On July 27, he told CNBC the S&P 500 could "melt up" 8 percent more by year-end. Since then, the index has risen 4 percent.
Yardeni is taking a somewhat conservative approach for 2018. His price target is 2,600 to 2,700 — about a 1 to 5 percent increase from where the index currently sits.
But it may not stay there.
"I am a happy bull. I am in a position where I can keep raising my targets," Yardeni said.


Gamers are angry over Electronic Arts' money-making strategy in its new "Star Wars" game. Wall Street is taking notice and getting concerned over the title's financial prospects.
The uproar centered on in-game purchases in "Star Wars Battlefront II." They allowed players to save time by paying extra money to accelerate the "unlock" of major characters like Darth Vader.

The gaming community flooded social media and Reddit with thousands of negative posts, saying the company is unfairly compelling consumers to spend more money for content that should be part of the initial $60 game price.
EA's "Star Wars Battlefront II" officially launches on Friday, but portions of the game went live on Nov. 9 for the company's EA Access and Origin Access subscribers.
The company has already partly backtracked as it announced Monday it reduced the cost to unlock key characters by 75 percent.
At a Bank of America Merrill Lynch investor meeting, Electronic Arts Chief Financial Officer Blake Jorgensen was asked about the issues.
In a note to clients Wednesday, analyst Justin Post said: "Management highlighted game depth and quality, but did not provide an update on unit expectations. As for the Battlefront 2 hero costs controversy, EA indicated the original hero costs were established based on targeted rate of game play progression and balance (not economics)."
Post added: "We see recent controversies as a potential risk for unit sales vs buyside expectations, although EA has conservative estimates for Battlefront Live Services."
Post maintained his buy rating and $137 price target for Electronic Arts shares, representing 22 percent upside to Tuesday's close.
Piper Jaffray noted the controversy is also detracting from the game's review scores.
"Early reviews have been impacted by negative sentiment around a character progression system that publications and consumers believe overemphasize microtransactions," analyst Michael Olson wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "We believe review scores for a game like Star Wars Battlefront are less important, given the strength of the Star Wars brand, but recognize the negative sentiment is a challenge."
Olson reaffirmed his overweight rating and $130 price target for Electronic Arts shares.
Even before the recent social media controversy, other analysts were concerned over "Star Wars Battlefront II" prospects.
Jefferies' analyst Timothy O'Shea questioned whether "Star Wars" game buyers will pay more like consumers of EA's popular sports titles.
"If Star Wars can encourage users to spend real money on virtual goods (like FIFA) the game could drive meaningful upside to F'18 and '19 EPS, but this is not a certainty," O'Shea wrote in a note to clients Nov. 1 entitled "Star Wars Battlefront 2: A Trick Or a Treat?"
EA's stock is up 43 percent year to date through Tuesday compared with the S&P 500's 15 percent gain.
The company did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
—CNBC's Sara Salinas contributed to this report.


There's an odd chill in the air on Wall Street, but many analysts are shrugging it off as a temporary cooling of a market that still has room to run.
Continuing a choppy trend of the last several sessions, stocks Tuesday seesawed and closed lower. The dollar weakened, as commodities like copper and oil sold off. The high yield debt market was under pressure, as buyers moved into safety at the long end of the Treasury curve.
"We're just taking a little bit of a break," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities.
The stock market hiccupped in morning trading, with the Dow dipping nearly 170 points, but it later closed down just 30 at 23,409, its third loss in four sessions. Traders blamed the mid-morning move in bonds and stocks on concerns that tax reform may not make its way through Congress successfully. The House votes on its version Thursday, and the Senate is still ironing out its version.
"People are just saying there's jitters about tax reform," said Marc Chandler, the head of foreign exchange strategy at Brown Brothers. "Going into the year-end people are nervous. lt's not only about taxes."
The cranky mood began in China and Asian markets overnight, after Chinese economic reports missed the mark.  There was also a jump in Chinese bond yields, with the 10-year temporarily hitting 4 percent, a three-year high.
"As for the junk bond sell off last week, it was very narrowly based. It was low valued credits and telecom," said Chandler. "Most people I talk to are not convinced taxes are going to be passed this year." Chandler said Congress has little time after the Thanksgiving break to get the bill passed by year end.
Hogan said Congress, nonetheless, is making progress on a bill.
However, one of the nagging issues for the stock market has been the flattening of the yield curve. Hogan said the market is nervous about the "flattening" difference between the 2-year yield and the 10-year Treasury yield, which have been moving closer together. The curve dipped to 68 basis points Tuesday, a 10-year low. Hogan said 70 has become a line in the sand, and when it falls below that traders get nervous.
A flattening curve can signal that the curve will invert, which historically means a recession is on the horizon. But Hogan dismissed that and said there's less than a 20 percent chance for recession next year. The move is more to do with the rising 2-year yield, which was as high as 1.69 percent Tuesday.
"We have a Fed that's locked and loaded and ready to raise rates in December and probably be on a path for three rate hikes next year. That's affecting the 2-year," said Hogan.
Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at Lindsey Group, said the market could also be anticipating tighter monetary policy next year when the Fed continues to pare back its bond buying and the European Central Bank also slows its purchases.
"You're talking about $165 billion of less liquidity, just in Q1 alone. This has not been an earnings driven market," said Boockvar. "Every day we get closer to 2019, we get closer to that liquidity flow turning into more of a drip."  Boockvar and others say the markets are also getting antsy going into year end, worried that the high yield market is signaling broader concerns about credit. There was some chatter about asset allocation programs influencing trading.
""In this kind of crazy market, as we head into 2018, anything is possible. If we do sell off, it's going to get exaggerated," he said.
The S&P 500 is up 15.2 percent year-to-date, and at 2578, it's just about 20 points off its high.
Commodities markets were also on the move Tuesday, with copper reacting to China growth concerns.
Copper futures for December fell 1.7 percent to $3.065 a pound on concerns about growth, after the China data. Oil also slumped, with West Texas Intermediate futures losing 1.9 percent to $55.70per barrel. Oil slid on a gloomier demand outlook from the International Energy Agency, which also was upbeat about growth in U.S. oil production and exports.
"It shows a lack of risk appetite," said Bart Melek, head of commodities strategy at TD Securities. "Oil got ahead of itself so it's responding to concerns shale is going to grow more rapidly."
Markets could react to CPI and retail sales data Wednesday, both released at 8:30 a.m. ET. There is also U.S. government oil supply data, released at 10:30 a.m. ET.


Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway bought more Apple shares before their latest jump to all-time highs.
Berkshire also cut its stake in IBM by 32 percent, or 17.06 million shares, in the third quarter, according to a required quarterly filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission released Tuesday. The stock is the third-worst performer in the Dow Jones industrial average this year, down 10.3 percent.
Buffett's conglomerate increased its holdings of the iPhone maker's stock by 3.9 million to 134.1 million, the filing showed.


Every time the market pulls back, CNBC's Jim Cramer sees tons of people get scared out of their wits about a potential crash.
"Don't get me wrong, it's OK to be concerned. You should always keep a close eye on your stocks — they're not cash," the "Mad Money" host said. "But I think worries about a devastating sell-off lurking just around the corner are indeed overblown, because there are a lot more benign forces at work in this market and not many malignant ones that can cause fortunes to be lost in the blink of an eye."
Cramer acknowledged why investors might have been particularly perturbed by Tuesday's dip. There was no immediate cause for the sell-off, there's very little volatility despite geopolitical tensions, tax reform seems like it's a long way away and stocks have run up quite high.
"All that said, I remain cautiously optimistic and think you need to use these dips — yes, indeed, I know — as buying opportunities. Why? Five reasons," Cramer said.


CNBC's Jim Cramer loves the technology sector, but right now, it's developing a bad sign: most of the gains are narrowly spread among a few major winners, a sign of bad breadth.
With Apple, Alphabet, Microsoft and Intel driving most of the technology sector's surge, the "Mad Money" host turned to technician Bob Moreno, the publisher of RightViewTrading.com and his colleague at RealMoney.com, for help sorting out the moves.
"Moreno thinks the fabulous bull market in tech might be less solid than it seems," Cramer said. "As much as I'm a fan of many tech stocks here ... you always need to have a diversified portfolio in case any one particular sector gives up the ghost."


CNBC's Jim Cramer was looking for some reassurance when he and his "Squawk on the Street" colleagues Carl Quintanilla and David Faber interviewed the CEO of General Electric on Tuesday.
"While I'm very interested in his plans for the future, I did want some sort of 'truth and reconciliation' before I'd be willing to recommend the stock, even down here," the "Mad Money" host said, borrowing a phrase from the legendary human rights activist Archbishop Desmond Tutu. "FYI, GE's now 12 points below where it was when the former CEO, Jeff Immelt, came on the show and assured us everything's fine."
In that February interview, Immelt pushed back against Wall Street analysts who had put "sell" ratings on General Electric's stock, saying that GE would have "a really good year."
"That was just nine months ago! And look, this is a huge conglomerate that should be able to forecast at least somewhat ... what it might earn," Cramer said. "Turns out the negative analysts that Immelt showed just disdain for were spot on and dead right."
Due to GE's cash problems and poor performance, its new CEO, John Flannery, announced a widespread restructuring plan on Monday to slash the dividend in half and shed under-performing divisions.
But when Cramer asked Flannery about his company's past transgressions on Tuesday, the new CEO didn't seem interested in reconciling with the mistakes GE made in the past.
"What matters to him is the future, not the past. Normally, I'm all for that kind of attitude, but as someone who believed that GE was doing much better than it was, I need to know two things: was the old management misleading us or were they misleading themselves?" Cramer said.
Cramer argued that such major pitfalls should have been evident to GE's leadership, particularly its board of directors, who signed off on all of the company's shoddy transactions.
Flannery did announce on Monday that he would replace much of the company's board, but said that he would leave its lead director, former Vanguard CEO Jack Brennan, in place.
"I'm so tempted just to put GE's whole board on the Wall of Shame for agreeing to offer $30 billion in buybacks and dividends last year with money the company so desperately needs now," the "Mad Money" host said. "I want to put them up there on that Wall of Shame for not holding management accountable for its sins."
By not addressing GE's past mistakes, Cramer said Flannery runs the risk of unearthing more wrongdoing as he tries to push forward and remodel the company.
More importantly, Cramer said he would risk alienating GE's shareholders, who need to know what went wrong to make them lose so much by way of the stock's drastic declines.
"If we don't try to understand how things went so wrong at GE, if we don't unearth all of the accounting issues and the misinformation or, conceivably, outright dishonesty that was presented to us, how the heck can we trust this company to get anything right going forward?" Cramer wondered.
As Flannery embarks on his self-proclaimed "massive heavy lift" in 2018, the "Mad Money" host remained disappointed by the CEO's refusal to reflect.
"At the very least, the board owes us an explanation," Cramer said. "After all, how can we tell that Flannery's going to fix everything when we don't even know what needs to be fixed? Hence my position on General Electric's stock: until we get some truth, there will be no reconciliation."


Tuesday was the "worst day of my business life," former General Electric vice chairman Bob Wright told CNBC, after shares plunged for the second day in a row.
However, he doesn't plan on selling the stock now.
"I'm going to trust the history of this company, the quality of the people that are there," he said in an interview with "Closing Bell" on Tuesday. "They just need to be given a chance to lead."
Shares of GE closed at 17.90 on Tuesday, down 5.9 percent. On Monday, the stock had its worst day since 2009, falling 7 percent after the firm chopped its dividend by 50 percent and announced a sweeping restructuring plan.
GE's new CEO, John Flannery, said Tuesday he wasn't surprised by the stock's reaction, telling CNBC, "We have a long-term plan. We have a lot of work to do."  GE plans to focus on health care, aviation and energy, becoming a "more focused industrial company," Flannery said Monday in announcing the plans.
Wright said he would like to see the turnaround happen a little quicker than has been suggested but called the remaining assets "extraordinarily good businesses."
He also said he wishes Flannery would be a little more transparent about the balance sheet, which he called a "lurking issue."
"You can just say 'I've looked at the balance sheet. I've gone through the assets and liabilities and we're OK.' That would help a lot," he said.
Michael Useem, a Wharton professor and director of the school's Center for Leadership and Change Management, said Flannery's work is going to be extremely difficult.
"A remake of this scale … it's like turning a battleship. It's going to take some serious time," he said in an interview with "Power Lunch."
"With a tough-minded executive in charge you can do it and the betting is probably going to be on Flannery doing it," he added.
While investors have been fleeing the stock over the last couple of days, Useem said many big holders of the stock include investment companies such as Vanguard and BlackRock.
Flannery's challenge is to keep them in the stock while he executes the turnaround, he said.
"For that, the strategy story is going to be essential," he said.
— CNBC's Berkeley Lovelace contributed to this report.
Disclaimer


One of the top three worries for investors right now is a crash in global bond markets.
When asked what poses the biggest "tail risk," or worry for the financial market, 22 percent of global investors considered the biggest risk to be a sharp drop in bonds, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch's November Global Fund Manager Survey out Tuesday.
That's just below the 27 percent of respondents that fear mistake in monetary policy by the Federal Reserve or European Central Bank the most.
Just 13 percent were most worried about a "market structure"-generated flash crash.
What do you consider the biggest "tail risk"?

Source: Bank of America Merrill Lynch, November Fund Manager Survey
Bond prices fall when yields rise, and some key global bond yields have climbed to multi-year highs in the last few days. The iShares iBoxx $ High Yield Corporate Bond ETF (HYG) was tracking Tuesday for its lowest close since March.
"If you see further weakening in bond markets, particularly credit bond markets or corporate bond markets, it's going to have a negative impact on stock markets," Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at BofAML, told CNBC in a phone interview Tuesday.
Global bond yields have come a long way since hitting historic lows on July 11, 2016, a date Hartnett has called "a massive, secular inflection point" that will have major effects.
In the U.S., Treasury yields have climbed in the last few weeks amid expectations of tighter monetary policy and an increased deficit under tax reform. In China, Beijing's focus on reducing dependence on high credit growth has raised worries about tighter monetary policy and slower economic growth.
The Chinese 10-year sovereign bond yield hit 4.033 percent overnight, its highest since Oct. 14, 2014.
"China's bond [yield] hitting that 4 percent level has to do with post [National Communist Party] Congress, people are concerned about deleveraging," said Marc Chandler, chief currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman.
The U.S. 2-year Treasury yield traded Tuesday near 1.69 percent, near its highest since Oct. 21, 2008. The Federal Reserve began unwinding its balance sheet in October by reducing its bond purchases and is expected to raise short-term interest rates in December.
The benchmark U.S. 10-year Treasury yield traded mildly lower around 2.38 percent, near the higher end of a post-election trading range. German and Japanese 10-year sovereign bond yields have also climbed solidly into positive territory after turning negative last year.
When BofAML conducted the survey from Nov. 3 to 9, a near-record 81 percent of respondents said bond markets are overvalued.
Top "tail risk" for fund managers (Oct. 2015 - Nov. 2017)

Source: Bank of America Merrill Lynch, November Fund Manager Survey
The latest BofAML survey had 178 participants with $533 billion in assets under management.
To be sure, fund manager fears can be misplaced. The top worry from July to September last year was "GOP wins White House." U.S. stock index futures plunged on election night but quickly recovered and have surged to record highs following Republican President Donald Trump's surprise election win.
"There is no fear of the Fed. None. And until there is it's going to be difficult for markets to go down in a big way," Hartnett said.
"The catalyst has to be inflation, especially wage inflation," he said.
Average hourly earnings posted a 2.4 percent increase in the 12 months through October, down from a 2.9 percent annualized increase in September.
— CNBC's Patti Domm contributed to this report.


The decision by General Electric to cut its dividend in half as the company restructures should be a warning to investors: Don't count on income from dividends.
GE's move reduces its quarterly dividend to 12 cents a share from 24 cents and will give its shareholders $4.1 billion less each year.
Because the company has only cut its dividend twice since 1899, the move may come as a surprise to some shareholders. Yet experts caution that investors need to be ready for such moves when investing in dividend stocks.
"There are no guarantees and the marketplace can change, so you need to be flexible," said financial advisor Greg Ghodsi, managing director, investments at 360 Wealth Management Group of Raymond James.


While many of its peers are giving up on General Electric, Bank of America Merrill Lynch still recommends the industrial giant's stock.
We are "sticking with a buy despite a disappointing outlook," analyst Andrew Obin wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "We believe that GE has significant cost cutting opportunities under the new leadership. We note that the company has undergone a significant reinvestment cycle, positioning the company well from a competitive standpoint."
General Electric shares had their worst day since 2009 on Monday, falling 7 percent after the company reduced its dividend and unveiled a restructuring plan during its investor day. It was the company's first investor day under CEO John Flannery, who replaced Jeff Immelt in August.
The shares fell some more on Tuesday, down another 6 percent midway through the trading day.


Analyst Ed Clissold shared his thoughts on the market outlook and where investors may want to look if the economy runs out of steam in an exclusive interview with CNBC PRO's 
 Mike Santoli.
"When you're in this slow growth environment, you want to continue to focus on companies that can deliver the growth anyway – they don't need the economy to do well. It's almost by definition: growth stocks," explained Clissold. "This comes from the technology sector, health care as well – although obviously Washington is going to have a say in that. Discretionary is the other one, although that one is definitely our least favorite of the growth sectors."
"Globally, we actually like emerging markets. Multiples there are more attractive and economic growth looks to be a little bit better there than what you're seeing in the developed world."
Clissold is chief U.S. strategist for Ned Davis Research Group. He and his team are responsible for the firm's U.S. equity, asset allocation, style, sector and equity theme analysis. Previously, Ed worked at Strong Capital Management and as a market strategist at J.C. Bradford & Co.
As a part of his interview, Clissold also revealed his thoughts on tax reform.
"The tax cut really could be a game changer and kind of save the consensus numbers. If you do a back-of-the-envelope analysis of what a tax cut would mean," he explained. "If you took the tax rate down to 20 percent, which is the latest proposal, it could be around a 7 percent boost to S&P 500 earnings."
"And again, that could be the difference between the numbers coming in where analysts are expecting and a pretty big mess."


GE shares broke below $18 for the first time since December 2011 on Tuesday, as the stock's electric slide continued for the second-straight session.
The ailing behemoth saw its shares slide as much as 7 percent on Monday, for its worst trading day since 2009, following a dividend cut and a weak 2018 forecast released at its investors meeting. But if recent history is any indication, the cut may not spell doom for GE shares.
According to S&P Global, the companies with the biggest dividend cuts outside of the financial crisis are Pfizer in January 2009, Abbott Labs in December 2012, Kinder Morgan in December 2015 and Conoco Phillips in February 2016.
One year after cutting those dividends, three of the four companies surged. Shares of Pfizer, Abbott and ConocoPhillips soared 28, 44, and 49 percent respectively, while Kinder Morgan was lower by about 4 percent. This suggests that GE may possibly follow in their footsteps, a relief for the battered name that has fallen 40 percent this year and tracking for its worst annual performance since 2008.

While it's been a tough year for General Electric shareholders, Matt Maley of Miller Tabak says the dividend cut is not the final nail in the coffin for the stock. "You need a little bit of faith there that the new CEO can turn things around, but you pick away at it over the next couple of years and it may take a while. But I think you look at 10 years from now and you're going to look really good," he said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "Other things will outperform … [but] I think it's going to be a solid one.  GE's not going out of business."
Chad Morganlander, portfolio manager at Washington Crossing Advisors, believes certain fundamentals need to change for GE to be worth buying. Even as the company has transitioned to new CEO in John Flannery, Morganlander believes the water still looks murky for GE, and Monday's investor meeting did nothing to quell any concerns.
This is especially true, says Morganlander, about the company's three main branches as GE continues to sell off parts of its business. Flannery confirmed that the company was looking to sell its lighting division and would focus on its health, power and aviation branches.
"They have to show some consistency on the free cash flow before we would go and buy," Morganlander said on "Trading Nation." "You could see, potentially 36 months out or more, that they actually break up three divisions that they're hoping to consolidate in 2019, but it remains to be seen."
"This is perhaps an information situation where we need to see additional information to confirm if you should be fully engaged in the company," he added. "At this point, we would hold, and we'd be underweight if we did on it."
GE stock price was down 5 percent Tuesday.


One of the country's greatest economic minds is questioning the value and role passive investing is playing in the bull market.
Nobel Prize-winning economist Robert Shiller is seeing worrisome issues surrounding the growing popularity of index funds and ETFs among retail investors.
"The strength of this country was built on people who watched individual companies. They had opinions about them. All this talk of indexes, it's a little bit diluting of our intellect. It becomes more of a game," Shiller said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "It's a chaotic system."
Shiller, a Yale University economics professor, compares passive investing to seeing a green light at an intersection and crossing the street without looking both ways.
According to data published by Morningstar earlier this year, investors poured more than a half trillion dollars into passive funds in 2016. The number could break more records this year with investors coming off the sidelines to participate in the record rally.
"The problem is that if you are talking about passive indexing, that is something that is really free-riding on other people's work," Shiller said. "So people say, 'I'm not going to try to beat the market. The market is all-knowing.' But how in the world can the market be all-knowing, if nobody is trying — well, not as many people — are trying to beat it?"
It's a conundrum that Shiller finds perplexing. When asked what passive investing could look like in 10 years, he wasn't sure.
"It's kind of pseudoscience to think these indexes are perfect, and all I need is some kind of computer model instead of thinking about business," Shiller said.


Coca-Cola shares are set for a breakout thanks to successes overseas and its mission to expand its beverage lineup, according to Wells Fargo, which upgraded the stock to outperform.
But probably most interesting in analyst Bonnie Herzog's note was speculation that the 125-year-old purveyor of sugary beverages may make a move into alcoholic beverages. She expects management to make some hints of this at the company's investor day on Thursday.
"We expect management will highlight a lot of this innovation," Herzog wrote on Monday, as well as "expand on CEO [James] Quincey's recent commentary to: grow and incubate high-growth brands in the U.S. through its Venturing & Emerging Brands unit (VEB); build and nurture small brands internationally, similar to what it has achieved with success in the U.S. with VEB and through local partnerships; expand into other premium segments such as adult craft beverages."
Wells Fargo raised its 12-month price target on the company to $51 from $45, representing 9 percent upside from Monday's close.
A Coca-Cola spokesperson told CNBC that questions on beverage expansion will not be addressed until investor day.
The soft drink giant bought Fuze and Vitamin Water in 2007, Honest Tea in 2011 and Keurig Green Mountain in 2014. Coca-Cola that year also took a 16.7 percent stake in Monster Beverage, a popular energy drink maker. But since then, Coke's acquisition game-plan seems to have stalled.
In her list of key questions for management on investor day, Herzog writes, "To what extent does KO intend to expand into adult craft beverages, and will that include alcoholic beverages (or just mixers)?"
Coca-Cola is the world's largest non-alcoholic beverage maker with a market value of $199.6 billion. AB InBev is the world's largest maker of alcoholic beverages with a market value of $197.2 billion. The maker of Budweiser just replaced its North America president in an effort to revive slumping beer sales.
Herzog also said Coca-Cola's stake in Monster is a potential area for excitement, noting that the press has been quick to jump on any signs of a potential deal.
"We continue to believe Coca-Cola's best-in-class distribution and strong brand portfolio will allow it to retain its premium valuation and believe that investments in productivity and marketing today will pay off in years to come," added Herzog. "We think Coca-Cola can support roughly 5 to 6 percent organic revenue growth over the next several years, ahead of current consensus estimates."
During the company's upcoming investor day, the analyst also expects the business to highlight diminished headwinds in Venezuela and Brazil, and cost savings in North America.
"With a new reinvigorated management team, and renewed focus on accelerating top-line growth while maintaining discipline around costs, we believe Coca-Cola's next chapter of growth is around the corner."


Sign of the times: It is shaping up to be the hottest year in a decade to raise investor money for companies in the development stage with no specific business plan or purpose.
This week, a former hedge fund manager and a former real estate executive are raising $500 million to hunt for buyouts in the "blank check company" in the hospitality and real estate sectors.
Landscape Acquisition Holdings, run by Man GLG founder Noam Gottesman and former Vornado President Mike Fascitelli, could begin trading in London as early as this week. The two are putting $40 million of their own money into the blank check company and raising the rest from outside investors.
It comes the same week as former Procter & Gamble executives prepare for their $345 million Legacy Acquisition to begin trading in the U.S., focused on snapping up companies in consumer packaged goods, food, retail and restaurant sectors.
Blank check companies, also called special purpose acquisition companies, raise money from investors first and use it to buy companies later, usually within a specified time range. They are often run by former executives of the industry or sector they target. So far this year, 27 of them have begun trading in the U.S., raising $7.7 billion, the most active year since 2007, according to Renaissance Capital.
Low interest rates and high market valuations are making hedge funds and other investors itch for opportunities. Blank check companies are a place for them to put money and hope to reap any gains if the companies are successful, but recover their money if the companies fail to find suitable investments.
In September, former Facebook executive Chamath Palihapitiya rolled out a $690 million blank check company dedicated to buying a Silicon Valley "unicorn" and taking it public.
The largest this year was the $1 billion raised by Silver Run Acquisition Corp., according to Dealogic. Silver Run is managed by former Anadarko Petroleum CEO James Hackett to focus on deals in the energy sector. It recently struck a deal to combine with two Houston-area companies.
The former CEO of Starwood Hotels, Steve Heyer, recently raised $300 million for Haymaker Acquisition Corp., to look at deals in consumer-related products and services. And the private equity firm TPG raised nearly $700 million for its TPG Pace Energy Holdings earlier this year, to be run by former Occidental Petroleum CEO Stephen Chazen.
Last year, special purpose acquisition companies were 3 percent of overall IPO volume, according to Dealogic, the highest percentage since 2008 as global IPO volume fell. Exchanges have been fighting for the business as well, with Nasdaq recently proposing rule changes to make listing a blank check company there easier.
Gottesman is the former chairman and co-CEO of GLG Partners, a hedge fund sold to Man Group in 2010. He is also the co-founder of Nomad Foods, billed as Europe's largest frozen foods company, and TOMS Capital, owner of the New York restaurant Eleven Madison Park as well as the restaurant at the NoMad Hotel.
Fascitelli is the former president and CEO of Vornado Realty Trust, a real estate giant that owns Chicago's Merchandise Mart and One Penn Plaza in New York, among other properties. Both are alumni of Goldman Sachs.
The range of Landscape Acquisition's potential deals includes hotels, resorts, restaurants and gaming. The initial public offering is being handled by Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs.


Renowned economist Jim O'Neill said Tuesday that investors "have to believe" the dollar is not going to be the kingpin currency forever.
The greenback's status as the world's most powerful currency has been questioned for decades, but contracts based on the U.S. dollar continue to dominate global markets. However, in recent months, speculation has intensified that China could be poised to make a major move against the dollar's dominance.
When asked to what extent he felt the dollar's influence could be dwindling, the former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management told an audience at the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition Conference (ADIPEC): "I hold two contradictory views on this. Firstly, it's never going to happen because the dollar is the dollar.
"However… Germany has recently become China's number one trade partner and it is when you start to see things like this that you have to believe the dollar is not going to be kingpin in the future like it is today."
China is the world's top oil importer, and so Beijing sees it as only logical that its own currency should price the global economy's most important commodity. But beyond that, moving away from the dollar is a strategic priority for countries like China and Russia. Both aim to ultimately reduce their dependency on the greenback, limiting their exposure to U.S. currency risk and the politics of American sanctions regimes.The plan is to price oil in yuan using a gold-backed futures contract in Shanghai, but the road will be long and arduous.
"I don't think you can say with confidence that over the next decade the dollar is finished, but the ongoing geopolitical developments suggest that could change in the future," he said.
— CNBC's Sri Jegarajah contributed to this report.


Appetite for risk has increased among money managers to a new high, according to the latest fund manager survey by Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BoAML).
A total of 16 percent of investors said they are taking above normal levels of risk when choosing where to put their money, even though 48 percent of respondents said that equities were overvalued.
"Icarus is flying ever closer to the sun and investors' risk-taking has hit an all-time high," Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at BoAML, said in a statement Tuesday, borrowing a phrase from Greek mythology.
"A record high percentage of investors say equities are overvalued yet cash levels are simultaneously falling, an indicator of irrational exuberance," he added.
This means that though investors think that stocks are too expensive, they are still pushing money into those equities, which indicates that they think markets will continue to rise despite these lofty valuations.


Renowned economist Jim O'Neill says investors should overlook the growing debt pile in China, highlighting various positive factors for the world's second-largest economy.
"I can't get excited about the debt issue," Jim O'Neill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, told CNBC Tuesday.
"Not least because in the past few months there's evidence that the rise of debt growth has slowed pretty dramatically and indeed with nominal GDP (gross domestic product) growth accelerating, I think even some of the doom and gloom people about China would concede that the scale of the debt problem has come down a little," O'Neill added.
The credit-fueled economy has been criticized for presenting one of the greatest risks to the global economy. China wants to double the size of its economy between 2010 and 2020, even if that means growing debt in the non-financial sector.
The International Monetary Fund said in August that "international experience suggests that China's credit growth is on a dangerous trajectory, with increasing risks of a disruptive adjustment and/or a marked growth slowdown." The fund projected at the time that non-financial sector debt, which includes households, corporates and government debt is set to reach almost 300 percent of its GDP by 2022.


Wal-Mart is having its best year since 1999, and it's about to get a lot better, according to one market watcher.
Shares of the big-box retailer have surged more than 30 percent in 2017, putting it on pace for its best annual performance in nearly three decades. This is happening as the broader retail ETF, the XRT, tracks for its worst year since 2008. And as the company gears up for earnings later this week, Stacey Gilbert, head of derivatives strategy at Susquehanna, says that not only is the Wal-Mart still worth buying, it is her firm's favorite stock in the space.
"From a trading sentiment heading into earnings, it's an implied move of around 4 percent," she said Friday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "Nothing crazy, but the sentiment is really suggesting that there isn't expected to be anything crazy mentioned and downside is likely limited."
Gilbert believes the company's fundamentals will continue to improve. "Management has done a great job of balancing the growth of earnings as well as all of the investments needed to let it continue to be a premium U.S. leading omnichannel retailer," she added.
Wal-Mart hit another all-time high on Monday, as the retailer upped prices for some online items in an effort to compete with Amazon. But Cowen's head of sales trading, David Seaburg, believes that the online presence Wal-Mart is trying to build for itself is actually the company's biggest headwind.
"They are investing [in their e-commerce business] and talking about it loudly," he said on "Power Lunch." "The reality is it's going to take a lot of investment to get this to a $100 billion e-commerce business versus a $26, $27 billion e-commerce business."
Furthermore, the increased competition in the grocery space thanks to Amazon's Whole Foods acquisition could also hurt the big box giant's margins, according to Seaburg. Thanks to the "gross margin risk, I wouldn't be buying Wal-Mart, I'd be a seller here," he said.
Wal-Mart reports earnings Thursday morning. Analysts polled by FactSet expect the company to earn 97 cents per share on $121 billion in revenue.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are down after Monday's very modest gains.
-Small business optimism rose in October.
-The federal government hauled in a record $235.3 billion in tax revenue in October, but still ran a $63 billion deficit.
RETAIL WARS
-Home Depot same store sales in the third quarter crushed Wall Street expectations.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Home Depot – The home improvement chain reported quarterly profit of $1.84 per share, 2 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts, and a 7.9 percent increase in comparable-store sales came in above the consensus Thomson Reuters estimate of a 5.8 percent increase. Home Depot also raised its full-year forecast.
General Electric – RBC Capital downgraded the stock to "sector perform" from "outperform," saying the turnaround plan announced Monday fell short of what many on the Street had hoped to see. GE shares had their biggest one-day fall since April 2009 in Monday trading.
Advance Auto Parts – The auto parts retailer earned an adjusted $1.43 per share for its latest quarter, beating estimates of $1.21 a share. Revenue missed forecasts, however, as comparable-store sales fell 3.4 percent. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had estimated that same-store sales would fall by 2 percent.
Dick's Sporting Goods – The sporting goods retailer beat estimates by 4 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 30 cents share. Revenue beat forecasts, and although same-store sales fell 0.9 percent that was a smaller drop than the 2.9 percent decline anticipated by analysts. Dick's raised its full-year forecast, but also said 2018 earnings would decline by as much as 20 percent.
Buffalo Wild Wings — Private-equity firm Roark Capital reportedly made a more than $2.3 billion takeover offer for the restaurant chain. The Wall Street Journal reports that it isn't clear how receptive the company will be to the more than $150 per share bid.
Coca-Cola – Coca-Cola stock was upgraded to "outperform" from "market perform" at Wells Fargo, which said the beverage maker's positive momentum should continue to accelerate and that the Street is underestimating Coke's revenue growth potential.
Goldman Sachs – Goldman reportedly marked its stake in The Weinstein Co. down to zero following sexual assault allegations against co-chairman Harvey Weinstein, according to a source quoted by Reuters. It is not known how much of The Weinstein Co. is owned by Goldman, but the source described the stake as "small."
Citrix – Citrix added $1.7 billion to its common stock buyback authorization. That brings the cloud computing solutions company's total authorization to more than $2 billion.
Taubman Centers – Taubman has seen Elliott Management amass a "sizable" stake in the shopping center operator, according to a Bloomberg report, though the stake remains below 5 percent. The report said the activist investment firm has spoken with Taubman about various options including going private.
Wal-Mart – The retailer will operate a flagship store for retail chain Lord & Taylor on its Walmart.com website, with a launch expected in the spring of 2018.
Vodafone – Vodafone increased its full-year earnings forecast after the telecom company matched bottom line estimates with its latest results and reported better than expected revenue.
AT&T – AT&T is said to be planning an investigation of the White House's opposition to its acquisition of Time Warner, according to a Bloomberg report.
Delphi Automotive – Delphi's board of directors approved the spinoff of the auto parts maker's Powertrain Systems unit into a new publicly traded company called Delphi Technologies.
Hilton Worldwide – The hotel operator's stock was removed from the "Conviction Buy" list at Goldman Sachs due to valuation, although it remains on the firm's "Buy" list. The stock is up more than 25 percent in 2017 and more than 40 percent over the past 12 months.
WisdomTree Investments – WisdomTree was upgraded to "market perform" from "underperform" at Keefe Bruyette & Woods, following the ETF company's acquisition of the commodity and currency businesses from European counterpart ETF Securities.


General Electric's dividend could still be in danger even after the industrial giant slashed it in half, an analyst at JPMorgan said Tuesday.
"The cut was within the realm of possibility, and is fundable in the near term with debt and asset sales, though a downturn or spin/split would make for another chapter in this debate," JPMorgan analyst C. Stephen Tusa said in a note to investors.
GE cut its dividend by 50 percent to 12 cents a share on Monday, the largest dividend cut by a U.S. company outside of the financial crisis. Prior to Monday, GE had cut its dividend only twice since 1899. The cut was made as CEO John Flannery tries to turn around the 125-year-old conglomerate.
Cutting the dividend yield, which was the second-highest among Dow Jones industrial stocks, could give Flannery more capital to fund GE's turnaround but also could make long-time shareholders flee.
At current prices, GE's yield under the new dividend (effective in December) would be 2.5 percent.
GE on Monday also cut its 2018 earnings forecast to $1 per share to $1.07 per share.
Tusa said he was concerned because the new dividend "still represents a 65 percent payout."
GE is by far the worst-performing stock in the Dow this year, falling nearly 40 percent. It is also one of only six Dow components that were are lower for 2017 as of Monday's close. In contrast, the Dow has risen sharply this year, gaining 18.6 percent.

The company also issued profit and free cash flow guidance for 2018 on Monday that disappointed Wall Street analysts. GE also announced it would cut its number of board seats and that it will focus on its health care, aviation and energy businesses moving forward.
GE shares dropped 7.2 percent on Monday, marking their worst day since 2009. On Tuesday, the stock fell 2 percent in early trade.
"We, like Bulls, had expected more, and most notably the cost out targets here were not as ambitious as most expected," Tusa said.


The rough year for General Electric shareholders will not end anytime soon because the company's new turnaround plan did not meet expectations, according to Wall Street analysts.
GE shares had their worst day since 2009 on Monday, falling 7 percent after the company reduced its dividend and unveiled a restructuring plan during its investor day. It was the company's first investor day under CEO John Flannery, who replaced Jeff Immelt in August.
RBC Capital Markets lowered its rating to sector perform from outperform for General Electric shares, saying the company did not present a credible plan to fix its businesses.
"We attribute the sharply negative stock reaction to the Nov-13 unveiling of new CEO John Flannery's turnaround plan to a number of disappointments and unsettling disclosures," analyst Deane Dray wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "Turnaround plan fell short of the sweeping reset of the business model/portfolio many had hoped for. [There are] few reasons to believe the stock bottoms here."
Dray reduced his price target for General Electric shares to $20 from $25, representing 5 percent upside to Monday's close.
GE's stock declined 5.9 percent Tuesday to $17.90, bringing its two-day loss to more than 12 percent. The shares were at levels last seen in 2011.

The analyst said the company's admission that it paid out a dividend that was more than its industrial cash flow for years was "particularly damaging."
"We believe the new disclosures at GE's analyst meeting suggest deeper structural problems than we had anticipated," he added.
Goldman Sachs is concerned over the company's 2018 financial guidance.
"The weaker than expected 2018 EPS/FCF guide and a lack of clarity around the path to improvement in 2019/20 surprised us negatively," analyst Joe Ritchie wrote in a note to clients Tuesday entitled "Investor day recap: Reset happened, guide worse than expected, questions loom."
General Electric guided 2018 earnings before interest and taxes for its industrials business to $14 billion versus Goldman's $16 billion estimate.
"We believe a firmer view that 2018 is the bottom or 'last cut' and a quantifiable path to improvement beyond 2018 is needed to have a more constructive view on the shares," Ritchie wrote.
The analyst said his earnings estimates and price target for General Electric are under review.
Deutsche Bank believes credit analysts will now downgrade General Electric's debt.
"GE's analyst meeting surprised on several fronts. … The dividend cut to 48 cents was steeper than we expected," analyst John Inch wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "We continue to expect downgrades of GE's debt to be forthcoming. While credit analysts will likely welcome the cut to GE's dividend, the company also laid out a framework of still difficult cash generation over the next 2 years."
Inch reiterated his sell rating and $18 price target for General Electric shares.
General Electric stock is significantly underperforming the market this year. Its shares have declined nearly 40 percent year to date through Monday versus the S&P 500's 15.5 percent return.
The company did not immediately respond to a request for comment.


Commodities guru Dennis Gartman is not backing off his dramatically bearish stance on bitcoin.
"This is a market ... for criminals, this is a market for millennials," Gartman told CNBC's "Fast Money" on Monday. "This is a market for pure punters, but there is no value here whatsoever."
Even the cryptocurrency's tendency to bounce back in a big way from steep declines is not swaying Gartman.
"How can you buy or sell a painting using bitcoin, when the change in volatility is 20-30-40 percent in the course of a week? It's nonsense," he said. "I shall not trade it."
Bitcoin fell about 20 percent over the weekend, but regained much of its losses. Historically, the cryptocurrency has gained about 28 percent in the weeks following a drop of 20 percent or more.


Usually, CNBC's Jim Cramer is a big fan of corporate takeovers.
"When one company buys another, it can create so much value that you want to slap yourself in the face, wondering why the heck they didn't merge years ago," the "Mad Money" host said. "Then there's the pin action: whenever you get a deal, it tends to boost the value of all stocks in the same sector, which in turn drives up the entire market."
That's why Cramer was so bullish on Hasbro's offer to buy competing toymaker Mattel, which was reported by the Wall Street Journal over the weekend.
Not only would the deal create plenty of powerful synergies, but it would be a smart move by Hasbro, which would be taking advantage of Mattel's declines after the Toys R Us bankruptcy, he said.
But then there's the fallen-from-grace General Electric, a company Cramer said has "become the poster child for bad acquisitions."


Usually, CNBC's Jim Cramer is a big fan of corporate takeovers.
"When one company buys another, it can create so much value that you want to slap yourself in the face, wondering why the heck they didn't merge years ago," the "Mad Money" host said. "Then there's the pin action: whenever you get a deal, it tends to boost the value of all stocks in the same sector, which in turn drives up the entire market."
That's why Cramer was so bullish on Hasbro's offer to buy competing toymaker Mattel, which was reported by the Wall Street Journal over the weekend.
Not only would the deal create plenty of powerful synergies, but it would be a smart move by Hasbro, which would be taking advantage of Mattel's declines after the Toys R Us bankruptcy, he said.
Or take the now-dissolved deal between semiconductor giants Broadcom and Qualcomm, which was unanimously rejected by Qualcomm's board on Monday.
Cramer agreed with the board's reasoning — that the $103 billion bid undervalued Qualcomm — but said he would advise holding shares of Qualcomm in case its dispute with Apple ended sourly and the Broadcom "safety net" would have to be put to use.
But then there's the fallen-from-grace General Electric, a company Cramer said has "become the poster child for bad acquisitions."
Shares of GE tanked 7 percent on Monday after the industrial giant announced a company overhaul replete with a 50 percent dividend cut and slashed guidance.
Not long after on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street," Cramer called his investment in GE "one of the biggest mistakes of my career."
After all, GE spent billions buying into the energy and power markets at their peaks, Cramer said. At the same time, it sold NBC to Comcast and let go of some solid financial businesses.
"It's like they were deliberately trying to get everything wrong," the "Mad Money" host said.
That said, Cramer had some faith in GE's new CEO, John Flannery, who vowed on Monday to sell parts of the company to raise money and bring new faces to the board of directors, which was partially accountable for many of GE's unsuccessful decisions.
"Is GE the stock a buy down here? That's a rough one. Flannery said today that next year is a 'massive heavy lift.' I don't know, I don't like to lift massively," Cramer said.
But if Flannery is at all successful in his major restructuring plans, Cramer said the stock would end up being too cheap to ignore.
"But Flannery has to act fast. There can be no sacred cows. No more hype. No more unfulfilled promises," Cramer said. "Out-of-control expenses must be reduced, divisions have to be separated, and, if necessary, GE may need to to disappear. Why? ... Because the previous management wrecked this once great American industrial."
"I often talk about how important management is to the value of a company," the "Mad Money" host continued. "But if you want to know the damage bad management can do to an enterprise, just look at GE, the only industrial of this whole era that's actually gone backwards during a renaissance of American manufacturing."


As dramatic as the downturn in bitcoin's price was over the weekend, history indicates future returns will likely be greater.
Bitcoin fell about 20 percent over the weekend before recovering much of its losses. The last four times bitcoin has fallen more than 20 percent this year, it has gained an average 28 percent in the two weeks following, according to digital currency trading firm Genesis Global Trading.
Four weeks out, the digital currency has gained an average 61.5 percent, the data showed.
Bitcoin performance in the weeks after a drop of more than 20%

Source: Genesis Global Trading
The digital currency plunged to a low of $5,507 this weekend amid uncertainty over bitcoin's future. Developers have disagreed over the best way to improve bitcoin's transaction speeds and costs, resulting in splits in the digital currency.
After some developers last Wednesday called off an upgrade proposal called SegWit2x, investors began buying "bitcoin cash," the bitcoin offshoot formed in August. Another alternative version of bitcoin, "bitcoin gold," launched Sunday in an effort to make the process of creating, or "mining," the digital currency less dependent on specialized hardware.
The original bitcoin has proved resilient so far this year. Bitcoin hit record highs after the August split into bitcoin and bitcoin cash. Bitcoin also more than recovered from a $2,000 drop in September after a Chinese crackdown on digital currencies. Digital currency enthusiasts attribute the gains to growing interest from institutional investors, especially as the planned launch of bitcoin futures later this year may allow other products such as a bitcoin exchange-traded fund to launch.
Bitcoin this year

Source: CoinDesk
Bitcoin traded more than 9 percent higher, near $6,392, Monday afternoon, according to CoinDesk.
Fundstrat's Tom Lee predicts bitcoin could hit $25,000 or more by 2022. Former Fortress hedge-fund manager Mike Novogratz also said on CNBC's "Fast Money" in October that bitcoin will likely top $10,000 in the next six to 10 months.
But that's no guarantee that bitcoin will keep rising.
Novogratz has also said the digital currency "is going to be the largest bubble of our lifetimes." He's just willing to bet on gains on the way up, before a crash.
— With reporting by CNBC's Seema Mody.


Value investor Seth Klarman's Baupost Group hedge fund has eliminated its stake in Qualcomm just two quarters after taking it.
Baupost acquired 5.2 million shares of Qualcomm in the first quarter, and sold them all in the third quarter, according to a required quarterly filing Monday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Sometimes compared to Warren Buffett, investor Klarman is reclusive and tends to focus on the long-term. Klarman has generated tens of billions of dollars in gains for his clients across decades.
The hedge fund also initiated a stake in AMC Entertainment with 3.6 million shares, the third quarter filing showed.

Qualcomm shares fell almost 9.6 percent between the end of the first quarter and the end of the third quarter, although it's unclear from the filings exactly when Baupost bought and sold.
Shares fell nearly 6.7 percent on Oct. 31 after The Wall Street Journal reported that Apple was designing products for next year that would not include Qualcomm components. Both companies declined to comment.
But Qualcomm shares have subsequently surged 30 percent to their highest since January. Broadcom made a more than $100-billion unsolicited takeover bid for the rival chipmaker, which Qualcomm rejected Monday. Qualcomm shares closed up nearly 3 percent.
— CNBC's Tae Kim contributed to this report.


Investors are going to be thirsty for the kind of returns to which they become accustomed now that the Federal Reserve is taking their "juice" away from them, market expert Jim Paulsen said.
Since the darkest days of the financial crisis, the Fed has been keeping interest rates low and making sure liquidity is flowing through the financial pipes thanks to the way the central bank has been managing its $4.5 trillion debt-laden balance sheet.
But as the Fed continues to raise rates and starts shrinking its bond portfolio, investors in both stocks and bonds face a different world.
"This bull market has been driven by several persistent themes including chronic investor fear, disinflation, falling yields, Fed accommodation, and yes, Juice!" Paulsen, chief investment strategist at the Leuthold Group, wrote in a note to clients. "The pillars of this bull market are waning and the sand under investors' feet is shifting."
The tone of his remarks is notable because Paulsen over the years has been a reliable bull who has advocated for stocks even when the market appeared shaky.
However, he has turned cautious lately as the Fed has indicated it is determined to begin rolling back some of the highly accommodative policy moves it has taken since the crisis.
"As financial markets are weaned off the juice they have been drinking for almost a decade, investors should prepare for a very different bull market in the balance of this recovery," he said. "Without a chronic injection of financial liquidity, the stock market may struggle more frequently, overall returns are likely to be far lower, and bond yields may customarily rise."
Paulsen's remarks come amid a split in market sentiment: The latest Yale School of Management survey shows individual investors at their least optimistic point in the history of the survey, going back to 1989, while institutional investors also are losing confidence and at their lowest level of bullishness since late-2016.

To be sure, Paulsen is not predicting a market collapse. Instead, he suggests investors will need to shift strategy away from the cyclical U.S.-centric approach that has worked for most of the past 8½ years, due to the likely contraction of money supply compared to nominal GDP growth.
That means value over growth stocks, international over domestic, and inflationary sectors, like energy, materials and industrials, over disinflationary groups like telecom and utilities.
Paulsen points out that growth in the money supply has decelerated from 8 percent at the start of 2016 to 4.6 percent over the past six months. Declines in financial liquidity have coincided with just a 4.3 percent gain in the S&P 500 since 1959, while increases have pushed the index higher an average 12 percent, he said.
"The U.S. economy has returned to full employment, wage inflation has turned higher, global economic activity has synchronized, and the Federal Reserve is tightening monetary conditions," he said. "If the juice runs out, history suggests stock market returns could decline by two-thirds!"
WATCH: Art Cashin of UBS looks at the stock market's lackluster recent performance.


As trade negotiators prepare to meet in Mexico this week, Wall Street is increasingly worried the 23-year-old NAFTA trade deal could fall apart, creating the potential for new trade clashes in North America and around the globe.
Analysts say tough "America first" trade talk from President Donald Trump in Vietnam last week raised new concerns about his opposition to deals like the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada. Trump has pushed for the renegotiation of NAFTA, and he has also threatened to withdraw from it, something analysts say appears to be increasingly possible.
The talks enter a fifth round Wednesday, and the U.S. has been attempting to narrow a $60 billion trade deficit with Mexico and modernize the agreement on such things as intellectual property, digital trade and financial services. After the last round, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said he was "surprised and disappointed by the resistance to change" by Mexico and Canada on these fronts but added there has been some movement on modernization.
"There are lots of scenarios where this thing just dies. You can't rule that out," said Greg Valliere, chief global strategist at Horizon Investments. "I think that [Trump] just sent a signal in that speech that he doesn't want any kind of multilateral deals. He just wants bilateral deals. To be fair, you could say we could cut a deal with [Canadian Prime Minister Justin] Trudeau, maybe with Mexico. And with [U.K. Prime Minister] Theresa May. There are options."
But there is also downside and the potential for increased U.S. protectionism. "There are already trade disputes between the U.S. and Canada on lumber and dairy products. We slapped tariffs on their aircraft. There are already issues. There could be a fight with China over aluminum and steel. I just worry these things become more numerous," Valliere said. Trump is expected to make a trade announcement Wednesday, but analysts do not expect it to be about NAFTA.
Sticking points in the negotiations have been over new rules of origin, with the U.S. seeking that 85 percent of any automobile to be sourced to NAFTA countries, with 50 percent of the total coming from the U.S., whereas current sourcing rules are for 62.5 percent to be made in NAFTA countries. The U.S. imports billions of dollars in car parts from Mexico annually, in addition to actual automobiles. Other points of disagreement have been the U.S. insistence on dropping a process to resolve disputes and also the addition of a five-year termination clause.
"They're making great progress in the Congress on the tax bill. Is this really where you want to go and offset some of those benefits? But polling is strong on this on NAFTA, and this may be something they want to do," said Daniel Clifton, head of policy research at Strategas Research. "I think the market will extrapolate a larger global trade war if that happens."
Jens Nordvig, Exante Data CEO, sent out a warning note Monday that his firm now sees a 30 to 40 percent chance of NAFTA "blowing up" by March.
While Ian Bremmer, president of Eurasia Group said in a note Monday that he has long thought there was 50/50 chance NAFTA would fall apart, but he is also becoming increasingly concerned.
"The big risk is that trade tension in NAFTA spreads to a more global stage, for example if the EU sides with Mexico in WTO disputes. This is where the global risk grows very large," Nordvig said in an email.
The potential economic impact is unclear but there would be an immediate response in the currency markets. Nordvig points out that the peso fell to a low of 22 vs. the dollar in January. It was at about 19.15 Monday.
"If NAFTA blows up, it is very vulnerable," Nordvig notes, adding Mexico could turn politically to the left in its upcoming presidential election. "Hence, we are talking about potentially very significant [peso] weakness in a NAFTA blow-up scenario, especially if it drives political changes in Mexico also."
He said the Canadian dollar would also against the U.S. dollar if NAFTA ended. "But that is not the case globally. In fact, I think over the medium-term, [euro] and [Chinese yuan] would benefit from the U.S. "America First" policy, as it has to make the [dollar] a less attractive reserve currency," Nordvig noted.
The economic consequences of the end of NAFTA are unclear but Valliere notes that American farmers could be among the groups that feel impact since they are big exporters.  The U.S. had a $12.5 billion surplus with Canada in 2016, and it traded $628 billion in goods and services with the U.S. last year, compared with Mexico's $580 billion.
Bremmer said Canada and Mexico also see the potential for the talks to fall apart. "Both now have plans well underway for how to respond to what a NAFTA-less North America looks like. The economic hit is equally clear for both, but the politics are another matter," he wrote. "Anti-Trump sentiment in Canada is so high that there's not likely to be much fallout for Trudeau and his liberal party if the relationship falls apart. Meanwhile, Mexican president Enrique Pena Nieto is ostensibly the pro-Trump guy; this has a huge impact on next year's elections."
The bigger impact would clearly be on Mexico's economy and businesses. There has been a significant decline in stocks of Mexican companies that have large exposure to the U.S., according to Strategas.

Source: Strategas Research
"The Mexican authorities are trying to downplay the affects so they're putting out numbers about how much trade already goes under WTO rules and non NAFTA rules. They're trying to talk about diversification of markets. They talk about the growth of imports from Argentina and Brazil," said Juan Carlos Hartasanchez, senior director at Albright Stonebridge Group. He said imports, largely grain, have grown 10 to 15 percent in the last year from Brazil and Argentina. "They logically have to boost confidence. However, the impact is still strong. I think GDP would suffer…It definitely would be an important hit to GDP just because of the sheer size of Mexican U.S. trade."
Hartasanchez said if the U.S. does withdraw from NAFTA, Mexico has said it would not remain at the table though the actual withdraw would be six months away. "The way [the U.S.] could justify getting out is saying the blame falls on Mexico and Canada and saying they weren't willing to renegotiate," he said.
In an editorial, the Wall Street Journal Sunday said the biggest threat to Trump's economy is his trade agenda. The newspaper pointed to its own poll that said 82 percent of economists surveyed said the economy would grow more slowly for the next two years that it would have otherwise, but only 7 percent expected recession. "That underestimates the risks of recession in our view, given the political shock from such a reckless act by a U.S. President and the damage that would ensue to North American and even global supply chains," the editorial said.
Valliere said free trade has become a target of both the left and far right. "People don't like free trade anymore. It's unpopular," he said. "I think you could make a compelling case that it's helped the U.S. It's helped our export sector. It's brought in goods that are low priced and that's been good for consumers… But there is a focus on the people who have been hurt."


If you want to hedge your bets on media, Comcast is your best choice according to IAC/InterActiveCorp and Expedia chairman and senior executive Barry Diller.
"Of all those companies, Comcast is the most perfectly positioned because they are really on the distribution side in a significant way, and they're on the production side also in a significant way," Diller told CNBC's Julia Boorstin on "Power Lunch" at the Internet Association's Virtuous Circle Summit on Monday. "Whichever one you bet on for having the ability to grow in the period when big technology companies take over almost anything, that's a pretty good bet."
The era of a handful of traditional media companies dominating the landscape is over as more technology giants get in the game, Diller said. Existing media companies can still survive, but they'll never have the monopoly over entertainment and advertising while Facebook and Google have such large user bases.
Cord-cutting is less of a risk for companies like Comcast, Diller explained. If people stop buying its cable bundle, it still owns the data pipeline.
Diller also applauded Disney's current strategy of investing in ways to bring its content direct to consumers through streaming services and moving its content off other services like Netflix. It will need a lot of original content to pull it off so reports Disney was interested in buying most of 21st Century Fox make sense, Diller said. However he added he has no idea if the deal will take place.
Note: Comcast owns CNBC parent company NBCUniversal.


Investors should not overlook Intel's artificial intelligence prowess, according to one Wall Street firm.
Barclays reiterated its overweight rating and raised its price target for Intel shares, predicting the chipmaker will thrive in multiple secular growth markets.
The company's shares are roughly flat midday Monday after the report.
"Intel has a better position in the AI inference market than they get credit for, which we expect to begin to play out in 2018," analyst Blayne Curtis wrote in a note to clients Monday.
Intel is the market leader in CPUs [central processing units], while Nvidia dominates the GPU [graphics processing units] chip industry.
The company has an "unappreciated advantage vs. GPUs … While a GPU can show performance advantages vs. a CPU in a controlled favorable setting, a CPU offers a greater ease of use and better real world performance" for AI applications.
Curtis increased his price target for Intel shares to $55 from $45, representing 21 percent upside to Friday's close.
The analyst noted Intel's Skylake chip platform doubled machine learning performance.
"We expect large improvements in future generations as that workload takes off," he wrote.
The analyst is also optimistic on the company's acquisition of Mobileye, a leader in autonomous driving technology solutions and Intel's wireless modem business.
"With the PC market stabilizing and a declining piece of the overall mix, we believe DCG [Intel's data center group] can increasingly drive top-line growth along with other diversification initiatives," he wrote. "We also look for a rotation into Intel as it is one of the cheapest names in the large cap semi space."
Intel's stock is up 26 percent year to date through Friday compared with the S&P 500's 15 percent gain.


Start-ups are worried about one part of the Senate's tax reform proposal that would hurt their ability to compete: taxing stock options when they vest, instead of when they are exercised, as is currently done.
Companies, often Silicon Valley start-ups such as Twitter, typically compensate employees with the promise of being able to cash out on the company's stock in the future. Usually, the right to those shares is distributed over time, a process known as vesting. Stock options are currently taxed when they're exercised, or sold at a set price.
The Senate bill if it became law "would be the end of equity compensation in startups as we know it," Fred Wilson, managing partner at venture capital firm Union Square Ventures, said in a blog post Monday.
"If this provision becomes law, startup and growth tech companies will not be able to offer equity compensation to their employees," Wilson said. "We will see equity compensation replaced with cash compensation and the ability to share in the wealth creation at your employer will be taken away. This has profound implications for those who work in tech companies and equally profound implications for the competitiveness of the US tech sector."


China's growth rate and the burgeoning relevance of its consumers are "easily" the most important influences on the global economy, according to the former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management.
Jim O'Neill said Monday that while it had been "fashionable" to talk about India outpacing China as the fastest-growing major economy, it should not be forgotten that Beijing's gross domestic product (GDP) remains five times larger than New Delhi.
And it's the role of the Chinese consumer that's pivotal to its economic success story, O'Neill said at the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition Conference (ADIPEC).
On Saturday, China held its ninth annual 11.11 Global Shopping Festival — otherwise known as Singles Day. In just short of a decade, it has become the largest shopping event in the world.
Alibaba announced over the weekend that Singles Day sales had ballooned up to $25.4 billion in 2017 — up 42 percent when compared to the previous year.
That figure not only set a new record for the e-commerce giant, but it also topped Black Friday and Cyber Monday U.S. sales combined.
"Singles Day in China makes the U.S. consumer look like an irrelevance," O'Neill said.
China aims to double GDP and per capita income by 2020, from 2010 levels — a target set in 2012 — and growth is on track to hit those goals.The International Monetary Fund (IMF) and many economists have urged Beijing to lower or do away with official growth targets altogether to reduce the country's reliance on debt-fueled stimulus and get higher quality growth.
— Reuters contributed to this report.


It doesn't sound like much: General Electric is cutting its dividend from 96 cents a year to 48 cents. But GE has a lot of shares outstanding: 8.67 billion.
Reducing the dividend by 48 cents with 8.67 billion shares outstanding means shareholders are getting $4.1 billion less in dividends each year.
On an historic basis, that's a lot.
It's the eighth-largest dividend cut in the history of the S&P 500 by dollar value:

Two points to make:
That means GE's most recent cut would be the biggest cut of all time on a dollar basis outside the financial crisis, according to S&P Global data.
You have to go to Kinder Morgan, which cut its dividend by $3.4 billion in December 2015, and ConocoPhillips, which cut the dividend $2.5 billion in February 2016, to find dividend cuts around this size outside the financial crisis. Both, of course, are energy stocks.
Dividend cuts are fairly rare, and with good reason: Investors have been willing to pay a lot for higher yields.
Through Friday, 310 companies in the S&P 500 have increased their dividend this year, only nine have decreased them. GE makes it 10.
The other dividend cutters this year include DowDuPont, Mosaic (twice), Mattel (twice), Xerox, and Progressive.
What's all this mean? For the moment, it appears that GE is a bit of a one-off.
Howard Silverblatt, who watches dividends for S&P, noted that the "overall dividend picture is very positive, as companies have record earnings, with cash also at a record, and cash-flow good; additionally the bleeding in energy related issues appears to have stopped."
Indeed, Silverblatt notes that dividend payments for the S&P 500 are at a record in Q3,'17: $105.4 billion, same for Q4. This would be a sixth-consecutive annual record.


General Electric has a lot that's wrong with it, and the stock is not worth $20 per share — around the level where it opened on Monday, CNBC's Jim Cramer said.
Shares of GE were off sharply — and even went below $20 per share in early trading —   after the conglomerate said before the market opened that it would cut its quarterly dividend in half to help free up capital to fund a turnaround. GE also announced an aggressive corporate restructuring.
Cramer — whose charitable trust owns the stock — said, "GE is one of the biggest mistakes of my career." Last month, when speculation about the dividend cut and some sort of restructuring were circulating, Cramer had said, "Rarely have I felt this stupid," while questioning what investors should do with the stock.
"I don't want to talk against my [investment], but I don't know how it's possible anyone thinks it should be worth $20," Cramer on Monday. "There's just a lot that's wrong." It should be "a 17 times earnings" stock, he added. GE said it now sees adjusted earnings for the year ahead of between $1 per share and $1.07 per share.
Cramer also calls GE's forecast of free cash flow between $6 billion and $7 billion "suspect," adding some analysts were skeptical. If new Chairman and CEO John Flannery "is approaching this pretty vigorously, why not just lower it [even further] if that's the case?" he asked.
There are divisions in the company that are not "up to snuff," said Cramer. But he added Flannery is a "no-nonsense guy" who has acknowledged GE's problems.
"Even though there is a lot that's not great here, Flannery is going to make it look like a regular company," Cramer said. "You're going to be able to look at it and say maybe it's not where Honeywell is but it can get there," he said, referring the very different story at industrial rival Honeywell, which has seen its stock surge 25 percent this year compared to GE's 37 percent decline since in 2017.


Wall Street rarely talks about its mistakes, but BMO Capital Markets admitted in a note to clients that it messed up with its bearish call for Nvidia shares.
The firm's analyst raised his rating for the chipmaker to market perform from underperform, saying his predictions and forecasts were way off base.
"We have been reluctant to change our view, but now recognize that our underperform call did not work out," BMO's Ambrish Srivastava wrote in a note to clients Sunday.
"Our negative stance to date was based largely on our view that the gaming business would see a marked deceleration in CY17 vs. CY16. However, the diversity in the business with wins at Nintendo, and help from the cryptocurrency market, has enabled the business to sustain at a higher level than what we were modeling." Nvidia shares closed at an all-time high Friday, a day after it reported stronger-than-expected third-quarter earnings results. The stock is up 102.5 percent year to date through Friday compared with the S&P 500's 15 percent gain. That performance ranks No. 4 in the entire S&P 500.
Srivastava raised his price target for Nvidia shares to $200 from $135. The new target is 7.5 percent below Friday's closing price.
About 19 percent of Nvidia's sales are in its data center segment, where its cards are used for machine learning and artificial intelligence applications.
"NVIDIA has done a very good job in capitalizing on the demand for AI/ML, and primarily on the training side, where the company really has no competition," Srivastava wrote. "While we are ourselves believers in the secular trend to heterogeneous computing, we have been wrong on the tailwind for NVIDIA's business in this market."
Srivastava lowered his rating for the company's shares to underperform from market perform on Feb. 23. Nvidia stock is up 115 percent since the downgrade through Friday.
"Additionally, NVIDIA has also demonstrated a far higher amount of leverage in its model than we had been anticipating. The recently-reported quarter was an example of the earnings power in the model," he wrote.
Nvidia stock traded down 1.3 percent on Monday.


Bitcoin rallied more than 11 percent in just over half a day on Monday, following a dramatic plunge in the cryptocurrency over the weekend.
The digital currency started trading at $5,857.32 on Monday and rose nearly 15.6 percent to a session high of $6,770.37, according to data from industry website CoinDesk. Bitcoin last traded around 11.3 percent higher near $6,520.
Bitcoin's market capitalization, or the total value of all the virtual coins in circulation, rose over $10 billion in the same time period, according to industry website Coinmarketcap.com.
Bitcoin one-week performance

Source: CoinDesk
Just last week, bitcoin hit a record high of $7,879.06 that was attributed to factors including CME Group announcing plans to offer bitcoin futures contracts, and some favorable regulation in countries like Japan, which has legalized bitcoin as a method of payment.
The bitcoin network was also due to undergo an upgrade called SegWit2x, which was initially planned for November 16. Its aim was to increase the transactions speed of the bitcoin network. But support for the upgrade has waned causing developers to call off its planned implementation.
This appeared to be the catalyst for the sell-off that began Friday.


United Parcel Services and FedEx could see as much as 50 percent earnings upside thanks to accelerating global trade, according to Goldman Sachs.
Analysts at Goldman initiated coverage on UPS and FedEx with  buy ratings, citing a strong international outlook and overblown worries about Amazon's foray into airfreight and logistics.
"We think the market is overlooking acceleration in global trade," analyst Matt Reustle wrote in Monday's note to clients. "Concerns about margins and what impact Amazon may have on the airfreight and logistics industries are overstated and point to dependency on the US Postal Service and the $125 billion capex hurdle we think it would cost to compete in airfreight and logistics on a global scale."
"Lost in the shuffle of 'e-commerce'" has been growth in UPS' export business and strength in FedEx's international business, according to Reustle. He said that although more than 95 percent of residential deliveries in the U.S. are made by the Postal Service, UPS and FedEx, the companies should benefit from growth abroad.
The Goldman analyst cites UPS' $2 billion investment in its international network as evidence for its buy rating and optimism abroad.
But while UPS may see upside abroad, shares tumbled last month after reports that Amazon is experimenting with a new delivery service hit the Street.
Bloomberg reported that Amazon's new service would be aimed at making more items available for free two-day shipping. It would also relieve overcrowding in the company's warehouses.
Shares of UPS and FedEx fell after the news in October.
UPS also made headlines in domestic markets after making an unprecedented move for the holidays, announcing it will charge extra during peak shipping weeks in November and December. Citi Research said the move suggests UPS "is in the process of accelerating" its business, and raised its forecast for the company's stock in August.
Reustle established a $148 price target on UPS, representing 31 percent upside from Friday's close. Shares closed up 1.4 percent on Monday.
As for FedEx, the analyst also sees significant upside over the next 12 months as the company recovers from a major cyberattack on its new European subsidiary TNT Express.
FedEx announced in June that TNT was attacked, disrupting operations and communications. While the company said that no data had been breached, some Wall Street firms grew skeptical that the hack would leave FexEx strapped for volume. But with the holiday season fast approaching, those concerns may take a backseat to speedy deliveries.
"We believe that the upcoming peak season and ongoing restoration of the TNT systems are catalysts for FDX shares," wrote the analyst. "While fiscal year 2018 likely carries noise from TNT integration, we estimate FedEx will meet its more than 10 percent earnings per share growth and 10 percent or more operating margins in fiscal year 2019.
The analyst's $270 price target on FedEx represents 24 percent upside from Friday's close. Shares closed up 1.5 percent on Monday.


General Electric is trying to turn things around, as the company announced Monday it was slashing its dividend in half and restructuring to focus primarily on three units.
"To really turn this company around operationally and culturally, it's going to take CEO John Flannery — if he does it right — five years," industrial analyst Brian Langenberg said on CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Langenberg compares GE's current situation to that of Honeywell over a decade ago. He says Honeywell went from being "a burned-out husk" of a company to "about four or five years" later being "credible with investors" again.
"There is a path to doing that, but it is not going to be a quick fix," Langenberg said.
GE spent years "buying high and selling low," according to Langenberg. For years the company overpaid for acquisitions and crippled its cash flow, a reality Vertical Research Partners founder Jeffrey Sprague also identified on "Squawk Box."
"It could have been fixable but there were many capital allocation mistakes over the years," Sprague said. "GE was slow to admit or recognize the pressures there, but they've been coming for awhile."
As a result, GE "absolutely had to cut the dividend," Sprague says. He says he fully expected GE's announcement to cut its quarterly dividend in half,  to 12 cents a share from 24 cents a share, effective in December.
"It's very clear the power markets are in bad shape, and that's the biggest business at GE," Sprague said. "They have gotten themselves extended on cash flow here over the last several years and then had their biggest market turn on them."
"It really just left them no out," Sprague added.
Shares of GE were down 33 percent this year as of Friday's close, according to FactSet.
The shares were down 1.6 percent on Monday shortly after the open.


It's been a wild ride for bitcoin investors in the last week.
The news that the CME Group would launch a futures contract on the first and most highly valued cryptocurrency in the market sent the price of each bitcoin flying to a record high of $7,879 last week — more than 10 times its price of just a year ago.
On Wednesday, however, sentiment reversed sharply, as a plan to make the bitcoin network more practical for users fell apart. It was reason enough for scores of hedge funds now trading the digital currency to take some profits. Bitcoin was down 30 percent by Saturday.
"Bitcoin [and other cryptocurrencies] are not for the faint of heart," said Ian Weinberg, CEO of Family Wealth & Pension Management. "I expect a lot more upside and downside volatility.
"It's getting on the radar screen of Wall Street now, but this is speculation. I don't consider it an investable asset class yet," he added.
Neither does Amy Hubble, a certified financial planner and founder of Radix Financial. Like Weinberg, she is fascinated with the potential of bitcoin and the blockchain technology underlying it. The run-up in price hasn't escaped her notice, either.
"Advisors should not stick their head in the sand about an asset class that returns over 800 percent in a year," said Hubble. "As a fiduciary, I have a responsibility to research and be conversant on emerging investment opportunities."
More from Smart Investing: Bitcoin too risky for "serious" investing, say advisors Millennials lack confidence to invest: Bank executive What investors should do before market gets gored
Hubble, however, has gone deep enough into the weeds on bitcoin to know that she's not yet ready to invest in it. "Bitcoin and other protocol tokens don't have any cash flows, they don't pay dividends, there is no way to systematically determine demand growth for them, and I don't have the technical expertise to determine the value of one cryptocurrency over another," she said.
The investment story for bitcoin and cryptocurrencies is attractive to more than just techies and libertarians, however. The blockchain technology employed by cryptocurrencies is a major innovation. It offers a secure way to execute transactions worldwide without intermediaries taking their pounds of flesh: no central bank, no clearing firm, no "trusted" third party. It has the potential to lower costs and improve security by cutting out financial middlemen for all sorts of transactions in a wide range of markets.
"It's an alternative currency with no third-party mediator audited on a daily basis by its own users," said Samuel Boyd, an advisor with Capital Asset Management Group. "If cryptocurrencies become widely accepted, bitcoin is the gold standard."
Bitcoin: The pros and cons
Pros
• Volatility • Big gains • Interesting topic for cocktail parties
Cons
• Volatility • Manipulation of the ledger • Government regulation • Total loss of money
The so-called blockchain underlying cryptocurrencies essentially constructs a public ledger of transactions and replicates it across all the computers in a network, making it virtually impossible for people to reverse transactions or to double-spend currency. Bitcoin owners have a continuously updated record of every transaction in the currency since it was created by the mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto in 2009. Every 10 minutes a new block of transactions is added to the chain and transmitted across the network.
Theoretically, people with enough computing power — such as a coalition of bitcoin miners, who help maintain the integrity of the network and get rewarded with new bitcoins — could manipulate the blockchain, but it would likely not be in their best interest to do so.
"There could be malicious actors, but as bitcoin owners, they would probably hurt themselves more than anyone else," said Matt Green, a professor of computer science at Johns Hopkins University.
As a medium of exchange, bitcoin has thus far been a flop. While plenty of companies will accept bitcoin as payment for their products and services, few consumers have taken advantage. It takes a lot of computing power and is inconvenient for small-value transactions.


Amazon may reach the $1 trillion market value milestone in the next year, according to a top Wall Street firm.
Morgan Stanley reiterated its overweight rating for Amazon shares, presenting a "bull case" 12-month price target of $2,000 per share or roughly a $1 trillion market cap.
"Amazon's high margin [revenue] disclosure speaks to the $1trln ($2,000/sh) sum of parts bull case," analyst Brian Nowak wrote in a note to clients Sunday entitled "The Math Behind the Trillion Dollar Bull Case."
"Our sum of the parts methodology looks out to 2022 for the 5 various segments (1P, 3P, AWS, Subscription, and Advertising/Other) and applies multiples based on what we view are appropriate peer groups, factoring in relative growth rates and margin profiles. We discount each segment back to year-end 2018 to arrive at a $2,000/share value or ~$1 trillion bull case."
Nowak shared his valuation methodology and key forecasts for each of Amazon's businesses to reach the $2,000 share price target.
The analyst valued Amazon's core retail business at $600 billion, estimating 13 percent annual sales growth for its e-commerce business in 2022 and a 5.5 percent operating profit margin that year. He also estimates its third-party marketplace business will achieve a 25 percent earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) profit margin in five years.
Nowak gives a $270 billion valuation for Amazon Web Services, the company's cloud computing arm, forecasting 18 percent annual sales growth and a 50 percent EBITDA margin in year 2022. He also assigns a $70 billion value to the company's growing subscription business and $55 billion for its advertising segment.
Even as he outlined the positive optimistic scenario, the analyst reiterated his $1,250 price target for Amazon shares, representing 11 percent upside to Friday's close.
Amazon shares have rallied 50 percent year to date through Friday, compared with the S&P 500's 15 percent return.


It is hard to imagine the Dow Jones industrial average without General Electric. The U.S. industrial conglomerate's stock is the lone original component of the venerable blue-chip index that debuted in 1896.
But GE's dwindling share price and the likelihood that its new chief executive will dramatically slim down its sprawling operations is leading some index-watchers to consider the possibility of the company losing its membership in the elite 30-stock Dow.
"Since it is trading at a low share price and has a small weighting in the index, that does put it at an increased risk of getting removed," said Alex Bryan, director of passive strategies research at Morningstar in Chicago. "I don't think it's obvious that it is going to be removed from the index, but it certainly is at risk."
GE's shares last week closed under $20 for the first time in more than five years, its struggles made clear by a disappointing third-quarter earnings report last month. The stock closed at $20.49 on Friday, marking a 35 percent decline in 2017.
The stock price is now the lowest among Dow members. Because the Dow is a price-weighted index, unlike the benchmark S&P 500. which is influenced by the market values of its constituents, that means GE has the least impact on the Dow's daily swings.
As of Friday, GE's weight stood at only 0.6 percent. By comparison, aircraft maker Boeing, whose stock is above $260, has a 7.7 percent weight.
Changes to the Dow are made on an as-needed basis and selection is not governed by quantitative rules, according to the published methodology for the index.
A spokesman for S&P Dow Jones Indices said the committee that oversees the Dow index meets regularly and that its discussions are confidential. GE declined to comment.
Ivan Cajic, vice president for index and ETF research for ITG, said if the Dow were to make a change in the near future, GE is the likeliest to be removed.
"I wouldn't be surprised if the company is safe for the time being and Dow Jones adopts a wait-and-see approach over the next few months to see how both the stock price and what the overall company looks like in the coming months," Cajic said.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
General Electric — GE announced a 50 percent cut in its quarterly dividend to 12 cents per share. The announcement came ahead of GE's Investor Day, at which CEO John Flannery will lay out his long-term vision for the company. The Wall Street Journal reports that GE plans to focus on three of its biggest businesses — aviation, power, and health care. Flannery will be a guest on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" Tuesday at 9:30 a.m. ET.
Tyson Foods – The beef and poultry producer reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.43 per share, beating estimates by 5 cents a share. Revenue also beat forecasts. Tyson said performance in its beef and pork segments was particularly strong.
Qualcomm – Qualcomm is preparing to reject rival chipmaker Broadcom's $103 billion takeover offer as early as this week, according to Reuters quoting four people familiar with the matter.
United Parcel Service, FedEx – Goldman initiated coverage on both delivery companies with "buy" ratings and added UPS to its "conviction buy" list. Goldman thinks concerns over Amazon.com's foray into logistics and delivery are overplayed.
Sony – Sony shares could rise by 20 percent in the coming year, according to an article in Barron's. The paper said such a rise could be driven by stronger sales of smartphone camera chips and video game systems and software.
Boeing — Boeing got a $15 billion order from Emirates for 40 787-10 Dreamliner jets. The news was unveiled at the Dubai Airshow, which got underway this past weekend.
JD.com – JD.com said Singles Day-related sales have totaled more than $19.1 billion, up 50 percent from a year ago. Those numbers for the China-based e-commerce company include 11 days of sales running through Singles Day.
Mattel – Mattel recently received a takeover offer from rival toymaker Hasbro, according to The Wall Street Journal. The details of the offer couldn't be learned and no deal may result from the approach.
GGP – GGP received a $23 per share offer from Brookfield Property Partners to buy the shares of the mall owner that it doesn't already own, according to The Wall Street Journal. The offer is worth $14.8 billion, half in stock and half in cash.
Wal-Mart – Wal-Mart is raising online prices for products also available in its stores, according to the Journal, which said that the retail giant is trying to boost profits and drive more traffic to its stores.
Equifax – Equifax was downgraded to "hold" from "buy" at Stifel Nicolaus, with the firm saying it expected the credit reporting agency to take time to recover from the effects of its cybersecurity breach.
Teva Pharmaceutical – The drugmaker's stock was downgraded to "underweight" from "neutral" at JPMorgan, which cites several factors including the stock's relative valuation to its peers in what's already a challenged generic drug industry.
Nvidia – The graphics chipmaker's shares were upgraded to "market perform" from "underperform" at BMO Capital, which also increased its price target to $200 per share from $135. The firm said Nvidia's data center business is far stronger than it had anticipated.


High volatility isn't going away for bitcoin, raising questions about whether the digital currency can be a sustainable investment asset.
Late Saturday, the crypto-currency plunged 15 percent from nearly $6,500 to a low of $5,507, before intermittently shooting back up to near $6,400, according to CoinDesk. Bitcoin last traded near $6,060, down about 4 percent on the day.
Trading in a U.S. stock index is typically halted after such an extreme drop, not to mention repeated swings higher or lower. However, more than 120 "cryptofunds" have emerged to invest in bitcoin, other digital currencies and related business projects, according to financial research firm Autonomous Next.
Analysts say a major factor behind bitcoin's seven-fold surge to record highs this year is increased interest from institutional developers.
Bitcoin in the last 24 hours

Source: CoinDesk
Critically, the latest swings in bitcoin also reflect disagreement among digital currency developers about the future of bitcoin. As the original bitcoin tumbled, supporters of offshoot bitcoin cash, took to promoting it over the weekend on Twitter.
Bitcoin has retraced in the last few days, despite initially rising to a record high of $7,879. Last week,  developers called off an upgrade called SegWit2x, initially planned for around Nov. 16.
The proposal was an attempt to improve bitcoin's transaction speed and cost. But support for SegWit2x waned in the last few months.
Meanwhile, bitcoin cash soared to a record high of around $2,477 overnight, before crashing about 50 percent to a low near $1,224 Sunday afternoon, according to CoinMarketCap.  Trading volume in bitcoin cash over the last 24 hours was around $7.9 billion, versus $8.6 billion for the original bitcoin, according to CoinMarketCap.



As General Electric shares continued making new lows ahead of its widely anticipated shareholder meeting on Monday, bulls clung to the notion of a potential breakup of the company as a reason to own the stock. But that argument may not work out, according to one widely followed analyst.
GE shares were slightly higher in premarket trading Monday after the conglomerate slashed its dividend by 50 percent and the Wall Street Journal reported new CEO John Flannery will restructure GE to focus just on the aviation, power and health-care divisions. The company will look to exit operations unrelated to those three units, the report said.
The company's investor day gets underway at 9am ET.
In a recent note from Cowen, analyst Gautam Khanna wrote that a sum-of-the-parts analysis of GE suggests its breakup valuation is in the range of $11 to $15 per share, implying between 27 and 46 percent downside to the stock's current value even after this potential restructuring.  Khanna argues that investors are failing to consider some of the debt-like liabilities that would need to be ascribed to those individual units, if a breakup were to occur.  "A major difference in our analysis vs. GE bulls who argue for [sum of the parts] upside is that we penalize GE's enterprise value for debt-like items (underfunded pension; GE Capital's net debt) that would be ascribed to assets if sold," wrote Khanna.  Shares of GE have tumbled 35 percent this year, shedding over $416 billion in market value since topping out in August 2000.  "There is no quick fix for GE and the stock remains biased to the downside," Khanna added.  The company's investor day is likely to be a market-moving event, according to Stacey Gilbert, head of derivatives strategy at Susquehanna, who said Friday on CNBC's "Trading Nation" that the options market is implying a dividend cut ahead.  Other investors have pointed to the company's considerable dividend as reason to own the stock. GE's dividend yield was 4.69 percent, compared with the S&P 500's dividend yield of 1.94 percent. Now that's been cut in half.  While there are many reasons shareholders should expect to get "excess yield" from holding GE, Gilbert said, "it's a really difficult company to own and justify, particularly as it continues to go down." Prices for puts and calls for GE shares implied a dividend cut between 30 and 50 percent, according to Gilbert so Monday's move should come as no surprise.
The options market is implying 5 percent move in either direction for the stock on the back of the investor day Monday.
That's a substantial implied move for its investor day, she said, "so this really is a big deal. The world is watching, trying to figure out exactly what's going to happen with GE."  In late October, new CEO John Flannery declined to say whether the company would cut its dividend.  "From a philosophy perspective, we manage for total shareholder return. So it's going to be a mix of capital that goes into a dividend, and a mix that goes into organic and inorganic investment, and that has to be balanced," Flannery told CNBC's David Faber.  Investors will get their answer on Monday.  Disclosure: Stacey Gilbert personally owns shares of General Electric.


There used to be a widespread understanding in the stock market that stocks could be here today and gone tomorrow, but CNBC's Jim Cramer finds that that's not the case anymore.
"We've gone well beyond that," the "Mad Money" host said. "Those days are long over, and if you recommend a stock for a trade, even if you say, 'Buy it today for the analyst meeting and sell it tomorrow,' there will always be a YouTube video kicking around that shows you liked the stock but never gave it the 'sell' call."
That is why Cramer wanted to explain the concept of suitability — an idea that suggests certain stocks are right for some investors, but wrong for others.
Cramer first heard about suitability when he started working at Goldman Sachs as a summer intern for the group helping small businesses and individuals.
He had already been buying individual stocks for himself and others for five years before he started at Goldman, even setting up answering machines messages recommending various stocks to buy.
Not long after Cramer got the Goldman position, an employee from the firm contacted him, got the answering machine message, and told Cramer to call him as soon as possible.
"I did, and he asked me if I knew what suitability was. I had no idea. So he introduced me to the concept," Cramer said. "He asked me: Did I ever consider that many people who called me and got my answering machine might not be ready for the stock of the hottest semiconductor company in the land, and that I was recommending it to them one-on-one without any sense of it was right for them?"
Cramer replied that he thought it was obvious stocks came with no guarantees, a "caveat emptor" situation. The executive explained the worth of knowing what an individual investor wants based on what he needs out of a stock and the risks he is willing to take while investing.
That opened the "Mad Money" host's eyes to the importance of risk tolerance. Clothes, cars, devices and houses either come with some level of insurance or can be returned. Stocks cannot.
"You buy a share of Nike and the next day Goldman Sachs downgrades it and the day after Foot Locker says there's been a slowdown in Jordans. You can't go back to your broker and say, 'Hey, chief, you never told me this could happen. I'm down $3 on 2000 shares. I'm out $6,000. I want that six grand. I want it back," Cramer said.
There is no real insurance when it comes to stocks, except for complicated and expensive put options, which give owners the right to sell their shares of a given stock when it hits a particular price, Cramer explained.
These days, all electronic brokers do in the way of protecting investors from risk is give them a form to sign saying they know what they are getting into and accept responsibility.
"That stops here," Cramer said. "Caveat emptor? No, just 'buyer be a-little-more-aware of what you might be committing your hard earned dollars to when you pull the trigger on a buy."


All of those experts on Wall Street who thought the market rally wasn't dependent on tax reform might want to spend some time this week giving it a little more thought.
The stock market showed last week that, as a matter of fact, it actually is sensitive to what's happening with the economic agenda in Washington. The week ahead points to more of the same.





JPMorgan health care expert Lisa Gill shared her views on the impact Amazon is having on the pharmaceutical space in an exclusive interview 
 with CNBC PRO's 
 Mike Santoli.
"That's all anybody wants to talk about – I think myself, every sell-side shop has put out something with their thoughts around this," said Gill. "We would not be surprised if they get into mail order pharmacy around prescriptions."
Gill is managing director of U.S. healthcare technology at JPMorgan, where she's been a member of the health care team since 1998. Her coverage includes health care distribution, pharmacy benefit managers and drug retail. Prior to her work at JPMorgan, she was part of an audit group specializing in health care facilities at Ernst & Young.
And while she told CNBC she wouldn't be surprised to see Amazon enter the health care space, Gill argued that its impact on traditional retailers may not be what most expect.
"A pharmacist has to oversee the facility; when they pour the pills into the cylinder to fill the prescription, only a pharmacy tech can do that," she explained. "So that's a different type of workforce, a much more expensive workforce because they're pharmacy techs and pharmacists."
Amazon, which regularly sends fears racing through the retail space, has specialized in delivering consumer products both at reduced prices and with fast delivery. But health care's comparatively strict regulation may be too burdensome for the e-commerce giant to make a meaningful impact.
Drugs, unlike most goods Amazon sells, cannot be shipped together with other products.
"Wal-Mart got into this business with a $4 generic back in 2006, took a lot of market cap out of the drug retailers at that point like Amazon is doing today," Gill added. "They ultimately got into mail order in 2007-2008 and had 4,000 locations to pick up a prescription, but yet we don't really think of them as being that disruptive."


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are down as investors focus on more incoming earnings and the fate of the tax reform bill in Congress.
-Bitcoin prices took massive losses over the weekend, falling by 25 percent over the last 4 days, as disagreements arose over which form of Bitcoin will be the most dominant one used.
TAX REFORM
-House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady says the final tax reform bill in the House will not totally eliminate the federal tax deduction for state and local taxes.


JPMorgan health care expert Lisa Gill shared her thoughts on the drug pricing debate as well as potential stock picks in an exclusive interview with CNBC PRO's 
 Mike Santoli.
"As we think about drug pricing, [pharmacy benefit managers] don't set the price at the end of the day," explained Gill. "The drug distributors distribute a product and, yes, when there's drug price inflation they make a fee off of the average wholesale price of the drug."
"When you think about what the pharmacy benefit management companies are trying to do, they're trying to manage and negotiate a better price."
Gill is managing director of U.S. healthcare technology at JPMorgan, where she's been a member of the health care team since 1998. Her coverage includes health care distribution, pharmacy benefit managers and drug retail. Prior to her work at JPMorgan, she was part of an audit group specializing in health care facilities at Ernst & Young.
As a part of her interview, Gill also revealed some of her favorite names in the health care space.
"We have historically have liked the PBM industry and we think that CVS is very well positioned because of that," she said. "The other one I like – I like Lab Corp – and I think Lab Corp is well positioned. It's a lab as well as on the CRO side so if we think about incremental innovation on the side of new products coming to markets, that's another name that we like."
Note: CNBC's interview with Lisa Gill occurred before reports that CVS Health was looking to acquire health insurer Aetna.


Bitcoin has defied gravity this year, and it's taken one retail stock along with it.
Shares of Overstock.com are on pace for their best year since 2004, largely due to the growing interest in cryptocurrencies, but some market participants are wary of the stock continuing its run.
In January 2014, Overstock became the first U.S. merchant to accept bitcoin, but in late July the company announced it would accept other forms of digital currencies and the stock has been on a straight line up ever since.
The company's involvement with cryptocurrencies deepened in September, when it announced that one of its subsidiaries, tZero, would enter into the digital coin trading business with a joint venture that utilizes initial coin offerings and blockchain technology. The stock surged on the announcement; since then the shares have rallied 122 percent alone, making its year-to-date gains a whopping 198 percent.
Overstock plans to raise up to $500 million in an initial coin offering (ICO) expected next week, lasting until year-end.

Before the recent run, the stock had been consolidating for about a decade. On Thursday, the stock soared 31 percent after its earnings report released Wednesday evening.
In a note to clients on Thursday, D.A. Davidson analyst Tom Forte said Overstock shares could surge more than 60 percent if the company decides to focus more so on its foray into bitcoin At this point, there are several cautionary signs surrounding the recent boom, said Larry McDonald, founder of the Bear Traps Report.
"If you look around the Street in terms of the opinions of the analysts ... there's one analyst that covers the stock. That's dangerous for any equity investor, forget about Overstock. And this summer that analyst had a $25 price target, and the stock is now double that price," McDonald said Thursday in a "Trading Nation" segment on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
Furthermore, McDonald isn't keen on the company's involvement in the cryptocurrency space boosting its stock.
"If you go back to the dot-com era, go back over the last 30 years, from time to time there's a phenomenon like cryptocurrencies today, dot-coms in '99. And just because you move into a space doesn't necessarily mean you can have a sustainable, higher multiple just because you're going into a new sector," he said on "Power Lunch."
Options in the name are quite expensive, and did not correctly anticipate the strong move on Thursday after its earnings report, said Dennis Davitt, portfolio manager at Harvest Volatility Management.
"You look at the volume in this stock yesterday, prior to this big move, and it was all put-buying in the stock. So that was completely wrong. What we're seeing now is all call-buying in this stock. And you know if they stay true to form as yesterday, the options guys are not the place to look for any insight on this stock," Davitt said Thursday on "Power Lunch."
He wouldn't be a buyer of options in Overstock, he said, adding that "if you have an opinion in this stock, get long it or get short it, and then sell the options against it to lower. This is one of the few areas in volatility nowadays where we have a 100-plus volatility in an underlying asset. They're going into bitcoin, so all bets are off."
Shares of Overstock were up nearly 2 percent in Friday trading.
— CNBC's Evelyn Cheng contributed to this article. Disclosure: Neither Dennis Davitt nor his firm have positions in Overstock.


A real-life Model 3 demonstration did not alter one Wall Street analyst's skeptical view of Tesla.
"We had the opportunity to see and test drive the Model 3 at Tesla's showroom in Red Hook Brooklyn, NY … Fit and finish on the two demo cars we saw – perhaps not surprisingly – was relatively poor," Bernstein analyst Toni Sacconaghi wrote in a note to clients Friday.
"While we doubt that it would impact (or even be noticed by) most prospective buyers, we do worry that poor overall initial quality could undermine Tesla's brand and potentially overwhelm its service network."
Sacconaghi reiterated his market perform rating and $265 price target on Tesla shares, representing 12.5 percent downside to Thursday's close.


Shares of Overstock.com could soar more than 60 percent, according to the primary Wall Street analyst covering the e-commerce company.
D.A. Davidson analyst Tom Forte is the only analyst listed on FactSet covering the stock, which has topped $1 billion in market value only in the last few weeks. Forte said in a Thursday note that after Overstock indicated in an earnings call it could sell its home e-commerce business, he is raising his target price on the stock to $85 from $57 a share.
"We now see the possibility of unlocking value in its two most significant assets — its home e-commerce effort and Medici Ventures (portfolio of nine companies that, to varying degrees, leverage the blockchain)," Forte said. He has a buy rating on the stock and said the market still doesn't fully appreciate the value of Medici Ventures, the blockchain-focused division Overstock launched in 2014.
Blockchain is the technology of bitcoin and other digital currencies that have caught Wall Street's attention this year. Independent investor and longtime short seller Marc Cohodes cited Overstock's work in blockchain when he predicted in October that shares can reach $100.

Overstock is an online retailer of home goods and clothes that has quietly invested in and developed businesses focused on digital currencies and their blockchain technology.
Shares leaped 31 percent Thursday to $52.40, leaving about 62 percent potential gains in order to reach Forte's target. Shares rose more than 5 percent Friday, on pace for gains of more than 20 percent for the week.
Late Wednesday, the company reported diluted net loss per share of 3 cents in the third quarter, better than its 12-cent loss per share in the third quarter last year. The Medici division posted a pretax loss of $3.7 million, greater than the $3 million reported in the same period last year, according to a presentation.
The stock has surged in the last several weeks after CEO Patrick Byrne announced the company's majority-owned subsidiary tZero is launching a digital coin-trading platform. The company has a license for a U.S. alternative trading system.
The news drew attention to Overstock's work in blockchain development since 2014 amid increased interest in this year's surge in bitcoin to record highs. In the last few weeks, two small stocks that added "blockchain" to their names saw their shares leap dramatically as traders bet on the companies as a way to play the momentum behind bitcoin and the potential of its blockchain technology.
Reflecting the high interest in bitcoin and blockchain, Byrne said about 850 people dialed into Overstock's third-quarter earnings call, according to a StreetAccount transcript. Byrne also said the call could be his last with the company as it currently exists.
The e-commerce company said in its third-quarter earnings release that Quantum Partners, a private investment fund managed by Soros Fund Management, bought a $4 million warrant to purchase nearly 10 percent of Overstock's common shares at $40.45 each until early January.


Gold futures dropped suddenly earlier on Friday to trade almost 1 percent lower.

Trading volume also picked up during the selling activity.
Gold futures for December delivery were down 0.9 percent at $1,275.60 per ounce as of 2:22 p.m. in New York after stabilizing following the sudden decline.
It was not immediately clear what caused the drop.
Gold was set for a weekly gain as stocks fell and uncertainty about the timing of the U.S. tax reform plan increased, pushing investors into the arms of the safe-haven trade.


Disney shares are rising Friday as analysts are bullish on its upcoming internet video streaming services, despite the company's earnings miss.
The media giant reported weaker-than-expected fiscal fourth-quarter earnings Thursday. It generated earnings per share of $1.07 versus the $1.12 Thomson Reuters consensus estimate. But analysts got excited after the company said it would price its upcoming streaming service "substantially below" Netflix during the earnings conference call.
The stock rose 3 percent Friday morning.
"We finally got some glimpse into pricing ... to convert Disney's 'gigantic' customer base into subs – with pricing likely to move higher as more and more content is added," Wells Fargo analyst Marci Ryvicker wrote in a note to clients Friday. "Given how just about all of our stocks tend to trade on sub numbers, we view this strategic comment as an incremental positive."
Disney announced plans in August to launch a branded direct-to-consumer streaming service in 2019 and an ESPN streaming service in 2018.
Ryvicker reiterated her outperform rating and $116 price target for Disney shares.
In similar fashion, Goldman Sachs is bullish on Disney's upcoming ESPN streaming offering.
Disney's "EPS growth is poised to accelerate reflecting a bigger and better film slate (2 Star Wars, 4 Marvel, 2 PIXAR) with ample consumer products opportunities, tailwinds from new attractions (Avatar in Orlando, Toy Story Land in Orlando and Shanghai), and an improving outlook for ESPN driven by benefits from virtual MVPDs and ESPN Plus – the new OTT launching this spring," analyst Drew Borst wrote in a note to clients Friday.
Borst reaffirmed his buy rating and raised his price target to $120 from $115 for Disney shares.
Disney has underperformed the market this year with its shares down 1.5 percent in 2017 through Thursday, compared with the S&P 500's 15.5 percent return.
One analyst is also optimistic on the future prospects of other Disney businesses.
"While the quarter largely missed our expectations, looking ahead, we remain upbeat on DIS shares as we head into a strong film slate, growth from recent and upcoming carriage renewals, and continued momentum at the Parks," Piper Jaffray analyst Stan Meyers wrote in a note to clients Friday.
"The company remains best positioned in the current fragmented media landscape to leverage its content across a growing number of distribution channels, its own global theme parks and consumer products."
Meyers reiterated his overweight rating and lowered his price target to $120 from $130 for Disney shares, representing 17 percent upside to Thursday's close.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


Next week key technology and retail names are set to release earnings, and traders are making big bets ahead of those reports.
In keeping with the recent market trends, they are betting that Cisco moves higher after earnings, while retailer Best Buy will trade down.
This week bullish investors bought more than 11,000 Cisco calls with a November 34.50 strike price. The San Jose, California-based company is scheduled to report earnings Wednesday after the bell. The calls expire next Friday and so as long as the stock trades above $34.50 by then, the investors can exercise their right to buy the stock and collect a profit (minus their cost to purchase the option).

Options can be a less costly way to play the market because if the stock fails to reach the strike price, the investor is only out the price he or she paid for the option. But they do hold big risks too since they are just a contract and so their value can go to zero quickly.


Not that long ago, General Electric was seen as the very model of corporate success, the American capitalist system in action under a sprawling umbrella of synergized interests.
No more.
As the company limps into its investor day presentation Monday, it has gone from a paradigm of success to a morass of excess. Where GE once was held as a beacon of how a multinational conglomerate is supposed to function, it now faces an uncertain future and a bevy of questions from investors and analysts.
The crisis is not quite existential, but conditions are critical. Company executives must convince their constituency that there is a viable path forward.
"That will be up to GE," said Eric Ause, who covers GE for Fitch Ratings. "How they do it will be up to GE's management team. They've got a new CEO and a new CFO, and they've been making some changes to the board. That will all play into their long-term decisions, what the mix of their business should be and how they get there."
Investors have shown little confidence that even with the management shake-up, GE has a clear direction forward. The company has pledged to trim the parts of the operation that don't work, like GE Capital and the industrial solutions business, and focus on the future with core industrial businesses and GE Digital.
The market, though, has been hard to please.

GE shares have tumbled 37 percent in 2017 and are less than half where they stood when Jeffrey Immelt took over as CEO in September 2001. Immelt left the company in October, leaving behind a bevy of questions that likely will be addressed at Monday's event.
The shares traded higher by more than 2 percent on Friday as it appeared the company had already begun taking some of the hard steps it will unveil Monday by reportedly cutting staff in its GE Digital division.


Investors poured a record $1.3 billion into funds managing tech shares over the past week, contrasting with a picture of ebbing inflow into world equity vehicles and losses on U.S. stock funds, Bank of America/Merrill Lynch (BAML) said on Friday.
The data, which tracks flows through Wednesday, also showed some alarm over junk debt, with some $600 million in outflows from high-yield bond funds, an eight-week high.
World stocks are witnessing their second day of losses, albeit after the longest daily winning streak in almost 11 years. A 0.4 percent pullback in U.S. tech shares on Thursday came after a 40 percent jump in 2017 alone.
"The recent pullback is a 'dress rehearsal' not the Big One," BAML told clients, noting the fall had been preceded by "insane gains" which had pushed for instance the value of U.S. tech firms and their U.S.-listed Chinese peers past the entire market capitalization of Germany's DAX index.
U.S. as well as European junk bond yields have hit record lows in recent months, with the latter having fallen below U.S. Treasurys, the bank noted.
A meltdown would "require recession risk or moves higher in wage inflation, bond yields, and volatility or credit spreads."
Equity funds received a net $3.9 billion, slowing from the previous week's $5 billion, though mutual funds witnessed $1 billion in outflow.
U.S. equities suffered outflows of $5.6 billion while European funds took in $2.9 billion, having enjoyed gains in nine of the past 10 weeks.
Bonds took in $6.5 billion, with the 46th straight week of flow to investment-grade funds and $500 million going to emerging debt funds, the latter slowing from recent weeks.


Media giants Disney and 21st Century Fox haven't given up on the idea of combining movie and television production operations, CNBC's David Faber said Friday.
"Pencils aren't down," he said, citing sources.
Shares of 21 Century Fox rose 4 percent in early trading Friday.
Earlier this week, Faber broke the news that Disney had approached 21 Century Fox about a deal to acquire the movie and television assets, leaving 21 Century Fox with a tighter focus on news and sports. The talks had taken place recently, he said, but they were not currently in discussions.
On Friday, Faber said that although the two companies have not been engaged in conversations "it does appear at the very least that they have not abandoned the idea of that combination."
Shares of Disney rose 2.9 percent in trading Friday after the company reported earnings the day before.
Disney is up 7 percent week to date and Fox has risen 18 percent so far this week, according to FactSet.


The Nasdaq composite has begun showing clear signs of weakness, according to a strategist who sees trouble ahead for high-flying growth stocks. The Nasdaq on Thursday posted its largest single-day drop in over two weeks. Larry McDonald, founder of the Bear Traps Report, said cracks beneath the surface of the tech-heavy index are signaling further downside, particularly after a historically strong year for growth stocks and the broader market. Here's why:
Bottom line... McDonald says a bevy of technical and fundamental signs are pointing to trouble ahead for the tech-heavy Nasdaq, and he recommends investors begin moving into value names instead.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
J.C. Penney – The retailer lost an adjusted 33 cents per share for the third quarter, smaller than the 43 cent loss anticipated by analysts. Revenue beat forecasts, and the comparable-store sales increase of 1.7 percent was higher than the Thomson Reuters consensus of a 0.5 percent rise.
Walt Disney – Disney reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.07 per share, missing consensus estimates by 5 cents a share. Revenue also fell short of forecasts, with results falling at Disney's TV networks and movie studio. Subscribers and ad revenue at ESPN also posted a decline.
Nordstrom – Nordstrom beat estimates by 4 cents a share, with quarterly profit of 67 cents per share. The retailer's revenue came in slightly above Street forecasts, however comparable-store sales were down a bigger-than-expected 0.9 percent. Nordstrom is the latest company to cite the negative impact of hurricanes.
Altice USA – Altice CEO Dexter Goei was given the additional title of CEO of the French parent company, Altice NV. Michael Combes resigned as CEO after only a little more than a year on the job, following a weak earnings report that sent the stock spiraling lower.
Hertz Global — Hertz earned an adjusted $1.42 per share for its latest quarter, beating estimates by 7 cents a share. The car rental company's revenue was marginally above consensus. Hertz reported more canceled reservations because of the recent hurricanes, and also warned that it was entering a period of weak demand and increased investment.
Equifax – Equifax reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.53 per share, 4 cents a share above expectations. The credit reporting agency's revenue missed estimates in its first quarterly report since its massive data breach was revealed. Equifax said the breach had caused customers to withhold business and could not estimate how much various expenses related to the breach would cost.
Nvidia – Nvidia beat estimates by 39 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.33 per share. The graphics chipmaker's revenue also beat forecasts. Strong demand for gaming and data center chips helped drive Nvidia's results.
Finish Line – The athletic apparel retailer was downgraded to "underperform" from "market perform" at Cowen, which said that Finish Line's strategy of aggressively undercutting rivals like Nike and Under Armour on price is not sustainable.
Redfin – Redfin edged estimates by a penny a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 12 cents per share. The residential real estate company's revenue fell below consensus forecasts. Redfin said it saw broad-based market share gains during the quarter amid increasing sales across all its businesses.
Alibaba — Fund operator Third Point increased its stake in Alibaba by 2.1 million shares to a total of 6.6 million shares, according to Third Point's latest 13F filing. That makes the China-based e-commerce giant Third Point's largest holding.
Carlyle Group – The private-equity firm is exploring either a sale or initial public offering of Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, according to Reuters. The diagnostics company could be valued at more than $7 billion, according to the report.
News Corp. – News Corp. earned an adjusted 7 cents per share for its first quarter, easily beating estimates of 1 cent. The Wall Street Journal publisher also saw revenue beat forecasts. News Corp. saw revenue gains in all its segments during the quarter.
General Electric – GE won a $643 million Pentagon contract to provide aircraft engines and related equipment to Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and Bahrain.
Electronic Arts – Electronic Arts bought fellow video game developer Respawn Entertainment, the company behind the popular video game series "Titanfall."
Correction: A previous version of this story misspelled Goei.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.

STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are down after Thursday's broad losses. We get consumer sentiment data at 10am Eastern Time.
-J.C. Penney just announced a smaller than expected loss and better than expected sales.
TRUMP TRIP
-Speaking at an Asian regional conference in Vietnam today, President Trump said the U.S. and the world can no longer "tolerate these chronic trade abuses."


Apple could soon surpass a major milestone, according to TradingAnalysis.com founder Todd Gordon.
Looking at a chart of the tech giant, Gordon points out what he describes as a "very strong" uptrend going back to the summer of 2016. Drawing a parallel channel line leads the technician to conclude that Apple could rally to meet the top line or the parallel channel, which sits at around $200.
That's a nearly 14 percent rise from current levels and would put the company market cap north of $1 trillion.
"At that point, technically speaking, we would be considered overbought. But for now, we can use that for the upside target [through the end of the year]," he said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
What's more, Gordon pointed out that on a day where the broad markets posted their worst sessions in two weeks, Apple emerged relatively unscathed.
"Apple's showing some pretty good relative strength in this pretty good pocket of volatility we're seeing here," he said.

Given his bullish stance on Apple, Gordon wants to buy the December monthly 180-strike call and sell the December 185-strike call for about $1.23, or $123 per options spread. This means that if Apple were to rally and close above $185 on Dec. 15, then Gordon could make a maximum profit of $377 on his trade.
But if Apple were to close below $180, then Gordon could lose the $123 he paid to make the trade. So that he doesn't lose the entire premium paid, Gordon establishes a point for him to stop out of the trade.
"Let's go ahead and stop out of the trade at around 61 cents or around 62 cents of premium remaining to contain the risk on Apple," he said.
Shares of Apple closed down slightly at $175.88 on Thursday. Apple is up 52 percent year to date.


Nvidia shares are surging as Wall Street is growing more bullish on the company's opportunities in key secular growth markets. The chipmaker reported better-than-expected fiscal third-quarter earnings and guidance Thursday.
Its data center segment sales, where its cards are used for machine learning and artificial intelligence applications, came in at $501 million versus the $461 million FactSet consensus estimate. Gaming-related sales also beat expectations with $1.56 billion in revenue versus the $1.28 billion estimate.
The quarter and outlook was "well above our recently raised expectations, with upside coming primarily from the gaming segment," Morgan Stanley analyst Joseph Moore wrote in a note to clients Friday.
Nvidia shares closed at an all-time high Friday, rising more than 5 percent. The stock is up 203 percent in the past 12 months through Thursday compared with the S&P 500's 19 percent gain. That performance ranks No. 1 in the entire S&P 500.
Analysts believe Nvidia has an unstoppable leadership position in the key technology growth trends.
"The most important reason to own NVDA is its 10+ year heritage developing and expanding a single hardware (GPU) + software (CUDA) platform. This platform has proven to be continuously leverage-able in some of the biggest and fastest growing markets in technology including gaming, artificial intelligence (AI), autonomous cars, and virtual reality," Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst Vivek Arya wrote in a note to clients Thursday.
"NVDA's proprietary CUDA application programming interface has become the de-facto software platform for AI."
Arya reiterated his buy rating and increased his price target to $251 a share from $210, representing 22 percent upside to Thursday's close.
Even the company's skeptics are giving up on their negative views after the results.
"We've been bearish for most of this year, anticipating that a slowdown in gaming would drive sharp revenue deceleration in 2017," Nomura Instinet analyst Romit Shah wrote in a note to clients Friday entitled "Falling On Our Sword and Upgrading."
"However, Nvidia demonstrated good diversity in gaming with Nintendo Switch and crypto-currency, offsetting weakness in core gaming earlier in the year. In addition, Datacenter results have been stronger than forecast and we underestimated the value the market would assign to this franchise."
Shah raised his rating to neutral from reduce and his price target to $190 from $110 for Nvidia shares. — CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


The market fluctuated during trading Thursday after details emerged about the Senate's tax reform plan. Some traders said they expected more movement from the market, given the uncertainty of tax reform.
"The market does get a little jittery as we are trading at the highs. So what we saw today was exactly that. Investors had a reason to sell this morning. But I think as the day went on, investors felt a little more comfortable with the news we were seeing," Jonathan Corpina of Meridian Equity Partners said on CNBC's "Closing Bell."
The Dow Jones Index briefly fell 250 points Thursday, but recovered losses throughout the afternoon, finishing the day about 100 points lower.
Traders attributed the volatility to details of the Senate's tax reform plan that broke throughout the day. The proposed plan would seek to postpone the corporate tax cut — from 35 percent to 20 percent — until 2019. Conversely, the House bill sought to impose the change immediately.
"When we talk about tax reform — uncertainty and delays — those two words have been thrown around all day today. I'm surprised they haven't had a more negative effect on the markets," Corpina added.
Jack Bouroudjian, trader and co-founder of UCX, agreed, adding that delays will likely bring economic stagnation. He noted the bond market is anticipating slower growth, despite what Republicans backing the plan have claimed.
"If we are going to see dysfunction with this tax reform, look for the market to get worried and pull back a little," he said.
Despite tax reform pressures, neither traders seemed particularly concerned with the Dow's behavior Thursday.  Corpina even welcomed a market pullback, especially in tech.
"I'm not concerned with the sell-off; this is natural," he said. "I'd like to see the market consolidate at these levels that we are at here. We went from 2,550 to 2,595 in the S&P really quick. It needs to come back in a little and settle in for a bit of time," he said.


The government must collaborate with businesses if it wants to solve some of society's most pressing problems, Johnson & Johnson Chairman and CEO Alex Gorsky told CNBC on Thursday.
"It takes all of us working together," Gorsky told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer in a special Veterans Day show at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. "If we're going to solve issues like health care, if we're going to take on issues about how do we grow our economy, how do we create more high-paying jobs, that requires industry and the government working together."
Gorsky spoke to tax reform, which The Washington Post reported on Thursday was facing competing bills from Senate and House Republicans.
The Trump administration has been pushing for sweeping tax reform that lawmakers say will make filing taxes easier on the layman and make U.S. companies more competitive.
"It starts with smart tax policy," Gorsky said. "How do we make sure that we have competitive tax policy so that companies, frankly, aren't making bad decisions about moving their things around based on tax alone? It should be based on the strategy."
And for Gorsky, a West Point graduate, a successful strategy has two components: innovation and execution.
"You've got to have a very clear plan, make sure you're delivering on that, that you're crossing the T's, dotting the I's," the CEO said.
Gorsky added that he learned much of the strategy he now employs at the massive pharmaceutical and consumer goods company he runs at West Point.
But the CEO also delivered a harrowing public service announcement about veterans that he thinks goes largely unnoticed.
"We owe the men and women of this country who have served … the millions who have served, who really protect us, keep us safe, such a deep debt," Gorsky said. "That whole theme of make sure you say 'Thank you for your service,' I think that's a great gesture, it's awesome to do, but it's not enough."
In reality, scores of veterans suffer from serious mental conditions, and an average of 20 veterans are lost to suicide per day, the CEO said.
"We cannot leave them behind," Gorsky told Cramer. "The [Department of Veterans Affairs] has a lot of great programs and we've got to make sure these people know where and how to get help. We've got to make sure they know how to reach out to the VA, to other veteran service organizations. And frankly, sometimes all it takes is a friend to make a call, to connect, to reach out, so we've got to get communities, cities, churches, everybody working together because they deserve our best."


The increasingly complicated deal talks between AT&T, Time Warner and the Department of Justice didn't stop CNBC's Jim Cramer from being bullish on the potential merger.
"The combined companies actually have better cash flow than if you break them up," the "Mad Money" host said during a special Veterans Day show at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. "But [in] either case, AT&T represents a bedrock institution that has a lot of cash flow. I've been recommending it. It's got a 5 percent yield. I think it can go higher."
Cramer added that, if AT&T were to merge with Time Warner, the combined entity's dividend would be safer than if they remained separate companies.
"I want the deal to go through because I think the combined companies would be terrific, but I'm not against it, particularly for income," Cramer said.


CNBC's Jim Cramer knows that the cybersecurity industry isn't going anywhere but up anytime soon.
"Cybersecurity is, unfortunately, a secular growth business, meaning that long term, hackers and digital terrorists [are] going to keep trying to steal our data and mess up our systems," the "Mad Money" host said. "That's why I think it's worth circling back to the companies that combat this stuff, especially since the whole cohort pulled back today, so it's a good opportunity. When a secular growth group pulls back, you need to use the weakness to dip your toe in the water."
Cramer started with Mimecast, a cloud-based data security company that came public less than two years ago. With shares up 72 percent so far in 2017, Mimecast specializes in protecting employees' email accounts at large companies.
Emails may not sound like the most exciting medium for mitigating cyberattacks, but it's anything but stale: in September, Mimecast's CEO told Cramer that hackers are increasingly realizing that humans, not computers, are the "weakest links" when it comes to breaches.
While the company's second-quarter results took the stock down slightly on Thursday, Cramer said that the metrics still looked good and that investors might be getting a rare buying opportunity.
Israeli cybersecurity firm Cyberark was another one of Cramer's picks. The company protects administrator accounts, which hackers often target because they can unlock digital ecosystems.
Cyberark has a strong long-term track record, but the stock is down 3 percent for 2017 due to management's full-year guidance cut in May and a weak earnings pre-announcement in July.
But Cyberark's third-quarter earnings report last Thursday showed improvement, beating top- and bottom-line estimates and raising full-year guidance.
"The stock rallied more than 11 percent on the news, but since then, it's pulled back a bit, including today," Cramer said. "I think you're getting a buying opportunity in Cyberark."
Cramer also liked the stock of Proofpoint, which helps companies handle advanced cyberattacks that occur via email, mobile and social media.
"Sure, defending mobile apps may not seem as important as defending the demilitarized zone in Korea or crushing ISIS, but there's no denying that Proofpoint is a lucrative business," the "Mad Money" host quipped to a room full of cadets at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point.
Shares of Proofpoint have rallied almost 700 percent over the last five years, including a 24 percent run just in 2017. The stock declined on Thursday, so Cramer blessed the strategy of scaling into it slowly on the way down.
But Cramer's favorite pick in the space was the stock of Palo Alto Networks, an enterprise-level cybersecurity giant led by West Point alumnus Mark McLaughlin.
Even though the company boasts 42,000 customers in more than 150 countries, Palo Alto's stock has been struggling, far off its 52-week highs due to sales issues in its second quarter. That said, some analysts on Wall Street have re-valued the company's platform and since upgraded the stock, lifting it off its April lows.
Cramer agreed with the upgrades, recommending that investors carefully buy into some shares ahead of the company's next earnings report.
"Here's the bottom line: Some of these cybersecurity stocks have been consistent winners while others, like Palo Alto, have been humbled. But this theme's not going away, which is why it's safe to pick up stocks like Palo Alto into weakness, and you have a ton of weakness right now," the "Mad Money" host said.


CNBC's Jim Cramer has noticed that some folks on Wall Street find it difficult to reconcile how veterans relate to the world of business.
"I think there is some commonality, because leading an enterprise these days is all about the same processes that cadets learn here," the "Mad Money" host said from a special Veterans Day show held at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point.
"No wonder veterans do so well in business," he continued. "A winning strategy is a winning strategy — doesn't matter whether you're talking about the military or the private sector."
On a difficult day for the major averages, which slid on reports of a Senate Republican proposal to push tax reform back to 2019, Cramer thought it was important to note some key traits often taught to the military that have helped executives lead their companies through hard times.


One of the most successful hedge funds over the last two decades is betting on global growth through stakes in a mall operator, an energy company and a payments processor.
In the third quarter, Dan Loeb's Third Point hedge fund made new investments in Macerich, a real estate investment trust for mall properties, oil refiner and seller Marathon Petroleum and Ohio-based payments processor Vantiv, according to a required quarterly filing released Thursday.
The hedge fund also increased its bet on growth-sensitive industrial stocks by adding a stake in Dover and raising its investment in Vulcan Materials.
Loeb has roughly doubled the S&P 500's return over the last two decades and managed $18 billion, as of late October. Loeb told investors then in a letter he expects U.S. stocks will lead global markets higher.
Thursday's filing also showed Loeb's Third Point fund bought new stakes in Argentina-based financial services companies Grupo Financiero Galicia and Grupo Supervielle. Loeb also increased his holdings of China's e-commerce giant Alibaba.
Third Point dissolved its stake in Hewlett Packard Enterprise and reduced its holdings of Google parent Alphabet in the third quarter, the filing showed.
— CNBC's Tae Kim contributed to this report.


Facebook and Micron are among the favorite ways to play the boom in artificial intelligence, according to top technology analysts.
The analysts were identified by looking at the average return of their recommendations and their success rate in those calls, as tracked by TipRanks, a Wall Street analyst database.
Here are five favorite AI stocks recommended by the best-performing technology analysts.
1) Microsoft (MSFT)
In 2017, Microsoft changed its strategy from a "mobile-first and cloud-first world" to "an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge infused with AI." And this strategy shift seems to be paying off. The company is now one of the leaders in AI, and has just teamed up withl Amazon to offer developers new tools to develop and share open source AI software.
In the last three months, 13 top analysts have published buy ratings on Microsoft shares, versus just one hold rating.
One bullish analyst is Oppenheimer's Timothy Horan. Following strong earnings results for the quarter, he assigned a buy rating to Microsoft on October 26. He also raised his price target to $92, from $80.
"Microsoft is focused on embedding all products and services with AI capabilities. Microsoft has proven it can execute on its hybrid cloud strategy, and we expect accelerating growth on both the top and bottom lines," says Horan. The analyst has a proven track record on Microsoft with a 100 percent success rate and 25 percent average return across his 11 Microsoft ratings.
2) Yext (YEXT)
Yext is a fast-growing tech company that makes it possible for restaurants, banks, doctors, and other businesses to centrally control online data in near real time. On November 5, KeyBanc analyst Brent Bracelin assigned a buy rating to Yext with a $16 price target. Given that the stock is currently trading at just $12, this suggests upside of 33 percent for the next 12 months.
Voice search and AI are underappreciated positive factors "that could sustain high revenue growth for Yext in excess of 30 percent for an extended period of time, in our view," the analyst said.
Overall, this 'Strong Buy' stock has received three recent buy ratings from top-ranked analysts. With shares down 20 percent, the risk/ reward appears increasingly compelling say analysts. TipRanks shows that the average analyst price target of $17 suggests potential gains of over 40 percent from the current share price.
3) Facebook (FB)
Social media giant Facebook says it "wants to solve AI." The company boasts an impressive AI research team led by deep learning pioneer Yann LeCun and has listed AI as one of its major initiatives for 2018.
In the last three months, FB has received 29 buy ratings from analysts and only two bearish ratings. The average price target from these analysts is $207, which suggests big upside potential of 15 percent from the current price.


Check out the companies making headlines after the bell:
Disney shares climbed 2 percent in the extended session after the mass media company missed fourth quarter earnings estimates. Operating income for most of Disney's businesses declined year over year. Media networks, the company's biggest segment, saw that figure decline 12 percent year over year.
Nordstrom's stock tumbled about 3 percent in extended trading after the retailer posted quarterly earnings. Comparable store sales were light, which overshadowed positive third quarter results. The company also narrowed its full-year guidance due to impact from hurricanes.
Shares of News Corp. rose 3 percent in extended trading after the company smashed first quarter earnings expectations.
Nvidia shares gained 1.5 percent in the extended session after the technology company posted third quarter earnings. Revenue came in 32 percent higher than the year-ago quarter, and earnings jumped 41 percent year over year, according to a company release.
Hertz Global's stock jumped more than 11 percent in extended trading after the company posted third quarter earnings. Earnings per share beat Wall Street expectations while revenue fell in line with estimates.
Redfin shares fell 5 percent in the extended session after posting mixed quarterly results in its first earnings report as a public company.


Two technology giants in China are vying for gains through initial public offerings on major U.S. stock exchanges.
"You've got this indirect battle going on between Tencent and Alibaba," said Kathleen Smith, principal and manager of IPO ETFs at Renaissance Capital. "The forces are all lining up when it comes to commerce, payments. It's pretty hard to come up against these companies."
Chinese Search engine Sogou (SOGO) debuted at $13 a share on the New York Stock Exchange Thursday, giving the company a market value of about $5.4 billion. Tencent has a 43.7 percent holding of Sogou's Class A and Class B shares, according to Sogou's September filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, accessed through S&P Capital IQ.


Another U.S. mall landlord could be facing activist pressure.
Dan Loeb's hedge fund, Third Point, has reportedly built a position in retail real estate investment trust Macerich, people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg.
Macerich shares jumped more than 12 percent Thursday afternoon on the news.
Representatives from Third Point and Macerich didn't immediately respond to CNBC's requests for comment.
Third Point now owns nearly 5 percent of the California-based REIT and could push for a potential sale, among other changes, sources told Bloomberg.
Macerich was last targeted by activist investors in 2015, when Jonathan Litt's Land & Buildings Investment Management and Orange Capital built a position in the company. At the time, Macerich had just rejected a near $17 billion takeover bid from REIT rival Simon Property Group.
Macerich currently owns 54 million square feet of real estate, consisting primarily of interests in 48 regional shopping centers, according to its website.
In 2017, the retail real estate industry has increasingly faced pressure from outsiders, as news of retail bankruptcies and store closures threatens the future health of their properties. More shoppers are ringing up purchases online, forcing mall owners to think outside the box when renovating vacated spaces.
"Despite recent, well-documented, bankruptcies of certain traditional retailers, few of which have come as much of a surprise, Macerich achieved solid re-leasing spreads and tenant sales growth," Chief Executive Arthur Coppola said when the company reported earnings last month.
Just earlier this week, it was reported that another U.S. mall landlord, General Growth Properties, could be taken private by Brookfield Property Partners. GGP shares surged on the news.
In regard to Loeb's investment strategy 
, Third Point materials describe its philosophy as "event-driven, value-oriented," with an "emphasis on special situation equities." The firm "seeks to identify situations where we anticipate a catalyst will unlock value."
Third Point had $18 billion of assets under management as of late June.
According to Bloomberg, it's still unclear if there have been talks between the activist investor and Macerich.
Even with Thursday's gains, Macerich's stock has lost a little more than 10 percent in 2017.
— CNBC's Tae Kim contributed to this report.


Equity markets in the U.S. have notched record after record in 2017, but emerging markets are on pace for a record year of their own.
One popular emerging markets-tracking exchange-traded fund, the iShares MSCI emerging markets ETF (EEM), has rallied 32 percent this year, on pace for its best annual performance since 2009. Its strong performance comes on the heels of a historically weak U.S. dollar relative to rival currencies, and some believe emerging markets could continue thriving.
"There are a lot of reasons to be very bullish on emerging markets right now. Their economies are doing well, a lot of them are commodity-based, and we've seen copper and oil rally back nicely," said Matt Maley, equity strategy at Miller Tabak.
He pointed out that the EEM, top holdings of which are Asian technology giants like Tencent and Alibaba, has held firm even as the dollar index bounced in early September.
Examining a chart of the ETF, Maley said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation" that the EEM's 50-day moving average has proved "rock-solid support" all year, and he'll be watching that level closely for any indication it's beginning to break down.

Indeed, the EEM has not yet "rolled over" in the face of a strengthening dollar, he said. However, he noted that an emerging markets bond ETF, the EMB, has begun showing weakness as it has begun diverging from the EEM. They typically move in tandem.
A stronger U.S. dollar and higher interest rates in the U.S. typically hurt emerging market equities, as a stronger greenback may appear more attractive to foreign investors. Furthermore, some emerging markets are tethered to dollar-denominated commodities such as oil.
The dollar is unlikely to strengthen substantially from here, which should prove further support for emerging markets, said Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global.
"We like emerging markets because of the expansion of trade, and the fact that that has yet to make its way into the bottom line in terms of sales," Sanchez said Wednesday on "Trading Nation," adding that sales in many emerging markets' firms are continuing to grow.
Sanchez said even as price-earnings ratios in the space have expanded, much of that has simply been evident in emerging market technology stocks, and she still likes emerging markets.
The EEM fell in Thursday trading.


Markets may be a little "fatigued," but there are no major warning signs that the rally will end anytime soon, strategist Tom Lee told CNBC on Thursday.
"There are some divergences. I think the leadership really has been increasingly from a handful of stocks," said Lee, managing partner and head of research at Fundstrat Global Advisors.
"But underlying fundamentals have been good, so I'd say for most investors it's not necessarily a warning sign," Lee told "Squawk Box."
Lee added that it appears valuations are making markets "nervous," but "for the most part, as long as inflation remains tame, I think this all holds together. I think inflation is the big scare."
U.S. stock futures were lower on Thursday, as investors awaited details on the Senate's version of a tax reform bill. House Republicans unveiled a bill last week. There is some worry the Senate's version could delay certain measures, including a corporate tax cut.
Last month, Lee told CNBC that President Donald Trump's proposed tax cuts have been positive for stocks. Lee, who had been bearish several months ago after years as one of Wall Street's biggest bulls, returned to the optimist camp when he raised his price target for the S&P 500.
Leuthold Group Chief Investment Officer Doug Ramsey told "Squawk Box" on Thursday that with tax cuts "you take it when you can get it," but added there should be more focus on the deficit.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says the GOP bill would increase the federal budget deficit by $1.7 trillion over 10 years.
"The interesting thing that no one is remarking on is here we are with a deficit that 3.4 percent of GDP with unemployment at 4.1," Ramsey said. "The idea of putting a little more fiscal fuel on the fire at a time like this when rates are only a point off their lows is interesting."


Roku shares popped nearly 55 percent on Thursday, a day after the company posted a narrower-than-expected loss.
In its first earnings report after its initial public offering, the streaming technology company also beat expectations for sales.


One leading indicator for the equity market is breaking below a key support level, a move that could have negative implications for stocks.
The iShares high-yield corporate bond exchange-traded fund, the HYG, has fallen below its 200-day moving average, which it had held above for much of this year. This move concerns Matt Maley, equity strategist at Miller Tabak. Here's why.

• The high-yield market has begun selling off in the past week, Maley wrote in an email to CNBC, leading the HYG to decline. As the 200-day moving average has proved solid support for the ETF, "this raises some concerns in my mind," he wrote.

• However, it would have to fall below its August lows of 87.15 to "raise a yellow warning flag on this asset class," he added. • While the drop below the moving average is not a major problem just yet, he said, he'll be watching closely to see if the market shows further signs of weakness in the weeks ahead given the ETF's record as a strong leading indicator for stocks. • The HYG and the S&P 500 have been closely correlated since late 2015, and the ETF is barely positive on the year. Bottom line: The high-yield market is beginning to flash a warning sign for the broader market.


The battle over the red-hot graphics chip market just got more interesting.
Intel announced on Wednesday it hired the former head of AMD's graphics business and will start a new high-performance graphics group inside the company.
Raja Koduri was named Intel's chief architect and senior vice president of the newly formed Core and Visual Computing Group and general manager of a new initiative to drive edge computing solutions.
"In this position, Koduri will expand Intel's leading position in integrated graphics for the PC market with high-end discrete graphics solutions for a broad range of computing segments," the company said in a news release.
Shares of AMD fell 5 percent following the report. Nvidia and Intel stock fell 1.8 percent and 0.9 percent, respectively.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Kohl's – The retailer missed estimates by 2 cents a share, with quarterly profit of 70 cents per share. It did post a surprise rise in comparable-store sales, and overall revenue did beat Street forecasts, but investors appear to be focusing on the revenue miss and an increase in expenses.
Norwegian Cruise Line – The cruise line operator earned an adjusted $1.86 per share for its latest quarter, four cents a share above estimates. Revenue beat forecasts, as well. Norwegian said its results were impacted by the recent hurricanes, but that bookings have now rebounded to pre-storm levels.
Office Depot – The office supplies retailer earned an adjusted 14 cents per share for the third quarter, 1 cent a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts. Comparable-store sales dropped by 5 percent, but that was smaller than the 5.7 percent decline expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.
Party City – The retailer of party supplies matched estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 13 cents per share, but revenue missed forecasts and the company gave a full-year forecast that falls below current analysts' estimates. Party City mentioned hurricane disruptions as one negative factor in the most recent quarter.
Time Inc. – The magazine publisher reported adjusted quarterly profit of 36 cents per share, 7 cents a share above estimates. Revenue came in below forecasts. Time saw greater online advertising, but not enough to negate a drop in print advertising volume.
Dish Network – The satellite TV provider came in 2 cents a share below estimates, with quarterly profit of 57 cents per share. Revenue also fell short of consensus. Dish's results were impacted by the quarter's hurricanes, with many customers unable to receive service, and the company expects to incur one-time expenses in restoring lost service.
Edgewell Personal Care – The company behind brands such as Edge, Playtex, Stayfree, and Hawaiian Tropic fell a penny a share short of expectations, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1 per share. Revenue also fell short of estimates. The company said the year has been "challenging" due to unprecedented competitive pressure.
DR Horton – The home builder came in 1 cent a share ahead of estimates, with quarterly earnings of 82 cents per share. Revenue also beat forecasts. The company saw an 18.2 percent jump in sales orders compared to a year earlier, and also announced a quarterly dividend hike to 12 1/2 cents per share from 10 cents a share.
Coty – The cosmetics company beat estimates by 3 cents a share, with quarterly profit of 10 cents per share. Revenue also beat forecasts. Coty said results may be uneven over the next few quarters but that it is pleased with overall improvements resulting from its growth strategy.
21st Century Fox – Fox matched consensus estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 49 cents per share, while revenue beat forecasts. Fox saw higher ad sales during the quarter, with revenue rising by 10 percent at its cable division.
Square – Square came in 2 cents a share ahead of estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 7 cents per share. The mobile payments company also beat forecasts with its revenue. Square saw a growing number of businesses adopt its payment platform during the quarter, and raised its full-year profit and revenue forecast.
Roku – Roku lost an adjusted 10 cents per share for its latest quarter, far smaller than the $1.37 per share loss that analysts were expecting. The maker of streaming video players reported better-than-expected revenue, as it saw a jump in active accounts and streaming hours.
IAC/InterActiveCorp – IAC reported adjusted quarterly profit of 55 cents per share, compared to a consensus estimate of 83 cents. Revenue beat forecasts for the website operator, thanks in large part of the performance of majority-owned dating site Match, but the bottom line was impacted by an increase in expenses.
Hostess Brands – Hostess came in 6 cents a share higher than consensus forecasts, with adjusted quarterly profit of 18 cents per share. The snack maker's revenue was below forecasts. Hostess said supply constraints at one of its manufacturers was an issue that cost it more than $3 million.
AstraZeneca – AstraZeneca saw sales fall during its third quarter as it faces increasing generic competition, although the decline in the drugmaker's revenue was slower than in prior quarters.
Perrigo – Perrigo reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.39 per share, compared to the consensus estimates of $1.11 a share. The health products maker's revenue beat forecasts, and Perrigo also raised its full-year outlook as it outperforms peers amid tough competition in the generic drug business.
Snap – Snap is on watch once again, following the news that China's Tencent had acquired a 10 percent stake. Tencent issued a statement today saying it could help the Snapchat owner publish video games and improve ad sales.
Twilio – Twilio matched estimates with a quarterly loss of 8 cents per share, but the cloud communications company did see revenue top estimates and it also gave strong current quarter revenue guidance.


T-Mobile will still thrive on a stand-alone basis, according to a Wall Street firm.
Talks between Sprint and T-Mobile over a possible merger have come to a halt, both companies announced Saturday. Deutsche Bank on Thursday raised its rating for T-Mobile shares to buy from hold, predicting the company will increase its dividend and stock buybacks.
"The 'new reality' of US Wireless includes maturing/slowing growth, and rising competition (both from T-Mobile/Sprint, as well as new Cable MVNOs). Amidst this backdrop, we think T-Mobile is best positioned," analyst Matthew Niknam wrote in the note to clients.
"Relative to service provider peers, we believe T-Mobile is a stand out given the combination of growth, profitability/FCF and accelerating shareholder returns."
Niknam reaffirmed his $65 price target for T-Mobile shares, representing 16 percent upside from Wednesday's close.
The analyst said the company's current debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) multiple is 2.6 times versus the company's target range of 3 times to 4 times. As a result, he believes T-Mobile can take on more debt enabling increased shareholder capital return.
"We see an increasing likelihood of buybacks/dividends in upcoming periods," he wrote. "If we assume TMUS were to go to the low-end of its leverage target (3x), it could (theoretically) return 50% of its market cap in the form of shareholder returns by 2020."
The company currently does not have a dividend, according to FactSet.
T-Mobile shares are underperforming the market so far this year. Its stock is down 2 percent year to date through Wednesday compared with the S&P 500's 16 percent return.


Sage Therapeutics said Thursday its drug to treat moderate and severe postpartum depression met the main goal in two late-stage studies.
The stock soared as much as 50 percent in premarket on Thursday.
The drug, brexanolone, achieved lower rates of depression in patients compared with a placebo in both trials.
Postpartum depression is a common complication of childbirth that affects about 10 to 20 percent of women giving birth in the United States, the company said.
—CNBC's Berkeley Lovelace Jr. contributed to this report.


One Wall Street analyst is beginning to doubt whether Sears Holdings will ever be profitable again, as the 124-year-old retailer struggles for liquidity and same-store sales evaporate.
"Sears' operational performance is clearly NOT improving, and we grow increasingly concerned whether the company will ever return to profitability," wrote Susquehanna analyst Bill Dreher in a note to clients Wednesday. "Further highlighting the company's weakened position is the reality that manufacturers are increasingly demanding tighter payment and/or withholding products."
Shares of Sears sank 6 percent on Wednesday after the company warned that its same-store sales fell more than 15 percent in the third quarter and that it will sell more than 100 properties to help keep its pension afloat.
In light of the disappointing sales news, Dreher cut his third-quarter adjusted earnings per share estimate to a loss of $4.46 from a loss of $3.23, while also reducing his year-end outlook to a loss of $11.07. Dreher noted that the 15 percent decline in same-store sales in the third quarter comes on the heels of two quarters of more than 11 percent declines in comp sales.
Sears did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
Sears also announced Wednesday that it had struck an agreement with the wardens of its underfunded pension fund — the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. (PBGC) — to allow for the sale of 140 Sears properties in an attempt to free up some cash.
"While the ongoing initiatives should help alleviate some pressure going forward, we believe these are only temporary fixes and Sears' long-term success remains in doubt," he added. "Sears is still in violation of the agreement with the PBGC, and will have to continue to sell assets in coordination with the PBGC's approval."
The PBGC is a federal oversight group that guarantees individual pensions should a company go bankrupt. PBGC has the right to involuntarily terminate Sears' pension if the company fails to put up enough collateral.


AT&T and the Justice Department could be on their way to a major court battle, which one analyst believes the company stands a strong chance of winning.
The fight centers on AT&T's hopes to acquire Time Warner and news Wednesday that the government wants the company to first sell Turner Broadcasting, which includes CNN, or sell DirecTV. AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson said the company has no intentions of divesting itself of those holdings.
Paul Gallant, a Washington analyst at Cowen Research, thinks the company won't have to.
"If this does go to court, we think AT&T holds a strong position and would likely prevail," Cowen said Thursday in a note to clients.
The company has three advantages, according to Gallant: The deal is "vertical" so it would be difficult to prove harm to the marketplace as it does not eliminate a rival; the DOJ would bear the burden of proof that the deal is anti-competitive; and the department's earlier attempts to negotiate behavioral conditions for approval indicate that it knows a legal case isn't strong.


Snap shares were downgraded Thursday for the second-straight day, this time by Morgan Stanley, following the social media company's disappointing third-quarter results.
Morgan Stanley analysts lowered their rating on the stock to underweight from equal weight. They also reduced their price target to $11 a share from $14. Shares of Snapchat's parent fell 4.1 percent to $12.38. This follows a 15 percent plunge during Wednesday's trading.
In a note to clients, Morgan Stanley analyst Brian Nowak said the company's weak results "speak to growing challenges facing SNAP's monetization potential and user opportunity."
On Wednesday, analysts from RBC Capital Markets, UBS and Stifel —among others — downgraded Snap in the wake of the earnings report.
Snap on Tuesday reported third-quarter revenue of $207.9 million, well below the expected sales figure of $236.9 million. Daily active users — a key metric of engagement for Snap — totaled 178 million, below an estimated 181.8 million.
Nowak also said he sees "structural hurdles to SNAP's core ad unit format," and that "the pending app redesign creates further engagement/execution risks." After the results were released, Snap CEO Evan Spiegel said Snapchat would get a redesign that will include a new feed inspired by Twitter and Facebook. He said the redesign would make it easier for more people to use the app.
"Lastly, FB/Instagram competition is only increasing," Nowak said. Snap has been losing market share to Facebook-owned Instagram, especially since the latter launched its Stories feature last year.


On Oct. 27, ETF Managers Group filed for a new ETF, the Alternative Agroscience ETF, a first-of-its-kind fund to track the burgeoning legal marijuana industry.
Except the Alternative Agroscience ETF isn't precisely a new fund.
Instead, ETFMG is retrofitting an existing ETF, the Tierra XP Latin America Real Estate ETF (LARE), with a new strategy. Effective Dec. 26, LARE's index will change from a Solactive benchmark that tracks mostly Mexico and Brazil REITs to a Prime Indexes benchmark tracking cannabis cultivators, producers and distributors, as well as cannabinoid drug makers, fertilizer producers and tobacco companies.

The Alternative Agroscience ETF would be the first marijuana ETF to come to market in the United States. As such, its first-mover advantage could be significant.
More from ETF.com:
The 4 horsemen of stock ETFs Surging Japan ETFs ride new tailwind Top volatility ETF takes a unique approach
"As an issuer, we've seen increasing demand from investors looking for solutions to gain access to this space," said Sam Masucci, chief executive officer and founder of ETF Managers Group, the fund's investment advisor.
But the index transition also means radically altering LARE's focus and risk/return profile, as well as eliminating the market's only pure-play Latin American real estate fund.
The move has left some investors fuming.
"I think it's a little scummy what they're doing," said Peter DeCaprio, portfolio manager and principal at Crow Point Partners in Hingham, Massachusetts. Crow Point is the largest investor in LARE, owning a 22 percent stake, according to most recent 13-F filings.
"But as long as they have support at the board level, if they want to change up the strategy, then they can," he added.


The powerful 2017 stock market rally will continue through next year even if it slows down just a little, according to a forecast from one of Wall Street's most optimistic strategists.
Piper Jaffray correctly anticipated the current strong market performance, with a 2,575 full-year target for the S&P 500 that the index just recently surpassed.
Looking ahead, the firm sees more of the same.
"We see a favorable backdrop for U.S. equities as market fundamentals suggest the path of least resistance remains higher," strategists Craig Johnson and Adam Turnquist said in a year-ahead preview released Wednesday. "We believe the growth story will continue to drive price action and cut through the day-to-day noise."
Just as the firm has been at the forefront of optimism since the bull market began in 2009, it is taking the lead for the year ahead, with a 2,850 price target for 2018. That represents about a 10 percent gain from Tuesday's closing price.
"As we look ahead to next year, we believe it will continue to be a fundamental storyline with several upside catalysts for stocks on the horizon," the analysts wrote.
In addition to fundamental factors like strong global growth, low interest rates and a mostly friendly political climate, technical factors are at play. For instance, they cite strong market breadth when looking at advancing vs. declining stocks, the solid performance of transportation stocks against the Dow industrials and longer-term indicators of new highs and techniques pointing to more upside.


Bitcoin jumped Wednesday after the developers behind an upcoming split in the digital currency through an upgrade called SegWit2x announced they were suspending plans for the upgrade.
The digital currency hit a record high of $7,879.06, according to CoinDesk. Bitcoin gave up much of those gains Wednesday afternoon to trade near $7,212 after hitting a session low of $7,078.96.
The SegWit2x upgrade was scheduled to take effect around November 16 in an effort to increase the speed and cost of bitcoin transactions. However, more and more major bitcoin developers dropped their support in the last few months.
Bitcoin in the last 24 hours

Source: CoinDesk
"Our goal has always been a smooth upgrade for Bitcoin," a group of leaders in bitcoin development told members of the SegWit2x mailing list Wednesday. "Unfortunately, it is clear that we have not built sufficient consensus for a clean blocksize upgrade at this time. Continuing on the current path could divide the community and be a setback to Bitcoin's growth. This was never the goal of Segwit2x."
As fees rise for bitcoin transactions, the developers said they hoped the digital currency community could find agreement on how to solve the problem. "Until then, we are suspending our plans for the upcoming 2MB upgrade."
The statement ended with the names of six major figures in the bitcoin business community:
BitGo CEO Mike Belshe, Xapo CEO Wences Casares, Bitmain co-founder Jihan Wu, BloqInc co-founder Jeff Garzik, Blockchain CEO and co-founder Peter Smith and ShapeShift CEO Erik Voorhees.
For most of this year, investors have had a negative view on bitcoin splits out of uncertainty over the digital currency's future. However, since bitcoin rose to record highs after its August split into bitcoin and bitcoin cash, investors began betting that subsequent splits would send the price of the original bitcoin higher. Investors at the time of a split also technically receive an equivalent amount of the offshoot currency.
Bitcoin cash traded mildly higher near $619 Wednesday, according to CoinMarketCap. Another digital currency, ethereum, rose about 4.5 percent to $307.55, according to CoinDesk.


As the U.S. stock marketheralds the "Trumpiversary" — the one-year mark of the 2016 presidential election and a 21 percent gain in the Standard & Poor's 500 — pundits of both politics and business are asking the same question.
Did investor confidence in President Donald Trump do this?
One answer comes from international markets, which have been outpacing the U.S. year-to-date, driven by a roaring comeback in emerging markets. As much as Trump wants to claim credit for reviving animal spirits in America, a good chunk of U.S. economic and earnings momentum can be traced to trade with countries whose access to U.S. markets Trump vowed to restrict, and especially to a resurgence in China, which during the campaign Trump vowed to declare a currency manipulator and to slap tariffs on Chinese goods.
Indeed, the S&P 500's gains are trailing gains in exchange-traded funds that track all world markets but the U.S. — the iShares MSCI ACWI ex-U.S. ETF and the SPDR MSCI ACWI ex-U.S. ETF.
More from Global Investing Hot Spots:Dollar surge could send shockwaves to global investors
Jack Bogle eases on investing bias Here's why investors have reaped 50% in stock gains this year
"Emerging markets' macro fundamentals are extremely good," said Ajay Kapur, a Hong Kong based EM strategist for Bank of America Merrill Lynch. "Most, except for China, have low debt. All of them have trade surpluses. They've cut back on capital expenditures the last few years. It all sets up for a pickup in returns on equity and expanding profit margins. This seems to be a synchronized global recovery, and it has been a long time since that has happened.''
Indeed, history and fundamentals indicate that U.S. markets rarely get much of a push from new presidents, said Sam Stovall, chief equity strategist at CFRA. Still, CFRA says consensus earnings estimates for the year are rising, with S&P Global now predicting a 12.6 percent gain in S&P 500 profits for the four quarters ending in September 2018, with sales rising 6 percent. That gives U.S. markets more room to run.
Prospects for rising interest rates make bonds less attractive, leaving even more room for the S&P 500 to rise more, CFRA says. Prospects for a tax cut from Trump add to the potential, Stovall said.


It's the best performing stock in the last year that Wall Street just can't catch up to.
Shares of Nvidia are up 194 percent over the last 12 months, but the stock has one of the biggest gaps between Wall Street analysts' target price and its actual price. According to one portfolio manager, however, the Street may actually have grounds for their more cautious approach.
With the stock sitting around 15 percent above the average analyst price target, Mike Binger of Gradient Investments says there's a disconnect between how analysts and investors view the stock, which has accounted for the gap.
"Investors see this as a concept or a theme stock, whereas Wall Street analysts see it as part of the semiconductor industry," he said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "So investors consider it an artificial intelligence, driverless car company, and they figure whatever valuation is put on it, the company will grow into that." Nvidia currently sports a P/E of around 60, rich compared with the S&P 500 technology sector's overall 24 times multiple.
Wall street analysts, however, "are more putting some kind of industry multiple maybe at the high end of the industry, but still an industry multiple on this stock," Binger said.
And despite the company's big earnings beats, Binger believes the Street's predictions on Nvidia could actually be coming to fruition.
"I think analysts and the company's trajectory on profits and earnings are starting to converge," he said. "So at the end of the day, I wouldn't own it right now, I'd wait for a better entry point." According to FactSet, of the 37 analysts that cover the stock, the average rating is overweight with a $179.25 price target.
Nvidia was trading 1.8 percent lower, at $208, on Wednesday after hitting an all-time high in the previous session.
The company is set to report earnings after the closing bell on Thursday. Analysts polled by FactSet are expecting the company to earn 95 cents per share on $2.36 billion in revenue.


Weekly U.S. crude oil production hit the highest level on record last week, according to preliminary government data, in another sign of the resilience of American shale drillers.
The United States produced 9.62 million barrels of oil a day in the week through Nov. 3, the U.S. Energy Information Administration reported on Wednesday. That just slightly topped a record high struck in June 2015, just before the oil price crash sparked a more than one-year decline that sent U.S. output to about 8.4 million barrels a day.
It's important to note that this is not the highest all-time level of U.S. oil production. The record still stands at just over 10 million barrels a day in November 1970. The EIA's weekly data only goes back to 1983.


Traditional money managers are racing to sell their own exchange traded funds as investors continue to pour money into a business that has been dominated by a handful of giant fund companies.
"The industry is following the flows. Passive strategies and smart beta are gaining market share and no one wants to be left out of the ETF gold rush," said David Lafferty, chief market strategist at Natixis Global Asset Management.
On Monday, 70-year-old Franklin Templeton began trading its first passive ETFs — a group of 16 funds focused on a single country or region. The news followed the launch of the first ETFs with the USAA brand on October 26. USAA is a financial services company for members of the military and their families.
Passive investment products, including index mutual funds and index ETFs, account for nearly 47 percent of assets under management in U.S. stock funds, Goldman Sachs analyst Alexander Blostein said in a note on Monday.
Passive has nearly reached 50% of the retail equity market

Source: Morningstar, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
Passive investing is a style that minimizes trading by tracking an index, the opposite of actively managed funds that try to beat the index by buying and selling securities frequently to generate extra return. So-called smart beta is an extra twist, tracking an index by reweighting it or using other objectives.
As the passive approach has grown more popular among investors in the last few years, passive funds have been a major source of new money for the money management industry and are only expected to grow from here.
Global assets under management are expected to almost double to $145.4 trillion by 2025, and the share of money managed passively will grow to 25 percent of that total, from 17 percent last year, PricewaterhouseCoopers predicted in an Oct. 30 report.
Traditional asset managers "have to be involved, or they're going to get left behind," said Mike Venuto, chief investing officer and co-founder of Tosoro Investments, which this April launched an ETF to track ETF companies. The ETF Industry Exposure & Financial Services ETF (TETF) is up 16 percent over the last six months.


The world's largest futures exchange wants to guard against extreme volatility in its planned bitcoin futures product.
CME will implement special price fluctuation limits at 7 percent and 13 percent above or below the prior settlement price, and prevent trading outside the 20 percent range, according to details the exchange released Tuesday afternoon.
The trading ranges are similar to what is allowed for U.S. stock index futures. But the limits could be more relevant for the notoriously volatile digital currency and could ease investor concerns about investing in the bitcoin product.
Bitcoin can swing several hundred dollars in one day. In just the last few days, bitcoin hit a record high of $7,601.53 Sunday, then dropped below $7,000 before recovering to $7,500 Wednesday morning, according to CoinDesk. In September, bitcoin crashed about 40 percent from above $5,000 to below $3,000 in about two weeks.
That said, some analysts have pointed out that intraday volatility in bitcoin has fallen since the early days of the digital currency.

CME announced last week it is launching bitcoin futures by the end of the year, pending regulatory review. CME Chairman and CEO Terry Duffy said on CNBC's "Closing Bell" after the announcement that he is "confident" the CME's self-certification process at the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and full application process will go through.
A spokesman for the CFTC did not immediately respond to a CNBC request for comment.
Other details now available on CME's website about the bitcoin futures contract include the months for the initial listing: December 2017, January 2018, February 2018 and March 2018. Contracts expire at 4 p.m. London time, typically 11 a.m. ET, on the last Friday of the contract month, according to CME's website.
The website also shows trading hours are scheduled for 6 p.m. ET to 5 p.m., Sunday to Friday on CME's electronic trading system Globex and CME's over-the-counter market ClearPort.


One year after the U.S. presidential election, CNBC's Jim Cramer says President Donald Trump is unlikely to hurt the stock market.
"When you have a president who grades himself by how stocks do, you know he's just not going to hurt the market," Cramer said Wednesday on "Squawk on the Street." "Most of the president haven't really cared about the market."
"It's been a great run," the host of CNBC's "Mad Money" added.
Since the Nov. 8, 2016, election, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen more than 28 percent as of Tuesday's close. The S&P 500 has gained more than 21 percent and the Nasdaq is up more than 30 percent.
Trump has repeatedly claimed credit for the stock market rally. Some analysts have attributed the market rise to Trump's planned tax reform and other business-friendly proposals, though some argue they haven't had a real influence.
At the first anniversary of Trump's election, the subsequent stock market's gain ranks No. 3 in first-term, postelection markets since the Eisenhower days, according to a CNBC analysis.


Activision Blizzard's "Call of Duty: WWII" game sales are coming in significantly above last year's iteration of the blockbuster franchise.
The game publisher announced Wednesday this year's "Call of Duty" game sold more than $500 million worldwide in its first three days of sales or double the unit sales of last year's three-day launch weekend.
"We challenged our players to get their squads back together and they answered the call, with the highest number of players we've ever seen on current gen consoles and PC," Activision CEO Eric Hirshberg said in the news release. "'Call of Duty: WWII' returns the franchise to its roots and the results are incredible, selling twice as many units in its opening weekend as last year."
The game launched Friday.
Shares of Activision Blizzard rose 4 percent Wednesday morning following the news.
Wall Street is impressed with the game's sales results.
"We think this was another positive data point for the Call of Duty franchise, following the update from the U.K. earlier this week, with preliminary sales trending ahead of our expectations," Stifel analyst Drew Crum wrote in a note to clients Wednesday.
Activision Blizzard shares are outperforming the market this year. Its stock is up 76 percent year to date through Wednesday morning versus the S&P 500's 16 percent return.


JPMorgan shared with clients its favorite department store stock picks ahead of a slew of earnings reports in the next week.
While analyst Matthew Boss expects "mixed performance" across his coverage, a number of "wildcards" should keep investors on their toes through year-end.
"With the heart of third-quarter earnings kicking off Thursday with the Department Stores - we expect mixed performance across our coverage with the bifurcation between retail winners and losers," wrote Boss on Wednesday. "On the long-side we take a concentrated approach with five 'core names.'"
Boss made key adjustments to his coverage, including multiple downgrades, but still sees upside for these three big names.


Snap's post-earnings call was "horrible," and the stock doesn't represent any value to investors, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday.
Cramer spoke after Snap's stock plunged in after-hours trade Tuesday following its huge third-quarter revenue miss. The shares whipsawed Wednesday after Chinese internet giant Tencent said it has taken a roughly 10 percent stake in the company. Also on Wednesday, Wall Street analysts, disappointed by Snap's earnings results and management's execution, downgraded the stock.
During the post-earnings call, Snap CEO Evan Spiegel said the company is working on a redesign of its app to "make it easier to use," and said it could be disruptive to the business in the short term.
"They basically said, 'Don't worry, all the things you hear about us that are bad ... they're bad. We're getting to them. Give us some time,'" Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
"You can't have a conference call like that," Cramer added. "What I didn't know before I read this, was how badly everything is working for Snap."
Spiegel appeared to sound like he was "disappointed" or "sad" during the call, Cramer said.
When asked about the Tencent deal, Cramer responded by saying, "There's nothing to buy here."
"Frankly, I don't care if its Tencent or 50 Cent. There's nothing to buy here," the host of CNBC's "Mad Money said. "The great thing about Tencent is they can average down and get a better price."Snap did not immediately respond to a request for comment from CNBC.


Even if Qualcomm declines Broadcom's $103 billion buyout bid, shares of the chipmaker still have plenty of ways of climbing higher over the next year, according to one Wall Street analyst.
RBC Capital Markets upgraded Qualcomm shares to outperform from sector perform Tuesday, with a $70 price target, noting that Broadcom's recent bid implied the stock could gain another 10 percent. But "with or without" Broadcom, analyst Amit Daryanani contends the stock could still gain over the next year.
"The probability of the initial unsolicited bid becoming the final bid is low and therefore think there is an upside narrative here," wrote Daryanani in a note to clients. But even "if QCOM board rejects the offer, we think the roadmap for value creation is fairly distinct."
Qualcomm shares have risen roughly 17 percent since Friday, when reports of a potential bid from Broadcom first surfaced.

The $70 per share cash and stock offer would be the largest technology acquisition ever.
Shares of Qualcomm were up 1.4 percent Wednesday.
But even without a deal, Daryanani believes the company can grow on its own. Qualcomm's deal with NXP Semiconductors is expected to close within the next few months, adding $1.20 to earnings per share. Qualcomm announced that it agreed to buy NXP for about $38 billion last year, as it seeks to expand the reach of its chips from phones to cars.
Improving relations with Apple would also bode well for Qualcomm, which supplies chips for the iPhone. The two companies have been locked in a multinational legal battle throughout the year; Apple teed off the dispute in January by suing Qualcomm for $1 billion for excessive royalties.
"Our investment thesis assumes Qualcomm and Apple should be able to resolve the dispute in calendar year 2018, possibly with Qualcomm offering some level of concessions," added the analyst. "Should Apple and Qualcomm settle the dispute, we believe payments from Apple will resume and Qualcomm should expect catch-up payments from Apple as well."


Chinese internet giant Tencent has taken a roughly 10 percent stake in Snapchat parent Snap, according to documents released Wednesday.
In a quarterly filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Snap said Tencent notified the company this month of the purchase. Tencent runs the WeChat messaging app, as well as online payment platforms and games. Earlier this year, it bought a 5 percent stake in Tesla.
Sources told CNBC earlier that Tencent had purchased 145.8 million nonvoting shares of Snap on the open market over the last quarter. China's largest messaging app has invested in social messaging company before, in 2012 and 2013, in private rounds.
News of the investment comes as a vote of confidence in Snap, one day after the company posted a huge revenue miss for the third quarter.
Average revenue per user was up 39 percent compared with the third quarter last year, falling short of Wall Street's estimates. Snap did beat expectations on the bottom line by a penny a share.
Shares of Snap, which plunged nearly 20 percent in after-hours on Tuesday's revenue miss, erased all of the losses to trade slightly higher on the Tencent filing before losing momentum. In early trading Wednesday, it was nearly 10 percent lower.
Disclosure: CNBC parent NBCUniversal is an investor in Snap.
—The Associated Press contributed to this report.


Square has surged 167 percent this year alone, but Fort Pitt Capital senior equity analyst Kim Forrest says it could be time to pump the brakes on the payment stock.
"We don't own it, and this looks like a very dangerous momentum stock," she said Tuesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "Momentum people love growth, and it looks like it may be topping out here right now, especially with respect to the real transaction revenue."
"It's a cautionary tale," she added. "It's been great, but if I owned it I would certainly sell some of it now just to take some money off the table."
Square, whose CEO is Twitter chief Jack Dorsey, has been part of the high-flying payments space, which has also seen credit card stocks like American Express and Visa soaring to new all-time highs. But Mike Binger, portfolio manager at Gradient Investments, also believes other names in the group might actually be a better buy.
"Square is in the financial payments sector of the market. In our portfolios, we own Visa and PayPal there," he said. "We prefer their profitability and their more mature business models."
According to Binger, Square has become too expensive, and a possible change to its business model could also impact the stock.
"Don't forget that Square has applied for a banking license," he said. "If they get that license, they want to be a lender, and that's a whole different game that comes with a whole different multiple."
"I think Square is a stock priced to perfection, and I would wait for a better entry point on it," he added.
On Tuesday, Square was still trading around its all-time highs at $36.


President Donald Trump likes to claim credit for the stock market rally, but there are other factors at work. He gets partial credit, but only partial.
The Trump trade gave a dramatic boost to the market shortly after the election one year ago Wednesday. While the components of that trade are still alive, others are arguably more important.
Let's take a look.
After the election, the market came to believe that a combination of tax cuts, infrastructure spending and regulatory reform would give an added boost to corporate profits. The S&P 500 rose roughly 6 percent in the first month after Trump's election, and that was certainly very real.
Stocks have often moved on perceptions of a tax cut. Most traders believe there is some kind of premium in the market for the cuts, so that if Trump tweeted, "There will be no tax cut deal," the market would react negatively. How negatively is debated, but a 5 percent drop in the S&P 500 is fairly frequently cited to me by traders.
Yet at the moment, it's popular to argue that tax cuts have not had any real influence on the stock market. Credit Suisse, for example, is one of many firms that developed a basket of high- tax stocks that would benefit from tax cuts. Its conclusion: "The market rewarded firms with high effective tax rates for only three weeks post-election, but not since."
Goldman Sachs' High Tax Rate basket has also posted weaker returns than the overall market, but David Kostin, the bank's chief equity strategist, had a different interpretation. He noted that stocks in the high tax basket generate a whopping 84 percent of their sales within the United States. He believes their underperformance has been hurt primarily by the weak dollar, which benefits firms with high foreign sales and penalizes those with lower foreign sales.
"The High Tax basket's performance this year has been influenced by exposures other than tax sentiment," Kostin said.
One feature of the Trump trade that is prominent is a basket of companies that get most of their sales from small- and mid-sized business customers. This basket is up 38 percent since the election, since small-business owners have been "thrilled at the prospect of deregulation under the Trump administration," Kostin wrote in a note to clients.
And tax cuts, should they materialize, definitely can influence future earnings estimates. Kostin is modeling roughly $139 for S&P earnings per share next year, a 7 percent increase from this year. But that is without tax cuts.
He figures tax cuts have the potential to add another $9 per share in earnings, to bring S&P earnings to $148 EPS next year, which would be 13 percent growth.
By the way, Kostin does believe that the market's perception of tax cuts has lifted stocks. He told me that without tax reform, the market would be closer to 2,400 than its current 2,590. That's about 8 percent lower.
What all these factors have in common is the perception that the administration is far more business friendly than the previous administration. Tim Anderson at MND Partners is one of many who believe that perception is a factor in the rally.
"Businesses are spending at a faster pace than they have in years, and there is no doubt that a more business friendly regulatory climate is a big catalyst," he said. "It's something the economists have a very difficult time plugging into their model."
While the whole infrastructure story has fallen by the wayside, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said last week the Trump administration would focus on infrastructure spending right after tax reform.
The U.S. stock market also is at a record high because earnings are at record highs and because the market believes that record high earnings will continue for at least the next couple quarters.
S&P 500 EPS
2015: $117.46
2016: $118.10
2017 (est) $130.90
Source: Thomson Reuters
Estimates are north of $140 for 2018.
Global growth has also returned. This is the largest contributor to the global rally we have seen this year. Upon surveying this landscape, Goldman Sachs concluded, "Most foreign equity markets have benefited from an upswing in global growth."
It's a rare event when the major global markets are all — almost without exception — up double digits, but that is indeed what has happened:
Global markets 2017
Hong Kong: up 32 percent
Vietnam: up 27.9 percent
Korea: up 25.6 percent
India: up 25 percent
Japan: up 20 percent
Germany: up 16.5 percent
Indonesia: up 14 percent
France: up 12.7 percent
Thailand: up 11 percent
Shanghai: up 10 percent
The only laggard is the U.K., up only 5 percent on Brexit concerns.
You can give credit to the ocean of liquidity provided by central banks if you want, but one key point is that the U.S. has dramatically outperformed the rest of the world over the past five years. The better growth this year was really overseas. Several traders noted to me that emerging markets went through a vicious bear market from 2011 to 2016. Japan badly lagged until this year. Even Germany didn't make a new high until this year.
Some have argued that the market is ignoring the Fed's raising of interest rates, but that is a stretch, since the Fed has been moving at a glacial pace, and its intentions have been well telegraphed. There's no reason to believe that incoming Fed Chairman Jerome Powell will mark a radical departure from this policy. Next year, though, is a different question, and I do agree that a key risk to the market is the Fed moving to tighten too fast.
The bottom line is Trump gets some credit for the rally, but only some. And a lot of it could vanish if we don't get more progress on tax reform.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Humana – The health insurer earned an adjusted $3.39 per share for the third quarter, 12 cents a share above estimates. Revenue was slightly below forecasts, but Humana also raised its full-year earnings forecast on the strength of its Medicare Advantage business.
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals – The drugmaker beat forecasts by 14 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $3.99 per share. Revenue was also above forecasts, helped by stronger sales of the company's eye treatment Eylea.
Twitter — The company expanded tweets to 280 characters for all users from the current 140. The expanded limit had been tested for a limited number of users in September.
Snap – Snap saw its shares recover off early lows following news that China's Tencent has acquired a roughly 10 percent stake. That follows news that Snap lost an adjusted 14 cents per share for its latest quarter, one cent a share smaller than anticipated. The operator of the popular SnapChat service saw revenue miss estimates and it reported 178 million daily active users, also below analysts' estimates. Snap said it planned to redesign SnapChat.
Zillow – Zillow reported adjusted quarterly profit of 19 cents per share, two cents a share above estimates. The real estate website operator's revenue also beating forecasts. Zillow also gave strong current-quarter revenue guidance as real estate agents step up spending on Zillow's information.
LendingClub – LendingCLub matched estimates with adjusted quarterly earnings of three cents per share, but the online lender saw revenue fall short of Street forecasts and the company also gave weaker-than-expected current-quarter revenue guidance.
Marriott – Marriott came in 11 cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly earnings of $1.10 per share. The hotel operator's revenue topped forecasts, as well. Marriott also raised its full-year forecast as demand from business travelers increases.
Take-Two Interactive – Take-Two gave a stronger-than-expected holiday season sales forecast, contrary to outlooks from video-game publishing rivals Activision Blizzard and Electronic Arts. Take-Two is getting a boost from the popularity of its latest NBA video game and the ongoing strength of its "Grand Theft Auto" franchise.
Match Group – Match Group fell three cents a share shy of estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 19 cents per share. The online dating service saw revenue beat estimates, however, with a 19 percent year-over-year rise. The company reported that the average paying member count at its Tinder service is now more than 2.5 million and that it is seeing stabilization for its OKCupid unit.
Target – Target plans to close about a dozen underperforming stores in Michigan, Florida, Illinois, and Texas, with those locations closing in February of 2018.
21st Century Fox – Fox's planned takeover of British broadcaster Sky may get some help from its target, with Sky saying it may shut down its British news operation if that unit is considered a regulatory hurdle to getting Fox's bid approved.
General Mills – General Mills was upgraded to "hold" from "sell" at Societe Generale, which points to both increased spending by the food company, as well as the potential for a takeover bid from rival Kraft Heinz.
Fossil Group – Fossil lost three cents per share for the third quarter, smaller than the 28-cent-a-share loss anticipated by Wall Street. The fashion accessories company's revenue also exceeded estimates however its the shares are under pressure after Fossil forecast a wider-than-expected loss for the full year.
Vitamin Shoppe – The nutritional products retailer lost an adjusted three cents per share for the third quarter, compared to an expected profit of 17 cents per share. Comparable-store sales were down 6.6 percent, more than the consensus Thomson Reuters estimate of a 5.6 percent drop. Vitamin Shoppe said its sales were hurt by the quarter's hurricanes.
Wolverine World Wide – The company behind shoe brands like Stride Rite, Sperry, Wolverine, Hush Puppies, and Saucony earned an adjusted 43 cents per share for its latest quarter, six cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are a bit down after Tuesday's flat close.
-Mortgage applications were unchanged last week even as interest rates fell a bit.
DEALS/NO DEALS
-China's Tencent is taking 10 percent stake in Snapchat parent Snap. That's helping Snap shares recover after they tanked in the wake of Tuesday's weak earnings report.


It's been exactly one year since President Donald Trump was elected and investors in defense stocks have benefited greatly.
The aerospace and defense industry has risen more than 40 percent since Nov. 8, 2016. The only two industries that have outperformed defense are computers and peripherals and semiconductors.
Of the 11 stocks in the defense industry, 10 are up at least 15 percent. But the biggest advancer in the space has been Boeing, which is up 87 percent since the election.
Overall, the aerospace and defense sector has benefited from dealmaking activity and increasing geopolitical tensions, especially between the U.S. and North Korea. In September, the isolated Asian nation successfully tested a hydrogen bomb that can be mounted onto an intercontinental ballistic missile.
The chart below shows the 10 best- and worst-performing industries since the election.  (Industry gains and losses through Monday, Nov 6, 2017).


Broadcom's $103 billion unsolicited offer to buy Qualcomm on Monday was just the latest in a recent binge of large transactions underway or being contemplated as Wall Street reboots its deal-making engine.
Also on Monday, CNBC reported that Walt Disney Co. had talked to 21 Century Fox about acquiring its film studio and television production operations. Last month, CVS Health was said to be mulling a deal the insurance giant Aetna, a move believed to be spurred by possible competition from e-commerce giant Amazon.com in the pharmacy industry.
Industries from technology, media and telecommunications to health care are being pushed by irreversible shifts in consumer behavior and fierce competition from technology-savvy competitors. With market valuations at all-time highs and interest rates low with plenty of financing available, company managements are springing to action.
Bankers and lawyers who advise on transactions say three years of low growth have left corporate CEOs thirsty for bold transactions that add scale and boost their companies' bottom lines. Greater clarity on the prospect of lower corporate tax rates and a general sense that the Trump administration won't be as aggressive on anti-trust issues as regulators during the latter half of the Obama years, are also making conditions ripe for deals.


As the dollar closes in on four-month highs and West Texas Intermediate crude takes a pause, here are some moves I'm watching for Tuesday.  1. The dollar index is poised for further gains after an aggressive downside rejection on Thursday. If the December dollar index can settle above 95.05, I expect significant upside. Remember, the fundamental argument for the dollar is a slow and steady march toward genuine tax reform.
2. Gold futures were lower on Tuesday; should the dollar rally further, gold will likely continue its medium-term weakness. Realistically, if gold can't rally while Saudi Arabia is undergoing a real-life "Game of Thrones," I'm not sure what is left to provide a tailwind. If the December contract trades down to $1,260, I'll expect it to plummet to $1,240 quickly.
3. The U.S. 10-year Treasury note yield was lower in Tuesday trading, near 2.31 percent. I see no reason to own bonds during this historic, endless creep higher in stocks with low volatility;  2.8 percent is my medium- to long-term objective.
4. I remain a bull on stocks. I believe the biggest fundamental argument for stocks is impending pro-business tax policy, coupled with low rates. However, I believe that once the details of the tax plan are agreed upon, and its passing is a foregone conclusion, the equity rally will be over in the short- to medium-term.
5. Crude oil is inching closer to my objective of $60 per barrel. I believe we will fill in those last few bucks but may have some trouble beyond this level. The Saudis want crude oil higher, and they're doing a good job in achieving that end. If the crude oil December contract makes a new daily high of $57.70, I will consider a long position in the commodity.


Vanguard founder and former CEO Jack Bogle is not a believer in trading 'FANG' stocks.
When asked about Intercontinental Exchange launching a FANG+ index futures contract for traders on Wednesday, Bogle blasted the idea.
The product enables investors to trade an index that tracks the performance of Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix, and Google-parent Alphabet, along with Alibaba, Baidu, Nvidia, Tesla and Twitter.
"If you want to do such a crazy thing, it certainly makes it easy to do. ... I have no doubt it's a liability," Bogle said on CNBC's "Power Lunch" Tuesday. "I think the odds are very bad. It appeals to the trading instincts in investors. ... If you like gambling, if you like casinos, these things are really, really, really good."
Instead he recommended investors focus on the long term with a multidecade time horizon by buying index funds that minimize trading transaction costs.
"Anything that gets investors into trading is a negative," he said. "Trading is a loser's game. Trading is short term speculation."
Bogle founded Vanguard Group in 1975. The firm is widely regarded as the leader of passive index investing. It has approximately $4.7 trillion in assets under management, according to its president.


President Donald Trump's election led to a boom in the stock market and a resulting surge of money into the investment funds.
In fact, since the Republican's victory — Wednesday will mark the one-year anniversary — assets under management for mutual and exchange-traded funds surged about 16 percent, or $2.9 trillion, to $21.1 trillion, according to figures Thomson Reuters released Tuesday.
That total combines inflows and returns, which have been substantial. The Dow industrials are up 29 percent over the past 12 months, while the broader S&P 500 is 21.6 percent higher.
"Performance has been the primary contributor to asset accretion since the 2016 presidential election," Thomson Reuters said in an analysis.
Investors have flocked to funds of almost all stripes since the Trump election, though the balance in absolute cash flow has been to passive funds. While mutual funds, most of which are passively managed, still have far more assets than mostly passively managed exchange-traded funds, the gap is closing.
Since Sept 30, 2016, passive funds have taken in just shy of $686 billion against just $5.2 billion net for active. However, the breakdown is more nuanced, with actively managed bond funds still popular, while investors looking for stock-focused funds prefer passive.


Since last year's election, stock market investors have been betting big that President Donald Trump will enact policies that will boost corporate profits, cut taxes, slash regulations and sustain a postelection rally not seen in decades.Now, many investors are still waiting for the White House and GOP Congress to deliver on Trump's campaign promises.
At the first anniversary of Trump's Nov. 8 election, the subsequent stock market's gain ranks No. 3 in first-term, postelection markets since Dwight Eisenhower won the 1952 election. Over these decades, though, stock market rallies in the early days of a new administration aren't necessarily a great predictor of investor returns over the full term of the incoming president. The stock market's jubilant response to Trump's election, for example, was initially compared to the reaction to Ronald Reagan's 1980 defeat of Jimmy Carter. Both Trump and Reagan campaigned on a platform that promised tax cuts and sweeping deregulation, a prospect that investors assume will help companies boost profits. But Reagan's postelection rally fizzled within weeks, thanks to an aggressive series of interest rates hikes in late 1980 aimed at snuffing out double-digit inflation. Between Election Day and the end of the year, short-term rates surged from 14 percent to above 20 percent.


Snap is soaring ahead of its earnings Tuesday after the bell, and traders are expecting an even bigger move for the stock following its report.
Since Snap's IPO on March 2, shares have fallen more than 12 percent. As the company gears up for its third earnings report as a public company, the options market is implying about a 13 percent move in either direction.
Dan Nathan of RiskReversal.com pointed out on CNBC's "Options Action" on Monday that after past earnings reports, Snap shares fell steeply the following day. The stock tumbled 21 percent the day following its first report and 14 percent following its second report.
In comparison, rival Twitter also saw very large moves following its first two earnings reports. Shares dropped 24 percent following its first earnings report in February 2014 and then fell 9 percent after its second report. Meanwhile, Facebook's stock sunk 12 percent after its first earnings release, but then jumped 19 percent after its second.

Nathan pointed out that the implied move of about 13 percent, or $2, could potentially place the stock at around $17. "If you look at this chart, $17 is significant. That was the IPO price, [and] that was also the September high. That $2 from here looks to be resistance, [and] the September low is also $2 lower."
On Monday, the most active strikes were the Nov. 10 weekly 20 and 21 calls, meaning traders see Snap shares closing above $20 by Friday, which is 30 percent higher than Tuesday's trading price.
According to FactSet, analysts are expecting Snap to report an earnings loss of 33 cents on $237 million of revenue.


The global stock rally has even more room to run, according to Credit Suisse's top equity analysts.
Global shares should see a healthy 6 percent surge until the middle of next year as a solid macro backdrop and earnings fuel the current wave of "rational exuberance," according to  Andrew Garthwaite, global equity strategist at Credit Suisse.
"We have the most broad-based upturn in global growth since 2010 and macro breadth and earnings revisions are closely correlated," wrote Garthwaite in Monday's note. "There are clear signs of investment-led growth, and we show this is typically good for both markets and earnings."
In the U.S. alone, the S&P 500 has added 16 percent since January while the Dow continued to notch all-time highs Tuesday morning. Meanwhile in Europe, the German DAX index is up nearly 15 percent this year and the British FTSE 100 has climbed more than 10 percent. Economists have dubbed the widespread success a synchronized global recovery.
"In Europe, despite the appreciation of the euro, PMI new orders have not rolled over, and remain consistent with nearly 3 percent GDP growth," added Garthwaite. "The proportion of countries that are experiencing PMI new orders in excess of 52 is now the highest since the immediate recovery from the global financial crisis."
Even central bank policy seems to be positive for equities for now. Despite announcing the rollback of its extensive portfolio this fall, the Federal Reserve's efforts will likely not have much impact until late 2018, according to the report.
In September, the U.S. central bank announced it will begin to roll off its $4.5 trillion balance sheet. The majority of the assets are comprised of federal bonds and mortgage-backed securities it acquired under a program known as quantitative easing.
But Garthwaite says some investors "exaggerate" the importance of the Fed's actions in the near term. Credit Suisse analysts estimate that the Fed's balance sheet is likely to be only $360 billion smaller by the end of 2018.
The overall rise in exuberance does have some Wall Street analysts cautious that the bull market may be nearing an untimely pullback. While Credit Suisse does see gains for global stocks in the near term, even Garthwaite said he believes the bull market is in its "late stages."
"In our view, we are in the late stages of the equity bull market. Equities are 39 percent above their previous peak in real terms, which is similar to the average post-war bull market," he cautioned.


Despite bad news for Snap — download rates are lower, Instagram is beating it in ad sales, and Wall Street expects it to report another loss — there are signs the company might be gaining traction among advertisers.
Companies like the fact that Snap's users often don't overlap with those of chief rival Instagram, meaning advertisers can reach a different group of consumers. And while many of its features are being copied by Instagram Stories, it excels in some desirable ad features such as location tracking and augmented reality, several companies told CNBC.
Snap reports earnings after the bell on Tuesday and is expected to report revenue of $236.9 million and a loss of 15 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
Snap's download rates seem to be declining. Social data company Likefolio found Snap download or install mentions are at its lowest point since its IPO in March 2017.


Morgan Stanley has raised its forecast for oil prices through 2020, saying the world is hungry for more U.S. shale crude at a time when it's uncertain American drillers can deliver it.
The bank now sees international benchmark Brent crude fetching $62 a barrel in the final quarter of the year, up from an earlier estimate of $55. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude is poised to average $56 for the quarter, up from Morgan Stanley's prior $48 call.
By the second quarter of 2018, Morgan Stanley forecasts Brent will average $63 and WTI will trade at $58 a barrel.
Demand for oil is growing at a surprisingly high rate, leading to a rapid drop in U.S. crude inventories, Morgan Stanley says. At the same time, OPEC and other oil exporters including Russia are likely to extend a deal to keep 1.8 million barrels off the market through next year.
Outside of OPEC, there is little growth in oil supplies, with the exception of the United States, where drillers can quickly tap shale wells, the bank notes. But even in the U.S. Lower 48, the number of rigs operating in oilfields has been falling.
To balance the market, U.S. shale drillers will have to grow production from about 5.9 million barrels a day this year to 7 million barrels a day in 2018, more than previously thought, Morgan Stanley analysts conclude. That would require drillers to start standing up 8 to 10 new rigs each month, but the analysts are uncertain that will happen.
"Right when the world's reliance on shale is growing, its limits are starting to become apparent, and there seem to be two aspects to this: ability and willingness," they wrote in a research note on Monday.
Companies say bottlenecks are forming because they cannot book the crews and equipment needed to carry out hydraulic fracturing, the process of injecting water, minerals and chemicals underground to break up shale rock formations and allow oil and gas to flow to the wellhead. Costs for oilfield services are also rising.
At the same time, exploration and production companies are reining in production growth in order to put their finances in order. Drillers may be reluctant to dive deeper into the red to fund growth at a time when investors are asking for financial discipline.


Analyst Dick Bove is beating up on Goldman Sachs again, recommending that clients sell the investment banking giant's stock and again calling for the ouster of CEO Lloyd Blankfein.
Two recent developments have soured Bove even more on Goldman: Its decision to drop its market-making role in U.S. options exchanges, and some business dealings with the deeply troubled Venezuelan government.
The complaints are just the latest salvos from Bove, who sees the bank as being in need of new management. He had first called for Blankfein to be removed in July, and earlier in the year had lowered his rating on the bank from "buy" to "hold."
"I am not a fan of Goldman Sachs and have repeatedly expressed my concern aboutthe company's leadership," the Vertical Trading Group analyst wrote in a note to clients. "My problem is that Goldman never understood the changes in its core businesses and, therefore, continued to pursue its traditional business model when it was evident that this model was no longer relevant."
After a sharp rally following President Donald Trump's election in November, Goldman has been a laggard, underperforming both the broader market and its peers. Shares are up just 2.2 percent this year at a time when the S&P 500 has rallied nearly 16 percent and the SPDR Bank ETF has gained 4.6 percent.
Bove charged that the bank has missed out on the big move to passive investing and exchange-traded funds, while also taking on questionable dealings with Venezuela. Goldman has lost money on bonds it bought from the country's state-run oil company and still is shadowed by a transaction it made with a Portuguese bank that lent to Venezuela, which is on the edge of a potential debt default, he said.
Goldman's market-making revenue has dropped from $29.7 billion in 2007 to $14.8 billion in 2017, according to Bove, coming as the market has switched to passive investing and automated trading.
"What is being revealed by the business model errors and the Venezuelan activities is bad judgment," he wrote. "This bad judgment has led to 10 years of earnings weakness. This company has an insular management team that sees itself as a partnership. It is not. It is a publicly owned company that, in my opinion, needs outside blood to change its direction."
Goldman again beat Wall Street estimates for third-quarter earnings, turning in profit of $5.02 a share vs. expectations of $4.17, but the company again came up light in trading revenue. In fact, a company official said the commodities side was on its way to its worst full-year performance since the company went public in 1999.
Though analysts had expected the earnings performance to boost investor sentiment, shares have been flat since the report.
Goldman officials declined comment.
WATCH: An analyst talks about why Goldman doesn't get any respect


21st Century Fox shares are surging as Wall Street loves the idea of media industry consolidation to compete with Netflix.
CNBC reported Monday that 21st Century Fox has been holding talks to sell most of the company to Disney, leaving behind a media company tightly focused on news and sports, according to people familiar with the situation.
The two sides are not currently talking at this moment, but given the on-again, off-again nature of the talks, they could be revisited, the sources said.
Shares of 21st Century Fox rose 10 percent Monday following the CNBC report, while Disney shares traded up 2 percent. The gains continued on Tuesday with 21st Century Fox up 3.5 percent mid-morning and Disney shares up another 2 percent.
"By combining the library assets and production spend of Disney and Fox, [the] pro forma firm apt to more effectively compete with emerging OTT platforms like Netflix and Amazon," Citi Research analyst Jason Bazinet wrote in a note to clients Monday entitled "Disney + Fox Makes Sense."
The "pro forma firm would allow Disney to rapidly achieve direct-to-consumer scale … Transaction [is] likely to help Disney's multiple as it accelerates direct-to-consumer roll-out."
The analyst reiterated his buy ratings for both Disney and 21st Century Fox shares and his price targets of $119 and $36 respectively.
Bazinet noted how the media industry needs scale to compete Netflix's more than $10 billion a year in content spending.
In similar fashion, Credit Suisse is bullish on the potential asset deal between the companies.
"Our initial view is that it would be hard to argue against the rationale for this deal … creating a combined company with greater scale to invest in original content," analyst Omar Sheikh wrote Monday. "If confirmed, this transaction would obviously be welcomed by both sets of shareholders, and would also drive a re-rating of the whole sector, in our view."
Sheikh also reaffirmed his outperform ratings for Disney and 21st Century Fox shares.
One Wall Street said any potential asset sale will not come cheap.
"Based on our SOTP [sum of the parts] analysis in a deal, we believe FOX is worth about $39/share, 40% above current levels. Our analysis assumes Disney would have to pay FOX close to $37B for the assets," Jefferies analyst John Janedis wrote Tuesday.
21st Century Fox stock closed at $27.45 Monday.


CNBC's Jim Cramer said Tuesday that a deal between Walt Disney and 21st Century Fox would make "so much sense" and could represent a threat to streaming giant Netflix.
Shares of 21st Century Fox and Disney were higher Tuesday after CNBC reported Monday, citing sources, that Fox has been in talks to sell most of the company to Disney.
CNBC reported Tuesday that Disney approached 21st Century Fox on the deal.
Officials at Disney and Fox declined to comment.
Fox has "a fantastic slate, but looks like the slate that Disney would want to have. So, I do think this deal makes so much sense," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "I can't believe they don't take it to the finish line."
TV content that Disney would want include Fox's long-running sitcom "The Simpsons" as well as the popular comedy "Family Guy," Cramer said.
"Why has Fox not levered 'Simpsons' far more than it has?" the host of CNBC's "Mad Money asked. "I think the answer is because they don't really have a place to put it. But Disney does."
Disney also would be interested in capitalizing on Fox's movie franchise, Cramer said. Additionally, a deal could represent a threat to Netflix's dominance, he said.
"If you get Hulu, which is a household name, suddenly you have something that looks like Netflix," Cramer said.
Fox and Disney are among the co-owners of Hulu.
Last year, analysts were talking about "stopping Amazon," Cramer added. "This year I keep hearing Netflix. This is the way to stop Netflix."


Avis Budget Group stock plunged nearly 12 percent in midday trading Tuesday after reporting rising costs for its fleet of automobiles.
The car rental company  reported third quarter profits after Monday's close above estimates, but revenue of $2.75 billion was below Wall Street's expectations of $2.78 billion in a FactSet survey of analysts. Avis' costs per vehicle rose 3 percent, which company management has previously said is due to increasing the rental fleet too quickly in the first half of the year.
MKM Partners remained optimistic despite the lackluster results, saying "the outlook for fleet costs is more sanguine" looking into 2018.
"Hurricane headwinds in the third quarter should not mask improvement in underlying trends," MKM analyst Christopher Agnew wrote in a note Tuesday."
While Agnew noted that the costs from hurricanes battering the southeast were greater than expected, he says "the market should and ultimately will look through noise from the storms."
"We believe the strength in underlying trends are more important going forward," Agnew added.
Avis lowered the higher end of its revenue forecast by $50 million for 2017, saying it now expects to generate between $8.9 billion and $8.8 billion.


The worst is over for Under Armour shareholders this year, according to one Wall Street firm.
Susquehanna raised its rating on the sports apparel company's shares to neutral from negative, saying pessimistic expectations are now priced into the stock's valuation.
Under Armour reported third-quarter revenue last month that fell short of analysts' expectations and the company also reduced its full-year outlook.Our negative "thesis largely played out. Downside now more limited as Under Armour may have set the bar low enough to allow the company to hit the reset button," analyst Sam Poser wrote in a note to clients Tuesday entitled "Upgrading to Neutral; Downside Limited, but UAA Must Protect Their House Better."
"In any case, while North America will continue to be lackluster, weak trends are already baked into the Street's base case."
Under Armour shares are underperforming the market this year. Its stock is down 59 percent year to date through Monday versus the S&P 500's 16 percent return.
Poser noted the company's nearly 30 percent share drop after its third-quarter earnings results.
"After CEO [Kevin] Plank's commentary about continued challenges in North America (NA) into FY18, the Street is already bracing for poor results for the foreseeable future," he wrote. "Further, we believe Under Armour is becoming somewhat more cognizant of its recent mistakes."
The analyst lowered his price target to $11 from $15 for Under Armour shares, representing 8.5 percent downside to Monday's close.


Priceline and TripAdvisor shares both plunged Tuesday after the online travel firms warned about future results because of in increase in spending in response to mounting competition.
Shares of TripAdvisor closed more than 23 percent lower, its worst day since Nov. 2016. Priceline shares fell 14 percent.
As hotels become better at incentivizing guests to book directly and companies like Airbnb compete for vacation customers, online bookings have been under pressure to define their role. Hoping to tackle the issue head-on, Priceline issued conservative fourth-quarter guidance as it embarks on new branding investments to help accelerate volume.
"Like its closest competitor, Expedia, Priceline has entered a period of increased spend, combined with a shift in customer acquisition strategy (towards more direct traffic flow)," wrote Piper Jaffray analyst Michael Olson in a note to clients. ­­"While this is likely the right long-term strategy to drive higher repeat traffic rates and an improving overall advertising return on investment, we expect some degree of ongoing negative impact into 2018."
The company now expects fourth-quarter room-night growth to 8 to 13 percent and earnings per share 10 percent below Street consensus, according to Olson's Tuesday note. The analyst reiterated his buy rating but lowered his 12-month price target to $2,000, representing 5 percent upside from Monday's close.
TripAdvisor missed revenue expectations in its own third-quarter report and saw key growth metrics like revenue per hotel shopper fall 11 percent year over year. The analyst highlighted that TripAdvisor maintained guidance for 2017 of "flat to down" year over year to earnings, adding to the stock's downturn.
Though analyst Olson reiterated his neutral rating, he also cut his price target on TripAdvisor, even after the company's 15 percent decline year to date.
"The decline [in revenue] was attributed to advertising partners reducing spend on TripAdvisor, along with the company's decision to 'manage to greater efficiency on performance-based marketing channels,'" wrote Olson. "We anticipate the trajectory of TripAdvisor Click & Transaction revenue growth will continue its downward run through 2017, as the company absorbs the negative effects of weaker spend from advertising partners and a growing mix of lower monetizing mobile users."
Olson's new $40 price target represents 1 percent upside from Monday's close.
—CNBC's Gina Francolla contributed to this report.


World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) is setting its sights on the two most populous countries in the world to enhance an already "astronomical" growth rate, according to one of WWE's biggest players.
Speaking at the Web Summit technology conference in Lisbon, Portugal, on Tuesday, Paul Michael Levesque — better known by his ring name Triple H — said WWE would look to stimulate the most growth in China and India over the coming months.
The 14-time WWE champion stressed that while 70 percent of the WWE's viewership were internationally based, it currently accounted for just 30 percent of the franchise's overall revenue.
"What we need to do is create a talent pipeline, we need to do it globally and we need to do it now," Triple H said.
He described the opportunity in China as "massive," before adding that wrestling's popularity in India had soared to such an extent that it had become second only to the national sport of cricket.
Last year, the WWE launched a new tournament in London in order to try and find the next breed of British superstars. Triple H said Tuesday that it would continue to be this type of "localized content" that would help expand the WWE's global presence.


In a move worthy of Michael Corleone of The Godfather movie fame, the 32-year old crown prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed Bin Salman, consolidated his power, over the weekend, by trotting a tried-and-true method of vanquishing political rivals in a monarchy: charge them with corruption.
This move changes the set up in the kingdom. Power used to be shared among the several descendant children and families of the former King Abdullah. Now, power is wholly within the grasp of the Bin Salman branch.
It was shocking to see the familiar face of billionaire investor Prince Alaweed Bin Talal get caught up in the purge, but you had to know something was amiss for him when he failed to attend any of the "Davos in the Desert" festivities last week.
The conference, Future Investment Initiative 2017, was a who's who of international finance, and it was the articulation of the crown prince's vision for the future of the kingdom. The presentation was replete with high stylized presentations and the announcement of a futuristic $500 billion business city called Neom.
In order to achieve these lofty goals, the crown prince is going to need a lot of investment capital, and low oil prices, below $50, are not part of the planning.
The Saudis led the charge to get OPEC members and Russia to limit production to alleviate the global supply glut, and even reduced their own output more than required. Initially, while production volumes were reduced, exports continued apace, but the Saudis awoke to that issue. They have steadily decreased export volumes this year, especially to the U.S.


Weight Watchers International shares are rapidly gaining weight.
The stock is on a tear after the company raised its full-year earnings outlook, calling a push within its massive subscriber base to round out fiscal 2017.
"We are excited about the upcoming winter season," Chief Executive Mindy Grossman said in a statement. "We are confident our business momentum will continue throughout the balance of the year."
Weight Watchers shares were climbing more than 15 percent Tuesday morning on the news. Its shares have risen more than 360 percent in 2017.
On Monday evening, Weight Watchers reported net income of $44.7 million, or 67 cents a share, for its fiscal third quarter, up from $34.7 million, or 53 cents per share, one year earlier.
Analysts were calling for earnings of 51 cents a share, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters.
Weight Watchers' quarterly revenue climbed 15 percent, to $323.7 million, up from $280.8 million last year. Analysts were calling for sales of $316 million, Thomson Reuters said.
Not expecting to slow down anytime soon, Weight Watchers has raised its earnings outlook for the full year, now expecting to earn $1.77 to $1.83 a share versus a prior forecast of $1.57 to $1.67.
The weight-loss company ended the latest quarter with 3.4 million subscribers, up 18 percent from last year.
Weight Watchers owes some of its success to Oprah Winfrey, who acquired a stake in the business about two years ago and became the face of its campaigns. Since then, Weight Watchers has posted eight-consecutive quarters of membership increases.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are mixed after Monday's slight gains. It's still a busy day for earnings reports and we get some jobs and consumer credit data.
-More millennials are buying homes, which is spooking the rental market.
DEALS/NO DEALS
-Investors are listening closely for updates after reports surfaced Monday that Disney has been in talks to buy most of 21st Century Fox.



If you're looking to get into the stock market, there are three mistakes you'll want to avoid in order to be successful, says John D. Spooner, author of "No One Ever Told Us That: Money And Life Lessons For Young Adults."
Spooner is a Harvard University graduate and a Boston Globe No. 1 best-selling author. He has been named one of the 100 best financial advisors in America by financial-investment website Barron's.
"There are endless ways to analyze the stock market, its trends, fads and individual companies," Spooner writes.
"My style is to be a contrarian, to go against popular sentiment. When I identify areas I think are undervalued and unappreciated, I move into them aggressively." And this strategy, he says, can been very successful.
As long as you avoid these errors:


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Tapestry – The company formerly known as Coach reported adjusted quarterly profit of 42 cents per share, six cents a share above estimates. Sales fell short of forecasts, however, with the company pointing to inventory challenges as well as the impact of the recent hurricanes.
Valeant Pharmaceuticals – The drugmaker earned an adjusted $1.04 per share for the third quarter, compared to the consensus estimates of 88 cents a share. Revenue also beat forecasts, with strong sales for the Bausch and Lomb eyecare business helping results.
Dean Foods – The food and beverage company missed estimates by a penny with adjusted quarterly profit of 20 cents per share, and its revenue also missed Street forecasts. The company also said it is in the early stages of a company-wide effort to cut costs and operate more efficiently.
Mallinckrodt – The drugmaker earned an adjusted $1.97 per share for the third quarter, 16 cents a share above estimates. Revenue fell below forecasts, however, partly due to pricing pressure in its specialty generics segment.
Under Armour – The athletic apparel maker's stock was upgraded to "neutral" from "negative" at Susquehanna, which said business will be challenging for some time but that expectations have been set low enough to guard against further downside.
Lowe's – KeyBanc rates the home improvement retailer "overweight" in new coverage with a $98 price target, based on a positive view of the housing market and the view that Lowe's is positioned for improved execution.
Salesforce.com – Salesforce announced a partnership with Alphabet's Google unit focusing on the international expansion of cloud infrastructure services. Salesforce will use Google Cloud as its preferred cloud provider.
Priceline Group – Priceline reported adjusted quarterly profit of $35.22 per share, beating the consensus estimate of $34.25 a share. The travel website operator's revenue also came in above forecasts, but Priceline gave current-quarter earnings guidance that is somewhat weaker than analysts were anticipating.
TripAdvisor – TripAdvisor came in one cent above consensus forecasts with adjusted quarterly profit of 36 cents per share, but the travel review website company saw revenue come in below estimates. TripAdvisor also made cautious comments about the prospects for a near-term rebound, citing recent trends by its travel partners.
Skyworks Solutions – Skyworks beat estimates by seven cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.82 per share. Revenue beat forecasts, as well. The chip maker's stock is under pressure following those results, however, after a nearly 56 percent gain so far this year.
TrueCar – TrueCar earned an adjusted two cents per share for its latest quarter, compared to a consensus estimate of one cent a share. The car pricing service's revenue came in below forecasts, however, as did its current-quarter guidance.
Weight Watchers – Weight Watchers reported quarterly profit of 65 cents per share, beating estimates by 14 cents a share. Revenue also topped forecasts. The weight loss service's results helped it hit record high levels in off-hours trading. The company also said it was testing meal-delivery services.
Avis Budget – Avis Budget came in six cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of $3.10 per share. The car rental company's revenue missed forecasts and it gave weaker-than-expected full-year guidance. Avis Budget cited the negative impact of the recent hurricanes as the key factor in its lowered forecast.
Red Robin Gourmet Burgers – Red Robin fell eight cents a share shy of Street forecasts, with adjusted quarterly profit of 21 cents per share. The restaurant chain's revenue also missed estimates. Additionally, Red Robin gave weaker-than-expected current-quarter guidance, Red Robin's average spending per guest fell, and overall guest counts were flat during the most recent quarter.
Etsy – Etsy beat estimates on the top and bottom lines, with the online crafts seller seeing revenue growing 21.5 percent from a year earlier.
Tenet Healthcare – Tenet lost 17 cents per share for its latest quarter, smaller than the 38 cent-a-share loss anticipated by analysts. Revenue missed expectations, however, with the hospital operator's results impacted by hurricanes as well as Medicaid cuts.
Kraft Heinz – The food maker said it would restate cash flow statements for two quarters after inadvertently putting a new accounting standard in place at the start of 2017 instead of 2018 as intended.
Toyota – The automaker raised its full-year profit forecast due to the effects of a weaker yen. The currency fluctuation is anticipated to offset pressure on Toyota's North American sales.
Apple – Apple's iPhone X has a larger profit margin than its iPhone 8, according to an analysis by teardown firm TechInsights. The iPhone X has a profit margin of 64 percent, compared to 59 percent for the iPhone 8.


Fear? What fear? That's the attitude exhibited by investors right now, according to strategists at Academy Securities. In fact, the biggest worry on Wall Street right now might be that no one is worried, they said.
In a note to clients Sunday, they point out that the CBOE Volatility Index (Vix) — which is widely used to gauge fear in the market — closed at 9.14 on Friday, its lowest level since calculations on the index began in 1990. It traded up 3 percent at 9.42 on Monday.
"This is just a good old-fashioned VIX beatdown because there is little left to scare markets," said Peter Tchir, head of macro strategy at Academy Securities, in the note titled "Nothing to Fear but Lack of Fear Itself."
Stocks have levitated to record highs this year, as investors continuously shrug off policy and geopolitical risks. So what's driving Wall Street's fearless attitude? Tchir points out several factors, including earnings and tax reform.
This earnings season has been a stellar one. According to FactSet, S&P 500 third-quarter earnings have grown 6.2 percent.
"Earnings, at least of the companies that matter most to market valuations and sentiment, have been good," said Tchir. "Earnings in the market-driving companies have been strong enough, and in the cases where there was disappointment, hope for future products overcame that concern."
This season follows two previously astounding ones. In the first and second quarter of the year, S&P 500 earnings grew 15.5 percent and 10.8 percent, respectively.
On the tax-reform front, the House released last week a bill aimed at overhauling the U.S. tax code. Among the biggest changes would be permanently lowering the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent.
"The bill itself seemed to deliver on a lot of what was promised, especially for corporations — which should be good for markets," Tchir said.
Other factors mentioned by Tchir were seasonality (stocks have historically performed well this time of the year) and seemingly diminished geopolitical risks out of North Korea (at least in the market's eyes).





Investors are witnessing the second leg of the bull market, and stocks likely have eight to 10 more years to grow, closely followed strategist Jeff Saut told CNBC on Tuesday.
"The second leg is usually the longest and the strongest. That's where earnings start to come on stronger and the economy improves. I think that's where we are now," said Saut, Raymond James' chief investment strategist.
"I think this market's got another seven, eight, nine, 10 years left in it," Saut told "Squawk Box."
The current bull market is 8 years old, the second longest advance in S&P 500 since World War II without at least a 20 percent drop.
Stock futures were mixed on Tuesday, one day after U.S. equities closed at record highs. The Dow Jones industrial average has closed at a record high 57 times this year, while the S&P 500 has closed at a record high 52 times.


Investors should avoid buying CVS Health due to Amazon's competitive threat and the pharmacy chain's overly ambitious acquisitions strategy, according to one Wall Street firm.
Jefferies reduced its price target to $76 from $86 and reaffirmed its hold rating for CVS Health shares, telling its clients to stay on the sidelines until the uncertainty passes.
Despite the report, CVS' share prices were up 1 percent Tuesday morning.
CVS reported better-than-expected third-quarter earnings Monday morning. The company also revealed a next-day and same-day prescription drug delivery service in select markets. Its stock declined 3.5 percent Monday, closing at $66.80 after the announcements.
"Based on recent trading patterns (including yday's reaction to CVS's introduction of same-day/next-day Rx delivery that some viewed as a defensive move against a supposed Amazon's entry into Rx), it is evident that overhangs related to speculation of an Aetna purchase and Amazon's supposed pharmacy plans are the more relevant drivers of [near term] stock performance," analyst Brian Tanquilut wrote Tuesday.
"Since it is difficult to refute either overhang, we believe investors will continue to put a discount on CVS shares until some clarity emerges on these issues."
The company's shares have underperformed the market this year due to concerns Amazon is considering selling prescription drugs online. CVS Health stock is down 15 percent in 2017 through Monday, compared with the S&P 500's 16 percent return
Reports last month said CVS Health is in talks to buy health insurance company Aetna in potential health-care megadeal. Some analysts have speculated CVS Health may be considering the acquisition of Aetna to protect itself from potential Amazon disruption.
"They needed to defend the business from encroachment by Amazon," RBC Capital Markets analyst George Hill told CNBC on Oct. 26. "Amazon's ability to impact the business over the near to mid term is low, but the ability to impact the stock is high." CVS Health did not immediately respond to a request for comment.


Despite threats posed by North Korea's nuclear missile program, continuing political crisis in the European Union and delays in the execution of pro-business policies in the United States, business leaders in the United States, Europe and Asia continue to express optimism about economic prospects for the next 12 months.
That's based on the latest YPO Global Pulse survey, a quarterly reading of CEO sentiment across the globe, which increased slightly in the third quarter. Regionally, confidence from business leaders in the United States and Asia were both up, while the index for the EU dipped slightly.


Is there such a thing as too much momentum in today's market? Not according to one technician, who says stocks haven't seen this much force since 1999.
Jonathan Krinsky of MKM Partners compared the MSCI Momentum index, which tracks stocks with the best performance over the prior year, with the S&P 500.
"The spread between the two is 15 percent for the year right now," he said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "That's the biggest spread in favor of momentum since 1999, so it's not surprising that we're getting people thinking that we've gone too far."
While the market's sustained momentum has some investors nervous, Krinsky said it isn't showing hints of two key indicators that show the trade is going too far.
The first is when momentum stocks stop outperforming and start breaking down below their moving averages. The second is when they extend even higher from their moving averages, creating what the technical analyst calls a "blowoff scenario," where essentially the stock runs up too far and "exhausts all the buyers."
Since neither scenario looks to be on the horizon, Krinsky says the typical high momentum stocks, namely the FANG stocks, banks and some of the semiconductor stocks, still have room to run.
But if investors are looking for more of a catch-up trade, Krinsky also believes energy stocks are looking more attractive. The "anti-momentum trade," as he refers to the sector, has actually seen heavier trading volume on positive days despite still being the second worst-performing sector of the year.
The Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq all closed at all-time record highs on Monday.


Walt Disney Co. is set to report its quarterly earnings on Thursday after the closing bell, and AdvisorShares portfolio manager Eddy Elfenbein will be watching the report closely. Here's why.  • CNBC reported on Monday that 21st Century Fox has been in talks to sell most of the company to Disney. "We don't know if a deal will come out, but we know they're serious about it. I think we'll very likely see more deals like this over the coming years," he said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."  • Aside from the prospect of the reported deal, Disney is of great importance as a bellwether for the strength of the consumer, Elfenbein said, with their wide-reaching properties across entertainment, news, cruises and amusement parks.  • As for ESPN, which falls under Disney's umbrella, "It will be interesting this quarter to watch because they have their ESPN subsidiary, and they have not been doing well over the past few years. They really have been shedding subscribers," Elfenbein said.  • Ultimately, Disney stock is a hold right now, he said. "If you have it, keep holding on. It's a great long-term investment. For those who don't have a position, I would hold off for now, because you may see a better entry point over the next six to 18 months," he said.  Bottom line: Ahead of earnings, Elfenbein wouldn't get into Disney shares if an investor does not already hold a position in the stock.  Disclaimer: Eddy Elfenbein does not own shares of Disney.


Oil prices surged to their highest levels since the summer of 2015 on Monday as a major political shakeup in Saudi Arabia underpinned a rally fueled by geopolitical risk, analysts said.
Crude futures hit the new highs overnight after the powerful Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman coordinated the arrest of several princes and ministers, ostensibly as part of crackdown on corruption.
Prices pulled back in morning trade as the market digested a wealth of analysis on the Saudi purge, but futures suddenly shot higher at midday. International benchmark Brent crude oil topped $64 a barrel for the first time since June 2015. Meanwhile U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude broke above $57, a level the market has not seen since July 2015.
WTI finished Monday's session $1.71 or 3.1 percent, higher at $57.35. Brent was trading up $2.04, or 3.3 percent, at $64.11 by 2:27 p.m. ET.
U.S. crude intraday performance

Analysts cautioned against pinning the surge on any one headline, or even the Saudi arrests alone. Instead, they said a growing cloud of geopolitical uncertainty was unleashing animal spirits in an already bullish market.
"You can grab all sorts of different headlines when you have a runaway market, and this is a runaway market right now," said Tom Kloza, global head of energy analysis at Oil Price Information Service.
In this kind of environment, "people throw caution to the wind, and this is like the grand finale of fireworks," he said.
On Monday, Nigeria's oil minister signaled his country might be ready to contribute to OPEC-led output cuts to help bolster the market. OPEC has aimed to keep 1.8 million barrels a day off the market this year to shrink brimming global crude stockpiles. Nigeria, OPEC'a biggest African producer, was exempt because a wave of attacks sidelined much of its oil supply last year.
"We're in a bullish phase, so any kind of comment like this, the market seems to be reacting strongly to," said John Kilduff, founding partner at energy hedge fund Again Capital.
Andy Lipow, president of Lipow Oil Associates, also noted that the Niger Delta Avengers, the group behind energy sector sabotage in Nigeria, backed out of a ceasefire on Friday.


Pershing Square Capital's Bill Ackman still has high hopes that Chipotle will rebound and become a big winner for his hedge-fund.
"We're going to work hard to help the company turn," Ackman said on CNBC's "Halftime Report" Monday. "This is an eminently fixable company ... This is still a great concept."
The hedge fund manager said Chipotle can improve its financial results by adding drive-throughs, longer hours and a breakfast offering and by expanding overseas. The burrito chain restaurant has struggled to win back customers after a series of food safety issues.
"We're not just betting on a recovery from the food safety issue," Ackman said on CNBC. "This is one of the least optimized of the quick service restaurants."
The investor also shared how he is valuing the restaurant chain.
"The right way to look at it in our view is not just to put a multiple on next year's" earnings, he said. Instead he looks at "what's a reasonable trajectory for a recovery and what will the earnings be two years out? Four years out? ... And then discount those earnings back in time. On that basis it's a very cheap stock if they can perform."
Chipotle dropped 15 percent on Oct. 25, a day after the company reported disappointing third-quarter results. Its shares are down 27.5 percent year to date through Friday compared to the S&P 500's 15.6 percent gain.
Pershing Square is the largest shareholder of Chipotle. The firm owned 2.9 million shares, or 10.2 percent of the company, as of the end of June, according to FactSet.
Ackman has stumbled in recent years with high-profile losing bets like Valeant Pharmaceuticals.
Pershing Square Holdings has been underperforming the stock market this year. The fund is down 3.3 percent year-to-date return through Oct. 31, according to its website.


Oil prices surged Monday, hitting the highest level in more than two years, and one market watcher says the political shake-up in Saudi Arabia over the weekend leads him to believe that the rally could just be getting started.
Arrests made on Saturday in Saudi Arabia of prominent leaders, including billionaire investor Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, appeared to buoy oil prices early Monday, sending the price of crude higher by more than 2 percent. The prospect of destabilization within the oil-rich kingdom could stand to benefit crude prices.The oil outlook is bullish at these levels, said Phil Streible, senior market strategist at RJO Futures, in a note Monday morning to clients. Crude's leg higher last Friday, he wrote, triggered a bullish breakout over a previous weekly high.
"A combination of internal political trouble in Saudi Arabia combined with another decline in U.S. rig operating counts and a definitive extension in 'risk on' psychology leaves the past of least resistance pointing upward," he added.
Kevin Caron, senior portfolio manager at Washington Crossing Advisors, is less optimistic on the space, cutting his rating on the energy sector from overweight to neutral. As oil prices have remained volatile this year among supply concerns, the S&P 500 energy sector has badly lagged the market as the second-worst performing sector in 2017.
"The stock market has rallied strong in anticipation of a better economy and here it is — oil prices are up in the last year or so, but supply concerns are ahead. So at this point, we're fairly neutral on the commodity, and the group," Caron said Friday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." WTI oil on Monday hit its highest level since July 2015, trading as high as $57.33 per barrel, up 35 percent from its 2017 low in June.
Disclaimer


The value of the Knicks basketball franchise is surging, according to a top Wall Street firm.
JPMorgan reaffirmed his overweight rating and raised its price target for Madison Square Garden shares to $260 from $245, citing a higher estimate for the Knicks worth.
"We estimate MSG shares trade at ~40% discount to the private market value of its assets," analyst David Karnovsky wrote in a note to clients Friday. "We expect the value of those assets, in particular the New York Knicks and New York Rangers, to rise, driven by higher team revenues and a favorable supply/demand dynamic for professional sports franchises."
MSG shares are up 33.5 percent year to date through Friday compared to the S&P 500's 15.6 percent return. The company's stock closed at $228.90 on Friday.
Karnovsky noted how the Houston Rockets sold for $2.2 billion or a 33 percent premium to the Forbes' value estimate. In addition, 49 percent of the Brooklyn Nets sold for a $2.3 billion valuation or a 28 percent premium to Forbes' estimate.
As a result, the analyst is increasing his appraisal for the New York Knicks value to $3.7 billion from $3.3 billion, the current Forbes' estimate.
The price target "increase is driven by a higher estimated value for the New York Knicks," he wrote.
Madison Square Garden Company owns multiple sports franchises including the New York Knicks, the New York Rangers and the New York Liberty. The company also produces live entertainment in a number of venues such as New York's Madison Square Garden and Radio City Music Hall.
The New York Knicks have outperformed low expectations this year with a 5-4 winning record and breakout performances from Kristaps Porzingis. The budding star is averaging more than 30 points per game.


Macy's is getting slammed, and one technician says the charts are pointing to even more pain ahead of earnings this week.
It's been a tough year for retailers — the retail ETF XRT has fallen nearly 10 percent, while the S&P 500 is up more than 15 percent in 2017. "Look at these numbers, it is something out of a horror movie. These are declines that are epic," Carter Worth of Cornerstone Macro said Friday on CNBC's "Options Action."

Macy's has been one of the hardest-hit retailers as the stock has lost half of its value and tumbled to multiyear lows. While some may be trying to pick a bottom, Worth cautioned that "often the greatest moves come from things that are already down a lot, and Macy's is at risk."

Looking at a long-term chart of Macy's, Worth pointed out that the stock broke its trend 2 to 3 years ago, and could retest its all-time low of $5.07.
"Why can't it go [back down] there? ... If you own it, get out," he added.
Analysts polled by FactSet are expecting the company to post earnings of 19 cents on $5.3 billion of revenue.


Wall Street is buzzing over Broadcom's blockbuster unsolicited $70 per share offer to buy Qualcomm, which values the chipmaker at more than $130 billion including debt.
If completed, the deal would be the largest technology acquisition on record, according to Dealogic.

The size of the deal also ranks as the third biggest overall since 1995, the research firm added.

Shares of Qualcomm rose 2.3 percent midday Monday following the bid announcement, while Broadcom's stock was roughly flat.
Qualcomm rose 12.7 percent Friday, when reports of a potential bid from Broadcom were first released.


Credit Suisse updated clients on its favorite stock ideas, adding eight new names to its top list.
This is our "'one-stop shop' for the research team's best ideas. Every U.S. research analyst identifies and ranks up to three top stock picks," Credit Suisse analyst Arbin Sherchan wrote in a report Monday. The analysts are "highlighting only high conviction ideas."
Each pick is based on a six- to 12-month time horizon and includes a synopsis of the stock's performance and analyst outlook.
Here are five companies that made Credit Suisse's recommended list and their price targets.


Oil prices are more likely to rise toward $70 a barrel than sink back to $50 in the wake of the biggest political shakeup in Saudi Arabia in decades, according to Roberto Friedlander, head of energy trading at Seaport Global Securities.
Crude futures rose to highs going back to mid-2015 overnight after Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman orchestrated the arrest of several princes and ministers over the weekend. The Saudis framed the purge as a crackdown on corruption, though some analysts said it was likely a move by bin Salman to consolidate power as he embarks on an ambitious effort to reshape Saudi Arabia's economy.
Following three years of soft oil prices, the Saudis have drained budget surpluses and now need to return to economic growth in order for the crown prince to survive, Friedlander said in an email briefing on Monday. The purge of powerful figures such as Prince Miteb bin Abdullah, the former head of the National Guard, appears calculated to remove opposition to bin Salman's plans, he said.
"The Saudi Situation means $70 before $50," Friedlander wrote.
Bin Salman, who is widely expected to soon become king, is trying to generate growth by transforming the Saudi economy. Selling off a stake in state oil giant Saudi Aramco next year is the cornerstone of the plan, called Vision 2030.


Archrivals Intel and AMD teaming up to launch a chip for thin and lightweight laptops is "gutsy," CNBC's Jim Cramer said Monday.
AMD shares surged Monday after the announcement that the two companies will produce a laptop-computer chip that combines an Intel processor and an AMD graphics unit for complex video gaming.
The Wall Street Journal first reported the deal Monday morning.
"Intel and AMD have hated each other since their formation," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "So, this is amazing."





President Donald Trumponce again claimed that he is responsible for the U.S. stock market's yearlong rally.
Onboard Air Force One, Trump told reporters that he's the reason major equity indexes are trading at record highs.
"The reason our stock market is so successful is because of me," the president said. "I've always been great with money, I've always been great with jobs, that's what I do. And I've done it well, I've done it really well, much better than people understand and they understand I've done well."
It's not the first time the president has boasted that his presidency has propelled the market higher. "Stock Market has increased by 5.2 Trillion dollars since the election on November 8th, a 25% increase," Trump tweeted last month.

Many corporate executives agree that Trump should get some credit for the rally.
In September, more than three-quarters of respondents to the CNBC Global CFO Council poll said Trump deserves at least some of the credit for the stock market's record run in 2017, with 17.1 percent saying he deserves "most of the credit."
The CNBC Global CFO Council represents some of the largest public and private companies in the world, collectively managing more than $4 trillion in market capitalization across a wide variety of sectors. The quarterly poll was conducted Sept. 5-13.
— CNBC's David Spiegel contributed to this report.


The noise out of Washington regarding changes to the Affordable Care Act and health care seems to never end. Despite the lingering uncertainty, there are several longer-term industry trends worth highlighting.
For advisors, it's important to spot areas most likely affected by those trends and evaluate whether they represent potential growth opportunities for client portfolios.


When the stock market acts unexpectedly, CNBC's Jim Cramer says you just have to roll with the punches, like investors did with the stocks of Activision Blizzard and Starbucks on Friday.
Both companies reported their quarterly earnings after Thursday's bell. Activision Blizzard, the video game giant behind "Call of Duty" and "Candy Crush," beat analyst estimates and raised its full-year guidance. Shares popped in early-hours trading on the better-than-expected results.
Meanwhile, shares of Starbucks shed more than 3 percent after the coffeemaker reported a revenue miss, slowing domestic same-store sales and slashed long-term guidance.
"But when the market opened this morning, Activision Blizzard's stock collapsed while Starbucks' stock soared," the "Mad Money" host said. "How the heck is that even possible? Well, you see, it's all in the expectations."
When a company's earnings results are lower than Wall Street's expectations, its stock typically declines. When they are higher than what the Street expects, the company's stock tends to rally.
In Starbucks' case, most of its larger shareholders saw the growth rate cut as "a given," Cramer said. Smaller investors who weren't expecting the guidedown sold the stock on Thursday, but buyers who expected it bought into Starbucks on Friday morning, erasing its losses.
The stock soared further after Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson's interview on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street," in which he talked about the company's 20 percent dividend increase, share buyback program, mobile pay improvements and accelerating growth in China.
Activision Blizzard's management, on the other hand, made the mistake of talking about holiday sales competition on its post-earnings conference call, the "Mad Money" host said.
News of the company's expanding esports business and professional Overwatch league fell on deaf ears.
"What's ironic here is that I think that Activision Blizzard should be bought and bought aggressively, which is something we told members of the ActionAlertsPlus.com club many times today," the "Mad Money" host said. "But you know what? I would not chase the stock of Starbucks here unless we knew for sure that the guidance they gave, the new guidance, wasn't too optimistic."


The Fed's campaign to reduce its $4.4 trillion balance sheet is now taking effect and showing up in the data.
Thursday's Federal Reserve report on its portfolio holdings shows a near $6 billion decline in its holdings of Treasury securities. It's the biggest outright weekly decline since 2012.

It's just the leading edge of more to come as the Fed gradually ramps up its effort to "normalize" its balance sheet. The Fed hasn't explicitly said what level it's aiming for, only that it will ramp up its sales of Treasurys and mortgage-backed securities to a point where it eventually is reducing them at a clip of $50 billion a month.
The decline in mortgage-backed securities, which is already taking place, should begin showing up in the data next month.


CNBC's Jim Cramer told investors to hang on to the stock market's "benign" action on Friday ahead of another potentially raucous week of earnings.
"You combine a good, not too hot, not too cold non-farm payroll number from the Labor Department that had little wage inflation, throw in some blockbuster earnings and voila, you get the kind of benign action that gives you multiple opportunities to make money," the "Mad Money" host said.
From the skyrocketing shares of Apple and the stabilizing health care space, Cramer saw plenty of opportunities in Friday's market, but wondered if they would follow through to next week.
With that in mind, Cramer turned to the stocks and events he'll be watching next week:



After DuPont spun off paint manufacturer Axalta in 2012, the new stock initially spiked before spending a year trading sideways. This year, AkzoNobel expressed interest in buying Axalta, and Axalta's stock surged.
It's no secret that CNBC's Jim Cramer loves corporate breakups, but spinoffs, when a company separates from a smaller, undervalued segment, are slightly different.
"Look, not every spinoff is a success. I mean, it's just not that easy, right? But if you know what to look for, a good spinoff can often became a big winner," the "Mad Money" host said. "So let's talk about what works in a spinoff, what leads to an Axalta-type situation, and who could be the next Axalta."
In 2015, DuPont (which merged with Dow Chemical in September 2017 to become DowDuPont) spun off its commodity chemical business into a new company called Chemours.
Cramer recommended Chemours for speculation in 2016 because its core business, titanium dioxide, started showing signs of a turnaround, and the new entity's management was aggressively cutting costs.
"My only regret is that I didn't pound the table even harder," Cramer said. "Since then, Chemours has vaulted from $7 to $55. That's a 647 percent gain, monster, crushing the performance of the broader market and its old parent company."
Cramer also got enthusiastic when Johnson Controls spun out Adient, its automotive seating business, in October 2016. He recommended Adient's stock in January of this year, and sure enough, it has rallied 41 percent since, outpacing both Johnson Controls and the S&P 500.
"That's after Adient's stock sold off hard [Thursday], down 5 percent when the company reported what many people thought was a disappointing quarter," Cramer said. "I didn't see anything wrong with it. This might be the buying opportunity."
Not every spinoff works right away though, Cramer said, turning back to Axalta. Private equity giant The Carlyle Group bought Axalta from DuPont in 2012, taking it public shortly after.
Shares of Axalta surged until mid-2015, when sales weakness and Carlyle selling its majority stake in Axalta put pressure on its shares.
Since then, the stock has traded mostly sideways, even after Valspar sold its North American coatings business to Axalta cheaply as a part of its merger with Sherwin-Williams.
But chemical giant AkzoNobel's interest in Axalta restored the stocks momentum. Axalta shares popped 22 percent on the news, even as the company had just reported a sub-par quarter.
"Which brings me, again, to the other reason I love spinoffs: They can make very attractive takeover targets," Cramer said. "Often times, a big conglomerate will resist selling off one of its divisions to a competitor, but split that division off as a separate company, give it its own board of directors and its own shareholders, and suddenly, they become a lot more amenable to a takeover."
Where can investors find the next spinoff winners? Cramer pointed to Honeywell's plans to spin off two of its segments, car parts and home systems, into separate companies; DowDuPont's three-part breakup; and FMC Corp.'s potential spinoff of its lithium arm.
"Here's the bottom line: Spinoffs can be very lucrative. Even when they don't seem to be working, you can win anyway, maybe from a takeover if the stock just sits there like we saw in Axalta," the "Mad Money" host said.


CNBC's Jim Cramer told investors to hang on to the stock market's "benign" action on Friday ahead of another potentially raucous week of earnings.
"You combine a good, not too hot, not too cold non-farm payroll number from the Labor Department that had little wage inflation, throw in some blockbuster earnings and voila, you get the kind of benign action that gives you multiple opportunities to make money," the "Mad Money" host said.
From the skyrocketing shares of Apple and the stabilizing health care space, Cramer saw plenty of opportunities in Friday's market, but wondered if they would follow through to next week, which will get an earnings report from Nvidia on Thursday.
Even though this Cramer-fave semiconductor stock has run so much, Cramer still sees a lot to like, particularly given the strong demand for chips for self-driving cars and graphics processors used for gaming systems like the Nintendo Switch.
"But the stock does have a habit of trading down after it reports, so I want you to wait until we hear the conference call before you do any buying," Cramer said.


The only major Wall Street strategist with an official price forecast for bitcoin turned "cautious" as the digital currency soared above $7,000 to record highs.
We are "cautious short-term on bitcoin," Fundstrat co-founder Tom Lee said in a Thursday report. He said bitcoin has gained far more than fundamentals warrant right now.
Fundstrat's model for bitcoin factors in the number of unique bitcoin addresses — a string of letters and numbers used to identify accounts — and the estimated number of transactions per user. In August, the model indicated that bitcoin would rise to $6,000 by the middle of 2018.
Bitcoin shot past that figure to an all-time high of $7,454.04 on Friday, according to CoinDesk. A surge of investor interest in the digital currency has sent it soaring more than seven times in price this year.
Bitcoin 12-month performance

Source: CoinDesk
DataTrek Research co-founder Nick Colas, a market strategist who began writing about bitcoin several years ago, also pointed out in a Friday note that digital currencies are still not an asset class by traditional criteria of size and fundamentals.
"Crypto currencies do not yet have as robust a regulatory framework around them as stocks, bond, currencies or other traditional asset classes," Colas said. "Some prominent financial markets professionals even think that governments may eventually ban them. No one talks that way about stocks and bonds."
Several major investors and banking executives have said in the past several months that bitcoin is a bubble that may soon burst. Elliott Prechter of The Elliott Wave Theorist newsletter predicted nearly seven years ago that bitcoin would surge from 6 cents. But Prechter said in July that the mania around bitcoin now dwarfs the tulip bulb mania from nearly 400 years ago.
With bitcoin just above $7,000 on Thursday, Lee said in his report that the currency is overwhelmingly in "weak hands," or held by investors who are chasing price gains and who would quickly sell on any negative turn in sentiment.
Lee maintained a 2022 target of $25,000 for bitcoin. His team's technical analysis indicates if bitcoin falls below $6,450, the lowest it will fall is $5,000, the September high. Before starting Fundstrat in 2014, Lee was chief equity strategist at JPMorgan.
The world's largest futures exchange, CME, said Tuesday that in response to client interest it plans to launch bitcoin futures by the end of the year. Amazon.com this week also registered three website domains that include references to cryptocurrencies, although the move may be more to protect the company's brand name. The e-commerce giant has said it has no plans accept cryptocurrency.
In contrast to Lee's cautious turn, stock analyst Ronnie Moas of Standpoint Research said Friday that following the latest headlines, he is raising his 2018 price target on bitcoin from $7,500 to $11,000. Moas began covering bitcoin this summer around the same time as Fundstrat and has a $50,000 target for 2027, a nearly sevenfold gain from Friday's prices.
Bitcoin has come a long way from being followed by a small group of enthusiasts to the focus of a new product from a major exchange. More than 120 so-called cryptofunds have launched to invest in bitcoin and other projects related to cryptocurrencies, according to financial research firm Autonomous Next.
Not meeting the traditional criteria of an asset class is "no reason to avoid" digital currencies, Colas said. "By the time they meet the high hurdles of 'Asset class' status, much of the high-powered return potential will be in the past."


October's flat wage growth and big drop in labor participation look like negatives for an economy that has been steaming along, but economists are writing it off as storm damage and expect the Fed to raise interest rates.
October job growth was 261,000, less than the 310,000 expected by economists in a spring-back from September's hurricane-related decline. September data was revised upwards by 51,000 jobs, so job creation is now a positive 18,000 for the month. Job growth for the two months averages 140,000, below the recent trend.


Bears are known for hibernating, but its the bulls in the oil market that might as well settle in for a long nap, according to Wells Fargo.
The bank expects the current bear market for oil to last another five to 10 years, Wells Fargo Investment Institute analyst Austin Pickle wrote in a new research note. During that time, U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude prices are likely to remain stuck between $30 and $60 a barrel.
If that call is correct, it means there's little upside for WTI, which came just 2 cents shy of its 2017 high of $55.24 on Wednesday.
U.S. crude 40-day performance

Supercycle bear markets typically last 20 years, but this one may not run that long, according to Pickle. These prolonged slumps have been shortening over the course of the last century. The last commodity bear supercycle lasted about 16 years from 1983 to 1999.
"Why do bear markets last so long? After the excesses of the bull market, and the wake-up call of a spike in bust rate, the companies that remain cut costs anywhere they can, prioritize investments, and become more efficient," Pickle wrote.
"Money is no longer being thrown at every imaginable oil play, and only the most cost-effective oil producers remain. As a result, the remaining companies survive low oil prices for longer," he said.
The current cycle, sparked by a "flash flood of production" as U.S. drillers learned to extract oil and gas from shale rock formations, sent prices spiraling to $26 a barrel in February 2016 from more than $100 a barrel in the summer of 2014.
"Bear markets in commodities are a consequence of human behavior in the preceding bull market. Higher prices invite investment in new technology (such as shale oil extraction) — and then production, production and more production — until, eventually, supply overwhelms demand," Pickle said.

The bear market has already gone through the first step of the healing process: weeding out the weakest players. Roughly 22 percent of exploration and production companies went bust during this phase, compared with about 26 percent in the 1986 oil price crash, according to Wells Fargo.
But the second step of the process — crude stuck within a certain range of prices — typically drags on for years, Pickle warned. It lasted more than 12 years from the '86 crash to the start of the new bull market in 1999 during the previous bear supercycle. So far, the current downturn is following the same price trend.
The last step is exasperation, when companies and investors, exasperated by years of little to no profits, throw in the towel. Drillers shut down and investors look for other opportunities. As investment in the industry dwindles, demand for the commodity overtakes supply, and a new bull market is born.


Pandora Media stock plunged 26 percent on Friday as things went from bad to worse after its third-quarter earnings report.
The company revised its fourth-quarter revenue forecast downward, to a range of $365 million to $380 million, Pandora CFO Naveen Chopra revealed on a conference call with investors Thursday evening. That is well below the consensus estimate of $413 million before the report, according to FactSet.
Pandora also reported weak revenue for the third quarter. Four firms downgraded the company's stock in response, lowering expectations for the company from buy to hold.
The shares were down 26 percent to $5.44 Friday afternoon.
"We have been trying to stick with Pandora through its multiple management changes and multi-year turnaround process," JPMorgan analyst Doug Anmuth wrote in a note. "However, near-term advertising trends are deteriorating and we believe it will take time for the company to realize the benefits of its ad tech investments."
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Stifel Nicolaus and FBR joined JPMorgan in revising ratings of Pandora's stock lower.
"We are a bit taken back as the company appears much further behind in its ad tech product map than we have appreciated and the company's deficiencies appear more severe," SunTrust analyst Matthew Thornton wrote in a note.
Pandora's revenue in the last quarter was $379 million, below expectations of $380.6 million in a Thomson Reuters survey of analysts. Advertising revenue, which accounts for the bulk of Pandora's overall revenue, grew 1 percent year over year but missed analyst expectations. Pandora reported $275.7 million in advertising revenue, which also came in below the $289.3 million projected by StreetAccount.
"There's no silver bullet that's going to come in and solve these problems," CEO Roger Lynch said in a conference call with investors. He said investments in ad targeting and reporting technology would start to have an effect throughout 2018.
The stock was already struggling this year, falling 43 percent for 2017 through Thursday's close, according to FactSet.


CNBC's Jim Cramer sees the Federal Reserve raising interest rates next month after Friday's strong jobs number.
The Labor Department said Friday the economy added 261,000 jobs in October, a pickup from September, and the unemployment rate dropped to 4.1 percent.
"I'm going to just stick with what we need on this and say you're going to get a rate hike on this," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "You can do it. There's less slack."
"It's all systems go," Cramer added.
As widely expected, the Fed did not raise interest rates at its policy meeting this week, but there was little indication a December rate hike was off the table.
The CME FedWatch tool on Friday morning put the chances of a rate increase in December at about 96 percent.
The central bank has raised rates twice this year as part of a program for a normalization of monetary policy.
Cramer also said the jobs numbers are in sync with the stock market's rally. "Growth without inflation is still the single-best thing you can have for stocks, and that's what this number gave," the "Mad Money" host said.
Stocks were mixed Friday morning as the major averages looked to extend a string of weekly wins, which has Wall Street hitting record after record this year.
Friday's job report showed wage growth disappointing, with earnings off by 1 cent an hour.
"It's certainly not based on average hourly earnings, which it's really incredible how you can be this tight at 4.1 and people not getting 40 cents or 30 cents more," Cramer said.
But, he added: "It's growth without inflation which has been historically unbelievable for the stock market."



If you don't know exactly what a "bull market" is, you're in good company.
According to results from a financial fitness quiz conducted by American Century Investments and Investopedia, more than half of the 2,260 respondents could not define the financial term.
CNBC spoke with Nick Holeman, certified financial planner at Betterment, who explained everything you need to know about a bull market.


The job market rebounded strongly in October from the hurricane induced job slump in September. Averaging the job gains of the past several months shows a jobs gain of closer to 175,000. This is probably not too far off the economy's underlying job growth – abstracting from temporary factors, like the hurricanes, and the monthly vagaries of the data, which there are always many.
Job growth is thus close to double the growth in the labor force. The labor force has been growing more quickly as of late, last month's dip aside, as labor force participation has improved somewhat with the better job market. Workers disenfranchised during the tough economy of the past decade have been coming back to work. However, this has largely played out, and participation will soon begin declining again as the large baby boomer cohort continues to retire en masse.
The tight labor market is getting tighter. Unemployment fell again last month, and is on track to fall through 4 percent by early next year. The last time we experienced sub-4 percent unemployment was briefly at the end of the technology boom around Y2K. Like then, labor shortage are becoming a big problem for businesses in many industries and regions of the country – there are a record number of open job positions – and this problem is sure to become even more acute.


Wall Street titan Jeff Vinik told CNBC on Friday there's still plenty of money to be made in the stock market despite record high levels.
"Look at the economic conditions we have right now. We've got good economic growth, and we have low inflation," said Vinik, once head of the largest U.S. mutual fund, Fidelity Magellan.
"Yes, valuations are as high as they've been in a long time, but I maintain economic conditions are as good as they've been in a long time," Vinik said on CNBC's "Squawk Box." "While there will be corrections along the way, I think valuations are going to stay high for a long period time, and I think there's money to be made in the stock market."
U.S. stock futures were modestly higher on Friday as the major averages looked to extend a string of weekly wins, which has Wall Street hitting record after record this year.
When asked about the GOP tax bill, Vinik, owner of pro hockey team Tampa Bay Lightning, said there's likely to be several changes.
"The easy work has been done. The hard work is ahead," he said. "When we look at things like that, in terms of sports facilities being built, there's usually a way to get these things done."
After months of work, House Republicans on Thursday released the details of their new tax plan. The bill would lower the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent. It would also take away tax-exempt bonds for private stadiums being built.


Bitcoin skyrocketed past $7,400 on Friday, hitting yet another record high.
The virtual currency had shot past the $7,000 mark for the first time Thursday and finished on  $6,895.41 toward the end of the session.
According to CoinDesk, the cryptocurrency reached a renewed all-time high of $7,454.04 at 6:40 a.m. ET Friday, after opening at $7,030. The jump in price saw bitcoin rise 6 percent.
Analysts believe more institutional investors could warm to the digital token after derivatives operator CME Group announced it would introduce bitcoin futures contracts this year.
"This is bitcoin crossing the divide from the wild west of finance to the mainstream," Charles Hayter, CEO of cryptocurrency comparison website Crypto Compare, told CNBC in an email Thursday.
"Futures from an incumbent exchange bring bitcoin and cryptocurrencies into the regulatory fold. This allows more complex financial products to be created and will eventually open the doors to institutional money."
CME's futures will be cash-settled and based on the CME CF Bitcoin Reference Rate (BRR), launched in November last year with Crypto Facilities, a digital cryptocurrency trading platform.
The bullish activity that followed CME's announcement also saw the total value of all cryptocurrencies surge past $200 billion for the first time. The market cap of bitcoin alone is more than $124 billion.
Bitcoin's price has risen 640 percent since the start of the year.


Apple shares are surging as Wall Street is growing more bullish on the smartphone maker's iPhone X launch Friday.
The company reported better-than-expected September quarter earnings results and gave a December quarter sales guidance range above Wall Street expectations at the midpoint Thursday evening.
Apple shares hit an all-time high, opening up 3.5 percent Friday as notes poured in from Wall Street that were positive on last quarter's earnings and even more optimistic about the iPhone X.
"Apple closed FY17 on a solid note then offered healthy guidance for the first quarter of the iPhone X," Nomura Instinet analyst Jeffrey Kvaal wrote in a note to clients Friday.
"Recent supply chain improvements allay concerns of severe supply constraints. We expect consensus to come towards our high end estimates."
The iPhone X is available in stores Friday at a base model price of $999. Thousands have lined up around the world to be among the first to get their hands on the much anticipated phone.
Kvaal reiterated his buy rating and $185 price target for Apple shares, representing 10 percent upside to Thursday's close.
Morgan Stanley is confident the new higher-priced model will spur current iPhone users to upgrade.
"We see iPhone X unlocking pent-up iPhone upgrades, especially in China," analyst Katy Huberty wrote on Friday. "Near-term, we see pent-up demand heading into a significant form factor change that is likely to accelerate iPhone unit growth."
Huberty reaffirmed her overweight rating and raised her price target to $200 from $199 for Apple shares.
On the flip side, one Wall Street analyst doesn't believe iPhone X's success is assured.
While the September quarter "results were solid, we believe investors' main focus is on whether Apple can sell a $1,000 premium phone in significant quantities, something we won't have a good sense of until later this year, at the earliest," Deutsche Bank analyst Sherri Scribner wrote on Thursday. "Until then, we expect bulls and bears to remain in their own camps, with this quarter's results unlikely to sway views."
Scribner maintained her hold rating for Apple shares.
Apple's stock is up 45 percent year to date through Thursday compared with the S&P 500's 15 percent gain.


I'm watching the Russell 2000 closely, as it's begun diverging from the S&P 500 recently, and that could signal trouble ahead for the broader market. The small-cap Russell 2000 typically moves in tandem with the S&P 500, and has begun underperforming. While the small caps have fallen nearly 1 percent over the course of the last month, the S&P has rallied 2 percent in the same time. Looking back at the history of such a divergence, I think of the trend we saw in 2015, when the Russell 2000 topped out two months before the S&P 500 did the same. This began a 14 percent decline for the S&P. This isn't a major problem just yet, so I'm not waving a red warning flag on this index. However, if its recent mild underperformance becomes more substantial, it will raise questions about the durability of the U.S. economy heading into next year. That, in turn, will raise concern for the rest of the market, too. After all, the Russell 2000 index should be the main beneficiary of Trump's tax reform package if (and I repeat, if!) Congress can pass it somewhat intact. That being said, passing it somewhat intact is going to be very difficult, so this index could and should be a good indicator for the tax package. Given that so many personal deductions are being done away with in this new package, as we learned on Thursday, it's going to be very tough to get it through the Senate. Much of the reason behind this year's rally has been based upon "synchronized global growth," but the U.S. economy is still the most important economy in the world, and if we don't see an extensive tax package passed, the U.S. economy will have a tough time sustaining its recent strong growth. This is also something the flattening yield curve is already telling us.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Apple – Apple reported quarterly profit of $2.07 per share, compared to consensus estimates of $1.87. Revenue also beat forecasts and Apple also gave strong current-quarter guidance. Shipments of iPhones, iPads, and Mac computers all came in above Street projections. Separately, long lines have been reported overseas as the company's new iPhone X hits stores today.
Starbucks – Starbucks matched estimates by reporting adjusted quarterly profit of 55 cents per share, but the coffee chain's revenue came in below forecasts and it also trimmed its profit forecast as competition heats up. Starbucks saw its sales impacted by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
Moody's – The credit rating agency reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.52 per share, 13 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also topped analysts' forecasts. Moody's saw the strongest revenue gains from its corporate and structured finance businesses.
Sotheby's – The auction house lost 45 cents per share for its latest quarter, smaller than the 68 cent loss anticipated by analysts. Revenue also exceeded forecasts, with the company benefitting from improved sales and better results from financing activities.
Bloomin' Brands – The operator of Outback Steakhouse and other restaurant chains missed estimates by three cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 12 cents per share. Revenue did beat forecasts. The company also cut its full-year forecast to an adjusted $1.31 to $1.36 per share, below the current consensus estimates of $1.40. The company said its results were impacted significantly by hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
CBS – CBS beat estimates by four cents with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.11 per share, although the media giant's revenue missed forecasts. Ad revenue fell by three percent, with the quarter containing one less National Football League broadcast than the year-ago quarter.
AIG – AIG lost $1.22 per share for its latest quarter, wider than the 79-cent-a-share loss that Wall Street was expecting. Revenue missed forecasts, as the insurance company absorbed sizable hits from hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria.
Activision Blizzard – Activision reported adjusted quarterly profit of 60 cents per share, 11 cents a share above estimates. The video game maker's revenue also topping forecasts. Activision raised its full-year forecast, as well, with results boosted by the success of its "Destiny 2" game.
Pandora – Pandora posted a quarterly loss of six cents per share, two cents a share smaller than Wall Street had projected. The streaming music service's revenue came in below forecasts, however, as Pandora faces intense competition from services like Spotify and Apple Music, and is having difficulty increasing ad sales.
Tableau Software – Tableau fell a penny a share short of expectations, with an adjusted quarterly profit of eight cents per share. The analytics software maker revenue missed estimates, however, and the company gave a downbeat current-quarter forecast. Tableau's short-term results are being impacted by its ongoing shift to a subscription model.
T-Mobile US – T-Mobile has made a revised offer to merge with rival Sprint, according to The Wall Street Journal, after the talks had reached an impasse. The paper said Sprint is considering the offer from its wireless service rival.
Amazon.com – Amazon is ending its AmazonFresh grocery delivery service in some areas, according to a statement. A spokeswoman for Amazon told Reuters the move had nothing to do with the company's acquisition of Whole Foods earlier this year.
Paccar, Navistar, Cummins – These and other truck and engine makers could get a boost today after industry tracker FTR reported that North American orders for Class 8 semi-trucks more than doubled in October from a year earlier.
Boingo Wireless – Boingo lost nine cents per share for its latest quarter, four cents a share less than Wall Street had anticipated. The provider of airline WiFi services also posted better-than-expected quarterly revenue. It also raised its full-year forecast as it signs agreements with more carriers.
Stamps.com – The company earned $2.68 per share for its latest quarter, well above estimates of $1.95 a share. The postage services provider also saw revenue beat forecasts. The company also raised its full-year outlook.


The long-awaited tax bill has finally arrived, and it does indeed reduce the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent. But buried in the bill (page 217 of the 429-page bill) are a few short paragraphs that appear to limit the deductibility of corporate debt.
The outcome of this is not exactly clear, but it has Wall Street talking.
"This may curtail issuance of corporate debt to buy back stock, and it may limit some LBO [Leveraged Buyout] activity, which creates high levels of debt," said Peter Tchir of Academy Securities.
Shares of private equity players like KKR and Blackstone, which are heavily involved in LBOs, tumbled today on the news.
Here are the three relevant paragraphs:
''(1) IN GENERAL.-In the case of any taxpayer for any taxable year, the amount allowed as a deduction under this chapter for business interest shall not exceed the sum of-
'(A) the business interest income of such taxpayer for such taxable year, plus
'(B) 30 percent of the adjusted taxable income of such taxpayer for such taxable year "
I spoke with Andrew Brenner at NatAlliance Securities, who provided me an example of how this might affect a company's deductions.
Say you are a company that has $1 billion in adjusted taxable income and $200 million in interest expenses. Under this bill, it appears you will be able to deduct the entire expense because it is only 20 percent of adjusted taxable income.
However, things would be different if interest expenses were $400 million. In that case, you would only be able to deduct $300 million, or 30 percent of your adjusted income. The remaining $100 million could not be deducted that year.
Does that means it's lost forever? Not necessarily.
Buried even deeper in the bill is a paragraph called "Carryforward of disallowed interest." This proposal allows you to deduct the remaining $100 million of interest expense in the following year up to the fifth year after the expense is incurred.
What's going on?
"They seem to be interested in trying to curtail issuance of debt," Tchir noted, probably because the deductibility of interest makes debt financing more attractive than equity financing.
Curtailing debt issuance would have one obvious effect, Tchir told me. It would reduce supply in the corporate bond market, which may be good for bond prices.
But one thing's for sure, anything that curtails buybacks will catch the attention of the Street.
Corporations bought back roughly $250 billion in the first half of this year, according to Standard & Poor's. Goldman just released its 2018 forecast of fund flows and forecasts that next year corporations will again be the single biggest buyers of stock because of share buybacks.
Corporations are not just the single biggest buyers of stock. Without their participation, flows would be negative, according to Goldman.
2018 Equity Demand Forecast: Who will buy stock?
Corporations                  $590 billion inflows
ETFs                                $400 billion inflows
Foreign                            $100 billion inflows
Households                    $  10 billion inflows
Mutual funds                  $125 billion outflows
Pensions                         $250 billion outflows
Foreign equities by US  $250 billion outflows
Credit ETF                       $  75 billion outflows
Source: Goldman Sachs, Federal Reserve Board
See what I mean? Without buybacks, instead of net equity demand of $400 billion in 2018, there would be nearly $200 billion of outflows.
Yikes! No wonder the Street is worried about anything that upsets this apple cart.


CNBC's Jim Cramer knows that sentiment matters when stocks are constantly being driven higher by a raging bull market.
But the "Mad Money" host also knows that sentiment is extremely difficult to measure. So Cramer has started asking people why they don't like the market. So far, he's been met with a cacophony of eye-opening answers.
One major reason Cramer has heard is that people can't afford to invest in the stock market, despite Cramer's advice to start with small investments and build on their gains.
Often times, Cramer asks if they like their iPhones. When they say they do, he asks why they wouldn't go buy shares of Apple.
"They typically screw up their faces and say, 'I don't know. I have no idea.' Well, let me tell you something. The company that is Apple reported tonight and it was one of the greatest blowouts I have ever seen," Cramer said. "Spectacular revenue growth, amazing earnings, a re-acceleration in China, bountiful services stream, and you just try getting an [iPhone] 10. Just try."
Cramer said that he was proud of his faith in Apple CEO Tim Cook, adding that so many people are "oblivious" to Apple's stock and the plays that benefit when it soars, like Broadcom.
"No one got Apple right except for us," he said. "What a shame, as this company, with a market cap approaching what could be $1 trillion, could have made fortunes for people if they would just understand that you can own — not trade, but own — a piece of this amazing company."


After negative reactions to Facebook's and Tesla's respective earnings reports on Wall Street, CNBC's Jim Cramer made a somewhat contrarian call.
"You know what? I think the stocks of these two companies could reverse and go higher after a couple of days of selling," the "Mad Money" host said. "It has to do with the way they handle their conference calls after they report their earnings, and how they approach their investor bases and make their promises."
Cramer began with Tesla. The automaker posted a larger-than-expected loss in the third quarter due to production problems with its Model 3 sedan.
Elon Musk, Tesla's outspoken CEO, tried to mitigate analysts' concerns on the conference call, acknowledging the production issues but saying that, once they're fixed, Tesla could become a production machine with the highest profitability in the industry.
The Street responded in kind, sending shares of Tesla down nearly 10 percent on Wednesday. But individual investors could respond differently, Cramer said.
"There's a retail investor cohort who actually cares about different things," Cramer said. "You gotta have faith, and individual investors, they've got just that when it comes to the stock of Tesla. They believe in Tesla, which is why they'll soon come in to buy the stock because they love the car and they don't care about things like profit or gross margins or earnings per share."
Musk's followers tend to forgive his over-promising and under-delivering, even if the analysts who cover Tesla don't. Cramer said that he could see Tesla's stock withstanding another round of financing on the faith of its fans.
Facebook's third-quarter earnings report beat analyst estimates, but the company's situation is different, Cramer said.
The social media giant's management tends to under-promise on conference calls, like in 2016 when they said they expected Facebook's ad revenue growth rate to "come down meaningfully."
After this quarter, shares of Facebook fell on the company's statements that countering bad actors like Russian hackers on its platform will significantly impact profitability.
"Facebook's stock was up 4 [basis] points before [CEO Mark] Zuckerberg said that and added, 'protecting our community is more important than maximizing our profits,'" Cramer said. "I think this comment's just like the ad slowdown comment. It's done to temper expectations as well as make it clear to Congress that Facebook's good actors."
So, even as neither conference call inspired much near-term confidence, Cramer pointed to the statistics: Tesla's stock is up 50 percent for 2017 and Facebook's stock is up 58 percent.
"They both have their narratives, one hopelessly upbeat, the other ridiculously downbeat, and both work longer term even with the short-term pressure they're under," the "Mad Money" host said. "Two different strategies, same stock results a few weeks later, as the stocks first go lower and then climb right back up again."


CNBC's Jim Cramer has been following the bull market in payment processing and the rise of digital transactions for a while, pounding the table on plays like Visa and PayPal.
But there are more ways to play the global cash-to-credit shift besides credit card companies and payment processors, so Cramer decided to analyze Global Payments, an international merchant acquirer that enables retailers to accept electronic payments.
"The stock of Global Payments has rocketed up more than 48 percent year to date, so good that, yes, I'm kicking myself. I wish I had highlighted it earlier," the "Mad Money" host said. "These guys own the client relationships in the payments business and they're the ones who set pricing. They also have some e-commerce, cross-border and gambling-related solutions."
When somebody makes a purchase with a credit card, it sets off a complex chain of events. First, the retailer that sold the item sends transaction information to its merchant acquirer (Global Payments, for example), which sends it to the credit card network (say, Visa).
The credit card operator then gives the information to the customer's bank, which validates and pays for the transaction. In the end, the credit card network only makes less than one-fifth of 1 percent of each transaction. The merchant acquirer — in this case, Global Payments — makes a 2 to 3 percent cut.
Cramer said Global Payments' outlook drastically improved when it bought Heartland Payment Systems in 2015 for $3.8 billion.
The deal, which was completed in April 2016, gave Global Payments an array of new small- and medium-sized clients, helping boost its exposure to new industries like restaurants. It also added 1,400 salespeople across North America to Global Payments' roster.
All together, the Heartland acquisition is expected to produce $1 billion in added revenues and $60 million in cost savings in 2017 alone. Long term, it is expected to boost Global Payments' revenue growth by up to 2 percent, part of the reason why the stock has caught fire this year.
"Meanwhile, Global Payments is looking to expand internationally," Cramer said. "Right now, the rest of the world accounts for roughly a quarter of the company's sales. Asia, Europe, [the] Middle East, Africa, [and] Latin America is where the real growth is, so they're aggressively trying to take share overseas."
Typically, Cramer doesn't like to invest solely on earnings reports. But given Global Payments' bullish guidance, strategic partnership with Vista Equity Partners and e-commerce expansion, he made an exception to his rule regarding the company's third-quarter earnings report on Nov. 8.
"I don't like to game the earnings reports, but if Global Payments delivers another good quarter next week and the stock gets dinged anyway, I wouldn't be surprised if you're getting another buying opportunity," he said.
And shares of Global Payments are trading at less than 22 times next year's earnings estimates, slightly more expensive than its closest rival, Vantiv, but much cheaper than payment networks than Visa, which trades at 27 times next year's earnings.
"Bottom line: I love the payments space. That's why we own the cheapest one for my charitable trust — club members know First Data, which hasn't been acting well but is so inexpensive, is the one that has got the best value — but if you want a little-known company that's essential to the payments food chain, then you could do a whole lot worse than Global Payments," Cramer said. "Only concern? [The] stock's run a lot this year. Yeah, ideally, you could wait for a pullback. How about this: half before, half after."


CNBC's Jim Cramer knows that sentiment matters when stocks are constantly being driven higher by a raging bull market.
But the "Mad Money" host also knows that sentiment is extremely difficult to measure. Financial newsletters, which often lean bullish or bearish, are falling out of style. Mutual fund data offers an empirical look, but can be incomplete or disappointing.
"[Mutual fund inflows] remain pretty dismal, [with] more money coming out in the last month than going in despite the stunning gains we've seen," Cramer said. "Many weeks still produce big outflows from stocks, good weeks where people make money. Call that negative sentiment for certain."
Then there's anecdotal evidence. Cramer often gathers this from roundtables and conferences he attends. Lately, people seem to be getting more interested in the stock market (not committed, but interested, he noted).
"And you know what? I like that. I think the lack of warmth or love or even nodding acceptance of stocks as something that can make you money is downright wonderful for the bulls. See, if investors were all in, I would have to be very concerned," the "Mad Money" host said. "When everybody already loves stocks, you've got no tinder to start the fire."
The lack of enthusiasm suggests that there's still money on the sidelines that hasn't entered the market and, in Cramer's view, could be the key the bull market's next leg higher.
In the stock market's heyday, Cramer said he couldn't walk 5 feet down Wall Street without being asked about a stock.
Nowadays, people may ask him for photos or what he thinks about the unregulated cryptocurrency bitcoin, but very few ask him about individual stocks.
(Regarding bitcoin, Cramer usually points them to a  2012 episode of The Good Wife in which he vouched for bitcoin as a guest star in the courtroom.)
So Cramer has started asking people why they don't like the market. So far, he's been met with a cacophony of eye-opening answers.
"I'd say about a third of them tell me, 'I'm just not interested because it's too dangerous,'" the "Mad Money" host said.
Most of those people told Cramer that they lost everything in the 2008 financial crisis or the 2000 dotcom crash and would rather keep cash than invest in stocks.
"[It's] pretty amazing given how poorly cash has done versus stocks. The risk aversion is tremendous," he said.
Cramer has also heard from people who have been waiting for ages for a pullback and say they "missed the rally." A third group told Cramer that they didn't invest because of politics.
The fourth reason Cramer has heard is that people can't afford to invest in the stock market, despite Cramer's advice to start with small investments and build on their gains.
"The belief that only the rich own stocks and make money in them because the market's rigged against the little guy is a pretty constant refrain," the "Mad Money" host said.
All in all, Cramer has not ignored the trajectory of this rally. With the exception of the drug stocks, the consumer foods plays and the retailers, the bull market has been surging. But he has noticed that the sentiment doesn't match the gains.
"I believe that as long as people are incredulous or disdainful or scared of this market ... then there's trillions of dollars of tinder on the sidelines that can come in and take stocks higher," Cramer concluded. "And that process is pretty self-fulfilling; as they take stocks up, their old memories of the bad times disappear [and] new ones are created based on a better economy and a realization that the stock market, and even the most obvious of companies as plain as the nose on my face, can make you a heck of a lot more money than any other asset class under the sun."


Cliff Asness believes financial markets will offer weak returns from these levels.
"More expensive markets lead to lower expected returns," Asness said at the 2nd Annual Evidence-Based Investing Conference in New York on Thursday. He added that "both stocks and bonds [will offer] lower expected returns than normal."
Asness predicts investors with a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds will only generate 2 percent real annual returns.
The portfolio manager warned however not to bet against or short the market.
"Don't market time with this. Valuation of markets is a disastrous market timing tool and a super weak strategy," he said. "Evidence is strong over long-term, high CAPE [multiples mean returns for the] next 10 years are low."
Nobel Prize-winning economist Robert Shiller developed the "cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings ratio" (CAPE) market valuation measure, which is calculated using price divided by the index's average historical 10-year earnings, adjusted for inflation.
Asness is founder and chief investment officer of AQR Capital Management, a leading quantitative investing firm. AQR has $208 billion of assets under management, according to its website.


Shares of T. Rowe Price and other asset managers rose Thursday after the House Republican tax plan preserved popular retirement savings plans, including 401(k)s.
Shares of the company rose 1.8 percent Thursday after slipping about 4 percent over the past two weeks on fears that legislators in Washington were considering reforms to the popular savings plan.
Certain Republican lawmakers had toyed with the idea of cutting contribution limits to $2,400 as Congress looked to make up for other tax cuts. Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas, a top tax writer in the House of Representatives, said cuts to how much people can contribute were still on the table as recently as last week.
The GOP tax plan leaves current contribution limits in place, meaning $18,000 for 401(k) plans for 2017. Those 50 and over can contribute as much as $24,000.
Experts were concerned that lowering limits on pre-tax 401(k) contributions would indirectly encourage workers to save less for retirement. Most Americans already save too little for their retirement needs.
Shares of BlackRock, Invesco and Ameriprise Financial all traded higher after details of the plan were released.
The Republican tax reform plan will also permanently lower the corporate tax rate to 20 percent.



U.S. crude prices retreated after coming within striking distance of their 2017 high on Wednesday, raising questions about whether a rally that started in June has reached its peak.
On the one hand, the trend of future oil prices suggests that a prolonged global glut of crude is coming to an end. But at these elevated levels, prices are also susceptible to disappointing data points and profit-taking as traders look to cash in on recent gains.
Crude futures shed more than $1 a barrel on Wednesday after government data showed U.S. crude stockpiles declined less than earlier industry figures indicated. The Energy Department's report also showed U.S. oil exports hit an all-time high, while the nation's production crept toward record levels.
U.S crude 4-day performance

U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude prices ended the session down 8 cents at $54.30 a barrel and were trading near that level on Thursday. International benchmark Brent crude settled 45 cents lower at $60.49 and was slumping toward $60 a barrel on Thursday.


Bond yields fell and the dollar weakened as markets greeted the House tax bill with skepticism and concern about how hefty corporate and individual tax cuts will ultimately get paid for without ballooning the federal deficit.
Details of the House plan trickled out with traders watching headline by headline. The plan cuts the corporate tax rate to 20 percent permanently, compresses individual tax brackets and would repeal estate taxes in 2024.
But some of the contentious elements of the plan, like a limit on mortgage deductions to $500,000 and a new $10,000 limit on the deduction of state and local taxes, are expected to put heat on lawmakers as they attempt to create a final bill.
"It's pretty ambitious, and now the real fighting is going to begin. Now you see who is going to pay the price as opposed to what people get," said Michael Schumacher, director, rate strategy at Wells Fargo.
Yields fell across the Treasury curve, but less at the short end. The dollar also slid with the dollar index down 0.2 percent at 94.65. Stocks were mixed but homebuilding stocks were under pressure and the XHB, SPDR S&P Homebuilders ETF, was down 2.5 percent, its worst day since October 2016.
The S&P 500 was off slightly, while the Dow was higher. The Russell 2000 was also up slightly. The small caps in the Russell would benefit disproportionately compared with larger companies, which pay a lower average tax rate.
"It did seem like there was a little bit of buy the rumor, sell the fact. Treasury yields fell, and that weighed on the dollar," said Win Thin, senior currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman. "We know this is the first stab. I think the mortgage deduction is a bit of a nonstarter. There's going to be pushback. I'm not sure why you would trade on this. There's nothing built in stone."
Aaron Kohli, BMO director, fixed income strategy, said there was skepticism that revenue streams in the plan would be able to win approval from Congress.
"The math doesn't add up," he said. "The market is skeptical of how the warring factions within the GOP and between the GOP and Democrats will really come together enough on this to get the necessary votes."
Schumacher said the Treasury curve was continuing a flattening move Thursday, meaning the yields at the long end, or on the 10-year note, are getting closer to those at the short end, the 2-year note. He said if the bill was expected to pass as is, there would be a steepening with long end rates rising, in anticipation of more government bonds to pay for the tax package.
The yield curve has also been flattening on Treasury announcements on refunding which suggest there will be more issuance at the short end, impacting bills and the 2-year.
Schumacher said the move in the 2-year reflected that as well as the tax package. The 2-year yield was 1.61 percent, off slightly from Wednesday, while the 10-year slid to 2.34 percent from 2.38 percent Wednesday.


Shares of Activision Blizzard have soared 81 percent this year, and Oppenheimer technician Ari Wald says the stock's about to fly even higher.
"Activision is a high momentum stock and it does warrant a buy rating in our work," he said Wednesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "The thing with these high momentum stocks is they could do nothing for months at a time, but the longer-term strength ultimately continues higher and I think that's what's going on for Activision."
While the video game maker has traded between $60 and $66 since July, Wald pointed to three key factors that he thinks will ultimately get the stock to break out.
"Our bet is that given the positive momentum, the rising 200-day moving average and top-down tail winds from a relatively broadly structured tech sector, we think it is more likely that you get an upside breakout than a downside break," he added.

But not everyone is as excited about the gaming stock. Cowen's David Seaburg, for instance, believes the shares have risen almost too far, too fast, and has already priced in some key events.
"[Our analysts at Cowen believe] that competition is heating up immensely, and 2018 growth assumptions are just too high and not achievable," Seaburg, the firm's head of sales trading, said on "Power Lunch." "So he expects that the quarter will be fine, but earnings expectations are baked into the stock price here."
In other words, "any pop on Friday morning out of earnings is a sell," said Seaburg.
Despite falling Wednesday, Activision is still hovering near all-time highs ahead of its earnings report after Thursday's close.


Tesla shares dropped more than 5 percent Thursday as Wall Street questioned how much leeway it should continue to give the automaker's outspoken founder, Elon Musk.
Tesla reported a wider-than-expected loss Wednesday evening and said the production of its mass market Model 3 sedan won't meet previous forecasts for another three months. That sparked a sell-off in the shares in after hours trading that continued into Thursday morning as Wall Street analysts voiced their disappointment with Musk's comments on a conference call to discuss the numbers.
Tesla now expects to reach a Model 3 production rate of 5,000 cars a week late in the first quarter of 2018. Previously, the electric car maker said it expected to reach that rate by the end of 2017.
"We left the call frustrated with the lack of transparency from Tesla management," Cowen's Jeffrey Osborne wrote in a note to investors.
More than one analyst remarked about the company's lack of commitment to a date when it would reach production of 10,000 Model 3 units per week, which it has previously put at some point in 2018.
"Perhaps more disconcerting was the electing to not guide to the time when it would reach 10K per week (previously said to be sometime during 2018)," said JPMorgan analyst Ryan Brinkman. "The combination of these two guidance changes is likely to result in a significant reduction in production expectations."
JPMorgan slashed its projection for Model 3 production in the fourth quarter to 10,000 from 15,000.
Analysts are focused on Model 3 production because Tesla has said it plans to use cash from that business to fund new projects, said Goldman Sachs analyst David Tamberrino. Tesla plans to reveal a semitractor-trailer on Nov.16, a crossover called the Model Y at some point in the next few years, a pickup truck and the second generation Tesla Roadster.
"We see the timeline for these products as likely pushed out," Tamberrino said.
There are some bright spots, said Deutsche Bank analyst Rod Lache.
"On the positive side, we can see scenarios in which TSLA is able to overcome temporary production challenges, manage distribution/service challenges, execute on growth, achieve aggressive margin targets, and build a cash generative/self-sustaining growth engine (if Tesla's production and margin targets are achieved, the company could reach FCFbreakeven by late-2018)," Lache said in a note. "However, given the company's current cash burn and potential for delays in achieving production targets, we believe that the margin for error is once again becoming uncomfortably thin."


Bitcoin hit another all-time high Thursday morning, surpassing $7,000 for the first time.
The cryptocurrency has had a bullish streak throughout the week following the CME's announcement that it will introduce bitcoin futures contracts.
According to data from CoinDesk, the virtual currency reached an all-time high of $7,355.35 at about 7:16 a.m. ET before trading at $6,895.41. The jump in price saw the virtual coin rise by more than 7 percent on the day.
A surge in the digital coin's value saw the total market value of all cryptocurrencies top $189 billion for the first time Thursday. The market cap of bitcoin alone is currently more than $121 billion, according to data from industry website Coinmarketcap.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Alibaba – The China-based e-commerce beat estimates on both the top and bottom lines, and reported a 3.8 percent increase in mobile monthly active users to a total of 549 million.
Yum Brands – The restaurant chain operator earned an adjusted 68 cents per share for its latest quarter, one cent a share above estimates. Revenue also exceeded forecasts, as comparable-store sales rose at KFC, Taco Bell, and Pizza Hut.
ADP – The payroll processor beat estimates by six cents a share, with quarterly profit of 91 cents per share. Revenue also beat forecasts and the company raised its full-year revenue outlook.
Wayfair – The high-end furniture retailer lost 65 cents per share for its latest quarter, 20 cents a share wider than the loss that Wall Street was expecting. Revenue also missed forecasts, although the company said it was taking more market share and improving its shopping experience for customers.
Blue Apron – The meal kit company lost 47 cents per share for its latest quarter, five cents a share more than estimates. Revenue beat forecasts, however, as Blue Apron's average revenue per customer rose.
Teva Pharmaceutical – The drugmaker earned an adjusted $1 per share for the quarter, four cents a share shy of estimates. The drugmaker's revenue also missed estimates. Teva said it experienced lower-than-expected sales contributions from new generic drug launches in the U.S.
AutoNation – The car retailer beat estimates by 16 cents a share, with quarterly profit of $1 per share. Revenue was short of forecasts. Same-dealership sales surged from a year ago, and AutoNation also announced an agreement with Waymo to service the self-driving operation's robovans.
Facebook – Facebook reported quarterly profit of $1.59 per share for the third quarter, 31 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts. Facebook's results were boosted by an increase in video ads, with total ad revenue up 49 percent from a year earlier.
Tesla – Tesla lost $2.92 per share for its latest quarter, wider than the $2.29 per share loss the Street had expected. Revenue was slightly above forecasts, but Tesla scaled back its Model 3 production targets as it deals with production bottlenecks.
Symantec – Symantec earned an adjusted 40 cents per share for its fiscal second quarter, falling three cents a share short of estimates. The cybersecurity company's revenue matched forecasts. Symantec also gave weaker-than-expected current-quarter guidance and said it had no plans to spin off its consumer business.
Qualcomm – Qualcomm came in nine cents a share above forecasts, with adjusted quarterly profit of 92 cents per share. The chipmaker's revenue also exceeded forecasts. Overall results were impacted, however, by a fine imposed by Taiwan regulators and the withholding of patent royalties from Apple amid a legal dispute between the two companies.
GoPro – GoPro earned an adjusted 15 cents per share for its latest quarter, well above the two-cents-a share consensus estimate. The high definition camera maker's revenue also beat forecasts, but it gave weaker-than-expected current-quarter and full-year guidance, as it continues to deal with production issues.
Shake Shack – Shake Shack came in two cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 17 cents per share. The restaurant chain's revenue coming in just above consensus. The company also announced plans to add up to 26 new U.S. stores this year and up to 35 next year.
Cheesecake Factory – Cheesecake Factory fell four cents a share short of estimates, reporting quarterly profit of 56 cents per share. The restaurant operator's revenue also fell short, as same-restaurant sales fell 2.3 percent. Cheesecake Factory joined the list of companies noting a negative impact from the quarter's hurricanes.
Kraft Heinz – Kraft Heinz reported adjusted quarterly profit of 83 cents per share, one cent a share above estimates. The food company's revenue fell slightly short of expectations as processed food demand in the U.S. continued to weaken.
FireEye – FireEye lost four cents per share for the third quarter, three cents a share smaller than analysts had anticipated. The cybersecurity company's revenue exceeded forecasts. The shares are under pressure, however, after FireEye disappointed investors by forecasting a current-quarter loss.
Yelp – Yelp reported quarterly profit of nine cents per share, compared to the expected loss of two cents per share. The reviews website operator saw revenue beat forecasts in a quarter where CEO Jeremy Stoppelman said Yelp "executed well."
Fitbit – Fitbit lost an adjusted one cent per share for its latest quarter, a loss that was two cents a share smaller than consensus estimates. The wearable fitness device maker's revenue was slightly above estimates and the average selling price was up 12 percent from a year earlier. The company also gave an upbeat current quarter forecast, based In part on hopes for its new "Iconic" smartwatch.
Under Armour – The athletic apparel maker is losing two senior executives, according to The Wall Street Journal, with marketing chief Andrew Donkin and senior vice president Pamela Catlett departing.
L Brands – L Brands reported a two percent increase in comparable-store sales for October, compared to a consensus forecast for a 1.7 percent decline. The month's sales were boosted by unexpected increases at the company's Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works units.
HanesBrands – The company matched forecasts with adjusted quarterly profit of 60 cents per share. The underwear maker's revenue also matched expectations, but its shares are being pressured by weaker-than-expected current-quarter guidance.
Costco – The warehouse retailer reported an October comparable-store sales increase of 7.5 percent, compared to the StreetAccount consensus estimate of a 6.4 percent rise.


The U.S. Federal Reserve is on a "beautiful normalization" that balances rising interest rates and the stability of markets and the economy — something the next chairperson, whoever it will be, would not want to disrupt, Allianz Chief Economic Advisor Mohamed El-Erian said Thursday.
President Donald Trump is expected to nominate the next Fed chair on Thursday U.S. time. Current Fed governor Jerome Powell is seen as the front-runner for the job.
"The Fed's embarked on this beautiful normalization: It has stopped [quantitative easing], it has raised rates, it has declared a path to reduce its balance sheet without disrupting markets and without derailing the global recovery. And I don't think anybody will want to mess with this beautiful normalization," El-Erian told CNBC during the 2017 Barclays Asia Forum in Singapore.
That means that "nothing will change" in the short term, El-Erian added, with the Fed expected to raise interest rates in December and to continue pressing ahead with winding down its balance sheet.
Acknowledging that investors have been over-complacent with high levels of returns, El-Erian said a major uncertainty is whether more central banks can deliver a "beautiful normalization" like the Fed.


Wall Street largely gushed over Facebook's comfortable earnings beat, but analysts are keeping a wary eye on the social network's costs for security and content.
Shares of Facebook fell 2 percent in early trading Thursday, despite its much better-than-expected results Wednesday. The stock closed at a record Wednesday, up 59 percent for the year.
Analysts fear the controversy over how Russia surreptitiously used Facebook during the 2016 election is not just bad PR but may hit the social media titan's impeccable bottom line as the company invests further in security to take itself out of the political crosshairs.
"With the backdrop of Facebook, Google, and Twitter in front of the Senate Intelligence Committee on Wednesday, and generally increasing discussion of regulatory scrutiny of mega-cap tech, Facebook and Mark Zuckerberg in particular placed heavy emphasis on security and the integrity of the Facebook platform" during the company's post-earnings conference call, JPMorgan analyst Doug Anmuth wrote in a note to clients Thursday. "Importantly, Facebook will increase the number of people working on safety & security (both FTEs & contractors) from ~10k now to 20k over the next year."
While Anmuth felt that the company's efforts to curb fake news and hate speech on its platform would ultimately serve Facebook well, many analysts are concerned that increases in short-term spending may put pressure on attractive margins.
Facebook, Google and Twitter representatives have been testifying before Congress this week as lawmakers try to discover how each company allowed stealth Russian posts and whether there needs to be more regulation of tech companies. And while each company has voiced interest in dealing with interference in social media internally, the possibility of regulation also weighs on investor sentiment.
"Facebook's efforts will come in many forms — increasing transparency of political and issue ads, removing problematic content such as false news and hate speech and bulking up review of ad content," added Anmuth.
Anmuth wasn't the only analyst to comment on the company's plans.
"The changes are particularly aimed at curbing misuse of the platform similar to what the Russian government perpetrated during the U.S. 2016 election," Macquarie's Benjamin Schachter said in a note to clients. "Facebook plans to raise the standards of transparency for political ads on the site, rolling out a tool to let users see all of the ads a page is currently running, and also an archive of political ads the advertiser has run in the past."
Zuckerberg's company indicated that operating expenditures will increase 45 to 60 percent as the company funnels more cash into security, video content, augmented reality and artificial intelligence.
"We're building, we're doubling — in some cases more — our engineering teams focused on security," Zuckerberg said Wednesday. "We're building AI to go after more different areas of harmful content and finding fake accounts and other bad actors in the system. And I expect that all of these things will make our product better over the long term, but we will incur the expenses a lot sooner as we ramp up these efforts."
To be sure, Facebook's performance so far this year is nothing to complain about.
The company posted FX-neutral advertising revenue growth of 47 percent year over year thanks to ad pricing ramp, a "rare and impressive" feat according to Anmuth. Overseas growth in monthly active users — a key metric for Facebook — also looks promising to many analysts.
Shares have soared 59 percent this year, easily outpacing the S&P 500's impressive 15 percent climb since January.
"FB remains our top large cap internet pick and we think that momentum in the name can continue through the end of the year," wrote Jefferies analyst Brent Thill. "We see upside to average revenue per user, monthly active users, and Instagram."
Several analysts highlighted photo-sharing app Instagram as a potential catalyst 
 for Facebook and an area for increasing ad load.


The House Republican tax reform bill that's being unveiled on Thursday morning could boost long-term economic growth above the Trump administration's goal, said retiring Rep. Jeb Hensarling.
President Donald Trump, while talking about growth as high as 4 percent on the campaign trail, has been focusing lately on sustained gross domestic product advances of 3 percent.
Hensarling, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Thursday he believes the votes will be there to pass the GOP package of tax cuts for American workers and corporations.
"What I would encourage my colleagues to look at ... the difference between 3 and 3.2 [percent] economic growth versus 1.5 to 2 percent economic growth under the Obama plan," the Texas Republican said ahead of the unveiling of the tax plan.
"We are now finally, finally after a decade, seeing wages rise for working people. And right now under President Trump, we've had two quarters of 3 percent economic growth, and that's even without this plan,"  Hensarling said. "I think we're capable of maybe 3.5 percent economic growth. That's going to be make a huge difference to everybody."

However, many Democrats, including former Obama Treasury Jack Lew, believe the economy is not capable long-term growth of even 3 percent.
On CNBC Wednesday, Lew predicted sustained GDP growth "north" of 2 percent.
"We have demographic issues that are just a constraint that anyone would face right now," he said, warning that denying such factors "could lead you to make big mistakes."
One of those mistakes would be to implement the approach to tax reform that Republican leaders advocate, Lew said, arguing the U.S. can't afford it.


New highs in the U.S. stock market are certainly good news — for those who own stocks.
The bad news is, those who own stocks are only a small part of total U.S. households.
The investment class in the United States is small, and it's not getting bigger.
According to the latest Gallup poll of American households, only 54 percent own stocks, down from 62 percent before the financial crisis.
And many of the households only own small amounts of stock.
New York University economist Edward Wolff conducted a careful study of stock ownership in 2013 and found that 81 percent of the stock market worth is concentrated in the top 10 percent of households by wealth.
I spoke with Wolff and he was kind enough to update the numbers. It's gotten worse: 84 percent of the stock in the United States is owned by the top 10 percent of households by net wealth.


Tesla is going to be the top performing big name technology stock in the next five years, one noted analyst has told CNBC.
Gene Munster, a former analyst at Piper Jaffray and now venture capitalist at Loup Ventures, was speaking afterg Tesla's disappointing earnings on Wednesday.
The electric car-maker reported a larger-than-expected loss per share of $2.92. It also said that it expects to achieve a production rate of 5,000 Model 3 cars per week in the first quarter of 2018, after previously saying that this would be possible by the end of this year. The Model 3 is seen as a key driver of Tesla's future growth.
But the disappointing quarter has not deterred Munster from the future growth story.
"My outlook that this is going to be the best performing large cap tech stock in the next five years hasn't changed. The news tonight and the push back is a disappointment and I think that I'm in the camp betting that he's done this in the past and he will ramp (production of Model 3)," Munster told CNBC in a television interview.
"And I would just caution investor too. Again I'm fully behind this story, none of that has changed, but we are going to see other disappointments and it's just a bigger opportunity and he will capitalize on that."
Chief Executive Elon Musk said the production delay of the Model 3 was due to a supplier who had "really dropped the ball" at the Gigafactory. One of the issues is with a battery module used in the car.



Related: Trump's top trade issues: Where they stand
"Despite strong language a year ago, the U.S. administration has been remarkably restrained in its usage of measures to restrict imports from China," said Louis Kuijs, the top Asia economist at advisory firm Oxford Economics.
But experts predict things are going to get nasty in 2018.
'I expect a trade war'
Trump's patience appears to be running out, especially with his idea to cut Xi some slack on trade in the hope China would pressure North Korea into backing down on its nuclear weapons program.
Trump and his trade lieutenants are expected in the coming months to announce results from some of their big investigations -- on issues like steel and intellectual property theft -- that could result in tariffs on Chinese goods.
"I expect a trade war to emerge in the first part of the year, and it could spiral into a serious conflict that threatens other elements of the relationship," said Scott Kennedy, director of the Project on Chinese Business and Political Economy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

The initial trade talks between the world's two largest economies, which began after Trump and Xi hit it off in Florida in April, fell apart without meaningful results.
The U.S. president on Monday cast China in a harsh light as he laid out his vision for national security.
Trump's newly unveiled strategy identified China and Russia as U.S. rivals that are "attempting to erode American security and prosperity," and he accused Beijing of unfair trade practices.
Related: Trump unveils national security plan, blasts previous presidents
"We all know that this is going to heat up in the coming months," said Mireya Solis, co-director of the Center for East Asia Policy Studies at the Brookings Institution.
She expressed concern that unlike the economic rivalry between the U.S. and Japan in the 1980s, Washington and Beijing aren't allies bound together by a defense partnership.
Despite the U.S. and China's deep economic links, the lack of a broader alliance makes "the threat of an escalation" in trade tensions much greater, Solis said in a discussion Monday with Brookings colleagues.
Beijing responded to Trump on Tuesday, calling on the U.S. to abandon its Cold War mentality and to "stop distorting" China's strategic intentions.
'The risk of damaging both economies'
Trump faces a huge challenge in persuading Beijing to stop aggressively boosting its domestic industries and to do more to open its own giant markets without setting off a trade war that hurts American jobs.
Trump gave up one major tool for influencing China right after taking office when he yanked the U.S. out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), a vast free trade agreement covering 12 countries that President Barack Obama had spearheaded in an effort to strengthen U.S. leadership in Asia and the Americas.

A successful TPP would have provided "an incentive for China to reform," said David Dollar, a China expert at the Brookings Institution.
"Now, we've lost that and the administration is talking about taking some harsh actions, which is probably not going to change Chinese behavior but has the risk of damaging both economies," he said in the conversation with Solis.
Related: New Pacific trade deal could leave U.S. playing catchup
Trump has also dismissed other multinational approaches to trade, saying they "tie our hands, surrender our sovereignty and make meaningful enforcement practically impossible." But that attitude also makes it harder to pressure China to play fairer on trade.
"The U.S. is pursuing this effort unilaterally and with no allies," Kennedy said. "Because the U.S. is at loggerheads with so many others, no other country is standing by the U.S.'s side."

Dollar, who previously worked for the U.S. Treasury Department, isn't convinced that the increasingly threatening noises from the White House will necessarily lead to aggressive protectionist measures against China.
"It's not obvious to me the U.S. will go down that road," he said. "I think there'll be a lot of resistance from the business community and members of Congress."
'The Chinese government is jittery'
Still, the more confrontational signals from Washington haven't gone unnoticed in Beijing.
"The Chinese government is jittery again," said Song Guoyou, an expert in Chinese economic diplomacy at Fudan University in Shanghai. He also predicts that next year will be "the real start of turbulence in China-U.S. trade relations."
A big part of the problem, experts say, is Trump's habit of focusing on the $309 billion U.S. trade deficit with China and not the broader economic relationship between the countries.
Related: U.S. trade deficit with China and Mexico is growing
"The trade balance has absolutely nothing to do with whether China is playing fair," Kennedy said. "In fact, if China were to reduce some of its market access barriers to foreign investment, its trade surplus with the U.S. might rise."
But Trump appears willing to try to bring the deficit down, even if it leads to conflict. And then he may face an even bigger challenge.
"It's much easier to get into a trade war than it is to get out of one," Kennedy warned.
-- Serenitie Wang contributed to this report.


The findings, along with other surveys, suggest that the tax plan may not have the dramatic impact on jobs that President Trump and Republicans in Congress have promised.
Trump tweeted over the weekend that "TAX CUTS" will lead to "higher growth, higher wages, and more JOBS!" The GOP tax overhaul would slash the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and offer incentives for companies to bring foreign profits back home.
Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, who leads the Yale CEO Summit, said in an interview that it's "astounding" how few companies plan to reinvest their tax savings.
He called the idea of a jobs boom from the tax plan "a lot of smoke and mirrors," especially because the unemployment rate is just 4.1% and companies already have plenty of cash to make investments.
Sonnenfeld declined to name the CEOs who participated in the poll. He said it included "Trump supporters" and former members of the president's now-defunct advisory councils of business leaders.
Related: Why Wells Fargo could be one of tax plan's big winners
There are other signs that tax cuts may not spark a hiring boom. Just 43% of CEOs polled in November by the Business Roundtable, a powerful business lobby that has spent millions on ads championing tax reform, said they plan to ramp up hiring over the next six months. That was despite rising confidence that the Republican tax plan would be enacted.
And at The Wall Street Journal's CEO Council in November, only a few business leaders raised their hands when they were asked whether the tax plan would lead them to increase investment in the United States. Gary Cohn, Trump's top economic adviser, was surprised.
"Why aren't the other hands up?" he asked from on stage.
Wall Street expects companies will use a big chunk of the tax savings to reward shareholders with fatter dividends and stock buybacks, which makes stocks more attractive. That's one reason stocks have surged all year, putting the Dow in sight of 25,000.
"Markets just love it," Michael Block, chief market strategist at Rhino Trading Partners, wrote in a note on Tuesday.
He said it's "malarkey" to think that cutting corporate taxes will boost spending and wages.
"As we've seen in history, this doesn't raise wages," he wrote. "What it does lead to is richer shareholders."
In 2004, when Congress offered tax breaks for companies to bring foreign profits back home, businesses used much of their cash on share buybacks.
The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities later concluded that the 2004 tax holiday "did not produce the promised economic benefits" because companies mostly bought back stock instead of investing to grow their businesses.
Related: How much you will pay under GOP tax plan depends on a lot
Trump tweeted on Tuesday that "stocks and the economy have a long way to go after the Tax Cut Bill is totally understood and appreciated." Specifically, he said "immediate expensing will have a big impact."
Trump was referring to an element of the legislation that would allow businesses to immediately and fully expense most new capital investments. The provision, which would end after five years, should encourage companies to shell out money on new plants and equipment.
JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon, who chairs the Business Roundtable, recently predicted that tax reform will "lead to capital expenditures, productivity and wages," though he cautioned it may take time for workers to benefit.
One concern among the CEOs polled by Yale: the price of the GOP tax overhaul. The Joint Committee on Taxation, a nonpartisan scorekeeper for tax bills, estimates the legislation would add about $1 trillion to deficits even after accounting for projected additional economic growth.
Seventy-two percent of CEOs said it's "wrong" for the tax package to sizably add to America's mountain of debt.


Despite pledges by Garrett to keep the agency "fully functioning" should he be confirmed by the Senate, lawmakers -- including some Republicans -- remained unconvinced.
"Mr. Garrett was a leader of the effort to slam shut the doors of America's export financing bank, and he cannot hide his contempt for Ex-Im," said Senator Sherrod Brown, the top Democrat on the committee, at the hearing.
"He did not and could not answer the key question posed by several of us -- 'What has changed?' Why did he vote repeatedly in 2012 and 2015 to kill the Bank, but now wants to lead it?,'" Brown added.
Senators Tim Scott of South Carolina and Mike Rounds of South Dakota, two Republicans on the panel, joined Democrats to defeat Trump's pick.
"We are disappointed that the Senate Banking Committee missed this opportunity to get the Export Import Bank fully functioning again. We will continue to work with the Committee on a path forward," said Marc Short, director of legislative affairs for the White House, in a statement.
Related: Is Trump keeping his promises on manufacturing?
The agency supports U.S. exports by backing loans to foreign buyers and providing credit insurance. Those that support the agency argue it creates a level playing field, allowing U.S. companies to compete with foreign rivals that receive backing from their own governments.
Opponents of the agency argue the bank amounts to corporate welfare and should be killed.
While the move is a defeat for the White House, it is a win for large manufacturers that pressured lawmakers to oppose Garrett's nomination.
"If there was ever somebody who didn't belong at the helm of the Ex-Im bank, it was Scott Garrett," said Democratic minority leader Sen. Chuck Schumer in a statement after the vote.
Schumer called on the president to immediately withdraw Garrett's name for the job and appoint a leader that will support the work of the agency.


Top European Commission officials asked for both measures to be removed from the final bill in a second letter to Mnuchin.
European officials argue that the bill would subsidize American companies by allowing a greater share of their income from exports to be taxed at 12.5%, instead of the general corporate rate of 21%.
The second provision that drew objections would subject cross-border transfers within banks and finance companies to a 10% tax, putting international lenders at a disadvantage.
Both rule changes were included in the final version of the bill despite the lobbying campaign.
"The concerns expressed, including regarding export subsidies, are still relevant," said Michael Mundaca, co-director of tax services at EY and a former tax policy official at the U.S. Treasury.
Related: How much you'd pay under GOP tax plan depends on a million things
Export subsidies have long been a source of trade friction between the U.S. and Europe.
One set of U.S. tax break for big exporters were repealed in 2006 after two decades of fighting and sanctions threats from the European Union.
Related: New tax code will still be complicated
Similar battles could now be revived.
"There will almost surely be [World Trade Organization] litigation over the lower [tax] rate on exports," said Rebecca Kysar, a professor at Fordham University. "The most likely outcome is that the U.S. will eventually have to abandon the export subsidy regime under threat of sanctions."
The House is expected to vote on the bill Tuesday, and the Senate will follow soon after. The legislation, which is expected to pass on party lines, could be on President Trump's desk before Christmas.
Then the lawsuits could fly.
"The EU has challenged aspects of U.S. tax law in the WTO in the past, and the rules would allow it to bring a new claim once the current bill becomes law," said White & Case partner Brendan McGivern, who is the head of the firm's WTO practice. "The whole process, including a possible appeal, would take about three years -- and the final result would be binding."


The spending splurge comes as Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman embarks on an ambitious reform agenda designed to reduce the country's dependence on crude oil.
His blueprint, called Vision 2030, includes social and economic reforms such as lifting the ban on women driving. But it also includes subsidy cuts that have weighed on growth.
"The government is increasing spending as a way to stimulate growth and increase private sector participation and investment," said John Sfakianakis, director of economic research at the Gulf Research Center in Riyadh.
"It makes a lot of sense to delay achieving a balance budget as too much fiscal tightening too soon could hurt the economy more," Sfakianakis added.
Related: Saudi Arabia's $100 billion corruption scandal
Increased spending may have put a balanced budget out of reach, but Saudi Arabia has made some progress in reducing its deficit.
The government said it expects its deficit to narrow by 15% next year to 195 billion riyals ($52 billion). It had swelled to as much as 366 billion riyals ($100 billion) in 2015, when an oil price crash put a big hole in the budget.
Saudi also tapped global bond markets three times in less than a year, borrowing billions to help balance its books.
Increased investment could also help reduce the country's unemployment rate, a key government goal. Nearly 13% of Saudis under the age of 30 don't have a job.
"The focus now will be on services and supporting the private sector to increase job growth," said Khalid Ashaerah, a private business consultant in Riyadh. "This new budget shows that the recession is over as the government undertakes major reform measures."


Lately, Trump is again promising action on infrastructure soon, heralding an imminent proposal on Monday after an Amtrak train derailed in Washington state.
"The train accident that just occurred in DuPont, WA shows more than ever why our soon to be submitted infrastructure plan must be approved quickly," Trump wrote in a tweet. "Seven trillion dollars spent in the Middle East while our roads, bridges, tunnels, railways (and more) crumble! Not for long!" (The accident occurred during the inaugural run of a train that had just received millions of dollars in upgrades.)
The train accident that just occurred in DuPont, WA shows more than ever why our soon to be submitted infrastructure plan must be approved quickly. Seven trillion dollars spent in the Middle East while our roads, bridges, tunnels, railways (and more) crumble! Not for long!

But Cochran isn't the only one exasperated by a year of inaction on a campaign promise that enjoys broad bipartisan support, and which economists think would improve the economy by providing opportunities to lower skilled workers who may have given up looking for jobs.
State and county governments, gas and water utilities, regional transportation authorities, labor unions and community groups were all looking forward to completing deferred maintenance projects that have led the American Society of Civil Engineers to give the nation's infrastructure system a near-failing grade for almost three decades. The trade group estimates $4.59 trillion would be needed over 10 years to clear the backlog.
Related: What's in the GOP's final tax plan
"States and localities have been able to increase revenue for transportation," said Jim Tymon, chief operating officer of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials. "I think the missing piece here is that there hasn't been a change at the federal level in the last 25 years."
The federal government funds infrastructure projects primarily through grants to states, which peaked as a percentage of the gross domestic product during the construction of the national highway system and sewers under the Clean Water Act in the 1970s. Spending averaged 0.5% of GDP between the late 1950s and early 1980s, and has come down to about 0.37% since then, while the states have increased their share of spending on infrastructure.
Days after Trump's inauguration, Senate Democrats proposed a $1 trillion infrastructure package that would have been paid for by closing unspecified tax loopholes. Trump's budget proposal from March contained $200 billion for infrastructure, but emphasized streamlining permitting processes to boost investment from the private sector, while cutting funding for Amtrak, highway renovations, water facilities on Native American reservations, rural airports and other existing programs.
In recent weeks, administration officials have told industry groups and local government officials that an infrastructure plan would be unveiled in January, with $200 billion in federal funding that will be parceled out in grants to state and local governments that promise to match the investments with their own revenue, either in the form of taxes or private money.
"There's been a trend currently in the U.S. to have more state and local government investment in infrastructure," said DJ Gribbin, Special Assistant to the President for Infrastructure Policy, at an event last week in Washington. "What we want to do is accelerate that trend."
Local governments have two main issues with the president's approach, however. Both have to do with the Republican tax reform plan.
The first problem: There will be a lot less money to go around after tax reform. The nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation has calculated the tax bill will add about $1 trillion to the debt — even after economic growth is taken into account — and local leaders fear Congress won't want to expand the deficit even further.
"How are you going to make that up, and what does that mean for spending more money?" said Adam Krantz, chief executive officer of the National Association of Clean Water Agencies. "It was always 'infrastructure, infrastructure, infrastructure,' and now you have tax reform, and it's going to be very difficult to get conservative support for an infrastructure bill."
Related: Trump's $1 trillion infrastructure promise has an obstacle: His own budget cuts
Meanwhile, the GOP's tax package also caps the amount of state and local taxes that filers are able to deduct from their federal income taxes, which may weaken support for future tax hikes proposed by counties, states and cities. That poses a problem, since the ability to contribute local revenue is a large part of how the White House plans to decide which applications are granted.
"You've got a perfect storm where states and localities are not allowed to raise their own revenue, but are encouraged to by the federal government," said Emily Swenson Brock, director of federal relations for the Government Finance Officers Association. "No state or local finance officer is looking at that finance package and saying, 'that seems feasible.'"
When asked about the revenue-raising challenges of limiting the state and local tax deduction, presidential assistant Gribbin said that there were "tradeoffs" made to keep overall taxes low. "Our top priority, because of the huge impact it will have on our economy, is to get tax reform passed," he said.
Some states are in better fiscal shape than others, with many struggling to meet legacy pension obligations, or suffering shortfalls due to a drop-off in natural resource taxes. In 2016, the Government Accountability Office found that cities with declining populations also had a particularly hard time modernizing their water systems by raising rates, since those who remained in town couldn't always pay.
"Some of our states that are so financially strapped, they have been trying to figure out revenue for just basic needs like education," says Kim Glas, executive director of the Blue Green Alliance, a coalition of labor and environmental groups. "When you shift the burden to the states, it leaves more questions about what scale we could do major infrastructure on."


Shares of The Crypto Company (CRCW) have surged nearly 160% in the past five days, more than 1,800% in the past month and 17,000% in the past three months, as investors and traders have bid up the price of bitcoin (XBT) higher and higher.
That stunning rise has lifted the company's market value to more than $11 billion. To put that in perspective, that's higher than the market value of well-known brand name companies like Macy's (M), The New York Times (NYT) and Under Armour (UAA).
Related: Regulators worried about bitcoin euphoria
The SEC move comes shortly after The Crypto Company announced plans to split its stock 10-1 to try and push the price lower and make it more affordable for average investors.
Shares had surged to a price of $575 before the SEC suspended trading. A 10-1 split would have increased the number of total shares by a factor of ten and lowered the price to $57.50. So the value of the company would not have changed.
The Crypto Company CEO Mike Poutre said in a release about the split that the company wanted to "see orderly market activity" for the stock and added that the split was "the responsible thing to do."
He noted that many blue chip companies, including MasterCard (MA) and Apple (AAPL), have done stock splits to keep their prices more accessible to mom and pop investors.
Poutre also referred to "the euphoria" surrounding bitcoin, and added that "we want people to pay attention to the business we are building, not the hype of a stock or the cryptocurrency world."
The Crypto Company was not immediately available for comment about the SEC action.
But the SEC has taken steps lately to crack down on potential frauds and scams surrounding bitcoin and other digital currencies, particularly with initial coin offerings or ICOs. With an ICO, a company sells a digital currency or token to investors instead of stock.
Several cryptocurrency executives are nervous about the industry getting a bad reputation too.
Brad Garlinghouse, CEO of Ripple, a company that developed the Ripple XRP cryptocurrency and also works to license blockchain technology with banks, says he wants to cooperate with agencies like the SEC to weed out bad actors.
"Many of the ICOs are more frauds than real businesses. The industry needs to work with regulators and not be in the shadows," he said. "ICOs are taking advantage of grey areas in securities law. What worries me the most is some of the hype in the system."
Related: Feds crack down on fraud as bitcoin soars
Jalak Jobanputra, partner with venture capital firm Future\Perfect Ventures and an investor in cryptocurrency tech firms, agrees. She said that there is "a lot of speculation" in the crypto area and that she "welcomes scrutiny from the SEC."
Still, there are signs that investors aren't listening to these warnings.
Another small financial tech company that just went public called LongFin (LFIN) has skyrocketed from a low of $4.69 a share in the past week to a high of $142.82 after it announced it was buying a blockchain microlending company named Ziddu.com
And then there's Riot Blockchain (RIOT), a company that up until recently was a biotech firm and has decided to get into the crypto business. Its stock is up more than 300% in the past month and 1,200% this year.
Mike O'Rourke, chief market strategist with JonesTrading, wrote in a report that this reminded him clearly of the dotcom and tech stock mania of the late 1990s. That did not end well for investors chasing the most speculative of stocks.
O'Rourke pointed out that one widely hyped business-to-business software company called Commerce One went public in 1999 at $21 a share and surged to around $1,000 by the end of the year. Commerce One filed for bankruptcy five years later.
Now this is not to say that bitcoin itself is a bubble. There is a real trend towards digital payments using blockchain technology.
Related: Move over, bitcoin. Here comes litecoin
After all, many of today's tech leaders, such as Amazon (AMZN), Apple and Microsoft (MSFT), survived the dotcom crash and are now doing better than ever. But investors need to be careful and not chase tiny companies trying to ride the wave.
The talk of a future where we're all using bitcoin instead of paper currencies may be a little far-fetched too.
Digital currencies have a role to play with reducing customer friction and increasing transaction times," said Ripple's Garlinghouse, who was a former exec at AOL and Yahoo -- which are now both owned by Verizon (VZ).
"But government-backed fiat currencies aren't going away. Banks aren't going away. The dollar still works well and is efficient," Garlinghouse added.


The 127-118 vote narrowly passed shortly after 5 a.m. ET on Tuesday. Lawmakers had been debating in Congress all night.
It's a big victory for President Mauricio Macri, whose pro-business administration pushed the reform through Congress after a resounding mid-term election in October for Macri's party called Cambiemos or "Let's Change."
Critics argue it will hurt retirees, who paid into the system for much of their working lives, by reducing their income.
Macri's administration says the reform will save the government roughly 60 billion pesos ($3.4 billion) next year. The aim of the reform ultimately is to reduce Argentina's large fiscal deficit.


But Olive Garden still makes up about half of the company's total sales and profits -- and it's clear that consumers still love breadsticks and never ending pasta bowls.
Darden said that Olive Garden's same-store sales, which measures the performance of restaurants open at least a year, were up 3% in the latest quarter -- impressive growth for a chain of its size and age.
But what was most notable about the sales boost is that Olive Garden didn't just rely on price hikes and menu changes to lift sales. Traffic, i.e. the number of customers coming to the restaurants, rose 1.1% in the quarter.
That's a turnaround from the previous quarter in which traffic fell at Olive Garden. And it was up just 0.2% in its last fiscal year.
So it's clear that Olive Garden is winning new customers and not just raising prices on loyal fans who keep coming back.
Wall Street is happy, too. Darden's stock rose more than 3% in early trading Tuesday and is now up nearly 30% this year.
Darden has come a long way since 2014 -- when activist investor Starboard took control of the company after issuing a scathing report about the quality of Olive Garden's food. (Overly cooked pasta and too many heavy cream sauces were some of the verdicts.)
CEO Gene Lee, who took over after the Starboard shakeup, stressed in Tuesday's earnings release that Darden is continuing to focus on a "back-to-basics" strategy -- building customer loyalty with better food, great service and a pleasant atmosphere.
Related: People really love eating at Olive Garden
Darden isn't the only restaurant chain that's booming this year. Shares of hot dog king Nathan's Famous (NATH) and KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell owner Yum! Brands (YUM) are up more than 30%. McDonald's (MCD) has surged more than 40%.
The solid economy and healthy consumer confidence has led to an increase in consumers eating out.
And other restaurants have soared on hopes that they could be acquired. Big chains and large investment firms have scooped up several well-known restaurant owners this year.
Burger King and Tim Hortons owner Restaurant Brands (QSR) -- which is backed by Warren Buffett -- bought Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen. Bob Evans Farms (BOBE) sold its restaurant business to private equity firm Golden Gate Capital.
Panera was acquired by European conglomerate JAB, which also owns Krispy Kreme and Peet's Coffee. Arby's owner Roark Capital said last month it was buying Buffalo Wild Wings (BWLD).
And Jack in the Box (JACK) just announced Tuesday that it had agreed to sell its Qdoba Mexican food chain to private equity firm Apollo Global Management (APO).
Darden has taken part in the restaurant feeding frenzy too, buying Cheddar's Scratch Kitchen earlier this year. But Cheddar's was the one sore spot for Darden in its otherwise stellar earnings report. Same-store sales at Cheddar's fell 2% in the latest quarter.


"Amazon's dominance and revenue growth have freed it from the nuisance other firms endure -- profitability," said Scott Galloway, a professor at NYU's Stern School of Business.
Last year, Amazon earned $2.3 billion, despite posting nearly $136 billion in sales. That's a super-tight profit margin of 1.7%.
Other tech giants including Apple (AAPL) and Google (GOOG) operate at much loftier margins. Apple posted a 21% margin last year while Google was slighly under 22%. Amazon's profit margin is even razor-thin for the retail sector. Walmart's (WMT) margin was 3.1% and Target's  (TGT)was 4.5% last year.
Yet shares of Amazon (AMZN) have risen nearly 60% this year. The company's worth close to $600 billion. Bezos is the richest man in the world, surpassing $100 billion in net worth last month.
Related: Jeff Bezos is now worth $100 billion
Investors continue to reward Amazon's forward-looking strategy over its earnings. Shareholders are willing to pay $297 for every $1 of Amazon's earnings. The average for S&P 500 companies is under $24.
Bezos' sprawling business model isn't designed with short-term profit in mind. He wants to grab market share and drive up sales, noted Columbia Business School professor Kinshuk Jerath.
Related: Amazon now has more than 500,000 employees
One way to do that: Offer lower prices than competitors.
Shortly after Amazon acquired Whole Foods for $13.7 billion in June, Whole Foods slashed prices, forcing other grocers to cut prices to remain competitive.
In a similar move, Amazon is lowering prices on Echo products, pushing rival Google to drop the cost of its Home smart speakers. Apple's higher-priced HomePod speakers could now have trouble competing.
Amazon is able to take these kinds of risks and experiment in ways that would look puzzling for other companies, explained Piper Jaffray analyst Michael Olson.
That's because Bezos is playing by a different set of rules than everybody else.
"Other firms are punished for straying from their familiar areas of strength, [but] Amazon sucks value from sectors in which it has had no previous involvement," said Galloway.
Other sectors can hear Bezos' footsteps too: CVS  (CVS)made its $69 billion deal with Aetna (AET), which could go down as the largest health insurance deal in history, with Amazon stalking the pharmaceutical industry.
Related: Amazon may be factor behind rumored CVS, Aetna merger
Amazon was able to punish Blue Apron (APRN), once a hot meal-kit startup, just by suggesting it might get involved in the home-meal delivery business.
Investors cheer when Amazon enters a new industry or region because its addressable market grows.
Last year, Amazon accounted for more than 53% of online shopping in the United States, according to Slice Intelligence. Jumping into cloud computing and groceries has added a trillion dollars of additional market, according to Olson.
The cloud is Amazon's biggest success story. It has actually helped Amazon consistently turn a profit for the first time, according to Morningstar analyst R. J. Hottovy.
"The more e-commerce they do the more money they lose," said Smead Capital Management CEO Bill Smead. "They lose on everything they do except Amazon Web Services."
Momentum around Bezos' strategy and a focus on growth companies over value investing in an era of low interest rates has led investors to brush off profit concerns, Smead claimed.
"Jeff Bezos did what he said he was going to do in era coming off biggest financial meltdown in 80 years," he said. "Investors are willing to capitalize income so far out in the future that it leads them to financial euphoria."


The measure drops the corporate tax rate to 21% from 35%, repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax and restructures the way pass-through businesses are taxed.
2. Markets surge: All three main U.S. stock indexes hit record highs on Monday as investors cheered the tax bill's progress.
The Dow Jones industrial average added 0.6%, the S&P 500 gained 0.5% and the Nasdaq advanced 0.8%.
The Dow, which has jumped more than 25% in 2017, is now within touching distance of 25,000 points.
Stocks have rallied this year because of strong economic growth and hopes that Trump would roll back regulations and overhaul the tax code.
U.S. stock futures were pointing higher on Tuesday.
3. Bombardier tariff ruling: The U.S. Department of Commerce is set to rule on tariffs that could be placed on Bombardier's C-series passenger jet.
Boeing launched a trade complaint against Bombardier earlier this year, accusing its Canadian rival of selling the C Series airliner at "absurdly low prices."
Bombardier denies that it has engaged in unfair trade practices.
4. Global market overview: European markets opened mostly higher, while Asian markets ended mixed. Stocks in South Korea and Japan were lower, while China's markets posted gains.
U.S. crude futures jumped 0.6% to trade at $57.60.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Companies and economics: Carnival (CCL) and Darden Restaurants (DRI) will release earnings before the U.S. open, and FedEx (FDX) will follow after the close.
Pfizer (PFE) shares were higher premarket after the company announced a $10 billion stock buyback on Monday.
Shareholders in the London Stock Exchange will vote on the future of embattled chairman Donald Brydon. The hedge fund TCI Fund Management, which owns just over 5% of the LSE, has sought to oust Brydon.
The U.S. Census Bureau will publish its housing report for November at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Germany's Ifo Institute has released its latest business climate survey. It said the mood among German business leaders is "excellent, but not quite as euphoric as last month."
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:  Tuesday -- Fedex, Darden (DRI) and Carnival (CCL) report earnings  Wednesday -- General Mills earnings  Thursday -- Nike earnings; Final estimate on 3Q U.S. GDP  Friday -- El Gordo lottery in Spain


Wells Fargo (WFCPRJ) would make out the best, with an 18% boost, in large part because it derives nearly all of its profits from the United States, Goldman said. The company declined to comment for this story.
Citigroup (C), by contrast, derives only half of its revenues from the U.S., and so would see its earnings per share increase by only 10%.
Wells Fargo could use some good news. Its earnings per share tanked last quarter amid investigations into its pre-crisis mortgage bonds. The company's reputation has suffered mightily in the wake of scandals involving the creation of thousands of fake bank and credit card accounts and bills for auto insurance that customers didn't need, which led to the resignation of its former CEO, John Stumpf.
Related: Stocks surge as investors cheer corporate tax cut
What will financial institutions do with all that new found cash?
Many banks have signaled their intention to return more money to shareholders.
At an investor presentation earlier this month, when asked about how regulatory rollbacks might impact those plans, Wells Fargo CEO Tim Sloan said higher returns for investors were in the cards.
"Is it our goal to increase return to our shareholders and do we have an excess amount of capital? The answer to both is, yes," Sloan said. "So our expectation should be that we will continue to increase our dividend and our share buybacks next year and the year after that and the year after that."
The bank has cut employees this year at its Charlotte, North Carolina, headquarters and at a Pennsylvania call center.
Banks won't necessarily be the biggest winners from the corporate rate cut.
Telecom companies, which pay the highest effective tax rates on average, will see an enormous boost in after-tax profits, according to Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices. Companies that have already reduced their effective tax rates into the single digits, like General Electric (GE), will see little to no benefit.
But there's more good news in the tax bill for banks: They may benefit even further from new deposits of cash brought back from overseas, as well as from higher interest rates as the Federal Reserve works to cool off any excess heat in the economy caused by tax cuts.


Either number would be a hefty return on investment: Richardson paid $206 million in 1993 for the rights to start the team, according to Forbes. Richardson said in 2009 that his family owns 48% of the team, according to The Charlotte Observer.
The Panthers will probably attract numerous bidders, the source said, because they are thought to be well-run and in a decent market on the East Coast. One of the NFL's most marketable stars, Cam Newton, is the quarterback.
Another factor that could drive up the price: NFL teams very rarely go on the market. The last was the Buffalo Bills, which sold for more than $1.1 billion in 2014, a record at the time. The Bills play in a much smaller market than the Panthers, whose home is Charlotte, North Carolina.
Related: Houston Rockets selling for huge price
Richardson said he doesn't plan to entertain offers until after the season, but some high-profile buyers are already showing interest.
Rapper Sean Combs, also known as Diddy, tweeted that he would like to buy the team, noting that there are no African American majority owners in the league.
"Let's make history," he wrote.
He also said in an Instagram post that he would "immediately address the Colin Kaepernick situation and put him in the running for next year's starting quarterback." Kaepernick, who started a movement when he knelt during the National Anthem to protect racial injustice, is unsigned.
Diddy's message was retweeted by Golden State Warriors star Stephen Curry, who said he wanted in.
I️ want in! https://t.co/XvvC1vo7xI
Kaepernick also responded with a tweet, saying that he was interested in the purchase.
It's unclear how serious they are. None returned a request for further comment.
Related: Sexual harassment allegations swirl around ESPN
Richardson announced plans to sell in a statement on the Panthers' website.
"I believe that it is time to turn the franchise over to new ownership," Richardson said. He also said that "there has been no greater mission or purpose in my life than to have brought an NFL franchise to Charlotte."
There was no mention of the misconduct investigation, which the NFL has taken over from the Panthers.
Richardson is the highest-profile owner in pro sports to sell a team under ignominious circumstances since 2014, when Donald Sterling was banned from the NBA for life for making racist comments that were privately recorded and released.
Sterling was essentially forced to sell the Los Angeles Clippers. In May, his estranged wife arranged for the Sterling Family Trust to sell the team for $2 billion.


But Amplify Snack Brands stock is still well below the $18 a share price that the company went public at back in August 2015.
Amplify Snack Brands has missed earnings forecasts in six of the nine quarters it has reported since its IPO.
Wall Street has also been worried about slowing sales growth for the company's SkinnyPop, which has lower salt than many other popcorn brands, uses no GMOs, gluten or preservatives and is popped in healthier sunflower oil.
Still, Hershey CEO Michele Buck raved about the deal, saying in a press release that it will help the company become "an innovative snacking powerhouse."
That's a jargony statement to be sure. But Hershey has taken several steps over the past few years to broaden its product line beyond candy bars, Hershey's Kisses and Reese's Peanut Butter Cups.
Hershey acquired jerky maker Krave for a reported price tag of more than $200 million in 2015 in order to diversify beyond the confectionery business.
And Hershey recently unveiled a new candy bar called Hershey Gold that has no chocolate. It's a caramelized crème candy with peanuts and pretzels instead.
Related: The first new Hershey bar in 22 years has no chocolate
Buck said that the Amplify deal should add to earnings fairly quickly, even though it's paying a steep price for Amplify Snack Brands. It's all about adding new products to boost sales and earnings.
Susquehanna International Group analyst Pablo Zuanic thinks the chance to bolster the product line justifies the big premium Hershey is paying for Amplify Snack Brands.
"Food companies will pay steep premiums to improve their growth profile," he wrote in a report Monday. "Hershey wants to expand into the broader snacks category, so the [Amplify] deal is consistent with that strategy."
There is also added pressure on Hershey and Buck, a 12-year veteran of the company who became CEO in March, to prove to investors that Hershey can still go it alone in a highly competitive business.
That's because Oreo maker Mondelez (MDLZ) made a $23 billion takeover offer for Hershey in June 2016 that Hershey rejected. Mondelez ultimately walked away from the deal a few months later.
Hershey's stock is still up about 20% since Mondelez ended its attempt to buy Hershey in August 2016, but the stock has lagged the gains of the broader market.
Related: Bittersweet news as Hershey cuts more than 2,000 jobs
The Hershey-Amplify deal is actually one of two snack mergers announced Monday.
Campbell Soup (CPB) also agreed to purchase pretzel maker Snyder's-Lance for $4.9 billion. Rumors of a deal first surfaced last week, pushing Snyder's-Lance (LNCE) stock to a 13% gain Thursday and 5% higher Friday. The stock rose another 7% Monday.
Both mergers are the latest in a flurry of food deals announced this year.
ConAgra (CAG) acquired Boomchickapop parent company Angie's Artisan Treats for $250 million in September and Kellogg (K) gobbled up Chicago Bar, the owner of the RXBar protein bar, for $600 million in October.


Campbell already owns Pepperidge Farm, which makes Goldfish crackers and Milano cookies. But snacks currently account for just a third of Campbell's sales. Most of its other holdings are soup and sauce brands.
After the deal, snacks will make up nearly half of Campbell's sales.
Campbell is under pressure to broaden its offerings as food prices drop at grocery stores. Shares of Campbell (CPB) are down 17% this year.
Related: No soup for you? Campbell plunges on poor sales
Soup sales have fallen 9% since last year, the company reported in November. A spat with Walmart over pricing and shelf space contributed to the drop. Campbell's share of the U.S. soup market has dropped seven percentage points over the last five years to 42%, according to research firm Euromonitor.
But snacks have been a bright spot for the company. Pepperidge Farm sales were up 3% last quarter during an otherwise lackluster summer.
In Snyder's, Campbell is getting is a hot snack food company whose sales have grown nearly 12% a year over the past five years. That has far outpaced the rest of the $89 billion U.S. snack industry.
Campbell is paying a 27% premium on Snyder's-Lance's stock price and is taking on more than $6 billion in debt to finance the purchase.
In addition to snacks, Campbell's also wants to expand fresh foods unit, which accounts for 12% of sales. Last week, Campbell completed a $700 million purchase for Pacific Foods, a company that makes organic soups and drinks.
Shares of Snyder's-Lance (LNCE) opened at record high Monday. Campbell ticked up 1%.


And the Nasdaq, home to hot tech stocks like Facebook (FB), Amazon (AMZN), Netflix (NFLX) and Google (GOOGL) owner Alphabet, topped 7,000 on Monday for the first time. It is up 30% this year.
The S&P 500 also rose by about 1% and hit an all-time high. All three indexes closed at records on Friday in anticipation of the release of the tax bill by Republican congressional leaders.
The biggest boost for Corporate America would be the slashing of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. That could boost profits significantly for big banks, according to a report from Goldman Sachs.
Financial stocks, unsurprisingly, were among the biggest gainers Monday. JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Citigroup (C), Bank of America (BAC) and Wells Fargo (WFC) each rose more than 1% shortly after the opening bell.
Businesses would also be charged a one-time low tax rate on foreign profits of 15%. That's an incentive for multinational firms to bring back cash sitting in lower-tax countries.
Related: Here's what is in the GOP's final tax plan
The hope is that this cash will be used to boost dividends and stock buybacks, build new plants in the United States and hire more workers.
The House is expected to vote on the tax bill Tuesday, and the Senate is expected to vote either Tuesday after the House or Wednesday. The bill is expected to pass on party lines.
Stocks have been rallying all year because of strong economic growth and hopes that President Trump would roll back regulations to help stimulate the economy.
Related: No bears here! Market on the verge of making history
Even though Trump's effort to repeal Obamacare failed in Congress, many investors had remained optimistic that Trump would strike a deal with lawmakers on taxes.
And that's one of the main reasons that the Dow is inching closer to the 25,000 milestone, after already having passed the 20,000, 21,000, 22,000, 23,000 and 24,000 levels this year.


It's a big problem in low-wage industries like residential construction and warehousing, but the most visible offenders are retail and restaurant chains, which have high turnover and often employ undocumented immigrants who are more vulnerable to intimidation from an employer should they complain.
In recent years, several progressive cities have passed ordinances allowing local law enforcement to police wage theft, and the Department of Labor under the Obama administration hired more investigators to go after problem employers.
Still, EPI's compilation of state wage theft settlements shows that some states are much more aggressive than others.
California recovered nearly $117 million for workers between 2015 and 2016 — more than a third of the total amount recovered by the 39 states from which EPI received figures. That was followed by New York, which won back $84.6 million.
When adjusted for the size of the workforce, Connecticut comes out in front, recovering $9.66 per capita over those two years. Compare that with last-ranking Indiana, which only got back 19 cents per worker on average.
Related: Trump administration rule could force workers to share tips
Although it's possible that the severity of wage theft varies across states, the EPI researchers found that the amount recovered has more to do with the resources devoted to enforcement and the legal tools available in each state.
California, for example, requires employers to issue each worker a notice of their rights, including the pay rate and who they can call if it's not reflected in their paychecks. The state also hosts a wealth of labor union-aligned nonprofits with the capacity to educate workers about the law and how to file complaints.

In states that don't have strong protections, workers can be very reluctant to report wage theft, especially if the payoff is small and the possibility of retaliation — such as getting demoted or losing one's job — is high. An earlier EPI study based on government survey data found that workers in the 10 most populous states alone likely lose about $8 billion a year in underpaid wages.
Still, state attorneys general accounted for only $317 million out of the nearly $2 billion recovered for workers in 2015 and 2016. The rest of the money came from the federal Department of Labor's $513 million in wage and hour settlements, and $1.2 billion in payouts stemmed from lawsuits, many of them class actions.
Payouts through litigation, in particular, jumped dramatically over the past two years. The value of just the top 10 wage and hour settlements, as compiled by the law firm Seyfarth Shaw, tripled between 2014 and 2016, to $695 million.
Part of that total was driven by a few very large settlements in long-running lawsuits, including $466 million paid in two cases against FedEx for misclassifying drivers as independent contractors, and therefore not paying required overtime. In a statement, FedEx says it settled the case "to remain focused on meeting the needs of our customers."
But according to Seyfarth, the high total was also due to the fact that while recent Supreme Court cases have made it difficult to mount a class action lawsuit in cases of employment discrimination, circuit courts of appeal — especially those in New York and on the West Coast — have continued to welcome the multi-plaintiff wage and hour lawsuits that are more lucrative for lawyers.
Related: Americans see jobs aplenty. Good wages? Not so much
"Prosecution of wage and hour lawsuits is a relatively low cost investment, without significant barriers to entry, and with the prospect of immediate returns as compared to other types of workplace class action litigation," Seyfarth's report reads.
However, that may soon change. In October, the Supreme Court heard National Labor Relations Board vs. Murphy Oil USA, which could uphold employers' right to bar their workers from mounting class action lawsuits, forcing them instead into individual arbitration.
Celine McNicholas, co-author of EPI's report, says that would make it even more difficult for workers to address underpayment of wages at a time when government enforcement isn't up to the task.
"There is rampant wage theft out there, and you're seeing the private bar respond to that," McNicholas says. "If you take away the class mechanism, that private enforcement will be taken away from workers as well."


The highest-paid executive on Equilar's "40 and under" list was Extraction Oil & Gas president Matthew Owens, who earned $26 million. Equilar's list is populated using SEC records from the 2016 fiscal year.
Much of the difference between the two executives' pay came from factors like stock awards and bonuses. Haywood earned $2.4 million in stock awards, while Owens earned $14.9 million.
Part of the reason more women aren't making it to high-paying executive positions is because the corporate world is still governed by old-school rules, experts say.
"Even if recent generations may have very different attitudes, frequently the people that decide about their careers and promotions belong to an earlier generation," says Luca Flabbi, an associate professor of economics at the University of North Carolina.
Related: The gender pay gap doesn't close -- even at the very, very top
While men and women seek promotions at similar rates, women are less likely to be promoted than their male counterparts. That's according to a report by McKinsey & Company, which surveyed 222 companies across the tech, finance, retail and manufacturing industries.
In addition, women who negotiated for promotions were 30% more likely than men to be labeled as "intimidating" or "bossy," McKinsey found.
According to Lenora Lapidus, director of the ACLU Women's Rights Project, women face a pay gap at all ages, but it only grows with time and experience. That's especially true in the business and tech industries, and most of the executives represented on Equilar's list work in tech. Still, the pay gap is a problem across industries, with energy and real estate also heavily represented.
Related: Why asking about salary history can hurt women's careers
"Business school graduates have similar earnings at the beginning of their careers," says Mario Marcis, an economics professor at Johns Hopkins. "But 15 years after graduation, men are earning a lot more than women."
Experts believe that talking about workplace inequality is one way to help close the pay gap for new generations.
"20 years from now, I expect to see more women CEOs in the United States." said Marcis. "But it depends on the speed of change of social norms about gender roles. Social norms tend to change slowly."


The move is the latest crackdown by the European Union on sweetheart tax deals granted to multinational companies. The commission has previously targeted Amazon, Apple, McDonald's and Starbucks (SBUX).
"All companies, big or small, multinational or not, should pay their fair share of tax," said Margrethe Vestager, Europe's top official in charge of competition policy. "Member states cannot let selected companies pay less tax by allowing them to artificially shift their profits elsewhere."
The regulator alleges that Ikea, which operates multiple companies across the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein, may have shifted profits between the countries in order to reduce its tax obligations.
Ikea said it complies with all tax rules, and would cooperate with regulators.
"The way we have been taxed by national authorities, has in our view been in accordance with EU rules. It is good if the investigation can bring clarity and confirm that," the firm said in a statement.
This is not the first time that Ikea has been scrutinized by European officials.
A report published in 2016 by a group of EU parliamentarians accused Ikea of using legal loopholes to dodge an estimated €1 billion in tax payments between 2009 and 2014.
Related: Europe hits Amazon with a huge tax bill
Recent EU investigations into illegal state aid have resulted in some major penalties.
The EU ordered Amazon (AMZN) to pay €250 million ($293 million) in October after finding that it benefited from an illegal tax arrangement with Luxembourg.
Apple (AAPL) was slapped by a huge tax bill in 2016, when the EU ordered Ireland to recover up to €13 billion ($15 billion) from the tech company.
Regulators are also investigating the tax arrangements of McDonald's (MCD) in Luxembourg.


The company is one of the first retailers to accept bitcoin and will make the coin offering through its exchange, tZero. Its stock has tracked closely to bitcoin's wild rise -- Overstock's stock rose 4-fold between July and December as bitcoin grew more than 7-fold.
So maybe it's no surprise that Byrne is considering going in whole-cloth on cryptocurrencies.
Byrne told CNNMoney he wants to possibly sell off the retail business and focus on Overstock's ownership of 10 blockchain companies -- the technology behind cryptocurrency -- through its venture capital subsidiary, Medici Ventures. He has also formed a joint venture with Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto called De Soto, Inc., a company that would use blockchain technology to form a property registry providing land rights to people in the developing world.
Overstock's move comes at a time when the Securities and Exchange Commission is ramping up its scrutiny of the fast-growing, multi-billion dollar ICO industry. But that doesn't worry Byrne.
"I'm actually quite supportive of the SEC cracking down," said Byrne in an interview with CNNMoney. "The ICO craze this year has led to a lot of people being fleeced. There's been a lot of people bringing coins public with no business plan."
Related: Bitcoin: What's driving the frenzy?
ICOs have raised a total of $4 billion in 2017, according to Autonomous Research, a financial research company in London. That's compared to $226 million in 2016, and to $14 million in the year of their inception, 2014.
This one could be among the biggest crowdsales to use digital currency. A crowdsale is crowdfunding for ICOs.
"Overstock would be the largest existing company to launch an ICO to date," said Garrick Hileman, a research fellow at the University of Cambridge who studies cryptocurrency.
Garrick said the biggest ICO was from Filecoin, a storage data network that raised about $250 million, also in September.
"Blockchain is going to change the world more, I think, than the internet has," said Byrne, who believes that many people will gradually abandon government-backed currencies if more countries encounter currency failures like in Zimbabwe and Venezuela.
Digital currencies are far from universally accepted. Earlier this month, the SEC shut down one ICO and froze the assets of another, while warning investors about the lack of regulation and protection.
The top cryptocurrency, bitcoin, has been trading at stratospheric heights, recently peaking at more than $18,000 on some exchanges. Janet Yellen, chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, has called bitcoin "highly speculative."
Related: Feds crack down on fraud as Bitcoin soars
Byrne said that he prefers a coin offering over a more traditional Wall Street stock offering.
"If a company is raising money you'd have to almost be nuts in this country to go public in the current market as it exists," he said. "It's so manipulative. It's so distorted. There's so many sharks swimming around in that water [that] have ways that play games with your stock."
Byrne, who has a doctorate in philosophy, has been outspoken in his disdain for naked short sellers and other Wall Street "Sith Lords," as he once called them, who he sees as unfair manipulators of his company's share price.


Banks and asset managers are thinking seriously about how to cater to investors who want a measurable social or environmental return on their investment as well as capital gains, stock dividends or interest payments.
"In the past you sold products to your client, now you empower your client to create a desired impact," Baldinger said. "As an industry we've had to rethink everything we do -- impact and sustainability is the Silicon Valley of finance and we want to be the Google."
Millennial market?
Impact investments were once the preserve of the super rich. Individuals and families would come together to identify promising opportunities to make money and do good at the same time.
But that's changing fast, too.
"76% of millennials see investment decisions as a way to express their social, political and environmental values," said Jackie VanderBrug, a managing director at U.S. Trust, Bank of America's (BAC) wealth investment management business.
"When three quarters of a population are saying 'this is important,' that's huge," she added.
Before joining U.S. Trust in 2013, VanderBrug helped to start an impact enterprise focused on career development for underprivileged youth. She was instrumental in establishing Good Capital, a social investment fund.
Now she identifies impact investment opportunities, including portfolios with a minimum investment of $12,000 up to fully bespoke strategies for bigger clients.

Barclays (BCS) is another major bank with big ambitions in this area. It launched its Multi-Impact Growth Fund in September.
Damian Payiatakis, head of impact investing at Barclays, said the British bank wants to integrate the ethos of impact investing across everything it does.
"Our interest is not to add impact products to a shelf of investments," Payiatakis said. "Once you start seeing the world that way, it becomes obvious and you ask, 'why not,'" he said.
More work to be done
Still, there may be some way to go before impact investing becomes truly mainstream even as it continues to grow.
"While the idea that the only job of a company is to maximize financial returns to shareholders is still fairly entrenched, I think we have the wind at our backs in the form of our younger generations, who have higher expectations," said Deval Patrick, managing director of Boston-based Bain Capital's Double Impact business, and a former governor of Massachusetts.
"Many of those same individuals are taking a look at their investment dollars through a similar lens and with an expectation of social responsibility, so I expect the field to continue to grow."

For Baldinger at UBS, part of the growth can be attributed to greater transparency about impact investing, which gives the investor a choice.
"In the 1990s, I used to go to Starbucks each morning for my latte and my muffin. Then they started to show the calories next to it and that triggered something in me, so I stopped," he said.
"They created transparency for the customer. You can ignore it, but you have the information and you have a choice."


U.S. stock futures were pointing higher on Monday.
2. Bitcoin futures: CME, the derivatives marketplace, kicked off electronic bitcoin futures trading on Sunday, a week after futures trading began on the Chicago Board Options Exchange.
Investors see the involvement of top financial institutions as a sign of growing mainstream acceptance -- even as government officials, business leaders and economists continue to warn against investing in it.
The digital currency is still extremely volatile. It jumped to within a few hundred dollars of the $20,000 mark on Sunday before slipping back sharply. By early Monday, it was trading well below $19,000.
3. Brexit decisions: What kind of relationship does Britain want with the EU, its biggest export market?
Prime Minister Theresa May will discuss the vital question with cabinet members on Monday. There are two camps: Those who want to negotiate continued easy access to EU markets, and those who want to break free from EU regulation even if it means accepting new barriers to trade.
Both scenarios come with risks and consequences that are likely to upset factions within May's Conservative party.
The pound edged up to trade above $1.33.
4. Global market overview: European markets were in positive territory. Asian markets ended mixed.
U.S. crude futures gained 0.5% to trade at $57.50 per barrel.
The Dow Jones industrial average added 0.6% on Friday. The S&P 500 gained 0.9% and the Nasdaq jumped 1.2%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Companies and economics: The European Commission is set to launch a formal probe into Ikea's tax affairs, according to reports in the Financial Times and Politico.
Eurozone inflation data is expected at 5:00 a.m. ET
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:  Monday -- Official trade date for Bitcoin futures on CME Tuesday -- Fedex, Darden (DRI) and Carnival (CCL) earnings  Wednesday -- General Mills earnings  Thursday -- Nike earnings; Final estimate on 3Q U.S. GDP  Friday -- El Gordo lottery in Spain


The involvement of top financial institutions in the bitcoin market underscores its growing mainstream acceptance even as government officials, business leaders and economists continue to warn people against investing in it.
Related: What is bitcoin?
The CME launch "adds considerable legitimacy" to bitcoin trading, said Shane Chanel, an adviser at Australian investment services firm ASR Wealth Advisers.
Bitcoin's price (XBT) hit a record high earlier Sunday before the futures trading started on CME. It climbed to within a few hundred dollars of the $20,000 mark before slipping back. By early Monday, it was trading around $19,000.
Investors were betting it will go higher. The January futures price on CME was about $19,500 Monday morning, down from an earlier high of $20,650.
Futures are contracts that let investors buy or sell something at a specific price in the future. But unlike traditional commodities such as oil or agricultural products, bitcoins aren't physical assets. And unlike traditional currencies, there isn't a central bank that backs bitcoin. The virtual coins are created on computers using complex algorithms and recorded in a digital ledger.
Related: I bought $250 in bitcoin. Here's what I learned
Bitcoin has had an incredible year. Its price has skyrocketed more than 1,700% since the start of January, partly on the expectation that more and more mainstream investors will begin trading it.
That's prompted some high-profile figures in finance and economics to sound the alarm, cautioning that the currency's boom is simply a huge, speculative bubble.
But their warnings contrast with moves like those of CME and and Cboe to start bitcoin futures trading.

CME is home to about three times as much trading per day than Cboe. With CME's futures contracts, investors have to trade bitcoin in blocks of five, versus just one at a time with Cboe.
The two also price their bitcoin contracts in different ways. Cboe bases its price on one exchange, Gemini, whereas CME takes an average from multiple exchanges.
ASR's Chanel said that the launch of futures on CME should eventually help iron out some of the wild gyrations in the price of bitcoin.
Related: Bitcoin vs history's biggest bubbles: They never end well
And more big names in finance are also planning to get involved.
New York's Nasdaq is expected to launch its own bitcoin futures trading sometime next year.
"If this market continues charging forward, (more) exchanges will be forced to act in the fear of missing out," Chanel said.


Consider that the Dow crashed to just 6,443 in March 2009 during the Great Recession. The world's most famous market barometer has nearly quadrupled from that crisis low, with most of the gains occurring prior to President Trump's election.
There's no question that Trump's promises of tax cuts and deregulation has lit a fuse under the stock market. But the market would likely be up a bunch even without Trump's stimulus agenda.
That's because economies are strong, in the United States and around the world. The good times mean record-high profits should be able to keep going, even without the windfall that would come from the tax overhaul that the GOP is on the verge of enacting.
No wonder the business community is euphoric. Confidence among small businesses, manufacturers, homebuilders and consumers is the strongest in aggregate since the early 1980s, according to a recent report by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. That optimism is "consistent with 5-6%" GDP growth, the firm said.
That's why BofA is calling for the S&P 500 to race to 2,863 in the first quarter. That would be a 7% advance from already elevated levels.
But could the post-election surge then finally mellow out? BofA is warning that early 2018 will likely bring a "Big Top in risk assets" (read: stocks and junk bonds), especially if inflation finally rears its ugly head.
"Excess bullishness won't take long," BofA concluded.
2. And here come the tax votes: House and Senate Republicans are on track to deliver a tax reform plan to Trump by Christmas.
GOP leaders agreed on the final text of the bill last week and revealed it to the public on Friday. The House will go first: It's expected to vote on Tuesday, and the Senate will follow soon after. Then it will go to the president's desk.
Related: What's in the GOP's final tax plan
The plan, which has been rushing through Congress, has been criticized by some experts -- including outgoing Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen. During her final press conference, Yellen warned last week that the deficits the bill will bring -- about $1.46 trillion over a decade, according to the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation -- could make it harder to fight a future recession.
Related: Janet Yellen: Tax plan's deficits could make it harder to fight a recession
The bill drops the corporate tax rate down from 35% to 21%, repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax and restructures the way pass-through businesses are taxed.
3. Consumer brands report earnings: Americans are spending. Retail sales rose 0.8% in November, confounding expectations and showing that U.S. shoppers aren't cutting back this holiday season. That's good news for the consumer brands that report earnings in the coming week -- most of which could use a boost.
Related: News flash! U.S. economy already looks strong
Shares of FedEx (FDX), which plans to report on Tuesday, dipped in October following news that Amazon (AMZN) may launch its own delivery service. General Mills (GIS), which is set to share its financials on Wednesday, missed forecasts in the last quarter. And North American sales for Nike (NKE), scheduled to announce earnings on Thursday, fell by 3% last quarter compared with 2016.
4. Bitcoin trading kicks off on CME: CME, the derivatives marketplace, kicks off electronic bitcoin futures trading on Sunday, a week after futures trading began on the Chicago Board Options Exchange. Bitcoin jumped soon after trading began on the Cboe. We'll see if the cryptocurrency streak continues this week.
5. Coming this week:
Monday -- Official trade date for Bitcoin futures on CME
Tuesday -- Fedex, Darden (DRI) and Carnival (CCL) report earnings
Wednesday -- General Mills earnings
Thursday -- Nike earnings; Final estimate on 3Q U.S. GDP
Friday -- El Gordo lottery in Spain


Currently, the child tax credit is $1,000 and only partially refundable. Tax filers can only claim refunds on a percentage of what they make over $3,000, which limits benefits for the lowest-wage households.
The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning think tank in Washington D.C., calculated that parents of 10 million children would qualify for an additional refund of just $75 or less under the committee's deal. That's the same impact as the Senate's original bill.
Related: What's in the GOP's final tax plan
The latest version of bill also makes the child tax credit available to high earners because it raises the income threshold under which filers may claim the full credit to $200,000 for single parents, up from $75,000 today; and to $400,000 for married couples, up from $110,000.
But when other provisions are taken into account, the tax bill isn't so rosy for many moms and dads.
The GOP's bill does away with the deduction for personal exemptions, which could offset the benefit of the beefed up child tax credit for some families.
Currently, filers are able to deduct $4,050 for themselves, their spouses and for each dependent. For a family of four, that means $16,200 is shielded from federal taxation. In addition to the current standard deduction of $6,350, up to $28,900 goes tax-free. The benefit phases out at higher income levels.
The latest tax bill doubles the standard deduction to $24,000, but wipes out the deduction for personal exemptions, meaning that larger families will get less of a break.
"The distribution of those benefits are skewed towards higher income families, and really paltry for lower income families," says Vicki Shabo, vice president at the National Partnership for Women and Families. "The overall package is really dismal for working families."
Related: Alimony will now be taxed under GOP bill
Shabo says the inclusion of a tax credit for employers who offer paid family leave to their workers may sound nice, but it only subsidizes those who've already decided to adopt such a policy. Since the credit ends in 2019, she says it won't incentivize many more employers to participate.
In addition, the GOP's latest tax bill contains bad news for undocumented immigrant families.
The final version keeps a provision that requires filers using an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) to provide Social Security numbers for each child in order to qualify for the credit. ITINs are mostly issued to undocumented immigrants.
In 2013, 4.4 million ITIN filers claimed child tax credits worth $6 billion, according to the Government Accountability Office. The latest change will affect about one million undocumented children, CBPP calculates.
The House version of the tax bill had also tightened eligibility for undocumented immigrants who claim the Earned Income Tax Credit and another credit for higher education expenses, but those provisions didn't make it into the final bill.
The compromise bill preserves the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit and the Adoption Credit, which had been eliminated in earlier versions of the legislation.


The tax overhaul -- which will affect all corners of the U.S. economy and everyone in it -- will have crossed the finish line in just 7 weeks since first being introduced.
The final bill still leans heavily toward tax cuts for corporations and business owners. But it also expands or restores some tax benefits for individuals relative to the earlier bills passed by the House and Senate.
The individual provisions would expire by the end of 2025, but most of the corporate provisions would be permanent.
All told, the final bill includes trillions in tax cuts, most of which but not all are offset by revenue-raising measures. The bill on net would increase deficits by an estimated $1.46 trillion over a decade, according to the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation. That number would be much higher if, as Republicans assume, a future Congress does not allow the individual tax cuts to expire after 2025.
One important note: The bill would not affect 2017 taxes, for which Americans will start filing their returns in a month or so.
With that, here's a quick rundown of 16 key provisions in the final bill.
FOR INDIVIDUAL FILERS
1. Lowers (many) individual rates: The bill preserves seven tax brackets, but changes the rates that apply to: 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35% and 37%.
Today's rates are 10%, 15%, 25%, 28%, 33%, 35% and 39.6%.
Here's how much income would apply to the new rates: -- 10% (income up to $9,525 for individuals; up to $19,050 for married couples filing jointly) -- 12% (over $9,525 to $38,700; over $19,050 to $77,400 for couples) -- 22% (over $38,700 to $82,500; over $77,400 to $165,000 for couples) -- 24% (over $82,500 to $157,500; over $165,000 to $315,000 for couples) -- 32% (over $157,500 to $200,000; over $315,000 to $400,000 for couples) -- 35% (over $200,000 to $500,000; over $400,000 to $600,000 for couples) -- 37% (over $500,000; over $600,000 for couples)
2. Nearly doubles the standard deduction: For single filers, the bill increases it to $12,000 from $6,350 currently; for married couples filing jointly it increases to $24,000 from $12,700.
The net effect: The percentage of filers who choose to itemize would drop sharply, since the only reason to do so is if your deductions exceed your standard deduction.
3. Eliminates personal exemptions: Today you're allowed to claim a $4,050 personal exemption for yourself, your spouse and each of your dependents. Doing so lowers your taxable income and thus your tax burden. The GOP tax plan eliminates that option.
For families with three or more kids, that could mute if not negate any tax relief they might get as a result of other provisions in the bill.
Related: Read the Republican tax plan
4. Caps state and local tax deduction: The final bill will preserve the state and local tax deduction for anyone who itemizes, but it will cap the amount that may be deducted at $10,000. Today the deduction is unlimited for your state and local property taxes plus income or sales taxes.
The SALT break has been on the book for more than a century. The original House and Senate GOP bills sought to repeal it entirely to help pay for the tax cuts, but that met with stiff resistance from lawmakers in high-tax states.
Residents in the vast majority of counties across the country claim an average SALT deduction below $10,000, according to the Tax Foundation. So for low- and middle-income families who currently itemize because of their SALT deduction, they're likely to take the much higher standard deduction under the bill if it becomes law, unless their total itemized deductions, including SALT, top $12,000 if single or $24,000 if married filing jointly.
Preserving the break -- albeit with a cap -- is likely to provide more help to higher income households in high-tax states.
5. Expands child tax credit: The credit would be doubled to $2,000 for children under 17. It also would be made available to high earners because the bill would raise the income threshold under which filers may claim the full credit to $200,000 for single parents, up from $75,000 today; and to $400,000 for married couples, up from $110,000 today.
Related: House passes GOP tax bill, goes to vote in Senate later Tuesday
Like the first $1,000 of the child tax credit, $400 of the additional $1,000 also will be refundable, meaning a low- or middle-income family will be able get the money refunded to them if their federal income tax liability nets out at zero.
Even with the additional $400 in refundability, however, 10 million children from working low-income families would receive only an additional $75 in benefit under the bill, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities estimates.
6. Creates temporary credit for non-child dependents: The bill would allow parents to take a $500 credit for each non-child dependent whom they're supporting, such as a child 17 or older, an ailing elderly parent or an adult child with a disability.
7. Lowers cap on mortgage interest deduction: If you take out a new mortgage on a first or second home you would only be allowed to deduct the interest on debt up to $750,000, down from $1 million today. Homeowners who already have a mortgage would be unaffected by the change.
The bill would no longer allow a deduction for the interest on home equity loans. Currently that's allowed on loans up to $100,000.
8. Curbs who's hit by AMT: Earlier bills called for the elimination of the Alternative Minimum Tax. The final version keeps it, but reduces the number of filers who would be hit by it by raising the income exemption levels to $70,300 for singles, up from $54,300 today; and to $109,400, up from $84,500, for married couples.
9. Preserves smaller but popular tax breaks: Earlier versions of the bill had proposed repealing the deductions for medical expenses, student loan interest and classroom supplies bought with a teacher's own money. They also would have repealed the tax-free status of tuition waivers for graduate students.
The final bill, however, preserves all of these as they are under the current code. And it actually expands the medical expense deduction for 2018 and 2019.
10. Exempts almost everybody from the estate tax: Unlike the House GOP bill, the final bill does not call for a repeal of the estate tax.
But it essentially eliminates it for all but the smallest number of people by doubling the amount of money exempt from the estate tax -- currently set at $5.49 million for individuals, and $10.98 million for married couples. Even at today's levels, only 0.2% of all estates ever end up being subject to the estate tax.
11. Slows inflation adjustments in tax code: The bill would use "chained CPI" to measure inflation, which is a slower measure than is used today. The net effect is your deductions, credits and exemptions will be worth less -- since the inflation adjusted dollars defining eligibility and maximum value would grow more slowly. It also would subject more of your income to higher rates in future years than would be the case under the current code.
12. Eliminates mandate to buy health insurance: There would no longer be a penalty for not buying insurance. While long a goal of Republicans to get rid of it, the measure also would help offset the cost of the tax bill. It is estimated to save money because it would reduce how much the federal government spends on insurance subsidies and Medicaid.
The Congressional Budget Office expects fewer consumers who qualify for subsidies will enroll on the Obamacare exchanges, and fewer people who are eligible for Medicaid will seek coverage and learn they can sign up for the program.
But policy experts also note that the mandate repeal could raise premiums because more healthy people might decide to skip buying insurance.
FOR BUSINESSES AND CORPORATIONS
13. Lowers tax burden on pass-through businesses: The tax burden on owners, partners and shareholders of S-corporations, LLCs and partnerships -- who pay their share of the business' taxes through their individual tax returns -- would be lowered by a 20% deduction, somewhat less than the 23% called for in the Senate-passed bill.
The 20% deduction would be prohibited for anyone in a service business -- unless their taxable income is less than $315,000 if married ($157,500 if single).
14. Includes rule to prevent abuse of pass-through tax break: If the owner or partner in a pass-through also draws a salary from the business, that money would be subject to ordinary income tax rates.
But to prevent people from recharacterizing their wage income as business profits to get the benefit of the pass-through deduction, the bill would place limits on how much income would qualify for the deduction.
Tax experts nevertheless have warned that this kind of anti-abuse measure still presents taxpayers with a lot of opportunities to game the system, and favors passive owners of a business over active owners who actually run things.
15. Slashes corporate rate: The bill cuts the corporate rate to 21% from 35%, starting next year. That's somewhat higher than the 20% called for earlier. The increase was made to free up some revenue to accommodate lawmaker demands on other provisions. The bill would also repeal the alternative minimum tax on corporations.
16. Change how U.S. multinationals are taxed: Today U.S. companies owe Uncle Sam tax on all their profits, regardless of where the income is earned. They're allowed to defer paying U.S. tax on their foreign profits until they bring the money home.
Many argue that this "worldwide" tax system puts American businesses at a disadvantage. That's because most foreign competitors come from countries with territorial tax systems, meaning they don't owe tax to their own governments on income they make offshore.
The final GOP bill proposes switching the U.S. to a territorial system. It also includes a number of anti-abuse provisions to prevent corporations with foreign profits from gaming the system.
In the meantime it would require companies to pay a one-time, low tax rate on their existing overseas profits -- 15.5% on cash assets and 8% on non-cash assets (e.g., equipment abroad in which profits were invested), slightly higher than the rates in the Senate- and House-passed bills.
-- CNN's Phil Mattingly contributed to this report.
Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that personal exemptions lower adjustable gross income. In fact, they lower taxable income. Item No. 3 has been corrected.


The severity of the impact is a matter of debate among health policy experts.
The Congressional Budget Office predicts that four million fewer people would be covered in the first year the repeal would take effect. That number would rise to 13 million by 2027, as compared to current law. Meanwhile, premiums would rise by about 10% in most years of the decade.
Related: Axing Obamacare individual mandate would save $338 billion
But the agency also said it is reviewing its methodology. Others say fewer people would be left uninsured. S&P Global Ratings, for instance, projects that only three to five million more consumers would lack coverage over a decade because the mandate is not a key driver for obtaining insurance.
Still, many experts feel that removing the mandate would cause the individual market to tilt even more towards sicker and older consumers. That's because the mandate serves as a stick to prod some younger and healthier Americans to sign up for coverage.
That shift may prompt some insurers to drop out of the market, especially since they would still be required to cover those with pre-existing conditions but would not be able to charge them more based on their medical history.
If a wave of insurers exit Obamacare, some consumers could be left without any providers on their exchanges in 2019. Already, 29% of current enrollees on the federal exchange have only one option in 2018, according to federal data. Residents in eight states -- Alaska, Delaware, Iowa, Mississippi, Nebraska, Oklahoma, South Carolina and Wyoming -- have only one insurer next year.
Multiple industry and consumer groups have written to Congress, warning of the impact of repealing the mandate.
The American Academy of Actuaries said the mandate is an "integral component" of the Affordable Care Act.
Related: Republicans release their final tax bill ahead of key tax vote next week
"The mandate helps encourage the young and healthy, as well as the old and sick, to obtain coverage, thus achieving the balanced risk pool required to keep premiums affordable and stable," the academy wrote to House and Senate committee leaders. "Insurers would likely reconsider their future participation in the market. This could lead to severe market disruption and loss of coverage among individual market enrollees."
A coalition of physician, hospital and health insurance industry associations last month called on Congress to keep the provision in place. The group, including the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, America's Health Insurance Plans and the BlueCross BlueShield Association, warned the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate that there would be "serious consequences" if Congress simply repeals the mandate while leaving Obamacare's other regulations in effect.
"Repealing the individual mandate without a workable alternative will reduce enrollment, further destabilizing an already fragile individual and small group health insurance market on which more than 10 million Americans rely," the coalition wrote. "Eliminating the individual mandate by itself likely will result in a significant increase in premiums, which would in turn substantially increase the number of uninsured Americans."
The penalty for not having health coverage in 2017 is $695 per adult and $347.50 per child, or 2.5% of one's household income, whichever is greater. Some four million taxpayers paid the penalty in 2016.


Twitter shares have surged more than 6% this week and are up nearly 40% this year -- despite the fact that many analysts remain concerned about slowing user growth, the lack of profitability and increased competition from Facebook (FB) and Snapchat (SNAP).
So the merger speculation makes sense. Some have suggested that Twitter would be better off as the part of a larger company.
And they say I don't know jack! pic.twitter.com/RkKgJdjnb0
There has been frequent chatter about whether Google owner Alphabet (GOOGL) would want to buy it, especially since former Google executive Omid Kordestani left Google to become Twitter's executive chairman in October 2015.
Disney (DIS) was reportedly looking at Twitter last year as well, and Goldman Sachs was said to be advising Twitter at the time.
Apple (AAPL) and cloud software firm Salesforce (CRM), run by frequent tweeter Marc Benioff, have also been cited as possible Twitter acquirers.
There's also the argument that Dorsey would be better off giving up control of Twitter so he can focus even more on the other company he runs -- mobile payments firm Square.
Shares of Square (SQ) have soared nearly 175% this year and a recent rally has been fueled by the fact that Square has started to let users of its Cash app buy and sell bitcoin.
Flash forward to this week. Disney just bought a big chunk of 21st Century Fox (FOXA). And that has reignited talk of more consolidation throughout the media world, including social media companies like Twitter.
Related: Trump talked to Rupert Murdoch about Disney deal
A Twitter spokesperson said the company does not comment on rumors but added that Blankfein was at Twitter headquarters "to speak to Twitter employees about leadership and his use of Twitter."
"We have a wide range of guests who come speak to our employees as part of a larger Q&A series with well known Twitter users," the spokesperson added.
Goldman Sachs had no comment.
Still, there are some reasons to be bullish on Twitter that have nothing to do with a possible takeover.
Some hope that engagement -- and hence, advertising revenue -- may increase now that Twitter has doubled its character count to 280.
Related: The case against 280-character tweets
There was some initial skepticism about the change, but that has largely died down. In fact, even Blankfein seems to be a fan after showing some reservations at first.
Blankfein tweeted on November 7 that he likes "the discipline of 140. Makes you commit. No room for "on the other hand...." #280characters is practically an essay!" That tweet took up just 137 characters.
But he quickly changed his tune, writing in a 173 character tweet on November 20 that "I'm using up to #280characters now because the room is there. Just like I know the 140 calorie yogurt is better for me but can't resist the 280 calorie cake if it's there."
New at this but like the discipline of 140. Makes you commit. No room for "on the other hand...." #280characters is practically an essay!
I'm using up to #280characters now because the room is there. Just like I know the 140 calorie yogurt is better for me but can't resist the 280 calorie cake if it's there. https://t.co/TdqhZEVg1J
Twitter also has a new partnership with news organization Bloomberg that is set to launch Monday. Bloomberg will debut a 24 hours/7 days a week social news network on Monday called TicToc that will stream live on Twitter.
This is just the latest effort by Twitter to show Wall Street that the service is not just about the famous people using Twitter, such as President Trump, but that it can also be a viable platform for live news and sports programming.
In addition to the deal with Bloomberg, Twitter also has live video deals with BuzzFeed, streaming financial news network Cheddar, Major League Baseball and golf's PGA Tour.
The jury is still out though as to whether or not Twitter will still be an independent company at this time a year from now. A lot of that will depend on whether Twitter's new video efforts can really boost user growth, ad sales and profits.
But that's probably something Blankfein and Dorsey will talk about in private as opposed to sharing those thoughts with Blankfein's 75,000 followers and Dorsey's more than 4 million devotees.


He added that even though some investors may be nervous that this bull run is starting to get a little long in the tooth, history suggests that stocks should keep climbing.
Detrick pointed out that the S&P 500 had an average return of 10.8% in 1959, 1996 and 2007 -- the year after the market enjoyed gains in 11 of the previous 12 months.
A double-digit percentage gain next year would be impressive given that the S&P 500 is up nearly 20% so far this year.
Stocks surged Friday on growing hopes about the Republican tax plan.
The Dow was up more than 160 points, moving closer to the 25,000 level, and has now gained more than 25% in 2017. The Nasdaq was up more than 1%. It has surged nearly 30% this year and is approaching the 7,000 mark.
But will the market remain this calm in 2018 or will it finally start to show some choppiness again?
It's been eerily serene this year. The market's favorite gauge of volatility, the CBOE's VIX (VIX) index, is down nearly 30% and below 10 -- not far from its all-time low.
CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index, which looks at the VIX and six other measures of market sentiment, is showing signs of Greed and is approaching Extreme Greed levels.
Related: Is this Trump's economy?
So even if stocks continue to climb higher, many experts warn that volatility will make a comeback.
"Despite my bullish expectations, I don't expect it to be a smooth ride and think we may be in store for some turbulence along the way," said Chris Zaccarelli, chief investment officer of Independent Advisor Alliance, in a report.
Zaccarelli suggested that the market may be due for a pullback after this relentless grind higher. He noted that the S&P 500 has had at least a 5% dip from recent highs at least once every two years since 1980. The last such drop was February 2016.
What could spark a return of volatility? Zaccarelli said the transition at the Federal Reserve, with Jerome Powell set to take over from Janet Yellen, is a possible wild card.
So are lingering concerns about North Korea, tension in the Middle East, trade disputes in the wake of NAFTA negotiations and the mid-term elections.
Related: Stocks at record highs on tax bill hopes
But the biggest worry might be the return of inflation. There is little evidence of it in the market right now as pricing pressures remain mild. That could change though if oil prices, currently hovering just under $60 a barrel, climb further.
A further spike in crude could lift gas prices as well, making it more expensive for consumers to fill up their gas tanks.
That could mitigate any savings Americans might get from the tax cuts that President Trump and Republicans hope to approve before the end of the year.
"The key for inflation is watching where oil prices go," said Dave Harden, president and chief investment officer of Summit Global Investments. "If they get above $75 and into the $80-$90 range, it will suck out any benefit to consumers from lower taxes."


Here are three reasons why:
1. Britain still needs to decide what Brexit means
Britain has yet to figure out what kind of relationship it wants with the EU, its biggest export market, once it has left.
May has said that the U.K. will leave the EU's internal market and customs union on March 29, 2019. But beyond those red lines, little has been settled.
Britain must decide whether it wants to negotiate continued easy access to EU markets or accept barriers to trade.
Both scenarios come with risks and consequences that are likely to upset factions within May's Conservative party.
Related: The CNNMoney Brexit jobs tracker
Settling on a preferred course of action has been made more difficult by the fact that her cabinet, which has different views on what the "end state" should be, has yet to debate the issue in detail.
The EU called on Britain to "provide further clarity on its position on the framework for the future relationship."
2. Trade talks won't start until March 2018
Europe also said Friday that it will not finalize its negotiating guidelines on a future trade relationship until March.
That leaves very little time to talk.
A deal settling the divorce, as well as the framework for future trade, security and other relations needs to be drafted by October in order to give the EU enough time to ratify it before the Brexit countdown clock runs down.
U.K. lawmakers are also demanding a vote on the deal before Brexit takes effect.
Can a major free trade agreement be negotiated in eight months? Experts say it borders on the impossible.

3. Trade deals are very hard
Trade talks are difficult under the best of circumstances, and comprehensive deals can take years to thrash out. A free trade agreement between the EU and Canada, which included some service industries, took seven years.
The remaining 27 EU states will have different priorities when it comes to trade, and will face an intense backlash from labor unions and businesses if their interests are not protected.
Related: EU and Japan free trade deal covers 600 million people
"I have no doubt that the real test of our unity will be the second phase of the Brexit talks," European Council President Donald Tusk said Thursday.
Britain has its own priorities: It will seek to minimize trade barriers in key sectors of the economy, such as financial services, autos and aerospace.
The EU has signaled that it's open to negotiating an agreement like the one it has with Canada. Davis is even more ambitious, saying he wants "Canada plus plus plus."
Related: Why Britain needs the immigrants it doesn't want
Given the very slim chance of a new trade deal being ready by March 2019, Britain will need a transition period after Brexit that will avoid businesses having to adjust to new rules and regulations twice.
May has asked for an "implementation period" of two years, but many businesses say they need at least three.
Europe is ready to discuss such a transition, but only if Britain is willing to accept all EU law -- including new laws passed during that period -- and EU judicial oversight.
Meanwhile, Britain won't have a say in any new EU rules.


More than a million teens across the globe have ordered Invisalign, Align announced in November. Five million people have purchased the treatment, which costs anywhere between $3,000 - $8,000.
Align sales have grown two years in a row, and its last quarter was the best in the company's 20-year history.
Orders among teens spiked to nearly 70,000 this past quarter, a 46% rise compared to the same period last year. Credit Suisse analyst Erin Wright called the jump "momentous."
The company's strategy to expand internationally over the past several years -- especially in China -- has fueled growth. China became Invisalign's second-biggest market behind the United States for the first time last quarter.
Align has also aggressively targeted both patients and doctors in a push to disrupt the orthodontic industry.
"They make no qualms that they would like to be a major form of orthodontic treatment," said Dr. Olivier Nicolay, a professor at NYU's College of Dentistry.
Related: The worst stock of the year is Under Armour
Align has ramped up advertising spending 60% this year as part of its effort to highlight the product's aesthetic and lifestyle advantages over braces to teens and their parents.
"You can pull them out to eat the food that you want or play a sport or play a musical instrument," CEO Joe Hogan told CNNMoney in an interview. "You can live the life that you want to live."
Product advancements and Align's efforts to train a network of more than 125,000 orthodontists and dentists around the world have also expanded its reach.
"There's been an evolution of this technology. We've invested a significant amount of money," said Hogan. "Years ago we weren't capable of doing a lot of the cases that are out there."
Once skeptical that clear aligners could deliver the same results as wires and brackets, orthodontists are now more comfortable putting patients on the treatment.
"Orthodontists are no longer scared of it," said Dr. Nicolay. "Invisalign has become an accepted procedure for adults and for adolescents."
Dentists are also eager for new revenue drivers to offset a sluggish recovery in patient levels a decade after the recession, noted William Blair analyst John Kreger.
With few major competitors looming, a tight grip on the dozens of patents that go into producing clear aligner technology and strong brand recognition, Align's looks poised to continue its climb into next year and beyond.
And the untapped teen orthodontic market has analysts increasingly bullish about the company's long-term prospects.
Teens account for roughly three-quarters of the 10 million orthodontic cases each year, but only 3% of them use Invisalign.
"We see no reason why it couldn't surpass 10% in the next five years," predicted Kreger.


And almost every Trump voter we spoke with gave him credit for the soaring stock market -- even though few of them had any money invested.
Here's how some of the voters we spoke with graded the president's performance thus far.

Sal Moceri, 62
His grade: "C"
Sal Moceri considers himself a lifelong Democrat. That is until 2016, when he voted for Trump. He voted Republican largely, he says, because of Trump's promise to renegotiate NAFTA.
A United Automobile Workers union member, Moceri makes about $30 an hour fixing parts at a Ford plant. His 42 years at Ford have enabled him to send his four kids to college and live a comfortable life, but he worries for other workers just coming into the industry.
Earlier this year, Moceri told us he believed NAFTA hurts wages and makes it impossible for workers to realize the American Dream.
Related: NAFTA talks are in trouble
"[NAFTA] was the downfall of most of the American [auto] industry," he said.
Trump campaigned heavily on bringing manufacturing jobs back to America, particularly by renegotiating trade deals. Canada, Mexico, and the U.S. say the NAFTA talks aren't going well.
But not all manufacturing job losses can be blamed on NAFTA. Between 2000 and 2010, about 87% of the jobs lost in the industry came from factories turning to automation and new technologies in order to improve efficiency, according to a study by two Ball State University professors.
And there have been signs of improvement in the sector. So far this year, 171,000 manufacturing jobs have been added across the U.S. But in Michigan, the number of manufacturing jobs has actually decreased.
That hasn't deterred Moceri. He is confident NAFTA will be renegotiated and it will turn things around.
Trump is trying, he says, and he isn't entirely to blame. "He's not doing well, but he's not a politician," says Moceri, noting that Trump is still learning how to get things done in Washington.
Ricky Quinn, 59
His grades: "A for effort, B for accomplishments, C for candor"
Just a few years ago, Ricky Quinn was an engineer at an automaker earning $40 an hour. But then he got laid off. Now he's a security guard making $14 an hour -- the best paying job he can find, he says. Quinn's wife has a series of medical problems and can't hold a full-time job right now.
Their health care is covered through the pension he receives from the automaker he used to work for. About $600 a month is taken out of his pension for that coverage, and he pays an extra $400 a month to cover he and his wife's other medical expenses.
Quinn doesn't rely on Obamacare for health care, but he says he voted for Trump based on his promise to repeal and replace President Obama's signature health care legislation. Quinn was opposed to the individual mandate, which requires everyone to have health coverage or pay a penalty, and he was counting on Trump being able to lower the overall cost of health care. One Obamacare policy he says he'd like to see remain is the mandate to cover of pre-existing conditions.
Related: In this small Kentucky town, they aren't waiting on Washington
But Quinn doesn't blame Trump for not being able to get health care reform done this year. Quinn blames Congress instead and wishes Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell would provide more support to the president.
"I know it's going to sound like I'm just a 100% Trump guy. It's not the case. I really don't think it was his fault," he says. "If [Trump] didn't have so many people working against him from the right and the left, I believe more would be done."
For now, Quinn believes Trump is fighting on his family's behalf -- and until that changes, Trump will continue to get his support.
Peggy Stewart, 63
Her grade: "C+"
At first glance, Peggy Stewart might not seem like your traditional Republican voter. She supports a universal health care system. She voted twice for President Obama.
But her vote went to Trump in 2016, largely because he was a businessman and she liked his promises to create jobs and raise wages.
Stewart and her husband, Jim, lost their jobs during the recession. Today, they both are employed again: Jim works on the factory floor at Ford and Peggy works as a security guard for a corporate security firm. But both say they are still struggling to get by -- and making much less than they used to.
Related: Don't expect a big pay raise in 2018
Stewart says Trump hasn't passed any legislation that she wanted, but mostly blames Congress. "[Trump] wrote 'The Art of the Deal,' and I really think this man could deal if he had the other side actually trying on their end," she says.
For now, Stewart says she's satisfied with Trump. She wanted to vote for someone "who had a spine" and she's still happy with her vote. If the election were tomorrow, she says she would vote for Trump all over again.
The one thing that would keep her from voting for Trump?
"Bona fide proof that [Trump] has allowed Russia to come in and interfere with the elections so that he would win against Hilary."

Bill Decker, 57
His grade: "A"
Bill Decker owns Lily Ann Cabinets, a large cabinet making factory in Adrian, Michigan.
Since Trump took office, Decker says his business is booming and gives Trump most of the credit. He's even invested more money into his company.
Decker imports his cabinets from China, which could take a hit if the import tariffs of between 25% and 40% that Trump proposed on the campaign trail ever goes through. But Decker isn't worried. He says if the tax gets passed, it will be across the board, so all companies will feel it. It won't just be him.
Related: Trump's top trade issues: Where they stand
The one thing that does concern Decker? Trump's stance on immigration. A bulk of his employees and the community's workforce is Hispanic and he's worried that limiting immigration will hamper his business.
Despite that fear, Decker says that the president still has his vote.
-- CNN's Poppy Harlow also contributed to this report.


There is one exception: Those who live in areas affected by hurricanes -- such as Florida -- can qualify for a special enrollment period, which will give them until the end of the year to sign up.
Related: Obama tweets: Final days to enroll in Obamacare are here!
The federal exchange has been sending emails daily to some consumers warning them of the looming deadline. But the Trump administration ended television advertising, which advocates say was the most effective way to get people to enroll in time.
Some 4.7 million Americans selected policies on healthcare.gov through December 9, according to federal data. That's about 650,000 more sign-ups than at a similar point last year, according to Get America Covered, an advocacy group aimed at promoting open enrollment.
A flood of procrastinators is expected to pick plans this week. Visits to healthcare.gov soared on Thursday, hitting its highest point at midnight, Get America Covered said. And on Friday morning, people calling for help had to wait 30 minutes for a representative.
"The surge is real," said Lori Lodes, the group's co-founder and a former Obama administration official.
In prior years, consumers who started the enrollment process before December 15 -- the deadline to get coverage at the start of the new year -- were given a little more time to complete their applications. The Trump administration announced late Friday that it will do the same this year.
It's busy at our call center today! If you call and are asked to leave your name and phone number, please do so. A call center rep will call you back after Dec 15 to make sure you have Marketplace coverage that starts Jan 1. You may also visit https://t.co/eTfU7hBbyh to enroll.
Even with the last-minute rush, it's unlikely that total enrollment will match last year's figure of 9.2 million.
Those in states that run their own exchanges may have more time to sign up. California and New York, for instance, have extended enrollment through January 31. Some 3 million people signed up for 2017 policies in state-based exchanges last year.
States have reported brisk activity in recent days. Maryland extended its deadline to accommodate the crowds.
"While enrollments have been very strong so far this year, we want to ensure that everyone in Maryland in need of 2018 health coverage has additional time to shop and enroll," said Howard Haft, interim executive director for the Maryland Health Benefit Exchange, which extended open enrollment to December 22.
Many of those signing up for coverage are new to Obamacare.
More than 182,000 new consumers have signed up for coverage in California, as of December 13. That's about 17% more than last year. Some 40,000 Washington residents picked plans for the first time, an increase of 47% from a year ago.
On the federal exchange, the number of new consumers is up about 14% from last year to just under 1.4 million.
Related: Obamacare enrollment could fall millions short for 2018
Current Obamacare enrollees who want to remain on the individual market should go to healthcare.gov to view their options and actively select a plan. If they don't, they will be automatically re-enrolled in their same policy. In previous years, this happened well before open enrollment ended so people could select another policy. But this year, they will not be able to switch plans since the enrollment season will have already ended.
Some 2.2 million people were automatically re-enrolled through healthcare.gov last year.
Those who shop around may find they can snag much cheaper plans. Premiums have soared for 2018, but so have federal subsidies.
A 40-year-old earning $25,000 will pay 75% less, on average, for the cheapest bronze plan and 21% less for the lowest-cost gold plan, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. A 40-year-old earning $40,000 will see a 28% drop, on average, in the price of the cheapest bronze plan, and an 8% decrease in the least expensive gold plan's premium.
Some 80% of enrollees will be able to find a policy for $75 a month or less -- up from 71% this year and the highest share so far, according to federal data.


The problem for retailers isn't people's willingness to spend. It's where they're spending.
After the Great Recession, spending shifted online. In a serious case of bad timing, American retailers built thousands of new stores in the decade prior to the recession, when the economy was thriving, according to Richard Feinberg, professor of retail management at Purdue University.
Feinberg says reports of the retail industry's demise are "way overblown." Instead, he says the industry is "facing a retrenchment," because retailers have way too many stores open.
Getting that mix right -- keeping the magic number of physical stores open while keeping up with online demand -- will be the key to survival.
Hundreds of retailers have suffered from having more stores than they needed.
Related: America's malls are rotting away
Sears (SHLD), which operated nearly 3,800 stores as recently as a decade ago, is down to 1,104. Macy's (M) closed 68 stores this year, and JCPenney (JCP) announced it would close 128.
The CEOs of Payless (which filed for bankruptcy this year) and Urban Outfitters conceded that there are too many stores in America.
Retailers know that having physical stores is no longer enough. They have to have a strong online presence to survive this change in spending habits. Online sales are projected to grow, and physical store sales are expected to continue shrinking.
"You're not going to be able to out-Amazon Amazon," says Feinberg. But retailers have to try to keep up.
Amazon is projected to make up half the online marketplace by 2021, according to Wall Street firm Needham.
This holiday season, consumers spent a record amount of money online -- $5 billion on Black Friday alone. That's 17% more than last year, according to data from Adobe Digital Insights.
Don't expect all sales to be online anytime soon, though. For most retailers, having a physical presence remains important to their business models. Around 88% of all purchases in the U.S. still take place in physical locations, according to Moody's senior analyst Charlie O'Shea. And these stores are still bringing in major revenue.
This holiday season alone, people are projected to spend $420 billion in brick-and-mortar stores, according to Deloitte.
Related: Target buys same-day deliver service with an eye on Amazon
Experts point to Walmart (WMT) as the best example of a retailer that seems to be getting the mix right.
Walmart has been on an acquisition spree, recently buying up Jet.com, ModCloth, Bonobos, Moosejaw and several other shopping sites.
It said last quarter that its digital sales rose a stunning 50% in the United States -- higher than Amazon's growth rate for revenue.
The retail sector may only have two major players in the future: Amazon and Walmart.
For now, consumers are benefiting from having so many online and in-store options, which is driving prices down, according to Garrick Brown, vice president of retail research at Cushman & Wakefield.
Brown says it's unlikely that Amazon would hike its prices except in places where it's dominant.
However, Amazon has the cash to buy up many struggling retailers. Macy's and JCPenney combined are worth less than $9 billion, compared with Amazon's more than $560 billion.
"It's possible that things could change really quickly for retailers," Brown says.


GE's deal-making worsened its exposure to fossil fuels. Rather than transforming into a clean energy powerhouse, GE doubled down on fossil fuels in 2015 by acquiring Alstom's power business, which makes coal-fueled turbines. The $9.5 billion deal was GE's biggest-ever industrial purchase and made GE Power its largest division. GE also increased its oil and gas footprint by merging those businesses with Baker Hughes (BHGE) last year.
GE Power is in shambles today because power plants are increasingly ordering solar and wind technology instead of gas and coal turbines. As GE's (GE GENERAL ELECTRIC CO) orders have tumbled, it's been forced to offer deep discounts on products and services. Now, the business is grappling with massive overcapacity. In response, GE Power recently announced plans to cut 12,000 jobs in a bid to shrink its footprint and slash $1 billion in costs.
While "gas and coal have softened," GE acknowledged that renewables are growing rapidly and stealing market share.
GE Power CEO Russell Stokes said the job cuts were "painful but necessary" to respond to the "disruption in the power market."
Related: How decades of bad decisions broke GE
GE isn't the only traditional power player getting rocked by renewables.
In November, industrial conglomerate Siemens announced plans to cut 6,900 jobs, mostly in Germany and the U.S. Siemens, which provides turbines and services to companies that generate power from oil and gas, cited the rise of renewables.
"The power generation industry is experiencing disruption of unprecedented scope and speed," Lisa Davis, a Siemens board member, said at the time.
Siemens (SIEGY) didn't seem to see the renewable threat coming either. In 2014, the German company spent $1.3 billion to purchase Rolls-Royce's gas turbine and compressor business. Siemens followed that up the next year by shelling out nearly $8 billion to buy Dresser Rand, a supplier of oil and gas equipment.
There are signs that renewables may continue to gain ground on fossil fuels, especially coal.
"The seismic shift in renewables economics" will cause "large reductions in carbon intensity in the global power sector," Morgan Stanley wrote in a recent research report.
The key is that solar technology has gotten dramatically cheaper, making it competitive in some markets against fossil fuels. The price of solar panels has been cut in half in less than two years, Morgan Stanley estimates.
Wind is also getting more affordable. All-in costs for wind power in some countries that have strong wind conditions can be one-third to half as expensive as coal or natural-gas plants, Morgan Stanley said.
Several major markets have reached an "inflection point where renewables are the "cheapest form of new power generation," Morgan Stanley wrote. It expects that trend to spread to "nearly every country we cover by 2020."
Related: GE is cutting 12,000 jobs
The good news for GE is that at least part of its vast empire stands to gain from the rise of renewables, especially wind. GE has a renewable energy division that generates about $9 billion in annual sales, mostly through the sale of wind turbines and water power systems.
GE has shipped more than 30,000 wind turbines since it entered the space in 2002. In April, GE completed the $1.65 billion acquisition of LM Wind Power, a Danish manufacturer of rotor blades. Earlier this month, GE touted the sale of 90 wind turbines to Thailand, marking its biggest renewable deal ever in that country.
The problem, for GE, is that its renewable energy business is dwarfed by its traditional power business, which has generated almost four times as much revenue this year. That means the pain from power is likely to continue to overshadow the growth from renewables.
--CNNMoney's Alanna Petroff contributed to this report.


What will happen to James Murdoch? There had been some speculation that Rupert Murdoch's son James, currently CEO of 21st Century Fox (FOX), would move over to Disney in a senior role, possibly as successor to CEO Bob Iger. But in a conference call with investors, Iger said that no immediate plans had been developed.
And what about Fox's $15 billion deal for European pay TV provider Sky (SKYAY)? That takeover was announced a year ago, but has suffered from a series of delays.
Disney says that Fox will work to push the deal through. Analysts say it might not be that simple.
2. Unions at Ryanair: The budget airline that built its business around minimal perks -- for customers and employees -- said Friday that it would recognize pilot labor unions for the first time.
Ryanair (RYAAY) pilots in Ireland, Britain, Germany, Italy, Spain and Portugal will now have more power to bargain with the airline.
The move is designed to head off a strike by pilots during the crucial holiday travel period.
"Putting the needs of our customers first, and avoiding disruption to their Christmas flights, is the reason why we will now deal with our pilots through recognized national union structures," CEO Michael O'Leary said in a statement.
3. Speaking of planes: There's been a major leadership shakeup at Airbus (EADSF), and current COO Fabrice Brégier appears to have been left standing when the music stopped.
Airbus said in a statement that Brégier, president of the company's commercial aircraft business, will leave the company. He had been touted as a possible successor to CEO Tom Enders, who will stand down in April 2019.
Guillaume Faury, who heads the company's helicopter division, was named as the next leader of the commercial airline business. Could he now be next in line for the top gig?
Airbus said it will consider insiders and external candidates for CEO in 2018.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were higher.
European stocks were mixed in early trade, while most Asian markets ended in negative territory.
Investors are largely being left to their own devices. There are no major earnings reports on the agenda and the economic data cupboard is bare.
The Dow Jones industrial average, S&P 500 and the Nasdaq took their foot off the gas on Thursday, posting losses of 0.3% to 0.4%.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday -- EU Summit


Those who write to me don't agree. Their argument is that companies are bringing back investment, creating new jobs and there is new confidence because of the prospects of lower taxes, massive deregulation and stronger trade protections for American companies. In other words, President Trump has created this environment and he deserves the credit for its benefits.
Sign up for the weekly Quest newsletter in your inbox
I can see the merit of this argument. Unfortunately, most private sector economists, like Professor Ken Rogoff at Harvard, a former chief economist at the IMF, don't agree with it. Time and again, these economists say, yes, Trump has had an effect, but it's too soon to give him full credit.
The debate will continue. I won't take sides. Instead, we will just bring you both arguments, allowing you to make up your own mind. Anytime you want to write to me, my email address is below.
And the Mouse ran away with the Fox

Disney's purchase of the movie studio assets of 21st Century Fox makes Disney a more formidable player in Hollywood.
It gives Disney the rights to Marvel characters such as the X-Men that Fox owned. It will boost the chances of success for the Disney and Fox-backed Hulu and Disney's own streaming service that it plans to launch to fight Netflix.
But Disney may inherit a mess in Europe as Fox tries to buy Sky. The deal may also complicate the legacy of Fox CEO Rupert Murdoch while bolstering the reputation of Disney CEO Bob Iger.
Prophetically enough, Fox's "The Simpsons" predicted a deal in 1998.
-- Paul R. La Monica
Fed hikes rates as Yellen set to pass baton

In a move that surprised nobody, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the third time this year Wednesday.
It's a sign of a healthy economy, which was further confirmed Thursday after the government reported a drop in the number of people filing for unemployment claims and strong retail sales for November.
Still, outgoing Fed chair Janet Yellen warned that President Trump's tax plan will boost the deficit and could make it tougher for her planned successor Jerome Powell to deal with future crises.
Yellen also urged people to be careful when buying bitcoin, which she referred to as "a highly speculative asset."
-- Paul R. La Monica
Bitcoin: Is North Korea making a fortune?

Bitcoin mania continues to heat up.
In just the past week, bitcoin futures launched and regulators warned investors to be wary. Kim Jong Un could be making a fortune on the boom because North Korea has recently been "mining" bitcoin, stealing it and demanding it as ransom payment.
Bitcoin has really taken off in South Korea, where trading has gone mainstream.
One threat to bitcoin -- something newer that could replace it. With that in mind, keep an eye on litecoin, the smaller cryptocurrency that has surged by more than bitcoin over the past month.
-- Matt Egan
Britain won't let Big Tech off the hook

A top U.K. ethics panel said Wednesday that Facebook, Twitter and Google should take "more responsibility" for illegal content on their platforms. The Committee on Standards in Public Life, which advises Prime Minister Theresa May, said the situation calls for new legislation.
Meanwhile, the head of a parliamentary committee investigating the role of fake news and online misinformation in the U.K. said Wednesday that Facebook needed to look harder for Russian meddling before the Brexit vote. Facebook said a Russian troll farm that spent $100,000 in the U.S. had spent only $0.97 in Britain.
-- Julia Horowitz
Quick takes
The fight for the future of the internet: What the end of net neutrality means
Get the popcorn ready! Saudi Arabia ends 35-year ban on movie theaters
Trade tensions: Canada deals blow to Boeing by scrapping $5B fighter jet deal
For nearly half of all American households, the rent is still too damn high
Exxon surrenders on major climate change transparency fight with investors
Attention meat lovers: Meat could be taxed in a bid to stop global warming
What's next
Earnings time: A few big names report quarterly earnings next week. FedEx will release results on Tuesday, along with General Mills on Wednesday and Nike on Thursday.
Bitcoin futures: Last Sunday, bitcoin futures started trading on the CBOE. CME Group will follow suit this coming Monday. It's all part of the bitcoin craze, which shows no signs of abating.


That's a common feeling for parents across America, where quality child care is expensive and often hard to find. But it's particularly prevalent in rural areas, many of which have seen dramatic declines in both incomes and populations. The economics of running a day care have become even more difficult as state budget cuts undermine funding for child care subsidies.
Now, much of Eastern Kentucky is covered by what the Center for American Progress has deemed "child care deserts": Census tracts with at least three times as many kids under age five than there are licensed child care openings, forcing thousands of parents to depend on the kindness of relatives and friends, or sometimes stay at home themselves.
New Beginnings, the day care center that shut down right before Chitwood's son was born, was founded in the 1970s, when the area was booming and a child care business could support a homeless shelter as well. But as people moved out of the area, New Beginnings could barely support itself. By last winter, it was about to declare bankruptcy.
Related: This small Kentucky town voted for Trump, but isn't waiting for his help
Luckily, the Foundation for Appalachian Kentucky got wind of New Beginnings' distress. With the philanthropy's support, the day care restructured and reopened. Chitwood got a job there, caring for the one-year-olds, and brought her son there, too.
But not all day cares are so lucky. To foundation official Lora Smith, a lack of child care poses a threat to Appalachia's transition away from coal to other industries, such as tourism, small-scale manufacturing and local food.
"We want to attract new people to the region too, and we need certain amenities," Smith said. "How many businesses are going to want to locate somewhere there isn't a quality day care?"
'It's a no-win situation'
At the turn of the 21st century, Kentucky decided to invest heavily in early childhood education.
Dena Dailey, owner of Tiddle Town Day Care, was one of the beneficiaries. The state was giving out grants to qualified day care providers to start businesses in underserved counties, and she picked Beattyville, in Lee County, where Tiddle Town has operated since.
But as the years wore on, Dailey didn't receive nearly as much help from the state. Incomes and population in the area declined, but the child care assistance payments for poor families — on which about three-quarters of her clients depend — stagnated, which sometimes kept the business from breaking even. She made it work with occasional financial help from her husband's job, cleaning and maintenance by her son, and by employing her mother to help with the kids.
"The economic part of it is not sustainable," Dailey said, sitting at a tiny kids' table in a miniature chair while her charges napped. "This is my passion. I do what it takes."
Across Kentucky, nearly 27,000 kids receive a subsidy through the Child Care Assistance Program, which is funded by both the state and federal government. The federal government recommends that the state kick in enough money to cover 75% of the market rate, but Kentucky's program pays 22% less than that.
Related: In rural America, building the Internet for Everyone has stalled
"Most child care centers lose money for every kid they accept through CCAP," said Dustin Pugel, a policy analyst with the Kentucky Center for Economic Policy, a left-leaning think tank. Federal funding for child care, meanwhile, has declined from $11.6 billion in 2001 to $8.4 billion in 2017 on an inflation-adjusted basis, according to the National Women's Law Center.
That's particularly difficult for centers located in rural areas, which see much higher percentages of clients who receive subsidies. The state allows them to raise co-pays, but Dailey said her clients couldn't afford it.
"It's a no-win situation," she said.
Government support comes up short
In recent years, Kentucky's child care system has weathered a body blow. After successive rounds of budget reductions, in 2013 the state froze CCAP enrollment. The cuts kept some parents from entering the program just as the collapse of coal was also making it difficult for families to pay full price.
The CCAP program restarted a year later, but income requirements had tightened, meaning that not all parents could come back. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 10% of the child care centers in the state closed between 2013 and 2016.
As Kentucky's economy has recovered and its tax revenue has improved, the state restored some of CCAP's funding and expanded eligibility slightly, to people making 160% of the poverty line. But that doesn't reach all parents who could use the help, especially when unsubsidized child care costs more than $6,000 on average per year in Kentucky, according to Child Care Aware — that's more than many mortgages in the state.
"There's a lot of mamas out there, and here's the dilemma that they've got: Why would they work if they would pay as much for child care as they could earn working?" said Becky Todd, 37, a photographer in Beattyville who had dropped by Tiddle Town because she'd heard there was an opening for her three-year-old. "They're the ones who need the help."
In Kentucky, 17% of families with young children report having difficulty holding down a job because they can't find adequate or affordable child care, according to the Annie E. Casey Foundation's KidsCount survey.
Meanwhile, the state has made it much more difficult to start a day care by adding regulations meant to improve quality and safety, such as requiring staff to go through additional training and restricting their location to certain zones. According to June Widman, executive director of the Eastern Kentucky Child Care Coalition, the number of home-based businesses declined from 1,000 ten years ago to 300 today.
Related: Parents to Congress: My child depends on CHIP for health insurance
"It was sort of a building block effect," Widman said. "As these things piled up, it started to get really costly before you could even open your doors."
The grants for establishing child care facilities, such as the one Dena Dailey received, ceased about decade ago.
To alleviate the problem, child care advocates have proposed beefing up federal investment in state child care programs to raise pay for providers and lower costs for families. Conservatives, like Ivanka Trump and Senator Marco Rubio, pushed for an expanded and fully refundable child tax credit in the tax reform bill that could help as well. But the House and Senate only expanded the credit, without making it refundable, which means poorer families don't see much benefit.
In addition, the White House's budget blueprint for 2018, which was released last Spring, would result in a 17% cut to Head Start, the federally funded preschool program, according to an Urban Institute analysis.
For New Beginnings executive director Donna Fields, that makes it difficult to hear politicians talk about how children are the future.
"If we're that important in a child's life, and you keep cutting our funding, how do we do what we're supposed to do?" Fields asked. "Until they really realize that quality child care is more than just saying it, or making all these requirements for these centers, you have to have something to help them."


The Even app connects directly to a worker's checking account, prepaid account or Walmart Associate Paycard, and links to Walmart's payroll systems.
"We're investing to give our people financial tools that help provide more stability in their lives, which we believe will empower them to be all they can be when they are at work serving our customers," said Jacqui Canney, Walmart's chief "people" officer, in a prepared statement.
Walmart (WMT) is footing the bill for the app, including the "Instapay" feature, which workers can use up to eight times for free -- an allotment that rolls over annually if it is unused. After that, employees can pay $3 a pay period for access to Even Plus, a premium version of the app that offers additional financial services. That $3 also covers transaction fees.
According to Shah, the fees pay for the cost of transferring money on demand, which is more expensive than lump sum paychecks every two weeks.
The financial assistance comes at a time when Walmart associates are working in overdrive.
The company announced in September it would not be hiring holiday workers, but rather upping the hours for existing workers.
For part-time employees, additional hours could increase total pay more than an increase in hourly pay.
Walmart raised its minimum pay for most employees to $10 an hour in 2015, and the average pay for its full-time workers is now $13 an hour.
Part-time workers are paid about $10 an hour on average, $2.75 more than federal minimum wage.


It's true that wages have yet to pick up dramatically. That's the one weak spot in the labor market.
But many economists note that you can't look at wages in isolation. Inflation hasn't come roaring back either.
So even with meager salary increases, a lot of Americans are still making more money in real terms. And they are putting that money back into the economy by spending.
"Consumers are realizing that the economy is strengthening and that pro-business policies are ushering in an era of sustainable growth," wrote Voya Investment Management market strategists Douglas Coté and Karyn Cavanaugh in a report Thursday.
"This is not a fake candy-cane high of central bank stimulus, but real economic growth not seen in decades," they added, continuing the holiday themed motif by saying "growth, spending, employment -- nary a stale fruitcake in sight."
Higher levels of economic growth aren't a bad thing per se. But there are questions about whether you can have too much of a good thing.
Related: Janet Yellen says bigger deficits created by tax bill could be a problem
If growth picks up to more than 4% or even 5%, that could spark new worries about the unintended consequences of tax cuts.
If tax reform makes the economy grow too fast and eventually brings about higher inflation, some fear that the Federal Reserve may have to step up the pace of interest rate hikes. That could slow down the economy more than many would like.
RSM U.S. Chief Economist Joseph Brusuelas said in a note Thursday that tax cuts while the economy is already in good shape means "it is now highly likely that growth will be turbocharged in 2018 and 2019."
The end result? Brusuelas thinks the Fed will raise rates four times in 2018 -- more than what Wall Street now expects.
Still, others argue that the impact of any changes to the tax code won't have that big an impact past 2018. Companies and consumers will adjust and economists and Wall Street investment strategists will bake the lower taxes into their growth forecasts.
Wayne Wicker, chief investment officer with retirement planning firm ICMA-RC, said it will be important for Trump and Congress to focus on an infrastructure investment bill in 2018. That could give the economy a longer-term boost and create even more jobs.
CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed to this report.


But not everyone in Eastern Kentucky is so lucky. One county over, Ranck works a second job as a counselor for people struggling with addiction. Many of those she helps would benefit from home-based jobs, she said, but they don't have access to fast enough broadband yet. "I see 100 people a week who would love to do this, and can't," Ranck said. "Where they live, it's not accessible."
America has seen rapid improvements in broadband availability since the turn of the century. Fueled by both private and public investments, that growth has helped expand the transformative power of the Internet far beyond cities and wealthy suburbs. Household Internet use in rural areas rose from 2% to 61% between 2000 and 2015, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
But the momentum has now stalled as public funding has dried up.
President Trump campaigned on the promise of a trillion-dollar infrastructure plan, which Internet access advocates had hoped would include another infusion of cash to extend broadband to areas that telecom companies don't find commercially viable. So far, no plan has been proposed.
The slowdown in funding has left stark disparities between rural areas that have gotten wired and those where the job is only half finished.
Take Eastern Kentucky, where a handful of counties received fiber optic connections to every home and business with help from millions of dollars in stimulus funding in 2009 and 2010. Those that didn't, must make do with shaky Internet service over copper wires or phone lines, and they only get pockets of good cell service amid the crinkled mountain landscape.
Related: The end of net neutrality: What it all means
That hasn't stopped Teleworks USA from trying to place hundreds of rural residents in jobs. Since its founding in 2011, the federally-funded job training agency has found home-based work for more than 1,200 Eastern Kentucky residents — including Ranck — and they say the number of remote jobs out there is only growing.
But lack of broadband still stands in the way.
"The thing that limits us placing as many people who need it and want it is the infrastructure in Eastern Kentucky," said Teleworks USA's director, Michael Cornett. "And that's something that's totally out of our control."
Quick progress, big results
Starting in the 1950s, McKee, Kentucky-based Peoples Rural Telephone Cooperative devoted itself to connecting a small corner of Appalachia to the phone system. Along with most of the rest of rural America, it succeeded.
By the 2000s, PRTC was in the Internet business as well. In 2009, Congress allocated $7.2 billion to broadband development in rural areas, and directed the Federal Communications Commission to develop a plan for making high-speed Internet access available everywhere. PRTC got $45 million in a mix of grants and loans to build out fiber to every home and business in the two counties it served.
To Owsley County judge Cale Turner, the broadband access has been a game changer, especially as coal and tobacco jobs disappeared. Teleworks alone has created 137 jobs in the 4,500-person county since opening in 2016.
"The beauty of it is, those jobs are going to keep on coming," Turner said. "You don't have to worry about the factory shutting down. If you built a brick building and hired 130 people, everybody would be gushing."
Related: In this small Kentucky town, people aren't waiting on Trump to fix things
That's only counting the jobs Teleworks has created directly. The county's broadband network also allows high-earning urban professionals like Teresa Duff, a software executive from Dayton, Ohio who has family in Lee and Owsley counties, to move there as well.
"Really the Internet thing was a big deal, because Lee County doesn't have the same capability with broadband," said Duff, sitting at her kitchen table, which looks out on a sweeping pasture for her horses. "So I needed to be here."
There are other beneficial spillover effects. The owner of the Ole Bus Stop Diner in Booneville, Jason Reed, reports more business from teleworkers placing to-go orders and taking their whole families out to eat with their newfound paychecks. Each student at Owsley County schools has super-fast Internet at home, allowing them to keep working when school is closed on snow days and to take online college courses while in high school.
"It's not about new roads," said Owsley County Schools superintendent Tim Bobrowski, whose wife runs an e-commerce business out of their home. "It's the Internet. You can't see that road, but it brings in opportunities that at the time nobody was seeing."
The broadband revolution missed a spot
Fifteen minutes away, in Lee County, an Internet-connected future seems more distant.
The area is currently served only by AT&T, which doesn't usually deliver speeds as high as PRTC's fiber network. (AT&T said it has invested $700 million in building fiber and wireless networks in Kentucky in the last three years, but declined to disclose where those services are available.)
The one coffee shop in downtown Beattyville, the county seat, is full of people using Wi-Fi because they don't have a good Internet connection at their homes.
"We see a lot of draw, just because we do have Internet access," said Jessica Miracle, manager of the Art Factory Coffeehouse. "A lot of the county doesn't."
According to the FCC's latest broadband access report, 39% of rural residents lack fixed broadband service, compared to just 4% of city dwellers. That's down from previous years, but still cuts off a broad swath of the population from learning and job opportunities.
PRTC is working on building out to Lee County now, investing about $600,000 into running fiber to some of the local institutions, like the library and the courthouse. But getting to peoples' homes and further-flung businesses is expensive. While some pots of federal money are still available, they have yet to secure the millions that allowed them to connect the other two counties next door.
"Unless we get a grant there, all the risk is ours," said Keith Gabbard, PRTC's CEO. In that scenario, success depends on the number of people who want to sign up. "If we get 20 homes, then we'll do it, but if it's one or two homes, it's a matter of funding."
Related: 'Child care deserts' are leaving parents with few options
In the meantime, some states have tried to fill in the gaps — some more successfully than others.
In 2015, Kentucky's former governor kicked off a $324 million public-private partnership that was supposed to construct 3,000 miles of fiber optic cable as a "middle mile" to get closer to rural communities. The first ring was scheduled to be operational by this July, but the project is now far behind schedule and over budget, which officials in the new governor's administration attribute to original projections being "unrealistic."
That's left Lee County to do what it can with what it has. The schools, for example, keep their buildings open on snow days to allow kids without home Internet to come do assignments, and make sure everything's possible to do using old-fashioned paper and pencil.
"We are limited somewhat," said Lee County superintendent Jim Evans. "But we try to work through those problems."


The company's new chief executive, Kare Schultz, said that some offices and facilities would be closed.
"Making workforce reductions of this magnitude is difficult, and we do not take them lightly," he wrote in a letter to employees. "However, there is no alternative to these drastic steps in the current situation."
Teva (TEVA) shares trading in Tel Aviv, Israel, gained 12% after the cost-cutting plan was announced.
Related: Generic EpiPen at $300 coming soon
The company, which says its products are used by roughly 200 million patients each day, is heavily indebted. Its debt stood at $34.7 billion at the end of September, a slight reduction from June.
Schultz, who was named as CEO in October, appointed a new leadership team last month in an attempt to streamline the organization.


CNN received an early copy of the letter. In it the senator says he worries the computerized currency "could be laundered through trades that occur outside the regulatory framework that applies to current financial transactions."
Wyden is asking asked FinCEN to explain its "authority and capabilities to identify the... owners of virtual currencies," as well as its ability to "trace and seize" this digital money.
FinCEN declined to comment to CNN about the letter Thursday morning. But the agency pointed to a previous statement by acting director Jamal El-Hindi that said: "We will hold accountable foreign-located money transmitters, including virtual currency exchangers, that do business in the United States when they willfully violate U.S. anti-money laundering laws."
Related: Fed chair calls bitcoin 'highly speculative'
Bitcoin (and other digital currencies like it) are independent, self-sustaining and not backed by any government. They do not identify users by name. And Bitcoin's groundbreaking technology for tracking transactions, a concept called the "blockchain," is quickly gaining recognition. Blockchain is the innovative way bitcoin creates new units of currency and keeps a decentralized, public, and secure record of all transactions.
The value of a bitcoin has skyrocketed from $900 to more than $16,000 on some exchanges this year. And while it was already a preferred online currency for hackers and criminals, that rise in price has drawn additional attention from the underworld.
Related: What is bitcoin?
Hackers tied to the North Korean regime have been caught infecting computers and demanding bitcoin as ransom payments. Bitfinex, the world's largest online market for bitcoins, and several other website exchanges have been hit by cyberattacks seeking to steal bitcoin accounts.
"I believe that we should look to support financial innovation, but that we should ensure new technology companies comply with existing [anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing] laws," Wyden wrote.
Related: Regulators on bitcoin: buyer beware
It's unclear what effect this news could have on the bitcoin market. Since its inception, interest in bitcoin has been largely limited to techno-libertarians who view it as an alternative to state-controlled inflationary currencies. To them, the specter of government regulation is viewed negatively. Whenever a government has moved to regulate or ban bitcoin, and fears have temporarily pushed down prices sharply.
But current interest by major banks and industry into bitcoin's core technology could hold that back, as they welcome regulation that legitimizes this mysterious and volatile technological experiment.
FinCEN has taken some action on bitcoin in the past.
In 2016, it warned financial companies in the bitcoin exchange business that they're still required to follow the same "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules as banks. It followed that up in July with its first major legal action against a "money services business," hitting the internet-based BTC-e exchange with a $110 million civil penalty for ignoring those rules.
The senator expressed concern that Russia and Venezuela view digital currency as a way to circumvent U.S. economic sanctions put in place to punish them for their violent authoritarian behavior.
Earlier this month Venezuela announced plans to launch its own digital currency, dubbed "the Petro" and backed by the nation's oil and gas, to specifically evade the blockade.
"While this is unlikely to be a credible plot to evade U.S. sanctions, it is an example of how this promising new technology could be used for nefarious purposes," Wyden said in his letter.
Wyden also asked FinCEN how it monitors a related phenomenon: the sudden rise of "initial coin offerings," in which startups are offering digital currencies in a sometimes dubious attempt to raise investor money.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has warned the public about the potential for "ICO scams," and this week regulators stopped food review app Munchee from raising $15 million this way.
The senator's letter, addressed to acting FinCEN director El-Hindi, asked for a public response by Dec. 29.
Jose Pagliery is the author of Bitcoin - And the Future of Money (Triumph Books, Chicago).


As part of the deal, Delta will start taking delivery of the first of 100 jets beginning in 2020. The airline holds options for another 100.
Delta said the airplanes will consume 40% less fuel per passenger than the 1980s-era McDonnell Douglas MD-88s that they will replace. The airline also selected Pratt & Whitney engines as part of its deal.
The order is a blow to Airbus's U.S. rival Boeing, which had hoped to sell its 737 Max 10 airliners to the U.S.'s second largest airline.
Related: Canada makes good on threat to drop Boeing fighter deal
CNNMoney reported earlier that Delta planned to purchase the 100 airliners from Airbus.
Boeing and Delta are embroiled in an ongoing trade dispute over the airline's purchase of the smaller Canadian Bombardier C Series. Boeing has accused Bombardier of selling the C Series to Delta at unfairly low prices, and the U.S. Commerce Department has recommended a preliminary 300% tariff on the import of the jets. Bombardier and the Canadian government deny any unfair trade practices.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
Delta's purchase announcement comes days after Canada announced plans to ditch a deal with Boeing for new F/A-18 Super Hornets, and instead purchase used fighters from Australia.
Related: Boeing 797 takes a big step toward becoming a reality
Airbus primarily manufacturers the single-aisle A321 jet for the world's airlines in Hamburg, but has opened an assembly line in Mobile, Alabama to build planes for U.S. airlines. Airbus said in a statement that "most" of the 100 will be assembled in the U.S. The plane maker said it is considering increasing output at the factory beyond the four jets it makes each month.


Although Americans overall have seen joblessness sink and wages rise during the Trump administration's first year, those tailwinds haven't quite reached many of the country's more rural pockets like Beattyville. So, the citizens of the town have found other ways to grade his performance.
Leighandra Shouse, a children's book illustrator who voted for Trump, gives him a solid B. Not because of any changes in her own life, which she says hasn't improved much since this time last year, but rather because he seems like he's doing his best.
"I'm still hopeful. I don't think any of the problems that we have is going to be quick fixes, you know?" says Shouse, 50. "I think Congress is standing in the way more than him."
Trading coal for trucking and tourism
Nevertheless, there are some signs of improvement in and around Beattyville.
For one thing, the state announced the reopening of a long-closed prison, which will be operated by a private company and provide scores of jobs. But the reopening is also a symptom of the opioid crisis still ravaging Appalachia and swelling the prison population all over Kentucky.
A coal tipple — used for loading coal onto rail cars — opened on the outskirts of town, signaling that some coal producers are optimistic about Trump's rollback of regulations on the industry. After falling into a steep decline after 2011, coal production and mining jobs have leveled off in the region over the past year, and some laid off miners have even gone back to work.
The news of coal's small resurgence has sent a ripple of optimism throughout Appalachia, seeming to fulfill Trump's campaign promise that the election was "the last shot for the miners." Few people, however, are betting on the once mighty industry regaining its former strength.

"It's gonna help. But is it gonna solve Eastern Kentucky's problems? No," says Kevin Maggard, who started an auto body shop in a remote valley after he was laid off from his coal mining job five years ago.
Related: The Trump Jobs Tracker
He says he's advised friends against taking the few coal jobs that have come back, because they could disappear just as quickly. Some have gone into long-distance trucking instead.
"Trump does need to get us work back here," says Maggard, who voted for Trump and thinks he's done a good job so far. "If coal doesn't do it, we've got to have some industry."

Instead of coal, residents are coming around to the idea that the next great natural resource boom might come from elsewhere: The area's mountains and rivers, just as they are.
Beattyville is luckier than many Eastern Kentucky towns. It's less than an hour from world famous rock climbing and paddling in the Red River Gorge. Wiry outdoor types keep the one local coffee shop busy, and a boutique hotel called the Chocolat Inn & Cafe has opened to cater to vacationers.
Larry Phillips owns an auto repair shop in Beattyville that used to get more business from the coal trucks that once rumbled through town. He voted for and still supports Trump, who he thinks may still bring the coal industry back in time.
"You need to step back, hush and let him do his job," Phillips says to the president's critics. But while coal remains depressed, he's building a few cabins to rent to visitors, which he sees as the town's economic future. "Tourism should be a lifelong thing here, because what we have to offer will not be leaving."
Building a tourism economy takes collaboration, and residents say they're up for it.
"The one thing about here is we have to learn to support each other," says Shouse. "We can't wait for somebody to pull us out of a hole."
That's probably a good thing, because it's not clear how much help will be coming from Washington in the years to come.
A series of looming threats
Eastern Kentucky has long received aid via the Appalachian Regional Commission, which dispenses grants for everything from job training to trail building. Money has also been available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Economic Development Program, which funds local utilities; the Abandoned Mine Lands program, a fund supplied by payments from coal companies; and the Economic Development Administration, which has focused on helping communities left behind by coal.
The budget proposal Trump submitted last spring would have eliminated all of those programs. The area's congressional representatives — including Kentucky's senior senator, Mitch McConnell — protested the cuts, which local economic development professionals say would devastate the area.
Related: In rural America, building the Internet for everyone has stalled
The programs have been funded in the stopgap budget measures Congress has passed so far. But some local activists think the threat might lead to a needed shakeup among the federal agencies that have failed to turn around the area's economic prospects, despite millions of dollars and decades of work.
"They have become very habitual in how they fund things," says Chuck Caudill, a former local newspaper editor who is planning a run for Lee County judge. "I think that that will inject in the ARC the desire and the need to be more innovative."
Another threat on the horizon: Trump and congressional Republicans are targeting welfare. That jeopardizes the benefits that many people in this town rely on, including cash assistance, disability payments and food stamps, which more than a third of households in Lee County receive.
Then there's health care. Kentucky expanded Medicaid through the Affordable Care Act under its previous Democratic governor, and the uninsured rate dropped from 14.3% in 2013 to 5.1% in 2016, the ninth lowest rate in the country.
Related: 'Child care deserts' are leaving rural parents with few options
More than half of Lee County's residents are covered by Medicaid. Kentucky's current Republican governor says it's too expensive and has requested a federal waiver that would cut an estimated 96,000 people from the rolls, according to the Kentucky Center for Economic Policy.
None of that has been felt yet in Beattyville, however. And some of those who are just above the threshold for public assistance say they wouldn't necessarily object to seeing it go away.

Leighandra Shouse doesn't qualify for Medicaid and hasn't been able to afford insurance through her husband's job or on the Obamacare exchange. She's visited the local health clinic a few times for pain in her leg, since they charge on a sliding scale, but says she isn't getting the specialist treatment that might solve the problem.
"The people that are the ones that's working, we're the needy ones," says Shouse. "Are those people that's being handed everything free, are they going to go out and fill out an application for a job?"
'We want to move forward'
To Anna Smith, 31, the answer to Shouse's question is yes. She recently started working at Beattyville's housing assistance agency, but still qualifies for food stamps and cash assistance, and a housing voucher for her four children, and says she would rather support herself than rely on benefits.
"People look at you different," Smith says. "Like you depend on the government."
Regardless of what the tax proposals in Congress or the budget hold, Beattyville residents say they're not waiting to find out what will happen in Washington. They're promoting the area to tourists and starting businesses, like the new women's clothing boutique on Main Street, Hip Chic, and The Art Factory Coffee Shop.
They love Beattyville and want to make it a place where their children can build a future.
"It's time that our community is seen in a more positive light and I think that's what my generation and the current leaders of Beattyville have decided to do," says Tara Newman, the proprietor of Hip Chic.
Newman had been diagnosed with breast cancer in 2015, and decided to open the boutique this past summer. It's been open since late August, and she says she hopes to hire someone to work there soon.
"I think we all just decided to take a chance, and to be accountable for our community, try a fresh start," says Newman. "A lot of the people who have opened up these businesses, are hometown people. We see what our town had to offer and we want to move forward."
CNN's Poppy Harlow, Claudia Morales, Haley Draznin and Jordan Malter contributed to this report.


These partnerships might seem cheesy, but PepsiCo's Frito Lay snack division is actually onto something, says Nik Modi, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets.
According to Modi, PepsiCo's partnership with Regal Cinemas is part of the company's push to link its brands with experiences, such as going to the movies.
Related: Shoppers are warming up to Kellogg's frozen foods
"It's more than just co-branding," he says. "It's their way of trying to make their brands more 3D and less 2D."
By focusing on experiences, PepsiCo is also trying to attract the coveted Millennial consumer.
Millennials are over 75% more likely to spend money on experiences rather than physical products, according to a 2016 survey conducted by market research firm Harris.
Experience-driven branding isn't a new space for PepsiCo. This summer, the company launched a Cheetos pop-up restaurant in New York City, where foodies could taste Cheetos-covered dishes prepared by celebrity chef Anne Burrell.
But Frito Lay's partnership is more than a marketing move. It also reveals a key priority shift within the company.
For years, Pepsico has been moving its focus away from its beverage division, which includes Pepsi and Mountain Dew, and towards Frito Lay. Why?
The junk food industry is a thriving multi-billion dollar business, despite the fact that Americans are increasingly reaching for healthier snack options. Salty snacks generated nearly $28 billion in sales between April of 2016 through the same time this year, according to Statista.
In addition, Frito Lay is simply more profitable than Pepsi's beverage line, says Modi.
Related: Coca-Cola needs more products not named Coke
Frito Lay reported $1.2 billion in profit last quarter -- a 5% increase compared to the same time last year. In 2016, the division accounted for nearly 48% of the company's bottom line.
And PepsiCo's (PEP) stock is up nearly 12% this year.
Let's put it this way: While you were licking Cheetos powder off your fingers, PepsiCo was snacking all the way to the bank.


Disney is getting Fox's movie studio, the cable channels FX and National Geographic as well as Star India and Fox's stake in European pay-TV provider Sky.
Prior to the deal closing, 21st Century Fox will separate the Fox broadcasting network, Fox News Channel, Fox Business Network, and some national sports networks into a newly listed company that will be spun off to shareholders.
2. Net neutrality decision: The U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is set to vote Thursday on a repeal of Obama-era net neutrality protections.
Net neutrality rules bar internet providers like Comcast (CCVCL) and AT&T (T) from deliberately speeding up or slowing down traffic from specific websites and apps in order to prioritize their own content.
FCC chairman Ajit Pai's plan would lift those bans -- and likely boost those companies. (AT&T is in the process of acquiring Time Warner, which owns CNN.)
Democrats have called on the FCC to delay the vote.
3. Central bank time: The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates on Wednesday. Investors attention now turns to the European Central Bank and the Bank of England.
The central banks are not expected to announce rate hikes, but investors will be looking for hints on their strategy for the coming year.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were higher.
European markets opened mostly lower, while Asian markets ended mixed.
The Dow Jones industrial average hit a record high and moved closer to 25,000 on Wednesday after Congressional leaders struck a tentative tax overhaul deal. The index added 0.3%.
The S&P 500 closed flat and the Nasdaq gained 0.2%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Earnings and economics: Costco (COST), Adobe (ADBE) and Oracle (ORCL) will release their results after the closing bell.
The U.S. Census Bureau will publish data on November retail sales at 8:30 a.m. ET.
The International Energy Agency said it expects U.S. oil production to rise again in 2018. It predicts that global supply will grow at faster rate than demand next year.
"2018 may not necessarily be a happy New Year for those who would like to see a tighter market," the agency said in a report.
There's more good news in Germany: The IFO Institute has raised its growth forecast for 2018 from 2% to 2.6%
"The German economy is in great shape," said IFO President Clemens Fuest.
European Union leaders are gathering for a summit in Brussels on Thursday and Friday. High on their agenda: Brexit.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Thursday -- November U.S. retail sales; Bank of England rate decision; European Central Bank decision; Costco (COST) and Oracle (ORCL) earnings; IEA oil report; EU summit  Friday -- EU Summit


The national debt held by the public has nearly tripled over the past decade to about $15 trillion today.
Yellen has said America's debt burden "should keep people awake." And the problem will likely worsen as more people tap Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security -- outpacing tax revenue.
Related: Republicans in House and Senate strike a deal on tax bill
The Joint Committee on Taxation, the congressional scorekeeper for tax bills, has estimated the Senate version of the tax bill would add an estimated $1 trillion to deficits.
Economists worry tax cuts that will deepen the national debt while the economy is healthy will leave Congress with less room to respond to a fiscal calamity.
New York Federal Reserve Bank President William Dudley has cautioned against injecting additional stimulus through tax cuts when the economy is already growing at a pace that is likely to increase inflation over time.
"[T]he economy doesn't need it," Dudley said in late November.
Usually when the economy needs to be rescued, the president will ask Congress to borrow vast sums of money to pay for tax cuts. But lawmakers are now on the verge of enacting a $1.5 trillion tax plan with an economy enjoying its best growth in three years.
The recovery from the Great Recession is now in its eighth year. It's already the third-longest expansion in history. While few economists anticipate an imminent downturn, another one will come eventually.
Related: Tax cuts could make it harder to fight the next recession
And when a recession hits, the government's borrowing costs may not be as absurdly cheap as they are now.
"It does suggest that in some future downturn, which could occur just for whatever reason, the amount of fiscal space that would exist for fiscal policy to play an active role will be limited," said Yellen.
Still, the outgoing Fed chair said the U.S. central bank welcomed tax changes to help grow the economy.
She said most policymakers accounted for an economic boost from the proposed tax bill in their updated economic projections.
And for now, officials didn't think it was necessary to change their plans when it comes to future rate hikes.
Related: Trump wants poor Americans to work but many already do
On Wednesday, the Fed raised rates one notch higher as the U.S. economy continues to get healthier. It also maintained its plans to raise rates three more times in 2018, and then twice in 2019.
Some analysts have suggested the Fed may have to raise rates faster next year should the tax bill prove to deliver a bigger stimulus to the economy.
The Fed also said it now expects the economy to grow in 2018 at a faster rate of 2.5%, compared with its previous forecast of 2.1%.
Yellen said tax reform was one factor among many that policy makers considered in lifting the country's economic prospects next year.
-- CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed to this report.


Here's some context on the cuts in store for middle-income households based on nonpartisan analyses of the Senate-passed bill:
Modest increases: Those in the middle class would see tax cuts, on average, especially in the first half of the next decade. But they would be modest -- with an average increase below 2% in after-tax income. By contrast, higher income households would see an average bump in after-tax income north of 2%, according to the Tax Policy Center.
But an "average" tax cut doesn't mean everyone would get one. Some might pay more. And some might see a much bigger tax cut than the group average. Everything depends on individual circumstance: marital status, family size, how you make your living, what deductions you normally take, etc.
Short shelf-life: For many middle-income groups, their tax cuts diminish if not disappear completely by the end of the decade, since individual tax cuts and other benefits would expire after 2025.
Related: Will Trump's tax plan really give you a $4,000 raise?
Higher debt: The bill would increase the nation's debt by more than $1 trillion in the first decade. Given the fiscal challenges of the federal budget in the next few decades, increases to the debt will create the need for future tax increases, spending cuts or some combination of the two. So it's likely the middle class would be the subject of either or both to pay for today's tax cuts. Optimistic assumptions about worker benefits: Republicans have also been pitching the idea that the steep corporate tax cuts in the GOP tax plan would be a boon for workers in terms of higher wages and increased jobs.
The president's Council of Economic Advisers even estimated a corporate rate cut to 20% might increase average household income by at least $4,000. But that's based on the most optimistic assumptions: that companies will use their tax savings to invest in their businesses rather than use it to pay higher dividends or buy back company shares.
It also assumes a very high percentage of a corporate rate cut benefits workers directly. Many mainstream economists believe the direct benefits are more modest and take a longer time to take effect.


Unstable might be an understatement. Bitcoin started the year below $1,000, hit $8,000 for the first time in early November, and then topped $17,000 on some exchanges last week. The currency's value has fluctuated by thousands of dollars in less than a day.
One bitcoin was worth about $16,200 on Wednesday, according to CoinDesk, which values bitcoin based on data from four exchanges.
Related: Looking to sell bitcoin? It's complicated
Yellen said she thinks it's important for the Fed to understand what she called "emerging risks to financial stability." But she called the risks posted by bitcoin "limited," and she said it plays only a "small role" in the nation's payment system.
"Undoubtedly there are individuals who could lose a lot of money if bitcoin were to fall in price," she said, "but I really don't see that as creating a full-blown financial stability risk."
Related: Federal Reserve, buoyed by stronger economy, lifts rates again
Bitcoin debuted on the Chicago Board Options Exchange last Sunday, and futures will begin trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange on December 17-18. That means investors can place bet on whether it will rise or fall in coming months.
The Nasdaq will debut the option next year.
--CNNMoney's Daniel Shane and Jackie Wattles contributed to this story.


"The labor market has continued to strengthen and ... economic activity has been rising at a solid rate," the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement following its two-day meeting.
The federal funds rate, which helps determine rates for mortgages, credit cards and other borrowing, will now hover in a range of 1.25% to 1.5%. Overall, rates are still historically low.
Related: Tax cuts could make it harder to fight the next recession
Two Fed officials dissented on the decision: Chicago Fed President Charles Evans and Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari, who felt policy makers should wait longer before raising rates again.
This is the fifth time the Fed has lifted interest rates since the 2008 financial crisis. Policy makers plan to raise rates three more times in 2018, and then twice in 2019.
Central bankers, under the leadership of outgoing Fed chair Janet Yellen, have moved patiently to maintain economic growth at a steady pace. They have kept a watchful eye on inflation, which has run below expectations.
President Trump nominated Fed governor Jerome Powell in November to take over when Yellen ends her four-year term on February 3. It's largely expected that Powell will stick to a playbook similar to that of his predecessor, who was named to the post by former President Obama. Yellen was the first woman to serve in the role.
Related: America's wealth gap is bigger than ever
Top Fed officials have been mystified about why inflation, which reflects the prices of everything from meat and cheese to houses and cars, has fallen short of the Fed's goal of 2%. That's what the Fed considers healthy for the economy.
In deciding to slowly raise rates over the past year or so, the Fed has weighed competing forces. Stubbornly low inflation and consumer prices suggested the Fed should hold off on raising rates. But steady economic growth and low unemployment suggested it should act.
Yellen has described inflation as something of a "mystery" but has signaled she expects it will stabilize over time.
Related: Tax overhaul could mean major changes to your paycheck
It's the job of central bankers to shift policy levers, nudging interest rates higher and lower, to boost jobs and keep prices, or inflation, at the optimal level. That means not too high, and not too low.
When inflation is too low, it can hurt the economy. Businesses get queasy about investing in people and equipment. If prices don't rise, wages don't either.
Some Fed officials have warned against raising interest rates until inflation meets its target.
On Wednesday, the Fed said it continues to expect inflation to remain below its target, at 1.7%, and the unemployment rate to be 4.1%, based on its updated economic projections.
Policy makers raised their expectations for economic growth in 2018. The central bank now expects the economy to grow at a slightly faster rate of 2.5%, compared with a previous forecast of 2.1%.


The Entrepreneurs of Color Fund was established as part of JPMorgan's commitment to invest $150 million in Motor City's economy to help it recover from the financial meltdown of 2008, which left automakers devastated.
Related: Detroit's tiny homes offer a big chance for struggling residents
Poverty has rippled through the town, and in 2013, Detroit became the largest American city to ever file for bankruptcy.
The fund said in a press release the it doles out loans of between $50,000 and $200,000, and provides business advice and assistance to people of color who start their own businesses.
"To date, the fund has lent or approved $4.5 million to more than 43 minority small businesses, resulting in over 600 new or preserved jobs," according to the press release.
JPMorgan says the program has worked so well it plans to launch similar efforts in San Francisco and New York City's South Bronx area next year.


In defeat, just before Thanksgiving, she went with her mother to meet a certified health insurance navigator and bought a policy that allowed her to keep her current doctors.
A new crop of young people like Moniot are falling off their parents' insurance plans when they turn 26 — the age when the Affordable Care Act stipulates that children must leave family policies.
They were then expected to be able to shop relatively easily for their own insurance on Obamacare marketplaces. But with Trump administration revisions to the law and congressional bills injecting uncertainty into state insurance markets, that task of buying insurance for the first time this year is anything but simple.
The shortened sign-up period runs from Nov. 1 through Dec. 15. That window is half as long as last year's, hampering those who wait until the last minute to obtain insurance.
Related: Consumers who froze credit reports could hit hurdles with Obamacare enrollment
Reminders and help are scarcer than before: The federal government cut marketing and outreach funds by $90 million, and federal funding to groups providing in-person assistance was whacked by 40%.
"I think it's definitely going to be difficult. There's just additional barriers with [less] in-person help, just fewer resources going around," said Erin Hemlin, director of training and consumer education for Young Invincibles, an advocacy group for young adults.
Emily Curran, a research fellow at Georgetown University's Health Policy Institute, said those actions combined with the Trump administration's vigorous criticism of the health law could further handicap the uphill battle to entice young people to enroll.
"There's already a barrier where young adults are having difficulty understanding what the value of insurance is," she said. "Coming out ... and saying prices are going up, choice is going down and this law is a mess doesn't really get at the young adult population."
Before the Affordable Care Act, young adults had the highest uninsured rate of any age group.
The ACA made coverage more affordable and accessible. It allowed states to expand Medicaid to cover single, childless adults. Tax credits to help pay for premiums made plans on the individual market more affordable for people whose incomes fell between 100% and 400% of the federal poverty level, or between $12,060 and $48,240 for an individual in 2018. And young adults were allowed to stay on their parents' plan until their 26th birthday.
In all, the uninsured rate dropped to roughly 15% among 19- to 34-year-olds in 2016.
Still, young adults have not joined the individual market in the numbers as expected. About a quarter of marketplace customers in 2016 were ages 18 to 34, according to the Department of Health and Human Services. But that age group makes up about 40% of the exchanges' potential market, according to researchers and federal officials.
Related: California is outspending the U.S. government to market Obamacare
If the Trump administration's moves dampen enrollment, insurers could face additional challenges in attracting healthy adults to balance those with illnesses, who drive up costs.
"When you're relatively healthy, it's not something that you're thinking about," said Sandy Ahn, associate research professor at Georgetown University's Health Policy Institute.

But illness does not recognize age. Dominique Ridley, who turned 26 on Dec. 6, knows this all too well.
Ridley has asthma. She always carries an inhaler and sees a doctor when she feels her chest tighten. The student at Radford University in Virginia relies on her mother's employer-sponsored plan for coverage.
Ridley started peppering her parents with questions about health insurance as soon as she started seeing ads for this year's open enrollment.
"I don't want to just go out there and apply for health insurance, and it be all kinds of wrong and I can't afford it," she said.
Her parents didn't have the answers, but her mother linked up Ridley with a friend that runs a marketing company tailored to promoting the Affordable Care Act. Ridley then connected with a broker who signed her up for a silver plan that will cost her less than $4 per month, after receiving a premium subsidy of more than $500 a month.
"If you don't have health insurance, you don't have anything," Ridley said.
The Obama administration relied in part on partnerships to attract young enrollees to sign up. Last year, it collaborated with national organizations like Planned Parenthood Federation of America and Young Invincibles on a social media campaign called #HealthyAdulting. Emails, according to Joshua Peck, former chief marketing officer for healthcare.gov, were particularly effective for recruitment.
The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, which oversees the marketplaces, said it will focus this year's resources on "digital media, email and text messages."
Related: Obamacare enrollment could fall millions short for 2018
Hemlin said the government has not asked Young Invincibles to assist in marketing. Her group will use its own resources to pay for targeted ads on social media to reach the target demographic, she said.
"But obviously we can't make up for $90 million in advertising" that's been cut, said Hemlin.
James Rowley, a 26-year-old entrepreneur from Fairfax, Virginia, is among those who signed up without help. He started his own company two years ago while covered under his father's health plan. When he turned 26, he signed up for health insurance on his own through a special enrollment period this year. After general enrollment opened this fall, he once again picked a plan.
"I might not 100% need it now, but there will come a time where health insurance is important," said Rowley.
Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.


The S&P 500 also hit an all-time high while the tech-heavy Nasdaq inched closer to a record, too.
CNN said the House and Senate could vote on a reconciled deal as soon as next week. That would mean the bill, if passed, could be signed into law by President Trump before the end of the year.
Investors are hopeful that will be the case, especially since the surprise victory of Democrat Doug Jones in the Alabama Senate race Tuesday means that the Republican majority is set to narrow to just 51-49 once Jones takes office next year.
That could mean more gridlock when it comes to Trump's economic agenda, particularly as politicians prepare for next year's key midterm elections.
But if a tax bill is passed before 2018, there's potential to fuel even more gains in the market. Many investing experts view the GOP tax package as being extremely friendly to businesses. There is also the chance that consumers could spend more.
"Tax reform should boost earnings," said Dan Miller, director of equities with GW&K Investment Management. "The economy remains strong and the inflation outlook is still benign. So tax reform is icing on the cake."
Related: Tax overhaul could mean major changes to your paycheck
A tax deal would be particularly helpful for companies that stand to gain the most from an even better economy, industrial and financial firms in particular.
To that end, Boeing (BA) and Caterpillar (CAT) were Dow leaders Wednesday. Goldman Sachs (GS) rallied as well.
Investors are hoping that the Federal Reserve will keep the party going. The Fed raised interest rates Wednesday, a widely expected move that signals strength in the economy.
Fed chair Janet Yellen will talk about the economic outlook and is likely to stress the resilience of the economy and financial markets.
And investors are optimistic that the man President Trump has chosen to succeed Yellen, Jerome Powell, will continue to hike rates gradually and not spook the financial markets.
"This year has been beyond everyone's expectations and there is nothing to suggest that earnings or the market will fall apart next year," said John Norris, managing director with Oakworth Capital Bank.


Delta had been talking to Boeing about buying around 100 of its 737 Max 10 airliners, a person familiar with the matter said.
The move comes a day after Canada announced plans to ditch a deal with Boeing for new F/A-18 Super Hornets in favor of used fighters from Australia.
Boeing and Delta are embroiled in an ongoing trade dispute over the airline's purchase of the smaller Canadian Bombardier C Series. Boeing has accused Bombardier of selling the C Series to Delta at unfairly low prices, and the U.S. Commerce Department has recommended a preliminary 300% tariff on the import of the jets. Bombardier and the Canadian government deny any unfair trade practices.
Airbus primarily manufacturers the single-aisle A321 jet for the world's airlines in Hamburg, but has opened an assembly line in Mobile, Alabama to build planes for U.S. airlines. Depending on when and how quickly Delta wants its A321neos, a portion would very likely be assembled in the U.S.
The agreement would also constitute a significant boost for United Technologies unit Pratt & Whitney, which has been battered by supply chain and reliability issues on its new engine that powers Delta's selection.


Data compiled by IHS for Visa (V) show that spending in U.K. brick-and-mortar stores dropped 3.5% over the previous year in November. It was the seventh consecutive monthly decline, and one of the biggest drops since 2012.
Meanwhile, online spending was 2.4% higher in November.
Visa said it expects total consumer spending to decline this holiday season for the first time since 2012.

Experts say the trend is one consequence of Brexit. The value of the pound dropped sharply after the vote in June 2016, causing the price of imported goods to shoot up.
At the same time, wage increases haven't kept pace with inflation, which stood at 3.1% in November.
Many borrowers have also been squeezed by the Bank of England, which hiked interest rates in October.
Andrew Wishart, U.K. economist at Capital Economics, said retailers are still trying to hire workers, but weak pay growth has made the jobs less attractive.
Related: 17 years without a raise? Welcome to Brexit Britain
Overall, British unemployment is still at just 4.3%, its lowest level in decades. There have been big gains for jobs in construction and hospitality.
But weakness in the retail industry underscores worries that there may be harder times ahead.
Wednesday's data show the number of people in work dropped by 56,000 in the three months ended October.
"The fact there [are] fewer people in work is bad news ... it shows we are not making full use of our resources," said Yael Selfin, chief economist at KPMG in the U.K.


Related: UPS warns that some deliveries are delayed
With Target, Shipt will expand into a broader range of products. At launch, Target says it will offer same-day delivery of groceries, essentials, home, electronics and other products. But by the end of 2019 Target expects to offer same-day delivery in all major product categories.
Target and other traditional store-based retailers have traditionally had one advantage over online retailers in that they can immediately meet a shopper's needs. But Amazon (AMZN), with an expanded network of fulfillment warehouses, is making a push into same-day delivery in major markets.
So this move Target's response.
"The fact that Target will have this service in place during 2018 will significantly improve its online competitive position," said Charlie O'Shea, chief retail analyst for Moody's. "This is yet another example of a brick-and-mortar retailer leveraging its physical assets to improve its online offerings."
Related: Walmart is killing Target and making Amazon sweat
Target said this is part of its strategy, announced earlier this year, to improve convenience for its customers.
"With Shipt's network of local shoppers and their current market penetration, we will move from days to hours, dramatically accelerating our ability to bring affordable same-day delivery to guests across the country," said John Mulligan, Target's chief operating officer.
Walmart (WMT) is also experimenting with a same-day delivery for online purchases.


But an even more important part of that strategy is deciding how much you can reasonably withdraw from savings in 401(k)s, IRAs and other retirement accounts each year without running too high a risk of depleting your assets too soon -- or ending up with a large pile of assets late in life and realizing that you unnecessarily stinted and might have enjoyed life more earlier in retirement.
So how do you balance these various concerns? Well, since you asked about investing, let's start there.
Related: Do you need a managed retirement account?
Many people believe that once they retire, they need to focus on "income investing" -- that is, putting most or even all of their savings into investments that generate regular payouts, such as bonds or dividend stocks, or a combination of the two. But this approach has serious shortcomings.
For one thing, at today's low interest rates bonds simply aren't likely to provide enough income for most people to live on even in the early years of retirement, let alone allow them to maintain their purchasing power in the face of inflation during a post-career life that, as this longevity tool shows, could easily last into their 90s.
And while dividend stocks can certainly play a role in your retirement income strategy, loading up on them too much could leave you with a stock portfolio dangerously skewed to a handful of market sectors, such as utilities, consumer cyclicals, financials and real estate.
A more balanced and diversified approach makes better sense. When it comes to stocks, you essentially want to own the shares of companies of all sizes (large-, mid- and small-caps) in all sectors and industries. You also want your portfolio to include both growth and value shares. Diversity is important for bonds too. You want to own not just corporates, but Treasury and government agency bonds, and you want them in a variety of maturities as well.
The easiest and most inexpensive way to get this type of broad exposure is by investing in a total U.S. stock market index fund or ETF and a total U.S. bond market index fund or ETF. (To diversify beyond U.S. borders, you can add a total international stock index fund or ETF and total international bond index fund or ETF.) Or, if you're willing to put in the time and effort, you could try to duplicate a total market portfolio by investing in several separate stock and bond funds or ETFs, with each offering exposure to a specific sector of the market.
Of course, you can always go beyond this basic approach -- say, tilt your bond holdings more toward short-term maturities by investing in a short-term bond fund to get a bit more protection against the possibility of rising interest rates or add more dividend stocks to your mix by buying a fund that specializes in shares that pay dividends. But you don't want to go crazy and bulk up on all sorts of arcane or offbeat investments. Generally, simpler is better. The more complicated you make your investing strategy -- and the more funds you add to your portfolio -- the more work you'll have to put into tending your investments, and the greater the risk you'll end up "di-worse-ifying" rather than diversifying.
The real key to a successful retirement investing strategy is to arrive at an appropriate mix of stocks vs. bonds -- that is, enough stocks to provide a bit of long-term growth potential but also a large enough bond stake to prevent your nest egg from losing too much value when the stock market goes into one of its periodic slumps. (It's also a good idea to keep one to two years' worth of expenses beyond what Social Security and any pensions will cover in cash equivalents like a money-market account or short-term CDs.)
There's no single stocks-bonds blend that's right for everyone. That said, many retirees see stocks-bond mix of anywhere between 40% stocks-60% bonds to 60% stocks-40% bonds as offering a reasonable shot at solid long-term returns with sufficient downside protection from severe market setbacks. You can get a better sense of what percentage of stocks and bonds might be right for you by going to Vanguard's free risk tolerance-asset allocation tool.
Related: How much income will you actually need in retirement?
Once you have a broadly diversified mix of stock and bond funds that can deliver reasonable returns for the level of risk you're willing to take, the question becomes how should you withdraw from your nest egg each year? The rate at which you withdraw money from your nest egg determines even more than your investing strategy how long your savings will last and how much you'll likely have left late in retirement.
So what's a reasonable withdrawal rate? Assuming you want your savings to last at least 30 years, the standard advice until a few years ago would have been to follow the 4% rule -- that is, withdraw an initial 4% of the value of your nest egg the first year of retirement and then increase that amount each year for inflation. Assuming a $250,000 nest egg, that would translate to an initial withdrawal of $10,000 the first year of retirement. If your portfolio generates, say, 3% of its value, or $7,500, in interest, dividends and other distributions, you would then sell shares worth $2,500, or 1% of its value, to get to the 4%, or $10,000, withdrawal amount. If inflation is running at 2% a year, you would boost each year's withdraw by 2%, which would mean withdrawing $10,200 the second year, $10,400 the third and so on.
Given projections for lower investment returns over the next decade or so, however, some retirement experts suggest that an initial withdrawal rate of 3% or so might be more appropriate if you want to be reasonably sure that your savings will carry you through 30 years of retirement. But whatever withdrawal rate you start with, you need to be prepared to adjust it as market conditions change and the value of your nest egg fluctuates.
If, for example, the financial markets go into a deep slump or your nest egg's value takes a hit because you make an unusually large withdrawal to handle a large unanticipated expense, you might need to forgo an inflation increase or even reduce the amount you withdraw for a few years to give your portfolio a chance to recover. Conversely, if a string of outsize returns pumps up the size of your retirement accounts, you may want to boost withdrawals to avoid having far more assets than you'll need late in life.
You can get a sense of whether you need to adjust your withdrawals up or down with a good retirement income calculator that uses Monte Carlo simulations to estimate how long your money will last.
There's one other move you might want to consider. If you feel you'd like more guaranteed lifetime income than you'll already receive from Social Security and any pensions, you could put a portion of your savings into an immediate annuity. As this annuity calculator shows, a 65-year-old man who invests $50,000 in an immediate annuity would receive about $270 a month for life.
The downside to this approach is that you'll typically have to give up access to the money you invest in such an annuity, which is why you wouldn't want to put all or probably even most of your savings into one. The upside, though, is that knowing you'll be able to count on those monthly annuity checks to come in no matter how long you live and regardless of how the market is behaving might take some of the anxiety out of investing the rest of your nest egg.
The most important thing you need to remember, though, is that when it comes to converting your nest egg to reliable retirement income, you need more than just investments. You need a plan.


Simeon Siegel, an analyst with Nomura Instinet, argues that the company overextended itself in the past few years by entering too many new categories like tennis, fishing and golf instead of paying more attention to its key running and training segments.
"Under Armour likely grew too far, too fast," Siegel said. "It's fair to credit CEO Kevin Plank with some phenomenal growth. But Under Armour needs to cut ancillary products, pull back and focus on the core business."
Under Armour has also made a big push into basketball with a line of shoes endorsed by Golden State Warriors star Steph Curry. But it may have tried too hard to market Curry as a worthy successor to Michael Jordan, who still is a big seller of sneakers for Nike.
The problem, analysts say, is that the Curry sneakers are great for playing basketball but are not fashion lifestyle shoes the way Air Jordans were in the 1980s and 1990s during the peak of Jordan's NBA career.
Related: Under Armour is in serious trouble
Even Curry's teammate Kevin Durant, who has a shoe line for Nike, has made fun of them.
Making matters worse, Curry debuted the latest iteration, the Curry 4, during the NBA Finals in June. But the sneaker wasn't available in stores until October.
"Under Armour was too late with the Curry 4 launch," said Susquehanna Financial Group analyst Sam Poser. "Not having the shoes out when they were top of mind was a mistake. The timing was so messed up."
Under Armour also suffered from bad PR earlier this year that may have hurt its reputation with younger customers (and athlete endorsers) after Plank agreed to join President Trump's now defunct manufacturing council.
Plank said in an interview with CNBC that "a pro-business president is something that is a real asset for the country." Curry responded by telling The Mercury News that he agreed with Plank -- but only "if you remove the 'et' from asset."
Related: Why Under Armour's CEO had to ditch Trump
Lance Allega, Under Armour's vice president of investor relations, spoke with CNNMoney and highlighted that the company will "evolve into an operationally excellent company with financial discipline."
Allega added that the company will be more innovative and "laser-focused" on how it brings new products to market.
"We already are a great brand. We need to become a great company," he said.
Allega is one of several new executives at Under Armour. He joined in January from The North Face and Vans owner VF Corp (VFC), and also has worked at Nike.
But there have been several other changes in the leadership ranks this year that may also be making Wall Street skittish.
Co-founder Kip Fulks said in October he was taking a sabbatical. The company's footwear chief, head of women's and kid's apparel and chief marketing officer also announced they were leaving after the company reported weak third-quarter results.
The dramatic shakeup in the world of retail is obviously hurting the company, too.
Related: Air ball! Nobody's buying expensive sneakers
Sporting goods giants Foot Locker (FL) and Dick's (DKS) are struggling and their stocks have both plunged as a result. Cabela's was sold to Bass Pro Shop. The Sports Authority, Gander Mountain and Sports Chalet have all gone bankrupt in the past two years.
That's one reason why Under Armour has tried to find new retail partners, such as Kohl's (KSS) and DSW (DSW), in order to lessen its reliance on struggling sporting goods chains.
However, it's also worth noting that Under Armour's rivals aren't suffering as much from the problems in retail.
Adidas (ADDYY) continues to thrive. Nike, the worst performing Dow stock in 2016, has enjoyed a renaissance this year, with shares rising nearly 25%. Skechers (SKX) has rebounded from a rough 2016, too.
Victor Ahluwalia, an analyst with CFRA Research, said he's concerned that Under Armour will have no choice but to slash prices to win back customers. And that could further hurt profit margins.
Ahluwalia said he noticed bigger markdowns on Under Armour products over the Black Friday shopping weekend than there were for Nike.
Related: Slam dunk for Adidas as sales top Nike's Jordan line
He said it is encouraging to see Under Armour's international business growing rapidly, but sales from outside the U.S. are not yet big enough to move the needle for the whole company.
Still, Ahluwalia recently upgraded the stock. The reason? If Under Armour doesn't turn things around soon, there could be calls for the company to get taken over.
"Under Armour could go private or be sold to another company. That will keep a floor on the stock price. But 2018 will still be a tough year," Ahluwalia said.


"The wage gap exists at all levels, but it's most narrow at the lowest-paid jobs, and that's because everybody really has a bad deal there," said Ariane Hegewisch, a researcher at the Institute of Women's Policy Research. "At the top, really, if you miss out on one step ... it makes a big difference."
Compensation in the C-suite is heavily driven by stock options and stock grants -- executives are rewarded, often in outsize ways, with equity in their companies. The more the stock goes up, the richer they can become.
Still, women lagged far behind men of similar ranks on the top 15 lists of both genders.
Related: The female CEO club is about to get smaller
For example, the highest paid man in 2016 was Walmart (WMT) E-Commerce CEO Mark Lore. His base pay was $346,154, but stock-based compensation added another $242 million, according to Equilar. That stock award was largely due to Walmart's acquisition of Jet.com, which Lore founded.
The highest paid woman, Oracle (ORCL) CEO Safra Catz, made $950,000 in base pay. Her stock compensation -- $22 million -- was a fraction of Lore's, Equilar calculated.
According to Anna Beninger, senior director of research at Catalyst, an organization researching women and work, the negotiation leverage is very different for women at the top.
"Few women make it to those jobs where they're making hundreds of millions of dollars, so they're really seen as the exception, rather than the rule, and so that impacts their ability to negotiate," says Beninger.
Women also tend to be treated differently during the negotiation process, she adds. Sometimes, asking for higher pay can actually backfire.
"When women do negotiate as aggressively as men, they're not expected to do so ... and they're not as effective as a result," Beninger says.
Included: Why a lack of female inventors is holding back innovation
According to Beninger, women's first salaries are likely to affect their career earnings later in life.
"When you look at the trajectory of people's careers, by the time they make it to the upper echelon -- of the very few women who do make it, for a variety of factors -- that gap that began early in their careers just grew significantly over time," she says. "It's really an exponential gap -- it's not that surprising that you see such a big gap in those most senior level positions."
Related: Randi Zuckerberg serves up tech for kids
A recent survey from McKinsey and Lean In found that women fall behind early on in their careers.
Experts say even a first negotiation can be a crucial opportunity for women to conquer these hurdles. Making more in a first job means a female employee will then make more in her next job, and then more in her next.
Some states have now banned employers from asking about salary history, making it less likely that women's low first salaries could haunt them later in their careers.


"I know people, they work three jobs and they live next to somebody who doesn't work at all. And the person who's not working at all and has no intention of working at all is making more money and doing better than the person that's working his and her ass off, Trump said to applause last month in a speech in Missouri. "So we're going to go into welfare reform."
Senator Orrin Hatch, chair of the powerful Finance Committee, echoed that view. "I have a rough time wanting to spend billions and billions and trillions of dollars to help people who won't help themselves -- won't lift a finger -- and expect the federal government to do everything," he said last month.
Congress tried to let states add work requirements to Medicaid earlier this year in its unsuccessful attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare. But the Trump administration isn't waiting for lawmakers to act. It has already invited states to promote self-sufficiency in Medicaid and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP, the formal name for food stamps.
"People who can work should work," Brandon Lipps, the Food and Nutrition Service administrator in the Agriculture Department, wrote to state food stamp coordinators recently. "We must facilitate the transition for individuals and families to become independent, specifically by partnering with key stakeholders in the workforce development community and holding our recipients accountable for personal responsibility."
However, more than half of those in poverty are children, senior citizens or report themselves disabled, according to an analysis by the Hamilton Project at Brookings. Just under a quarter are in the labor force.
Drilling down to those who are working age (between 18- and 64-years-old), more than 40% are working or looking for employment. Most of the rest are disabled, caregivers or students, with a small share early retirees.

"There really aren't a lot of people who you say 'Gee, I don't know why they aren't working,'" said Jay Shambaugh, director of The Hamilton Project who served in the Obama administration. "Simply telling them they have to be in the job market may not be sufficient. There are reasons they are not in the job market."
Part of the problem is that the federal minimum wage remains low at $7.25 an hour, said Rebecca Valles, managing director of the Poverty to Prosperity Program at the left-leaning Center for American Progress. Many of these workers continue to need government assistance to make ends meet.
Related: Trump administration opens door for states to impose Medicaid work requirements
Still, there are millions of working age, non-disabled Americans who receive federal benefits but don't work. That's concerning, especially this far into the economic recovery, said Robert Doar, a poverty studies fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative think tank.
Work is "a key fundamental ingredient" to alleviating poverty, he said, noting that only 3% of people who work full-time, year-round are poor. It's important to engage those in poverty, be it through work, training or community service.
"To underestimate the capability of people is a mistake," said Doer, adding that some people will get jobs on their own after a work mandate is imposed.
Work requirements aren't a new idea. Several federal safety net programs already mandate them, notably food stamps and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, which is what many think of as welfare.
Adults without minor children can receive food stamps for only three months out of every 36-month period unless they are working or participating in training programs 20 hours a week. States can waive that requirement for areas where unemployment is at least 10% or there is an insufficient number of jobs, as defined by the Department of Labor.
Related: Trump administration wants more people to work for food stamps
In households that receive SNAP and have at least one non-disabled adult, 58% are employed and 82% worked in the year prior to or after enrollment, according to the Center for American Progress.
TANF has more demanding and complicated rules. Generally, states have to engage at least half of all families with work-eligible TANF recipients in work or related activities for at least 30 hours a week. Work-eligible individuals include adults receiving assistance or parents of children who get aid, excluding some disabled participants or single parent families with infants. (Single parent families with children under age 6 must be engaged 20 hours a week.)
Qualifying activities include unsubsidized and subsidized jobs, on-the-job training, job search and job readiness assistance, community service and vocational education. About 52% of work-eligible families receiving TANF are engaged in work activities, mostly in unsubsidized jobs, according to federal data. The rate varies greatly by state, though.
Evaluations of TANF have found that people who are able to work want to get jobs, said Heather Hahn, senior fellow at the Urban Institute. But work mandates don't greatly improve their situations.
"The evidence doesn't show that work requirements lead people to get jobs that get them out of poverty and off assistance," she said.


The stock market debut is the largest in Abu Dhabi in a decade after companies put plans to go public on hold following the global financial crisis and an oil price collapse.
ADNOC says it is the world's 12th largest oil producer. It is fully owned by the government of Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates.
Its distribution unit operates 360 gas stations and 235 convenience stores across the country, except for the emirate of Dubai.
The proceeds from the IPO, which valued ADNOC's distribution business at $8.5 billion, should help it expand to Dubai, as well as Saudi Arabia, which is opening up its economy.

ADNOC has 17 divisions and plans eventually to sell other stakes too.
"This is part of our ongoing holistic transformation," Sultan Al Jaber, ADNOC Group CEO told CNNMoney's emerging markets editor John Defterios. "It's simply to help maximize value, unlock potential, drive efficiency and enhance our performance."
Related: Saudi Aramco IPO: When, where and how much?
Many regional oil companies have been forced to rethink their strategies after prices crashed in 2014 and 2015.
Saudi Arabia is taking a slightly different approach to Abu Dhabi. It plans to privatize a chunk of its giant oil company Aramco, rather than sell off shares in its operating divisions.
Saudi officials have been preparing to list Aramco on the stock market next year via an IPO they expect could value the world's biggest oil producer at around $2 trillion.
If the market agrees, selling just 5% of the company would raise $100 billion -- four times as much as Alibaba's (BABA) IPO in 2014, the largest to date.


The result also has major implications for 2018. Democrats are now only two seats away from a majority in the Senate, an outcome that was unthinkable at the start of the year.
2. Fed's decision day: The U.S. Federal Reserve is widely expected to raise interest rates at its final meeting of the year.
With the rate hike almost certain, investors will be looking for clues on 2018 and beyond during the final press conference by outgoing chair Janet Yellen.
The central bank has only raised interest rates five times since the 2008 financial crisis. Two have come this year -- first in March and again in June.
2. Oil watch: Investors will check OPEC's monthly report to see if producers are sticking to output cuts designed to reduce a massive oil glut.
OPEC and major producers including Russia agreed last month to extend the curbs by nine months until the end of 2018.
U.S. crude futures were almost 1% higher at $57.70 per barrel.
The Energy Information Administration will publish its weekly U.S. crude inventories report at 10:30 a.m. ET.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were flat.
European markets opened lower, while Asian markets ended mixed.
The Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500 closed at new records on Tuesday. The Nasdaq shed 0.2%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Companies and economics: Shares in Westfield (WEFIF), an Australian firm that operates 33 malls across the U.S., gained 14% in Sydney.
It was purchased Tuesday by Unibail-Rodamco, a European property investment firm based in France.
U.S. inflation data will be published at 8:30 a.m.
Check out CNNMoney's Brexit jobs tracker
U.K. unemployment was 4.3% in the three months ended October, matching its lowest level since 1975.
However, there were 56,000 fewer people in work compared to the previous quarter. The number of people of working age who were classified as economically inactive also increased by 115,000.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Wednesday -- Fed decision and Yellen press conference; U.K. unemployment data; OPEC oil report Thursday -- November U.S. retail sales; Bank of England rate decision; European Central Bank decision; Costco (COST) and Oracle (ORCL) earnings; IEA oil report; EU summit on Brexit Friday -- EU Summit on Brexit


GE's use of the spare jet has angered shareholders and analysts, especially because the conglomerate is grappling with a nightmare cash crunch caused in part by Immelt's bad decisions.
The maker of jet engines and light bulbs has been forced to slash its dividend for just the second time since the Great Depression. Last week, GE announced it would cut 12,000 jobs in its beleaguered power division.
A GE spokeswoman said the company stopped deploying a spare jet for Immelt in 2014 and that its use was limited to trips deemed critical for business and overseas flights with security risks. It's not clear when GE began using the spare jet. Immelt became CEO in 2001.

Related: How decades of bad decisions broke GE
Immelt recently wrote a letter to GE's lead director explaining that he wasn't aware of the spare plane. "This practice was brought to my attention and stopped three years ago," he wrote. A spokesman for Immelt confirmed the authenticity of the letter, which was posted online by The New York Times.
Immelt wrote that after he became CEO, he directed GE to sell Boeing 737 jets that were expensive to operate and replace them with more efficient aircraft. Those less expensive jets were the ones that Immelt traveled on around the world.
Speaking at an Axios event last month, Immelt acknowledged that using a spare jet was a "terrible" idea and something that "I wish we hadn't done."
Immelt stepped down earlier this year from GE, which was the worst-performing stock in the Dow during his 16-year reign. GE has lost 43% of its value this year alone.
John Inch, a Deutsche Bank analyst who follows the company, called the spare jet an "absolutely reckless destruction of shareholder value."
"It's just unnecessary on every level and speaks to the lack of judgment," Inch said in a recent interview.
GE's new CEO, John Flannery, has cut back on perks as part of his plan to slash $2 billion in costs. GE recently announced plans to shut down its corporate jet fleet and eliminate company cars for senior executives.


Related: Bitcoin vs history's biggest bubbles: They never end well
Clayton spelled out his concerns over cryptocurrencies and so-called initial coin offerings. Startups sometimes raise money by selling virtual currency in exchange for a stake in the company. They are also sometimes redeemed for future services.
But to avoid getting duped he reminded investors that not a single initial coin offering had been registered with the SEC. Nor had the agency approved any listing and trading of any exchanged-trade products holding digital currencies or other assets related to cryptocurrencies.
"If any person today tells you otherwise, be especially wary," said Clayton.
The CFTC's Giancarlo quickly endorsed Clayton's statement Monday evening, while also issuing his own advice to investors.
"Virtual currencies are unlike any commodity that the CFTC has dealt with in the past, and I know they pose challenges for the SEC," Giancarlo said. "Investors should be aware of the potentially high level of volatility and risk in these markets."
The alerts came less than a day after the first Bitcoin futures began trading on an exchange run by Cboe Global Markets Inc. Its larger rival CME Group Inc. will introduce its own Bitcoin futures next week.
Related: Bitcoin: What's driving the frenzy?
The price of Bitcoin soared to $17,478 in futures trading on the Cboe market on Tuesday. A year ago, one Bitcoin was worth less than $1,000.
Randal Quarles, the Federal Reserve's regulatory czar, stepped up his concerns last month over the virtual currency's price run-up.
"While these digital currencies may not pose major concerns at their current levels of use, more serious financial stability issues may result if they achieve wide scale usage," he said during a speech at a Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland conference.
Earlier this month, the two exchanges cleared a regulatory hurdle with the CFTC after "extensive discussions," which included making significant changes to their proposals on how to reduce potential market manipulation.
Futures are a way for traders to bet on whether the price of a commodity, such as oil or gold, will rise or fall. Having a futures contract provides retail investors with an easier way to trade Bitcoin. It also allows Wall Street banks and trading firms to protect themselves against price swings in digital currency.
Despite the CFTC's approval of the deal, Giancarlo has repeatedly said it does not equal an endorsement of the product. He's also warned investors that the "underlying cash markets and exchanges for Bitcoin remain largely unregulated markets" which the agency has "limited statutory authority" over.
Related: I bought $250 in bitcoin: Here's what I learned
It's not the first time the agencies have raised red flags over cryptocurrencies. Each agency has issued investor alerts, bulletins and statements on initial coin offerings and digital currency investments.
And while the SEC doesn't regulate Bitcoin per se, it has flexed its muscles on initial coin offerings.
Several start ups have used the tokens to raise money. Earlier Monday, the agency shut down plans by a food review site, Munchee, that was trying to raise $15 million in a digital coin offering to improve its app.
While the SEC chairman didn't completely shut the door on investing in such innovative products, he urged Main Street investors to ask the right questions before taking the leap.
"Who is issuing and sponsoring the product, what are their backgrounds, and have they provided a full and complete description of the product? Do they have a clear written business plan that I understand? What specific rights come with my investment?" Clayton suggested as part of more than a dozen questions investors should ask before making any Bitcoin investment.


Without changes, Icahn warned, Xerox could follow Kodak into bankruptcy.
Icahn and Xerox have a history together. In 2015, the billionaire investor took an 7% stake in the company, then headed by Ursula Burns.
Related: Former Xerox CEO Ursula Burns: It's a 'time of power' for women in tech
Under pressure from Icahn, Xerox spun off Conduent, its business services unit, to focus on legacy products including copiers and printers.
Icahn's recent escalation comes after his representative to Xerox's board resigned last week over a disagreement about the company's future. He responded by nominating four new allies to Xerox's board.
Xerox (XRX) reaffirmed the company's outlook Monday and pointed to a 30% jump in shares this year as a signal of progress.
In his letter Tuesday, Icahn took credit for the stock rise, which came mostly in the day after Xerox and Conduent split. But he said Xerox's "rosy" outlook is "in reality a bleak situation."
Shares of Xerox were up about 1%, pulling back a bit after Icahn released his letter.


Related: Jerome Powell says Fed likely to hike rates in December
The federal funds rate, which helps to determine rates for mortgages, credit cards and other borrowing, is in a range of 1% to 1.25%. Analysts expect the Fed to raise the rate by 25 basis points.
Since the 2008 financial crisis, the U.S. central bank has only raised interest rates five times. More recently, amid signs of a gradually improving economy, it has also begun unwinding the massive fiscal stimulus it put into place following the recession.
Led by Yellen, the Fed has worked patiently to maintain economic growth at a steady pace. It has also kept a watchful eye on inflation, which has continued to run below its target of 2%.
All eyes will be looking for clues on what policy makers will forecast for 2018 and beyond during Yellen's final press conference Wednesday.
President Trump nominated Fed governor Jerome Powell in November to take over when Yellen ends her four-year term on February 3. It's largely expected that Powell will stick to a similar playbook as his predecessor, who was named to the post by President Barack Obama. Yellen was the first woman to serve in the role.
Related: Trump nominates Jerome Powell for Federal Reserve's top job
In September, the Fed predicted it would raise rates three more times in 2018, and then twice again in 2019. But some Wall Street analysts are expecting the Fed to pencil in at least one more rate increase for both years.
One complicating factor for policymakers: tax reform. There's already a keen interest by analysts to see how the Fed may account for the Trump administration's tax reform package, which also aims to stimulate economic growth.
"FOMC participants appear not to have fully accounted for the effect of tax cuts on the economy," Jan Hatzius, a Goldman Sachs analyst wrote in a note to clients. "Past precedent suggests that Fed staff and FOMC participants will likely update their projections... to at least partially reflect the impact of tax reform, though the full impact -- especially on the interest rate projections -- will likely have to wait."
Top Fed officials, including Powell, have cautiously refrained from airing their views on the possible implications tax reform would have on the U.S. economy.
Related: Treasury analysis asserts GOP tax plan would be paid for
At last month's confirmation hearing, Powell told members of the Senate Banking Committee the Fed had not undertaken its own economic analysis of the tax bills that have now been passed by the House and Senate. Instead, he said policy makers planned to wait to make their assessment until after a bill was signed by the president.
Jaret Seiberg, an analyst at Cowen Washington Research Group, said an "early challenge" for Powell, if he's confirmed by the Senate, will be whether to raise rates faster should the tax bill prove to deliver a big stimulus to the economy.
"We suspect Powell would be willing to hike rates more quickly than expected if he sees the tax bill leading to inflation," Seiberg wrote in a note to clients.
Related: Europe doesn't like Trump administration's tax plans
Some Fed officials, like New York Federal Reserve Bank President William Dudley, have cautioned against injecting additional stimulus through tax cuts, when the economy is already growing at a pace that is likely to increase inflation over time.
"[T]he economy doesn't need it," Dudley said in late November.
Other observers will also be looking to see whether Yellen will offer clear support for a Senate bill to amend the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, which would raise the threshold at which banks are labeled "too big to fail" from $50 billion in assets to $250 billion.
"We think Yellen could be mildly supportive of the legislation, which could help the bill's chances and boost banks stocks," wrote Brian Gardner, a policy analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, in a note to clients.


Italy, which sources 30% of its gas via the pipeline in Austria, declared a state of emergency.
The explosion at the gas facility in Baumgarten, near Austria's border with Slovakia, killed one person and injured 18.
The terminal's operator, Gas Connect Austria, said it had closed the facility and suspended the transit of natural gas through Austria to southern Europe.
Massimo Di-Odoardo, an analyst at Wood Mackenzie, said Europe has enough natural gas in storage to cover its immediate needs.
"But if the flows through don't resume soon and if the cold snap continues, prices will remain high through the rest of the winter," he warned.

Meanwhile, another problem was developing on the other side of the continent.
INEOS, which owns the 235-mile Forties Pipeline System in the North Sea, said that it was shutting down a pipeline because a leak discovered on December 6 had gotten worse.
The network carries almost 40% of the North Sea's oil and gas output.
"This is an oil pipeline, however the closure will result in some platforms producing both oil and gas to shut," said Ben Spry, head of risk management services at npower. He said the outage is likely to last "for weeks rather than days."
The outage is likely to cause a shortfall of natural gas supply in the U.K. of around 10% of average winter demand, according to Wood Mackenzie.
Natural gas futures spiked as much as 17% in London, according to data from ICE Futures.
Europe has seen a cold start to the winter so far, with severe weather hitting the U.K. and much of the mainland over the weekend and early this week. Demand for gas in the U.K. was already up 18% because of the weather.
The International Energy Agency said it was closely monitoring the situation in the North Sea.
Related: Norway's $1 trillion pension fund wants out of oil stocks
Energy security is a key issue for the European Union, which relies on Russia for roughly a third of its natural gas.
The EU has tried to reduce its dependence on Russian gas. It has been improving pipeline connections between individual member states and building up storage, and it has started buying more gas from other countries.
Since 2014, two liquefied natural gas import terminals have opened in Poland and Lithuania, making the region open to imports from elsewhere.


Exxon said on Monday it has "reconsidered" the proposal following talks with major shareholders and supporters of the idea. Exxon said in an SEC filing that "in the near future" it will "further enhance" its disclosures on climate change.
Those enhancements, Exxon said, will include how the company is positioning for a lower-carbon future, how its business could be hurt by shifting energy demands and the "implications of two degree Celsius scenarios." The 2015 Paris climate accord requires countries to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2 degrees Celsius.
Limiting global warming could have massive implications for Exxon. For instance, Exxon's energy assets could lose value if the world's oil appetite shrinks because of emerging technologies like electric cars and regulations stemming from the Paris agreement.
Related: These companies are coming clean on climate change
Thomas DiNapoli, the New York state comptroller, who spearheaded the proposal, celebrated Exxon's reversal in a statement and called it a "win for shareholders."
"Exxon's decision demonstrates that investors have the power to hold corporations accountable and to compel them to address our very real climate-related concerns," said DiNapoli, who oversees nearly $200 billion in New York pensions held by teachers, police officers and other public workers.
In the past, Exxon had rejected the need for a so-called stress test of its climate risk because it already published an annual energy outlook that incorporates the impact of "increasingly stringent climate policies." Exxon has also pointed to efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions through investments in new technology.
Exxon had also urged President Trump not to abandon the global climate agreement. The accord should boost demand for Exxon's vast natural gas business over dirtier fuels like coal.
To celebrate the two-year anniversary of the Paris accord, nearly 240 companies, including BlackRock (BLK) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM), have agreed to come clean on the risks from climate change.
Related: Harvard study: Exxon 'misled the public' on climate change
The Exxon shareholder vote was seen by climate activists as a major victory. In support of the shareholder proposal, Greenpeace launched a campaign in Dallas that featured billboards, bumper stickers and a blimp that said, "You pay the price for Exxon's greed."
Exxon has only come under more scrutiny since then. In August, Harvard University published a peer-reviewed study that found Exxon misled the public about the dangers of climate change for nearly 40 years. Exxon dismissed the study as "inaccurate and preposterous."
In September, the cities of San Francisco and Oakland filed lawsuits demanding Exxon and other oil companies pay billions to cover the costs of sea walls and other protections against rising sea levels caused by climate change.


Litecoin is one of several alternative cryptocurrencies that have cropped up to rival bitcoin. Ethereum, ripple and dash are some others.
Litecoin is much smaller though. The combined value of all the litecoins in circulation is about $18 billion, compared with nearly $300 billion for bitcoin. It is also created, or mined, by people solving complex mathematical puzzles on computers.
You don't have to mine bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies to buy them though. Coinbase and other brokerage sites let you set up an account to buy and sell virtual currencies. Mobile payments company Square is testing bitcoin purchases on its Cash app too.
Litecoin, founded by former Google engineer and former director of Coinbase Charlie Lee, is said to be faster and cheaper to mine than bitcoin.
Lee, amusingly enough, goes by the name of @SatoshiLite on Twitter -- a reference to Satoshi Nakamoto, the nickname used by the still anonymous inventor of bitcoin.
Related: South Korea is going bitcoin crazy...
There are rampant rumors about who Nakamoto might be. Some think it's a group of people. There was even speculation recently that Tesla and SpaceX founder Elon Musk is actually Satoshi Nakamoto. Musk has denied it.
But no matter who created bitcoin and launched the crypto revolution, it is clear that investors can't get enough of virtual currencies.
Some experts are nervous that this can't end well though, and that bitcoin, litecoin and other cryptocurrencies are a bubble destined to burst in spectacular fashion like tech stocks in 2000 and housing prices just before the Great Recession of 2008.
The problem with bitcoin and litecoin is that they are so volatile. Paper currencies like the dollar, euro and yen don't tend to move in such wild fashion. Neither does gold for that matter.
So it may be hard for cryptos to be used as a substitute for cash until the prices start to settle down. They also are not as available to the mainstream as old-fashioned paper money backed by governments.
SEC chairman Jay Clayton even sounded the alarm bell on bitcoin, other cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings this week, saying "there is substantially less investor protection" than with stocks and bonds and "correspondingly greater opportunities for fraud and manipulation."
Related: ...and North Korea may be making a fortune from bitcoin too
But others argue that bitcoin and rival cryptocurrencies will continue to gain in popularity for both spending purposes and as investments.
To that end, the Chicago Board Options Exchange launched futures trading for bitcoin on Sunday, a move that makes bitcoin potentially more attractive to large institutional investors in the same way that oil, sugar and other physical commodities are.
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange is set to begin trading bitcoin futures on December 18 as well. And the Nasdaq is said to be considering following in the footsteps of the CBOE and CME too and could start to trade bitcoin futures next year.


With bitcoin, there's nothing like that. Unlike traditional commodities, there's not a physical asset behind it. And unlike currencies, there isn't a central bank ready to back bitcoin up.
Bitcoins live on computer servers. They are produced by complex algorithms and recorded in a digital ledger.
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which certified bitcoin futures for trading, acknowledged the unprecedented step taken by the Chicago Board Options Exchange.
Bitcoin "is a commodity unlike any the commission has dealt with in the past," CFTC chairman J. Christopher Giancarlo said in a statement December 1.
There's more to come. Bitcoin futures will also begin trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange on December 17-18, while the Nasdaq will debut the options sometime next year.
Are you trading bitcoin? We want to hear from you.
Bitcoins are bought and sold on unregulated virtual exchanges -- and it's been extremely volatile.
The price of a single bitcoin recently soared on some exchanges from less than $10,000 to $17,000 before dropping back to near the $15,000 mark, spurring renewed warnings of a bubble.
Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz told Bloomberg TV that the currency "ought to be outlawed."
But some people -- particularly in the hedge fund world, where there's a healthy appetite for risk -- say bitcoin futures present an opportunity.
Futures are contracts that let investors buy or sell something at a specific price in the future -- in this case, bitcoin. Trading in futures contracts makes bitcoin more accessible to fund managers who don't want to own bitcoin directly but do want to speculate on whether it will go up or down in price.
Stephen Bielecki, an attorney with Kleinberg Kaplan, said his law firm received two inquiries last week, amid the wild price swings, about setting up new bitcoin-focused funds.
"I think the volatility presents opportunity," he told CNNMoney. It "makes those bets via futures feel more extreme, or feel more pronounced, because you might be saying, 'We're betting on an 80% gain three weeks from now.'"
And Joshua Klayman, who heads the cryptocurrency unit at law firm Morrison & Foerster, said bitcoin's debut on the futures market means investors can bet on bitcoin's performance without having to actually own any.
"I think if it is a bubble, my impression is that we're just getting started here," she said. "I do think there'll be continued volatility, but I'm bullish on cryptocurrency in general."
Related: Big banks say bitcoin futures could be dangerous
While interest in bitcoin is growing, some establishment players are warning about futures trading.
Last week, the Futures Industry Association, which represents brokers and big banks like JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs, wrote an open letter to the CFTC. It warned that the certification of bitcoin futures "did not allow for proper public transparency and input."
The association said that a "more thorough and considered process" would have allowed exchanges and trading clearinghouses more time to study ways to protect against extreme price swings.
The group is worried that banks could be on the hook if something goes wrong.
For its part, CFTC head Giancarlo said in his statement this month that futures exchanges have agreed to "significant enhancements to protect customers and maintain orderly markets" for bitcoin.
He also warned investors "should take note" that the underlying bitcoin market is "relatively nascent" and remains "largely unregulated."
--CNNMoney's Ivana Kottasová and Daniel Shane contributed to this report.


"You're seeing more people jumping in because they fear they are missing out on the bull market," said Ed Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research.
Of course, it's never a good reason to buy something -- stocks, bonds or bitcoin -- just because everyone else is doing it. Investing should be backed up by solid fundamentals, not irrational emotions.
At its extremes, FOMO can cause real problems. It led many Americans to flip condos in Florida last decade, sparking an epic housing bubble that eventually burst. FOMO also drove the dotcom bubble in the late 1990s on the Nasdaq.
"I remember one of the guys running the newspaper kiosk on Broadway asking me if I can print him stock reports on Intel and Cisco," said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at CFRA Research. "That should have been an signal to me."
To be sure, today's stock market looks much healthier than those notorious booms. Profits are at record highs, inflation is low, hiring is steady and economic growth at home and abroad is projected to accelerate. All good reasons for soaring stock prices.
Stovall doesn't think FOMO has taken over the market, though he's watching carefully for signs. "Bull markets are like incandescent light bulbs," Stovall said, "they tend to glow brightest just before they go out."
On the other hand, Yardeni does see evidence of FOMO in the rush of money pouring into ETFs. He worries it's a sign the market is in the early stages of a "melt-up" -- a dangerous market rise that often ends in tears.
Yardeni has set an ambitious S&P 500 target for the end of next year of 3,100, or roughly 17% above current levels. If anything, he worries the soaring market could eclipse that level long before it's warranted.
"If we get there in the next three to six months, then we'd be in a melt-up for sure," Yardeni said.
Related: Most Americans aren't benefiting from the stock market boom
2. Yellen's goodbye: Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen will hold what's likely to be her last press conference on Wednesday after policy makers conclude their final two-day meeting of the year. It seems all but certain the central bank will decide to raise its key interest rate one last time.
Under Yellen, the Fed has moved at a slow, deliberate pace in lifting rates as it has kept an eye on inflation, which has been stubbornly low. The Fed raised rates twice this year, first in March and again in June. The current rate -- between 1% and 1.25% -- is low compared to prior decades.
Related: Jerome Powell says Fed likely to hike rates in December
Wall Street does not expect Jerome Powell, Trump's nominee to lead the Fed, to stray far from Yellen's approach when it comes to setting monetary policy. But if the new tax plan jump-starts the economy, Powell may steer the Fed to raise rates faster to keep up with the pace of inflation.
3. Bitcoin futures debut on Chicago exchange: The Chicago Board Options Exchange, or CBOE, plans to launch bitcoin futures trading on Sunday at 6 p.m. ET. CME (CME), the derivatives marketplace, has said it will start trading bitcoin futures the following Sunday.
It's been a volatile week for the cryptocurrency. Bitcoin surged above $17,000 for the first time on Thursday -- and plunged by more than $3,000 on Friday.
Related: I bought $250 in bitcoin. Here's what I learned
The bitcoin frenzy has ramped up, partially in anticipation of the start of futures trading on the CBOE, CME and other exchanges. But big banks have warned that bitcoin futures trading could be dangerous.
4. Net neutrality decision: The Federal Communications Commission is scheduled to vote on the repeal of Obama-era net neutrality protections on Thursday, despite calls from Democrats to delay the vote.
Currently, net neutrality rules bar internet providers like Comcast (CMCSA) and AT&T (T) from deliberately speeding up or slowing down traffic from specific websites and apps, and prevents them from prioritizing their own content or the content of third-party services they strike deals with. FCC chairman Ajit Pai's plan would lift those bans -- and likely boost those companies. (AT&T is in the process of acquiring Time Warner, which owns CNN.)
Related: Trump FCC chair unveils plan to repeal net neutrality
Pai argues that the current laws micromanage internet providers, and that increased transparency will protect consumers. Critics worry that fewer regulations would let internet providers offer preferential treatment to companies that are willing to pay more.
5. Black Friday results: The Census Bureau will reveal its estimates for November's retail sales on Thursday.
The numbers will reveal how well retailers performed during the Black Friday shopping period. Early estimates from ShopperTrak, a data analytics company that measures the number of shoppers at stores, said foot traffic was similar to last year. Friday will show if shoppers spent about the same as they did in 2016 as well.
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- New numbers on job openings and job quitters from JOLTS
Tuesday -- Fed meeting begins
Wednesday -- Fed decision and Yellen press conference
Thursday -- November U.S. retail sales; Bank of England rate decision; Costco (COST) and Oracle (ORCL) earnings


On Coinbase's exchange the price soared past $18,000 at one point.
Armstrong warned in his post on Thursday that the increased interest in cryptocurrencies, which was punctuated by a stunning bitcoin rally earlier this week, has led to "extreme volatility and stress on our systems."
Related: What's driving the bitcoin frenzy?
During the frenzy, Coinbase's valuation was consistently higher than the CoinDesk index -- at one point by a $2,000 margin. Even Saturday afternoon, Coinbase listed the price of a bitcoin around $15,000, while the CoinDesk hovered around $14,700.
Bitcoin's rise is mind-boggling considering just one year ago it traded for less than $800. At one point in 2011, it traded for about three bucks, according to CoinDesk.
Its stunning ascent was driven in large part by increasing attention from mainstream investors. And bitcoin's valuation has continued to balloon -- with a few sharp dips -- despite a smattering of warnings from top economists and business leaders.
Beginning Sunday, investors will be able to trade bitcoin futures via the Chicago Board Options Exchange. And they'll debut on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange a week later.
--CNNMoney's Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.


"This Administration and @realDonaldTrump are working hard to create opportunities for all Americans," Ivanka Trump said. "...and we are just getting started!"
The Hispanic unemployment rate dropped to 4.7% - the LOWEST in the history of the United States. This Administration and @realDonaldTrump are working hard to create opportunities for all Americans...and we are just getting started! 🇺🇸 #MAGA #JobsReport https://t.co/MvPOrIqdXI
It's certainly good news for the Hispanic community, which makes up 17% of the U.S. labor market.
Some of the decline may be attributable to a slightly lower labor force participation rate for Hispanics, which remains at its lowest since May 2016. That rate looks at how many people are either working or actively looking for work. If it's down, it tends to indicate that an increased number of people have given up looking for a job, possibly because they've retired, gone back to school or are raising kids.
Hispanics are reaping the benefits of a strong job market, even as some remain concerned about their place in the country under a Trump presidency.
The president has made cracking down on illegal immigration one of his top priorities, and spoke derisively about Mexicans during his campaign.
On jobs, at least, Hispanics in the Trump era are seeing improvement.
"Hispanics are more confident about their personal financial situation than the general public, and they're also more optimistic that their family's financial situation is going to improve in the next year," said Jens Manuel Krogstad, who studies Hispanic demographics for the Pew Research Center.
Related: Another strong jobs report
Despite this optimism, Hispanics have not fully recovered from the Great Recession, Krogstad said.
The homeownership rate for Hispanics was 46.1% in the most recent quarter, according to the Census Bureau. At its peak in 2007, the homeownership rate for Hispanics was 50.1%.
That figure remains much lower than the general U.S. rate of homeownership, which was 63.9% in the most recent quarter.
And large discrepancies remain between Hispanic men and women. The unemployment rate for Hispanic men was 3.8% last month. For women, it was 4.9%.
But the Hispanic unemployment rate is certainly lower than its post-recession peak of 13% in August 2009.
The unemployment rate for African Americans in November was 7.3% -- down from a post-recession high of 16.8% in March 2010.
"It is positive to see that for all these cases the unemployment rates of minorities have gone down substantially," said Robert Lerman, a fellow at the Urban Institute.


Mulvaney previously told the Washington Times that he is reviewing 14 open enforcement matters. Mulvaney has accused the CFPB, an aggressive consumer watchdog, of "trampling on capitalism."
While Trump has condemned the CFPB as a "disaster" that has "devastated" banks, he signaled Friday that Wells Fargo is still very much in the regulator's crosshairs. The president tweeted that fines and penalties "will be pursued and, if anything, substantially increased."
Reuters reported that Richard Cordray, who set off a CFPB power struggle when he stepped down last month, approved a possible Wells Fargo settlement that called for the bank to pay tens of millions of dollars.
Asked about Wells Fargo at his first press conference as acting director, Mulvaney said he remains "disturbed" by the scandals at the bank.
The CFPB did not respond to a request for comment. Wells Fargo declined to comment.
Fines and penalties against Wells Fargo Bank for their bad acts against their customers and others will not be dropped, as has incorrectly been reported, but will be pursued and, if anything, substantially increased. I will cut Regs but make penalties severe when caught cheating!

Related: GOP says CFPB is crippling the economy. Really?
Wells Fargo has previously said the CFPB is investigating the alleged mortgage lending abuse. In October, Wells Fargo said some mortgage borrowers were inappropriately charged for missing a deadline to lock in promised interest rates, even though the delays were the bank's fault.
Wells Fargo promised refunds for any of the 110,000 customers who were wrongly charged so-called "mortgage rate lock extension fees" between September 2013 and this February.
In his Wells Fargo tweet on Friday, Trump said that while he wants to "cut" regulations, he will "make penalties severe when caught cheating!"
Wells Fargo's  (WFC)stock was mostly unfazed by the Trump threats. After initially dipping slightly on the tweet, Wells Fargo stock quickly recovered and was trading slightly higher on the day.
"Wells Fargo will remain a political punching bag ... until the bank makes additional changes at the very top," Jaret Seiberg, financial services analyst at Cowen Research Group, wrote in a note on Friday.
Tim Sloan, a Wells Fargo veteran, was promoted to CEO last year to clean up the bank's scandals. Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren has called on Wells Fargo to further clean house by firing Sloan.
Earlier this year, Trump took a softer tone towards banks.
Bank CEOs are "petrified of the regulators. They're petrified. They can't move," Trump said at an April town hall event with Citigroup (C) boss Michael Corbat and other business leaders. The president also promised to do a "very major haircut on Dodd Frank," the Wall Street reform law enacted in 2010.
Related: Wells Fargo blamed for 1,500 fake insurance policies
Wells Fargo's troubles began last September when it admitted to firing 5,300 workers for creating up millions of fake accounts. The scandal brought to light a rotten sales culture at Wells Fargo illustrated by unrealistic sales goals and extreme pressure on employees. The bank has since revamped its sales targets, fired managers and installed new senior execs and directors.
Besides the mortgage issues, Wells Fargo has also admitted to charging thousands of customers for auto insurance they didn't want and has been accused of cheating mom-and-pop shops on credit card fees.
Earlier this week, California regulators blamed Wells Fargo for the sale of nearly 1,500 unauthorized insurance policies.
"Many customers complained they simply had no knowledge of ever signing up for such policies," the California complaint said.


The accelerated pace has policy watchers worried.
"Historic tax reform efforts involved discussion drafts of legislative language, hearings on those specific proposals, extensive public comment periods. None of that is happening now," Lily Batchelder, a former chief tax counsel on the Senate Finance Committee, tweeted.
As tax experts, businesses and accountants continue to unpack what's in the bills, here are just four warning signs that the plan might not deliver what was promised or intended.
Red flag #1: Tax plan would not simplify the tax code
Republicans have been promising a simpler code. Some measures -- like a larger standard deduction -- could provide more simplicity.
But Senate Republicans decided at the last minute to reinstate the poster child for needless complexity: the Alternative Minimum Tax for individuals and corporations. It requires filers to calculate their tax burden twice -- once under one set of rules, and once under a different set of rules -- and pay whichever is highest.
Both the House and Senate bills also seek to lower the tax burden on so-called pass-through entities, which comprise the majority of U.S. businesses. Taxes on pass-throughs are paid directly by the owners and shareholders under the individual code. But the bills bar large law partnerships, accounting firms and other lucrative professional service firms from taking advantage of the new, lower pass-through rate.
At the same time, the bills would slash the corporate tax rate.
Consequently, many businesses -- after having an incentive for years to structure themselves as pass-throughs -- might suddenly have a reason to restructure as corporations.
"People are scrambling to figure out how lawyers and doctors may reorganize to get better rates," said CPA Meredith Tucker of Kaufman Rossin in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.
It may not be a simple decision. Under the Senate bill, most individual and pass-through provisions sunset at the end of eight years. "We're going to go through all of this just to have it expire," Tucker said.
Another simplicity killer: The House bill proposes a complicated rule with an alternate workaround that would govern how much a business owner's income must be taxed as compensation, and how much can be taxed at the lower proposed business rate.
"The House bill is incredibly complex. They talk about making it simpler. But it's crazy complex," said John Arensmeyer, founder of the Small Business Majority, an advocacy group.
The upshot: H&R Block, which President Trump often said would be put out of business by his tax reform, can probably breathe easy.
Tax planning and accounting firms will be busy helping everyone figure out what the proposed changes mean to them, and how to plan around them if they find they'll be saddled with a higher bill.
Indeed, both bills would be a "bonanza" for tax planners, said Martin Sullivan, chief economist of Tax Analysts.
Red flag #2: Won't pay for itself
Republicans have consistently said their tax plan will pay for itself over time thanks to the economic growth it will spur. No nonpartisan analysis agrees with that. Instead, they show that the tax plan will add more than $1.4 trillion to deficits over a decade. The picture improves when growth potential is factored in but not by much. The Senate bill, for instance, would still add more than $1 trillion, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation.
What's more, since the bills' deficit-financed tax cuts would go into effect when the economy is experiencing its best growth in three years and the country's debt is already high and climbing, there's concern the cuts will spur inflation and diminish the government's ability to fight the next recession.
Red flag #3: Could saddle some corporations with a higher bill
The biggest unintended consequences so far, which lawmakers may try to fix in their final negotiations, are caused by the Senate bill keeping the corporate AMT.
GOP senators were trying to provide more revenue to pay for other last-minute changes. Yet in doing so, they effectively subverted the purpose of the corporate AMT, which is supposed to ensure that corporations don't take so many tax breaks that they pay no tax at all. Under the tax bill, the regular corporate rate is slashed to 20%, identical to the corporate AMT rate.
The last-minute switch also would render key tax incentives for corporations moot because they're not allowed to be taken under the AMT. One of them -- the research and development credit -- is intended to spur innovation.
The AMT change, combined with other provisions in the tax bill that curb valuable business tax breaks, means many corporations -- surprise! -- could face a tax hike. For instance, the CEO of coal company Murray Energy estimates his company would pay $60 million more a year.
Preserving the AMT also could undermine the structure of international tax reforms in the bills, according to a report by tax scholars, practitioners and analysts.
Red flag #4: Won't offer "big" tax cuts for the middle class
Trump and Republicans tout their tax plan as a boon for the middle class, not the wealthy.
Nonpartisan analyses show that middle-income households would in fact get tax cuts, on average, especially in the first half of the next decade. But the highest-income households on average would benefit more.
In the second half of the decade, tax cuts for middle-income households would greatly diminish on average, while those for the top 0.1% would increase, according to the Tax Policy Center.
Trump in particular has claimed several times that he would pay more under the GOP plan. That seems implausible given that so many provisions would directly benefit him and his family. One of the biggest is the lower tax burden on pass-through entities, which are how Trump's more than 500 businesses are structured.
The bills distinguish between types of income that qualify for lower tax rates and those that don't. But Trump is in luck, according to Steven Rosenthal, a senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center. Three staples of his income -- rents, royalties and licensing fees -- would qualify.


But in September, President Trump rescinded DACA and left it in Congress' hands to save it. Democratic lawmakers say they want to add provisions that will protect DACA recipients to the year-end spending bill, which they must pass by December 22 in order to avert a government shutdown. But Republicans have said such a move would be a deal breaker.
Should Congress fail to enact alternative legislation by March 5 of next year, an average of 915 Dreamers will lose their DACA status -- and protection from deportation -- every day until March, 2020, according to the Migration Policy Institute, an immigration think tank.
Related: Who are America's Dreamers?
"I feel like we're being held hostage by the politics in Washington," said Bertran, whose family brought her to the U.S. from Peru when she was nine. "First Republicans ended DACA. Now Democrats are threatening to shut down the government if there is no deal with Republicans on DACA."
Bertran was among a group of 100 Dreamers who met with members of Congress in Washington, D.C., in October to gather support for the Dream Act, which would provide a permanent legislative solution for DACA recipients.
Her DACA status is set to expire in July 2019. If she's unable to renew it, she'll be forced to give up her job as a product development and design engineer at Honda Research & Development Americas.
Bertran was hired by Honda three years ago after graduating from the City University of New York. She had attended college on a full scholarship and earned her degree in mechanical engineering.
"A lot of Dreamers will remain in the U.S. illegally to be with their families after they lose their DACA status. For me, I might relocate. I would find an engineering job abroad if I have to," she said.
Related: After ICE raided a factory, this family's American Dream was shattered
Bertran also doesn't want to have to let go of her entrepreneurial aspirations.
In March, she and her boyfriend, Brook Kohn, launched DACA Time, an online platform that helped Dreamers prepare first-time DACA applications and renewal forms. "It's similar to how TurboTax helps with tax preparation," she said.
Trump's decision this fall dealt a blow to DACA Time, but Bertran said they're still in business and the company's funders are still backing the operation.
"If some sort of legislation passes [on Dreamers], then we will update what we've built thus far to accommodate that new [DACA] application process," said Kohn. "If nothing passes, then that would be devastating for us, Nathali and the other Dreamers."
Without DACA, Diego Corzo will lose his driver's license -- and, most likely, his job.
Two years ago, Corzo and a business partner opened a real estate franchise in Austin and he started selling houses.
"As a real estate entrepreneur, having a driver's license is crucial to my business and to my livelihood. Without a license, I can't drive to show houses to my clients. I can't bring business into my company," he said, noting that his business sells between 80 and 100 homes a year. "It's details like these about our situation that don't occur to most people."
Corzo's DACA status expires in May 2019. He plans on staying in the U.S., but "I will live in fear because I don't know what will happen to me," he said, noting that his partner would have to take over the business.
Now 27, Corzo came to the U.S. from Peru when he was nine. He graduated high school third in his class and subsequently earned dual undergraduate degrees in information technology and management of information systems from Florida State University.
Corzo credits DACA for enabling him to land his first job straight out of college as a software developer with General Motors.
"It's because of DACA that I was able to apply for the GM job. It's because of DACA that I could even get a driver's license," said Corzo.
He eventually left GM to launch Nino Group.
Related: DACA in flux: 5 things business owners need to know
This year, he hired his first full-time employee at the firm. "I'm proud that I'm creating jobs as a Dreamer," he said. "The United States has invested in me, through my education here and my career opportunities. I want to give back," he said. "I can't do that if I'm deported."
Bertran echoed that sentiment.
"Losing DACA isn't just about me and my career," she said. "So many people have invested in me to make my dreams come true, and it's important to me to stay in my country and give back."


But for whatever reason, employers aren't showering workers with big pay raises.
Even President Trump's National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn seems puzzled by this trend. He noted in an interview with CNBC Friday morning that "we're still not growing wages in this country."
However, it seems that many Americans are still just happy to have a job and are not demanding bigger paychecks.
"Slow wage growth is the biggest conundrum here," said JJ Kinahan, chief market strategist with TD Ameritrade. "Small wage increases are still able to attract talent. Most of us thought this would have changed by now."
Kinahan noted that one potential factor at play is that the jobs report does not take into account other perks that workers want, things like the ability to work from home more often, free meals at the office and better insurance options.
"People are increasingly looking for other benefits, and not just wage growth," Kinahan said.
Another reason why paychecks may not be growing? Inflation is still not much of a problem.
The government said in November that consumer prices rose just 2 percent over the past 12 months. So even a meager 2.5% pay raise is more than enough to offset the relatively small cost of living increases that many Americans have faced.
Related: GE is cutting 12,000 jobs
Still, Andrew Chamberlain, chief economist with job search site Glassdoor, wrote in a report Friday morning that based on inflation trends and productivity growth, wages should be rising between 3% and 4%.
There may be some hope on the horizon though.
Mark Hamrick, senior economic analyst at Bankrate.com, said that if employers keep adding jobs and the unemployment rate inches lower, companies will have no choice but to finally start paying more since workers will demand higher salaries.
Hamrick wrote in a report that wage increases "are likely headed closer to 3 percent in the coming year as long as the economy continues to expand and no dramatic black swans emerge."
There are hopes that tax reform might push companies to start paying workers more too.
But there's a debate as to whether big businesses will really start to give employees raises and hire more or just use any potential savings from a lower corporate tax rate to reward investors instead with dividend increases and more stock buybacks.
Nonetheless, there should come a point where employees will demand better pay and even feel comfortable enough to leave and find another place to work in order to get a salary boost instead of sticking at a low-paying, dead-end job.
Companies may have the bargaining edge now but it may not stay that way for much longer.
"It's not going to be an overnight change but there eventually will be pressure to increase wages," said Bodhi Ganguli, lead economist at Dun & Bradstreet. "You will have to offer people more money to fill jobs if the overall economy keeps improving."


"Total revenue for the quarter faced a challenging comparison to last year, when we believe strong consumer demand was driven by personal safety concerns and pre-election fears of increased firearm legislation," said CEO James Debney, in a statement.
Last year marked a record year for gun sales. The surge was driven by fears that then-President Obama and candidate Hillary Clinton would implement gun controls amid a series of deadly mass shootings. Sales dropped industry-wide after the unexpected victory of Donald Trump, a Republican endorsed by the National Rifle Association.
Related: Vista Outdoor's gun and ammo sales tank under Trump
American Outdoor Brands has seen a 30% decline in its stock in 2017.
"The firearms industry is still suffering from continued malaise in retail sell-through due to the Trump slump," said Rommel Dionisio, a gun industry analyst for Aegis Capital Corp. He said manufacturers and retailers are still dealing with an inventory backlog, because they stocked up prior to the election expecting stronger sales.
The stock price for American Outdoor Brands did rise 5% on Thursday after the House passed the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act earlier this week. That act, if it passes the Senate, would create a nationwide system for concealed carry permits. Dionisio said that might eventually help the industry recover.
But stocks plummeted over night after American Outdoor Brands reported its dismal earnings.
Debney said that among the few bright spots for the company were the relatively strong sales of compact M&P brand handguns designed for concealed carry. The M&P line of guns also includes AR-15-style rifles.
Related: Black Friday was huge for gun sales
The company's quarter ended on October 31. This report includes a month of gun sales activity after the October 1 mass shooting in Las Vegas, the deadliest in U.S. history.
But it does not include figures for November, which saw a month-to-month uptick for background checks by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which serve as a proxy for gun sales. Black Friday was the biggest day ever for background checks.


"In terms of how it ends, bubble history suggests it will be with a bang, rather than a whimper," said Sharon Zoller, an economist at ANZ. "I can't think of any reason why this time would be different."
To better understand what may lie ahead, here's the lowdown on four famous financial bubbles in history:
Related: What is bitcoin?
Tulip mania
In the early 17th century, speculation helped drive the value of tulip bulbs in the Netherlands to previously unheard of prices. Newly imported from Turkey, tulips were a big novelty at the time.
Hard data from those days is scarce, so it's difficult to gauge exactly how much prices soared. But people were putting up their homes as collateral, according to the Rijksmuseum -- the Museum of the Netherlands -- in Amsterdam.
Related: I bought $250 in bitcoin: Here's what I learned
Like many bubbles, prices were driven by greed or the fear of missing out. Speculators were buying bulbs in the hope that they could sell them on at an even higher price. Again, it didn't last. A flurry of sales caused a domino effect, and prices collapsed.
Stephen Innes, head of Asian trading at currency broker Oanda, believes bitcoin bubble could go the same way.
"Prices will become so out of reach of the common man that ultimately demand fades," he said.
South Sea bubble
In the 18th century, shares in the South Sea Company, a British trading firm, soared on expectations it would soon reap bumper profits from trade with South America.
But the big money never materialized.
South America was controlled by Spain, which was at war with the British Empire at the time. That made a British trading monopoly in the region unlikely, according to the Encylopedia Britannica.
Related: Nobel winner says bitcoin 'ought to be outlawed'
Nevertheless, British mom-and-pop investors piled into the South Sea Company's stock, which popped about 900% in the space of a year.
Soon afterward, the shares began to plunge as speculators became sellers. The South Sea bubble's collapse left a trail of bankruptcies in its wake.

Wall Street crash of 1929
In the five years prior to October 1929's huge crash, stocks listed on the Dow Jones Industrial Average skyrocketed 500%.
Investors had become very bullish on the U.S. economy during the "Roaring 20s," prompting them to keep bidding stock prices higher. Eventually cracks in the economy started to appear.
Related: Bitcoin boom may be a disaster for the environment
The crash didn't happen on just one day. The pain was spread out over several big plunges in the Dow, according to the Federal Reserve.
Making things much worse, many of the investors who had jumped on the bandwagon did so with borrowed money.
The crash led to the tremendous suffering of the Great Depression.
Wall Street didn't find its bottom until more than two years later, when the Dow languished 90% below its 1929 peak.
The dotcom boom
Investors were gripped by an internet frenzy in the late 1990s. They piled into web-focused companies, pushing the Nasdaq index up about 200% in the space of just over a year.
Those gains were fueled by a string of multibillion dollar stock floats during the era, many of which were unprofitable internet and software companies.
Are you trading Bitcoin? We want to hear from you.
The party didn't last. The bubble burst in early 2000, partly because higher interest rates made borrowing pricier. The Nasdaq plunged around 80% over the next couple of years.
But Shane Oliver, an economist at Australia's AMP Capital, said bitcoin's meteoric rise isn't quite like any previous bubbles he's seen before.
"Bitcoin leaves them for dead." he said.


The EU said the agreement, which won preliminary approval in July, will help support more than 600,000 jobs in the bloc that are tied to exports to Japan. Another half a million EU workers are employed by Japanese companies.
Related: Japan and Europe are racing to agree a big free trade deal

The push by Japan and the EU to remove trade barriers stands in stark contrast to the approach taken by President Trump, who pulled the U.S. out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) at the start of his presidency.
The European Commission said that the deal "demonstrates the powerful political will of Japan and the EU to continue to keep the flag of free trade waving high."
"We are sending a message to other countries about the importance of free and fair trade, and of shaping globalization," Cecilia Malmström, Europe's top trade official, said in a statement.
The deal must be signed off by individual EU countries before it is implemented.
It's done. @EU_Commission and #Japan finalised negotiations of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the #EU and Japan today - a powerful political signal to the world, keeping the flag of free and fair trade high: https://t.co/3YUi5cgXoC pic.twitter.com/S3cJ8Qvm5A

Closer ties between Europe and the world's No.3 economy could make it harder for U.S. businesses to compete with global rivals, especially when it comes to selling agricultural products such as pork to Japan.
After quitting the TPP, the U.S. showed interest in reaching a separate free trade deal with Japan. The two sides held talks in April, but those have since taken a back seat to Trump's push to renegotiate NAFTA with Mexico and Canada.


But just who benefits from those skyrocketing numbers?
The short answer: Wealthy people.
As measured by those who declare ordinary dividend income on their tax returns, stock ownership varies dramatically by income level. Among filers who make less than $25,000 a year, only about 8% own stocks. Meanwhile, 88% of those making more than $1 million are in the market, which explains why the rising stock market tracks with increasing levels of inequality.
On average across the United States, only 18.7% of taxpayers directly own stocks. Now, these numbers only include stock portfolios, not the roughly half of Americans who participate in the market through an employer-sponsored retirement plan, according to a Pew analysis of Census Bureau data. Access to those plans also skews towards higher income people, Pew found. In addition, more white people invested this way than black or Latino people, as did more older people than younger people.
Accordingly, the states with the wealthiest populations also tend to have higher rates of stock ownership. In Connecticut and Massachusetts, where median incomes are among the highest in the country, about one in four tax filers own stocks. Mississippi, meanwhile, has the lowest rate, at only 10%, with Nevada, Alabama, and Tennessee following close behind.
But there's a deeper answer, too.
As highlighted recently in an analysis by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, stock ownership also varies among people who make similar amounts of money.
Here's what a host of studies tell us: Stock ownership overall rose during the 1990s and early 2000s as the Internet made it easier and cheaper to conduct trades, but it's still more common among those who are more financially literate and have greater levels of trust in others and in the stock market, as measured both by credit scores and by responses to survey questions.
It's less common among African Americans, those who've experienced difficulty paying their mortgages, and -- perhaps not so surprisingly -- those who've lost money in the stock market before. (Market participation in general is about a third lower than it was at the turn of the century, with a large drop off during the great recession.)
According to IRS tax data, stock ownership is also three points less common in states that Trump won in the 2016 presidential election than those Hillary Clinton won.
Related: 10 years after the recession, have Americans recovered?
There is one state, however, that bucks most of those associations. Utah has the lowest stock ownership rate in the country among mid to high earners, making between $100,000 and $200,000. It's less racially diverse than most states, has higher than average credit scores, and a comprehensive financial literacy course in high schools.
As with many outliers, there may be something else going on in Utah. Alan Battles, president of Brighton Wealth Management in Murray, Utah, has a few theories. Utahans prefer to invest in real estate, for one thing, and a lot of the state's large public companies that had a lot of local ownership have been bought out in recent years.
But the most likely factor? Utah also has the highest fertility rate in the country, at 2.29 children per couple, and those large families cost money that might otherwise go into stock portfolios.
"A hundred thousand or $200,000 goes a little less far as discretionary income when you have four or five kids than when you have one or two kids," Battles says.
And that, of course, pays a different kind of dividend.


The more modest rise in the hourly pay is disappointing, especially in light of the unemployment rate being this low.
Wages should be going up because there is a record number of unfilled job openings and employers complaining about difficulty finding workers. Typically, when unemployment is low, wages rise faster because employers have to pay more to find or keep the workers they want.
Ten years ago, before the start of the Great Recession, the average hourly wage was rising at a better than 3% clip.
Other readings in the report showed a healthy labor market, including the fact that those working part-time because they couldn't find a full-time job decreased.
The White House celebrated the strong report and credited its economic policies for the solid showing.
"We're especially pleased to see the manufacturing sector roaring back to life, adding a total of 159,000 jobs since President Trump took office after averaging a loss of more than 1,000 jobs per month during the last year of the previous administration," read a statement from White House press secretary Sarah Sanders. "As we continue to unleash the American economy from unnecessary regulation and taxes, we look forward to seeing more reports like this, showing a healthy and thriving jobs market for the American people."
Related: Is Trump keeping his promises on manufacturing?
A number of key industries were busy hiring. Manufacturing added 31,000 jobs while health care added 29,500 workers and construction 24,000. Temporary help services added 18,300 jobs, a good sign since employers often bring on temporary workers before adding permanent positions.
Even some battered sectors, such as retail reported strong growth as retailers added 18,700 beyond their normal seasonal hires, the best month for the sector since January.
The jobs report echoes other signs of strength: The economy grew 3.3% in the most recent quarter, the best since 2014, and the stock market is at record levels.


Investor enthusiasm may be limited because trade talks promise to be difficult.
"Let's remember that the most difficult challenge still ahead," said European Council President Donald Tusk. "Breaking up is hard. But breaking up and building a new relationship is much harder."
2. Jobs report: The U.S. economy continued its strong jobs-creation run in November.
The data show employers added 228,000 jobs and unemployment remained at a 17-year low of 4.1%.
The report echoes other signs of strength: The economy grew 3.3% in the most recent quarter, its best performance since 2014.
3. Shutdown averted, for now: The dollar edged higher against other major currencies after lawmakers voted for a short-term spending bill that will keep the federal government running for another two weeks.
The major obstacle is what comes after December 22, when the government runs out of money once again.
All eyes will be on the White House, as Trump and top congressional leaders try to resolve policy differences so Congress can pass a long-term spending bill before Christmas.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Global overview: Stocks markets are closing out the week with a bang.
U.S. stock futures were higher. Major European and Asian markets were in positive territory.
U.S. crude oil futures gained 0.7% to trade just above $57 per barrel.
The one big loser of the day was bitcoin, which continued its wild ride. It plunged more than $2,500 after hitting new record on Thursday.
The Dow Jones industrial average and the S&P 500 both gained 0.3% on Thursday, while the Nasdaq added 0.5%.
5. Companies and economics: Shares in Japan Display shot up 9% in Tokyo on a report that Apple (AAPL) might start using LCD screens in future smartphones.
A preliminary reading of the University of Michigan's Consumer Sentiment Index for December will be released at 10 a.m.
Chinese exports and imports data came out stronger than expected, pointing to healthy global trade.
"We expect exports to continue to perform well in the coming months on the back of strong global demand," said Julian Evans-Pritchard, China Economist at Capital Economics.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday -- Jobs report


The number of thorny issues to be addressed will multiply in the second phase of talks. Britain wants to agree a comprehensive trade deal, and there are hundreds of legal and regulatory questions that must be sorted out.
"We all know that breaking up is hard. But breaking up and building a new relation is much harder," Donald Tusk, president of the European Council, said Friday.
One issue looms above the others: What kind of relationship Britain will have with the EU, which accounts for 44% of its goods and services exports, once it has left the bloc?
Related: The CNNMoney Brexit jobs tracker
Prime Minister Theresa May has made clear that Britain will be leaving the EU's internal market and customs union. But beyond those red lines, little has been settled.
"For the moment, the U.K. still does not know what it wants," said Agata Gostynska-Jakubowska, a research fellow at the Centre for European Reform. "The government hasn't made its position clear on what kind of future relationship it wants."
Britain must decide whether it wants to negotiate continued easy access to EU markets or accept significant barriers in return for greater control of its own regulations, trade with the rest of the world and immigration.
Settling on a preferred outcome has been made more difficult by the fact that May's cabinet, which has different views on what the "end state" should be, has yet to debate the issue.
'More clarity' needed
"We have heard a number of various ideas," Tusk said. "We need more clarity on how the U.K. sees our future relations."
Meanwhile, London must continue to search for a way to avoid the return of a hard border on the island of Ireland, an extremely complicated issue that was not fully resolved in the first phase of negotiations.
The terms of the deal announced Friday stipulate that if final agreement on the Irish border can't be reached, Britain must continue to abide by the rules of the EU's internal market. That would be unacceptable for many Brexit supporters.
Related: Why Britain needs the immigrants it doesn't want
Trade talks are difficult under the best of circumstances, and comprehensive deals can take years to thrash out. A free trade agreement between the EU and Canada, which included some service industries, took seven years.
The remaining 27 EU states will have different priorities when it comes to trade, and will face an intense backlash from labor unions and businesses if their interests are not protected.
Britain has its own priorities: It will seek to minimize trade barriers in key sectors of the economy, such as financial services, autos and aerospace.
Gostynska-Jakubowska said the best option may be to try and negotiate a very basic trade agreement. If goodwill is accumulated and trust established, the limited agreement could then be expanded to include additional sectors.
Waiting in the departure lounge
But she's not optimistic that a final deal can be confirmed by March 2019.
"I am certain that the EU and the U.K. will not finalize their negotiations about the future by the time the U.K. leaves the EU," she said.
The difficulty of agreeing a new trade relationship underscores the need for a transitional period that will allow companies to plan ahead and adapt to life after Brexit. May has asked for an "implementation period" of two years, but many businesses say they need at least three.
Tusk said the EU is ready to discuss such a transition, but only if Britain is willing to accept all EU law -- including new laws passed during that period -- and judicial oversight.
"So much time has been devoted to the easier part of the task," he said Friday. "And now, to negotiate a transition arrangement and the framework for our future relationship, we have de facto less than a year."


Trading has become especially frenzied in recent weeks as new investors have dived into the volatile market. Before Friday's fall, it had gained roughly $5,000 in the previous 48 hours.
Related: I bought $250 in bitcoin. Here's what I learned
Arthur Hayes, CEO of Hong Kong-based bitcoin exchange Bitmex, said he thought the sharp correction Friday was "healthy" given that the digital currency's price had jumped about 80% the past week.
He predicted more sharp moves early next week when the Chicago Board Options Exchange starts allowing investors to trade bitcoin futures.
By Friday evening in Hong Kong, bitcoin was trading at around $15,000.
Bitcoin's extraordinary boom has raised a host of questions. Here are some of the major issues:
How do you buy bitcoin?
One of our reporters used his experience of buying $250 of bitcoin recently to explore what on earth is going on with the digital currency right now.
Related: I bought $250 in bitcoin. Here's what I learned
"It's an investing frenzy, plain and simple," he wrote.
Is it safe?
The online exchanges where many people trade bitcoin and other digital currencies have a checkered history.
Are you trading Bitcoin? We want to hear from you.
Some have gone bust altogether and others have suffered cyber heists in which hackers have made off with huge sums. The latest example is digital currency site NiceHash, where bitcoins worth more than $70 million were stolen this week.
What does Wall Street make of it?
One factor driving bitcoin's price higher and higher in recent weeks is the expectation that big financial players like hedge funds and asset managers are set to wade into the market. That's been supported by established exchanges in the U.S. saying they're planning to let investors trade bitcoin futures soon.
Related: Big banks say bitcoin futures could be dangerous
But big banks -- who have a complicated relationship with digital currencies -- have issued a warning about the dangers of bitcoin futures, saying the risks haven't been properly studied.

What does the future hold?
An environmental crisis is looming if bitcoin continues on its current trajectory, some experts say. The complex computer algorithms that underpin bitcoin require huge data centers that guzzle power.
Related: Bitcoin boom may be a disaster for the environment
One observer predicts that without a significant change in how transactions are processed, bitcoin could be consuming enough electricity to power the U.S. by the middle of 2019. Six months later, that demand could equal the entire world's power consumption.
-- Daniel Shane contributed to this report.


The Middle East is another geopolitical fault line. Donald Trump's recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital has unleashed criticism and violence.
Sign up for the weekly Quest newsletter in your inbox
Market volatility resurfaced as investors watched all of this. There was a rotation out of technology stocks and into older industrials at first. But by week's end, that rotation had rotated, with the Nasdaq bouncing back. Perhaps we shouldn't be too surprised. The end of the year is nigh. Big tech stocks are sitting on sizable gains that can be locked in while banks, industrials and energy firms offer more value. 
I just wish that the outlook wasn't so unclear and that there weren't so many pitfalls ahead. Worries that many thought were cast aside could rise up and bite back once again.
Bitcoin's blistering run continues

Bitcoin is has topped $16,000, fueling fears of a bubble.
While it's true there is an element of tulip mania here -- even Venezuela wants to launch its own cryptocurrency -- it's worth noting that the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Chicago Mercantile Exchange and Nasdaq are launching bitcoin futures. That may attract more interest from institutional investors.
But bitcoin is very risky. A leading digital currency marketplace was just hacked. Banks are warning regulators about fraud.
And there are concerns about the environmental impact of having massive data centers consuming tons of electricity to mine bitcoin.
-- Paul R. La Monica
Venezuela's woes worsen with new lawsuit

Venezuela has spent the past year sinking deeper into chaos. Now, China is turning up the heat to close out 2017.
One of the country's biggest state-owned firms has filed a lawsuit against Venezuela's oil company, PDVSA, in U.S. court.
Sinopec is accusing PDVSA of breach of contract and conspiracy to defraud, and is asking for $23.7 million plus interest and damages.
It's a headache -- but the amount is ultimately small compared to the estimated $196 billion Venezuela owes in all.
-- Julia Horowitz
Should Elon Musk merge Tesla with SpaceX?

Tesla's stock has cooled lately due to concerns about Model 3 production delays and integration risks with SolarCity. But Morgan Stanley has a suggestion for Elon Musk: Merge with privately held SpaceX, which Musk also runs.
The rocket market could be bigger than electric vehicles. There's also less competition. But does Musk run the risk of having too many balls in the air?
Tesla is also working on a Semi truck -- which beer king Anheuser-Busch just placed a big order for -- and Musk's The Boring Company is proposing a new underground tunnel system for Los Angeles. When does Musk sleep?
-- Paul R. La Monica
GE slashes jobs as American icon shrinks

GE's epic cash crunch has been driven by bad bets on fossil fuels.
GE's power division is bleeding because utilities are moving to renewables like solar. That's painful for GE, which makes equipment that helps power one-third of the world. Worse: GE recently shelled out $9.5 billion on Alstom's coal business.
Now, GE's power business is slashing 12,000 jobs to cut costs and stabilize the depressed stock price. Germany's Siemens similarly cut nearly 7,000 jobs, mostly in its power business. The problem for these companies is the migration away from fossil fuels may only speed up as renewables get cheaper.
-- Matt Egan
Quick takes
Coal CEO loves Trump but hates Senate tax overhaul. 'It wipes us out' 
More alleged shady business at Wells Fargo: 1,500 fake insurance policies
Naming and shaming tax shelters: EU fires off warning to 17 tax shelters
Accounting nightmare: European owner of Mattress Firm crashes as CEO exits
Week of Brexit turmoil: UK doesn't know what it means, costs or how to do it
Saudi elite ensnared by corruption crackdown can escape -- if they pay cash
What's next
Time for the jobs report: The U.S. unemployment rate for November will be released Friday morning. Last month, unemployment dropped to 4.1%, the lowest rate in 17 years.
Anticipating a rate hike: A rate hike is expected when the Federal Reserve meets next Wednesday. Earlier this week, President Trump's pick to replace Janet Yellen moved a step closer to confirmation.


Dollar General has become a shopping staple across the country. It currently has more than 14,000 stores in 44 states, a 35% increase from five years ago.
By the end of the year, more than three in four Americans will live within 5 miles of a Dollar General, the company noted on the call.
Dollar stores are one of the few retail groups that are thriving. Many traditional brick-and-mortar retailers have been eclipsed by the growth of e-commerce.
Shares of Dollar General (DG) have climbed 25% this year. Dollar Tree (DLTR), its top discount competitor, has risen 38%.
Dollar General has succeeded thanks to its lean business model, said GlobalData Retail analyst Neil Saunders. Its smaller stores sell cheap day-to-day essentials, especially in rural areas where it doesn't make sense for Walmart or other large retailers to open up shop.
"The company [is] the closest and most convenient general merchant for millions," said Saunders.
Sales were up 4.3% last quarter at stores that were open a year ago, a sign of retail health. Revenue last quarter ballooned to $5.9 billion -- an 11% uptick from last year -- in part from hurricane-related spending in Texas and Florida.
More middle income and affluent shoppers are helping lift Dollar General's overall sales. The expansion, especially in metro areas, will allow it to continue reaching these shoppers, said Saunders.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
But lower-income Americans remain the store's primary customers. The stores attracted shoppers during the economic downturn in 2008 and 2009, and consumers haven't stopped coming back since, even as the economy has picked up steam.
Analysts expect Dollar General's run to continue as long as government benefits to support poorer Americans, like Medicaid and food stamps, remain steady.
"A reduction in social benefits, like food stamps, and an increase in healthcare or housing costs may continue to be a headwind for Dollar General's customers," said Morningstar's John Brick.


The Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board Options Exchange plan to start listing the contracts later this month. The Nasdaq will launch its own bitcoin futures in 2018.
Analysts say that announcements from the exchanges have helped propel bitcoin prices to new heights, because the moves were seen as signs that big mainstream investors are becoming interested.
Bitcoin (XBT) prices have gained over $4,000 in the past 48 hours to smash through $16,000.
Related: What's driving the bitcoin frenzy?
The FIA, which counts Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MSPRF) among its members, is concerned that exchanges regulated by the CFTC have been allowed to "self-certify" their new bitcoin contracts.
The decision will leave regulators with limited time to review futures offerings.
The FIA said that a "more thorough and considered process" would have allowed exchanges and clearinghouses more time to study trading limits and other ways to protect against price swings.
The group is worried that its members, which act as intermediaries between buyers and sellers, could be left holding the bag if something goes wrong.
"The recent volatility in these markets has underscored the importance of setting these levels and processes appropriately and conservatively," the group said in its letter.
"We remain apprehensive with the lack of transparency and regulation" of bitcoin and "whether exchanges have the proper oversight to ensure [bitcoin is] not susceptible to manipulation, fraud, and operational risk," it said.
Related: Bitcoin boom may be a disaster for the environment
The CFTC has itself warned investors about the dangers of bitcoin, noting that cryptocurrency exchanges are largely unregulated and outside the agency's purview.
"Bitcoin ... is a commodity unlike any the commission has dealt with in the past," CFTC chairman J. Christopher Giancarlo said in a statement on December 1.
"Investors should be aware of the potentially high level of volatility and risk in trading these contracts," the agency added.


Man of the Year is given to players who demonstrate a dedication to their communities off the field while excelling in the sport.
"It's just like a captain's patch," Brees told CNNMoney. "Guys who have a captain's patch wear that with pride, and I think they will wear the Walter Payton Man of the Year patch with pride as well."
Brees won the award for his work with his foundation, which raises money to help find a cure for cancer and help cancer patients.

Related: Colin Kaepernick earns Sports Illustrated's Muhammad Ali Legacy Award
The award is typically given to one player a year, nominated by his teammates. Each of the 32 teams picks a player, and three finalists are selected in January. The winner is announced the night before the Super Bowl.
Last year, Arizona Cardinals wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald and New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning both won the honor.
Fitzgerald credited his mother with encouraging him to be active in his community and give back. He told CNNMoney that he's honored by the award and that his mother, who passed away in 2003, would be proud of him.
While he's a "bit shy" about wearing a patch to commemorate his volunteer work, he said the winners discussed it closely with the NFL. The league wanted to be sure players were comfortable displaying their award on their jerseys.
"The consensus was that the guys were OK with it," he said. "It's about trying to get guys on the same page to continue to inspire and motivate others to get active and have a presence in their communities."
He wouldn't say who he thought deserved to be this year's winner, but he complimented Houston Texans defensive end JJ Watt for the work he did to raise more than $37 million for victims of Hurricane Harvey.
Related: JJ Watt's Hurricane Harvey relief fund tops $20 million
Past winners who are still playing will wear the patch on their jerseys. Other winners who are still active include Carolina Panthers linebacker Thomas Davis and Dallas Cowboys tight end Jason Witten.
All winners will get to wear the uniform patch for the rest of their careers. This season's nominees will be announced Thursday. They will get to wear a Man of the Year decal on their helmets for the rest of the season.
The award has been around since 1970 but was renamed for Hall of Famer Walter Payton in 1999 after his death. Payton was known for his amazing skill as a player and his humanitarian work with at-risk youth.


Mark Fields, Ford's CEO at the time, referred to the plans for the Michigan plant as a "vote of confidence" in the Trump administration.
Related: Why Trump has automakers worried about NAFTA
The company says it will still go ahead with plans to invest and create new jobs at Flat Rock, but that it will build self-driving cars there instead, rather than electric cars.
In fact it now expects to have 850 jobs there, rather than 700. And it has boosted the planned investment in the Michigan plant to $900 million, rather than its $700 million target.
The company, along with every other automaker, is making a major push into self-driving car technology. That's one reason it tapped Jim Hackett, who previously led Ford's self-driving car effort, as CEO when Fields was forced out earlier this year.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
The company will produce the electric cars at its existing Mexican plant in Cuautitlan starting in 2020, but that it won't add any jobs there. Ford currently builds the Fiesta there, which isn't very popular.
"We have excess capacity at that plant," said Ford spokeswoman Kelli Felker.
Ford is also trying to play catch-up on electric cars. It has only one all-electric vehicle, and it is not competitive with either GM's (GENERAL MOTORS) Chevy Bolt or the Tesla (TSLA) Model 3, which each cost about $35,000 and can go more than 200 miles on a single charge.
Related: Ford workers are testing out exoskeletons
Moving electric car production to Mexico could lower the cost of the making the cars, which have been money losers for every automaker so far. But it also entails the risk that the Trump administration could put steep taxes on new cars built in Mexico as it seeks to renegotiate the NAFTA trade deal.
Ford is also moving ahead with plans to build all of its small cars for the U.S market at existing facilities in either Mexico or China, and to keep its U.S. plants building larger, more profitable vehicles. It won't shut down any U.S. production. It scrapped plans for a new small car plant in Mexico because demand for them is so weak, not to shift any manufacturing back to the U.S.
All the major automakers make some of their cars for the U.S. market in Mexico, and all depend on Mexican parts suppliers for cars built at U.S. plants. The automakers met with Vice President Mike Pence recently to express concerns about moving away from NAFTA.


Businesses are preparing to move jobs and investment out of the U.K. in early 2018 if trade talks haven't started.
Nervous investors have pushed the pound down against the dollar this week.
Here's why:
1. Britain doesn't know what Brexit means
The biggest question Britain must answer is what kind of relationship it wants with the EU, its biggest export market, once it has left.
May has made clear that the U.K. will leave the EU's internal market and customs union. But beyond those red lines, little has been settled.
Britain must decide whether it wants to negotiate continued easy access to EU markets or accept significant barriers to trade.
Both scenarios come with economic risks, and political consequences, that are bound to upset factions within May's own party.
Settling on a preferred course of action has been made more difficult by the fact that her cabinet, which has different views on what the "end state" should be, has yet to debate the issue.
"We have not had a specific mandating of an end state position," Treasury chief Philip Hammond said Wednesday.
One example of the resulting confusion: Hammond also said it was "inconceivable" that Britain would walk away from the EU without settling its financial commitments -- in effect, paying a divorce bill that could run to tens of billions of euros.
The prime minister's office countered quickly, saying that "nothing is agreed until everything is agreed" with the EU.
The risks of putting off the decision too long are profound. Crashing out of the EU without a deal could mean grounded flights, rotting food at the borders and a shortage of parts for automakers in the U.K.

2. The government hasn't assessed the economic impact
Britain's top Brexit negotiator David Davis said Wednesday that his department has not studied how leaving the EU would affect specific sectors of the economy.
"I think ... there's no systematic impact assessment, no," he told a parliamentary committee.
Related: Britain and EU make progress on Brexit divorce bill
Davis defended the government's preparedness, arguing that such studies would "not necessarily be informative" and that their usefulness would be "near zero."
"You don't need to do a formal impact assessment to understand that if there is a regulatory hurdle between our producers and their market, that there will be an impact," he said.
Hilary Benn, a member of the opposition Labour Party, said it was "extraordinary" that Davis had not analyzed the economic impact of such a major event.
Davis said his department had studied the size and scope of industries -- but had not tried to assess how their performance would be affected by Brexit.
Consulting firm Oliver Wyman says 75,000 finance jobs could be lost in the long term if there's no Brexit deal.
Britain's automotive industry has warned that the price of cars imported from Europe would go up by £1,500 ($2,000).

3. There's no clear path forward
May failed earlier this week to move Brexit negotiations on to the critical issue of future trading arrangements.
The prime minister hoped to convince the EU that hard barriers would not return to the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland after Brexit.
The deal was scuttled after Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), which props up May's minority government, objected.
Irish border: The 'oxymoron' that could derail Brexit
The episode underscores the difficult balancing act facing May.
Her political party is divided on Brexit, and she must keep the DUP happy in order to prevent her government from collapsing.
In addition to the Irish border and the divorce bill, the rights of EU citizens that live and work in Britain, and the rights of Brits who live in the EU, must be settled to the satisfaction of all 27 remaining EU members.
Only then can talks move onto trade. That may not happen now this year.


The company says the job cuts will mostly be outside the United States. The power division's headcount will be reduced about 18%. About 295,000 people worked for GE overall at the end of last year, but the company has cut jobs and costs throughout this year. It hopes to reduce costs by $1 billion next year.
Russell Stokes, president and CEO of the power division, called the cuts "painful but necessary."
Competition from renewable energy is putting pressure on the traditional power business. GE said disruption in the industry has reduced the need for its products by 40%. Just last month, the German industrial conglomerate Siemens (SIEGY) announced plans to cut 6,900 jobs, mostly in its power division.
Related: How decades of bad decisions broke GE
GE, an icon of the American economy for more than a century, faces a cash crunch that could take years to recover from. It has been left in turmoil by years of questionable deal-making, needless complexity and murky accounting.
Flannery is trying to make the company more nimble and focused on its strengths -- health care, power and aviation. GE has put its railroad business up for sale and is looking for a buyer for the part of the company that makes light bulbs.
Related: Fixing GE won't be quick or easy
Last month, it slashed its cherished stock dividend in half, only the second cut GE has made in its payment to shareholders since the Great Depression.
There's even talk that the Dow could drop GE. That storied barometer of the stock market has included GE for 110 years, longer than any other company.
But GE is cutting jobs at a time when the U.S. labor market is strong. The unemployment rate is 4.1%, the lowest in 17 years. Layoff announcements this year are at a 20-year low, the firm Challenger, Gray and Christmas reported Thursday.
GE stock moved only slightly higher in premarket trading on Thursday after the cuts were announced.
--CNNMoney's Matt Egan and Alanna Petroff contributed to this report.


The move is in keeping with longstanding Republican beliefs.
"SNAP was created to provide people with the help they need to feed themselves and their families, but it was not intended to be a permanent lifestyle," said Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue. "We want to provide the nutrition people need, but we also want to help them transition from government programs, back to work and into lives of independence."
The agency last week sent a letter to all state food stamp coordinators listing three key areas of focus. The first one: self-sufficiency.
Related: Trump administration open to making some Medicaid recipients work
"The American dream has never been to live on government benefits," wrote Brandon Lipps, the agency's Food and Nutrition Service administrator. "People who can work should work. We must facilitate the transition for individuals and families to become independent, specifically by partnering with key stakeholders in the workforce development community and holding our recipients accountable for personal responsibility."
The other areas the agency cited are rooting out waste, fraud and abuse and providing good customer service.
Some 41.3 million people receive food stamps, down from more than 47 million in 2013, when the nation was still recovering from the Great Recession.
Trump administration officials and congressional Republicans have said multiple times in recent weeks that they will look at overhauling the nation's welfare system once they are done with tax reform.
"Does anybody want welfare reform?" Trump said to applause in a speech in Missouri last week. "I know people, they work three jobs and they live next to somebody who doesn't work at all. And the person who's not working at all and has no intention of working at all is making more money and doing better than the person that's working his and her ass off ... So we're going to go into welfare reform."
The Agriculture Department's letter mirrors one sent by the Department of Health and Human Services in March inviting states to apply for waivers that would add work requirements to Medicaid. The Obama administration had denied state requests to mandate that Medicaid recipients work.
The food stamp program, however, already requires childless adults to work, and states can impose additional employment or training rules, experts said. All states run work programs, but only about half make them mandatory and take away recipients' benefits if they don't comply. In some states, parents are also required to work.
Adults without minor children can only receive benefits for three months out of every 36-month period unless they are working or participating in training programs 20 hours a week. States can waive that requirement for areas where unemployment is at least 10% or there is an insufficient number of jobs, as defined by the Department of Labor.
The Trump administration's budget proposal earlier this year called for limiting the waivers to areas where unemployment is at least 10%. Currently, about one-third of the country lives in an area that waives this requirement, according to the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Under the Trump budget, only 1.3% of the nation would.
Related: Republicans want the poor to work for their government benefits
Many food stamp recipients already work. In households that receive SNAP and have at least one non-disabled adult, 58% are employed and 82% worked in the year prior to or after enrollment, according to the left-leaning Center for American Progress.
While Republicans have long favored adding work requirements to welfare programs, experts on both sides of the ideological divide question how effective they would be. Many recipients already work, and those that don't often can't because of physical or mental health conditions or because of a lack of job opportunities.
"If you really want people to have upward mobility, there has to be upward mobility to something," said Joe Antos, a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative think tank. "In a lot of places in the U.S., there are no jobs."


Why does this matter?
Iger has repeatedly extended his tenure in recent years amid a troubled search for a successor.
The Financial Times reported earlier this week that James Murdoch, the current chief executive of Fox, could join Disney as part of the deal. The newspaper suggested he could even succeed Iger.
2. Bitcoin hits $15,000: Another day, another bitcoin (XBT) record.
The digital currency has shot above the $15,000 mark for the first time -- the fourth big barrier it's broken in less than two days.
It had already zipped past $12,000, $13,000 and $14,000 within 24 hours before hitting $15,000 on Thursday morning in New York.
Despite a flurry of warnings from top economists and business leaders, its upward trajectory has continued -- albeit with a few sharp dips along the way.
After breaking above $11,000 last week, it abruptly plunged by more than $2,000 before resuming its climb. Buyer beware!
3. Brexit bites: British Prime Minister Theresa May is trying again to make progress on the Irish border, one of three key issues that must be addressed before negotiators can discuss trade terms with the EU.
May is racing to get a deal before a key EU summit next week.
But she is being hobbled by divisions within her own party, which remains at loggerheads over its plans for Brexit.
Opposition lawmakers aren't happy either: They've been angered by news that the government department charged with negotiating Brexit hasn't examined its potential economic impact.
The pound, which has been under pressure all week, dropped 0.1%.
4. Media deal in court: AT&T (T) and the U.S. Department of Justice will be in court on Thursday.
The Justice Department filed a suit to block AT&T's bid to buy Time Warner (TWX), CNN's parent company, citing antitrust concerns. The first big question the judge needs to decide is when to schedule a trial. The two sides disagree when that should be.
The case could have implications for other big mergers, including CVS' (CVS) $69 billion acquisition of Aetna (AET).
5. Market overview: European markets were higher in early trade, but gains were limited to less than 1%. Asian markets were mixed, with Japan's Nikkei adding 1.5%.
U.S. stock futures were higher.
Wednesday was a mixed bag: The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 0.2%, while the S&P 500 was flat. The Nasdaq added 0.2% to snap a three-day losing streak.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
6. Earnings and economics: Dollar General (DG) will release earnings before the open. Firearms manufacturer American Outdoor Brands (AOBC), formerly known as Smith & Wesson, will report after the close.
U.S. data on initial jobless claims will be published at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
7. Coming this week:
Thursday -- DOJ vs. AT&T in court Friday -- U.S. Jobs report


So how does the virtual digital currency work -- and what's behind its spectacular rise?
Related: Bitcoin pops above $17,000 for the first time
WHAT IS BITCOIN?
Bitcoin (XBT) was created in 2009 by an unknown person using the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto. Many of its backers saw it as a simple global payment system for anyone to use rather than a financial asset for investors to trade.
Unlike the U.S. dollar or Japanese yen, digital currencies such as bitcoin aren't issued by central banks like the Federal Reserve. Instead, they are "mined" by computers using complex algorithms.
Related: Bitcoin bubble brewing or is it still a bargain?
Payments in bitcoin can be made without traditional middlemen such as banks and without the need to give your name.
That made bitcoin popular with criminals and others who wanted to move money anonymously. It's also been adopted by businesses around the world as a way to pay for everyday things like groceries, train tickets and haircuts.
Exchanges, or marketplaces, allow people to buy or sell bitcoins using different currencies. People can send bitcoins to each other using mobile apps or their computers. It's similar to sending cash digitally, and a fee is charged for every transaction.
Bitcoins are stored in a "digital wallet" — a kind of virtual bank account that allows users to send or receive bitcoins, pay for goods or save their money. 
Its price has taken off this year as mainstream investors have become more interested.
National governments are trying to keep up, puzzling over how to regulate bitcoin and other so-called cryptocurrencies. Countries like China and Venezuela have expressed interested in creating their own digital forms of money.
Related: Venezuela plans its own version of bitcoin
WHY HAVE PRICES GONE CRAZY?
Some experts say the biggest force pushing bitcoin prices higher this year has been ... higher prices.
Investors have been buying in this year out of "FOMO," or the fear of missing out, according to Dave Chapman, managing director of Octagon Strategy, a Hong Kong-based cryptocurrency exchange.
"There is admittedly a lot of speculation in this market," he said.

Bitcoin is also being driven higher by the hands-off approach many financial regulators seem to be taking toward the digital currency, Chapman said.
Japan's government, for example, gave bitcoin the seal of approval and started licensing bitcoin exchanges earlier this year.
The only black mark has been China, which has been cracking down on some uses of the virtual currency.
Announcements from some major financial institutions in the U.S. are helping bitcoin gain greater mainstream acceptance.
Related: Bitcoin craziness spreads to Overstock, Square
This month, investors will be able to start trading bitcoin futures via the Chicago Board Options Exchange and Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
New York's Nasdaq plans to launch its own bitcoin futures in 2018.
"The fact the CME, CBOE and Nasdaq will now all offer bitcoin products lends additional legitimacy" to the digital currency, said Chapman.
WHO'S BUYING IT?
For much of this year, it's mom-and-pop investors who have been buying in.
Many are in Japan and South Korea, where recent regulation changes have made it easier to trade bitcoin, according to experts.
But the biggest gains from the virtual currency's massive rally are likely to be concentrated among a relatively small number of investors.
Related: Russia eyes cryptocurrency dominance
When you invest in bitcoin, you don't have to buy a whole unit. According to research site BitInfoCharts, the vast majority of bitcoin accounts contain just 0.1 bitcoin or less. Just 3% of more than 20 million bitcoin accounts hold one bitcoin or more.
Big institutional investors such as hedge funds and assets managers have largely stayed on the sidelines. But some experts predict they'll move into the market in the coming months, despite skepticism from the likes of Warren Buffett and JPMorgan Chase (JPM) CEO Jamie Dimon.
WHAT'S NEXT?
Some industry insiders are incredibly bullish.
Arthur Hayes, CEO of Hong Kong bitcoin exchange Bitmex, predicts prices could hit a mind-boggling $50,000 by the end of next year, driven by the flow of money when institutional investors "pull the trigger" on investing in the digital currency.
Octagon's Chapman is willing to stick his neck out even further. He thinks it will go above $100,000 before 2018 is over.
Related: Nobel winner says bitcoin 'ought to be outlawed'
With a total value of around $270 billion, the bitcoin market is small compared with more established assets.
"This is a drop in the ocean compared to the trillions transacted daily" in currency and stock markets, said Thomas Glucksmann, head of marketing at Hong Kong bitcoin exchange Gatecoin. Just a small amount of mainstream investors' money would make a big difference to bitcoin prices, he said.

But some finance industry veterans are wary.
Oanda's Innes, who has worked in currency trading for decades, referenced a famous piece of investment advice from Buffett: "Be fearful when others are greedy."
"Following the herd rarely produces large scale gains," Innes said.
Investors were given a reminder of bitcoin's unpredictability in November. After topping $11,000, it plunged more than $2,000 before resuming its ascent.


But bitcoin's value on various exchanges can be quite different.
One exchange, Coinbase, listed the price of a single bitcoin at more than $18,400 at one point Thursday morning. By the evening, it showed it trading around $17,300.
Related: What's driving the bitcoin frenzy
No matter what exchange you check, bitcoin has experienced a stunning rise this year. It's drawn increasing attention from mainstream investors.
The cryptocurrency has climbed -- with a few sharp dips along the way -- despite a flurry of warnings from top economists and business leaders.
Related: Millions of dollars may have been stolen in bitcoin hack
"Bitcoin now seems like a charging train with no brakes," said Shane Chanel, an adviser at investment services firm ASR Wealth Advisers. "There is an unfathomable amount of new participants piling into the cryptocurrency market."
Bitcoin is the most popular cryptocurrency -- a kind of virtual "coin" that is "mined" by computers using complex algorithms.
During its epic rally this year, bitcoin has suffered a series of steep drops, reminding of its extreme volatility. After breaking above $11,000 last week, it abruptly plunged by more than $2,000 before resuming its climb.
Related: Nobel winner says bitcoin 'ought to be outlawed'
Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz said last week that bitcoin "ought to be outlawed." But experts inside the industry predict its rally has a lot farther to run.
Bitcoin's rapid rise this year has been powered in part by expectations that established fund managers are set to start pouring money into the virtual currency as it gains legitimacy.

The digital currency has also gotten a big lift this year from mom-and-pop investors in countries like South Korea and Japan who don't want to miss out on the prospect of more big gains.
But a study published this week by Natixis Investment Managers, a major French asset management firm, found that 64% of institutional investors think bitcoin is a bubble.


"Investors seem to be taking a shoot first, ask questions later approach," RBC Capital Markets analyst Shelby Tucker wrote in a research note Tuesday.
Related: This stock has lost almost 20% since the California wildfires
The series of blazes have scorched more than 83,000 acres in Ventura, Santa Barbara and Los Angeles counties. Around 13,000 residents didn't have power as of 9 a.m. Pacific Time Wednesday, Edison said.
Edison has said there's "no indication that the company's facilities were a source of these fires," but some investors are worried the company could be forced to foot the bill if it's found liable for them.
In a major decision last week, California's Public Utilities Commission ruled that a San Diego utility was responsible for a 2007 fire. The utility had to pay nearly $400 million in damages and was forbidden from passing those charges onto customers.
Edison's losses come on the heels of concerns about PG&E's role in the October wildfires that devastated Northern California's wine country. PG&E (PCG), California's largest utility company, has shed about $8 billion in market value since the fires.
"Investors are extremely concerned about open-ended utility liability for fire damage in California," Morgan Stanley analyst Stephen Byrd wrote in a note Wednesday.


The move was announced in a letter sent to all NFL owners Wednesday by the league's compensation committee, which is comprised of six owners: Arthur Blank of the Falcons, Clark Hunt of the Chiefs, Robert K. Kraft of the Patriots, John Mara of the Giants, Bob McNair of the Texans and Art Rooney of the Steelers.
"Our Committee unanimously supports the contract and believes that it is fully consistent with "market" compensation and the financial and other parameters outlined to the owners at our May 2017 meeting, as well as in the best interests of ownership," the letter, which was obtained by CNNMoney, reads.
Related: Thursday night's NFL game is getting a whole new look
Goodell has faced criticism over how he has handled domestic violence issues as well as players protesting racial injustice on the field.
When some players kneeled during the National Anthem, many felt the gesture was disrespectful. While Goodell made it clear he believed players should stand, he didn't create a rule requiring them to stand, which sparked a backlash.
By far the biggest obstacle to his contract extension was posed by Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones. He was a vocal critic of the deal and even threatened to sue his fellow owners in an attempt to block negotiations.
Members of the committee told Jones that his actions were "damaging the league," and that he should stop trying to sabotage their work.
Eventually Jones stepped back from his threat of a lawsuit.
The letter from the compensation committee sent Wednesday describes the decision to re-up Goodell's contract as a move to "avoid further controversy," though it did not explicitly state to which controversy it was referring.
Related: Papa John's says NFL protests are hurting sales
One thing working in Goodell's favor was the timing of his contract's expiration.
The league's collective bargaining agreement with players expires after the 2020 season, and several lucrative TV deals end in 2021 and 2022.
If the NFL had decided to bring in a new commissioner, that person would only have had a year or so to get up to speed. And they might not be as skilled at negotiating as Goodell. The past two TV deals he did were favorable for owners, according to former NFL attorney Jodi Balsam.
The league is also dealing with declining TV ratings and growing concerns about brain injuries caused by high-impact hits to the head.
While it's unclear how much Goodell will be making with his new contract, a source familiar with the deal said 85% of his compensation will be performance based.
He was paid $31.7 million in 2015, the most recent figure publicly available.
His salary was cut continually between 2012, when he made $44.2 million, and 2015. That is when the NFL dropped its federal tax exemption. As a result, Goodell's salary is no longer public.
Goodell took the job in 2006. Between 2008 and 2015, he was paid more than $205 million.


Related: Treasury's tax analysis still missing ahead of key Senate vote
Wyden said the 2102 economic paper had "contradicted" an assertion made by Mnuchin in September about how corporate tax cuts could ultimately benefit workers.
Earlier this fall, the secretary said "most economists believe that over 70% of corporate taxes are paid for by the workers." However, the paper by the agency's Office of Tax Policy "strongly disputed that conclusion," arguing that workers only end up paying for 18% of corporate taxes. That paper later disappeared from the Treasury Department's website.
Rich Delmar, general counsel for the Treasury inspector general, told CNN the agency is working to incorporate questions posed by the senator into the agency's ongoing review.
Delmar didn't offer any guidance on when its review would be complete, but he called the issue a "top priority" for the agency.
A Treasury spokeswoman did not respond to a request for comment.
Related: Poor Americans would lose billions under Senate GOP tax bill
Wyden's request comes on the heels of another letter sent to the inspector general of the agency by Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren last week. Her letter, which was sent the day before the Senate prepared to vote on a sweeping tax reform plan, raised concerns about the promised analysis that has yet to be released by the agency.
The IG's office had begun looking into the matter before it received Warren's letter, according to Delmar.
In her letter, Warren also raised the possibility Mnuchin had "misled the public about the extent of the Treasury Department's analysis, "despite his repeated public assurances that an analysis existed and the tax plan would 'pay for itself.'"
Mnuchin has repeatedly pledged that more than 100 career staff members were "working around the clock on running scenarios" to show how the costs of the $1.5 trillion GOP proposal would be covered by economic growth. He even noted in September that an in-house analysis showed the bill would reduce the deficit by $1 trillion rather than increase it.
Related: Republicans working on tax hike 'trigger' to ease deficit concerns
At The Wall Street CEO Council conference in November, Mnuchin reaffirmed that Treasury had completed an analysis and pledged "complete transparency" in its accounting for the growth benefits of the tax plans.
The agency has yet to release anything.
Warren has asked the inspector general to find out whether Treasury's staff were directed to analyze the Republican tax proposal at all and if so, why the results weren't publicly released or given to Congress. She also asked the inspector to look into whether there was any political interference that would have impacted the outcome of the analysis or who participated in the efforts.


"As the U.S. economy begins to show signs of life and shake off the doldrums of a slow recovery, and Americans hit the mall to get their holiday spirit on as they await the much-anticipated tax reform (or cut), the timing could not be worse," Bovino wrote.
"In particular, if a shutdown were to take place so far into the quarter, fourth-quarter GDP would not have time to bounce back, which could shake investors and consumers and, as a result, possibly snuff out any economic momentum," she added.
President Trump has already said that a shutdown "could happen" and he was blaming Democrats for threatening to vote against a spending bill unless there are changes made to some of Trump's controversial stances on immigration policy.
Bovino said she still thinks the odds of a shutdown happening are slim. In fact, her report Wednesday is an update from one she put out in August -- before a deal was reached just after Labor Day with Democrats to keep funding going through mid-December.
Investors don't seem overly nervous either. Stocks were flat Wednesday and remain not too far from their all-time highs.
But Bovino conceded that anything is possible in Washington these days.
"Betting the holiday budget on a rational U.S. government may be a risky proposition that leaves the cupboards bare to start 2018," she wrote.
Related: How tax reform could hinder innovation in the U.S.
Bovino added that Trump's rhetoric about Democrats wanting to let in more illegal immigrants could make negotiations even more difficult.
"The unthinkable has suddenly wandered into the realm of what may come to pass," she wrote.
So how much of a hit could the economy take if there is no deal? The S&P Global team of economists estimated that a shutdown would trim at least 0.2% points, or $6.5 billion, from real GDP growth for each week a shutdown lasts.
Government workers will be hurt, as would private contractors who will be losing out on getting paid during a shutdown.
"Holiday vacations and school trips may be curtailed when hundreds of national parks and monuments are closed for business," Bovino wrote. "And with the risk of fewer paychecks, some may rethink whether it's practical to travel home for the holidays."
But there's a bigger issue at play as well. Any stalemate on the budget could potentially impact negotiations to raise the government's borrowing limit, the so-called debt ceiling.
"The shutdown and the looming debt ceiling combined could significantly hurt business and consumer sentiment, as well as the overall economy," Bovino wrote.
It gets worse.
"Government disarray may dim the afterglow that GOP lawmakers hope to bask in" if a reconciled tax bill makes it through the House and Senate and is then signed into law by Trump.
Related: Here's what's in the Senate tax bill -- and how it differs from the House
And then there's this dire warning.
"The impact of a default by the U.S. government on its debts would be worse than the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, devastating markets and the economy," Bovino wrote, adding that "the economy would fall back into a recession, wiping out much of the progress made by the recovery."
The last time that the U.S. seriously flirted with a default in 2011, S&P wound up downgrading the nation's credit rating -- even though lawmakers did wind up raising the debt ceiling at the last minute.
So here's hoping lawmakers and President Trump come to their senses and don't wind up being the Grinch this holiday season.


These insurance policies were sold to Wells Fargo (WFC) customers at computer kiosks inside bank branches between 2008 and 2016.
Even though the insurance policies were provided by Prudential (PRU) and other third-parties, Wells Fargo's notoriously unrealistic sales goals counted these insurance referrals towards employee compensation goals.
"Many customers complained they simply had no knowledge of ever signing up for such policies," the complaint said.
Other Wells Fargo customers said bank employees entered their information onto a policy application "in the guise of merely issuing a quote, when in fact such applications were later submitted." That's despite the fact that the kiosks were supposed to be "self service" because Wells Fargo workers weren't licensed to sell insurance.
Authorities said Wells Fargo "caused" a total of 1,469 unauthorized insurance policies to be issued to California customers. It's not clear how many customers from other states were impacted.
California regulators are now moving to suspend or even revoke Wells Fargo's insurance licenses, after the investigation found the bank "lacking in integrity," "not of good business reputation" and having "shown incompetency or untrustworthiness."
The probe also determined that Wells Fargo employees were selling insurance without a license.
"We are sorry for any harm this caused our customers," Wells Fargo said in a statement, adding that it's been cooperating with California authorities. Wells Fargo said it suspended the bank's online insurance operation in December 2016 and is "making things right" for customers with refunds.
Related: Wells Fargo fires powerful exec for misconduct
It's the latest example of Wells Fargo's rotten sales culture hurting customers. The bank has uncovered as many as 3.5 million fake bank and credit card accounts created by workers trying to meet unreachable goals.
Last week, Wells Fargo announced plans to exit the personal insurance business. It's a significant shift for Wells Fargo. Since 2003 the bank has provided auto, homeowners, renters and umbrella personal insurance products. It plans to keep its life insurance business.
Most of the unauthorized insurance sales took place between 2008 and 2012 and concerned renters insurance issued by American Modern Insurance Group. Premiums typically ranged between $12 and $28 per month and were often automatically transferred from customer's bank accounts.
Wells Fargo caused 1,258 unauthorized American Modern Insurance Group renters insurance policies to be issued, regulators allege. American Modern Insurance Group did not respond to requests for comment.
Investigators found another six unauthorized renters insurance policies provided by Assurant (AIZ), which replaced American Modern Insurance Group in 2012.
In a statement, Assurant said it has been "made aware of this matter" but it does not "comment on ongoing investigations.
Wells Fargo's branch kiosks also allowed customers to sign up for term life insurance provided by Great-West Financial and Prudential. These policies had monthly premiums of $29 to $37.
California regulators uncovered 187 unauthorized Great-West term life insurance policies sold to Wells Fargo policies. Great-West terminated its agreement with Wells Fargo in 2014 following complaints, according to regulators.
"We did not suspect any fraudulent activity on the part of Wells Fargo," a Great-West spokesman said. "We ended the relationship because we did not believe the business model was effective."
Related: More Wells Fargo workers allege retaliation for whistleblowing
There were another 18 unauthorized term life insurance policies at Wells Fargo when Prudential took over in 2014.
Prudential suspended its agreement with Wells Fargo in December 2016 and launched a review of the insurer's relationship with the bank. That decision came after Prudential employees alleged in a lawsuit that Wells Fargo customers were sold insurance products they didn't want. The Prudential lawsuit said that some insurance applications listed obviously fake home and email addresses on their applications like "Wells Fargo Drive" or "noemail@wellsfargo.com"
An investigation released earlier this year by Wells Fargo's board of directors acknowledged that "sales practice concerns" have been "implicated" with the bank's online insurance program. The board report said Wells Fargo has hired outside lawyers to conduct a probe into the insurance problems.
Prudential declined to comment. The insurer has said it's willing to reimburse concerned customers.
A spokeswoman for the California Department of Insurance said that any decision to suspend or revoke Wells Fargo's license would block the bank from selling life insurance in California.


"It defies logic and wisdom, not to mention the Bankruptcy Code, that a bankrupt company would now propose further multi-million dollar bonuses for the senior leadership of a company that began the year with employee layoffs and concludes it in the midst of the holiday season in bankruptcy," she argued in her filing. "Apparently, this Christmas, Toys "R" Us intends to deliver not only 'children their biggest smiles of the year' but the insiders, too."
Related: Make or break holiday shopping season for battered retailers
In its filings in favor of the bonusues, the company had argued the payments were necessary to get executives to perform at a high level during its bankruptcy.
"It is the [company's] employees - and more particularly the senior management team - that must execute at this critical juncture and provide the foundation for a successful turnaround," it said in a filing.
U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Keith Phillips approved the payouts on Tuesday. Because Toys "R" Us filed for bankruptcy in September, it must now must get court approval for many of its basic business decisions.
These new bonuses will be in addition to another $8.2 million in retention bonuses paid to some of these same executives before Toys "R" Us filed for bankruptcy. They would be required to return the retention payments should they quit the company within a year of receiving them.
Among the 17 executives who would get payments is chairman and CEO David Brandon, who joined the company in 2015.
Related: Why Hasbro might buy Mattel
The company said it also has filed for an incentive program for other employees beyond the senior management, and that such bonus plans are standard practice for companies going through a bankruptcy restructuring.
While the company asked for $16 million, the bonus plan could actually pay out $32 million if the company reaches much better than expected profit targets. But that's a result the company "will find very difficult to achieve," according to the filing.
The company said it had 1,600 stores at the time of the bankruptcy filing, and 65,000 employees, although it has gone ahead with plans to hire additional seasonal help for the holiday season. It lost $330 million in the first half of this year as sales fell by 5%, and has lost more than $1.8 billion since its last reported an annual profit five years ago.
Toys "R" Us has been struggling for years, not just with a shift of consumers buying goods from online competitors such as Amazon (AMZN), but also with increased competition from traditional brick-and-mortar retailers such as Wal-Mart (WMT) and Target (TGT).
Bankruptcy filings this year alone include Gymboree, Payless Shoes and RadioShack, which recently completed its second trip through bankruptcy.
Bankruptcies in the retail sector are up about 30% so far this year, according to BankruptcyData.com, and the number of store closings has more than tripled to about 6,700, breaking the record set during the worst of the Great Recession.


Usually attended by heads of state, only two took part in Tuesday's summit: the emir of the host country, Kuwait, and his counterpart from Qatar. Other countries sent less senior officials.
Close allies Saudi Arabia and the UAE also chose Tuesday to unveil their own plans for even deeper bilateral cooperation in political, economic, military and cultural fields -- without reference to the GCC.
"While the GCC will continue to exist on paper, it is likely to become ever less relevant in reality," said Kristian Ulrichsen, associate fellow at the Middle East and North Africa program at Chatham House, an international affairs think tank in London.

The GCC was formed in 1981 to coordinate policy. It has had some notable successes, such as establishing a customs union in 2003 and a common market in 2008. Its citizens are supposed to be able to travel and work in any member state, and goods and services move much more freely across borders.
Related: Oil pain continues: IMF slashes growth forecast for Gulf states
It also helped deal with the economic fallout from the 2014-2015 slump in oil prices that wreaked havoc on government finances. In February, GCC members agreed to introduce a sales tax, although the details about rates and timing were left to the individual states.
Other, more ambitious, plans have failed.
Hopes for creating a single currency -- the Gulf Dinar -- were dashed in 2009 when the UAE withdrew after Riyadh was chosen as the location for the proposed central bank. And a Saudi proposal in 2013 to transform the GCC into a bloc similar to the European Union fizzled out. Most foreign and economic policy is still made independently by GCC member states.

Experts said the decision by Saudi Arabia and the UAE to establish a bilateral cooperation committee signaled a serious intent, and could have significant consequences for the GCC.
"It can be interpreted as a step towards a union stronger than the existing confederate nature of the GCC," said Amer Al Adhadh, a non-resident fellow of the Atlantic Council, a think tank based in Washington. "The next few moves by the committee should be interesting in defining the extent of this."
"Where this leaves Oman and Kuwait, still less Qatar, is still uncertain," said Chatham House's Ulrichsen. "But Bahrain is likely to fall into the Saudi-UAE partnership, so at the very least a two- or even three-tier Gulf is evolving."
The decision by Saudi Arabia, UAE and Bahrain to cut diplomatic ties and transport links with Qatar in June took the region by surprise. They accused Qatar of funding terrorism, a charge it denies.
The three countries ordered Qataris to leave their countries, and their citizens to return home indefinitely. They also presented the small but wealthy country with a list of demands it must meet in order to restore normalcy.
Efforts to restore ties, brokered by the emir of Kuwait, Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah, have so far proved fruitless.
Related: Qatar burns $38 billion in reserves as boycott bites
This is not the first time the GCC has been put to the test. In 2014, Saudi Arabia, UAE and Bahrain withdrew their ambassadors from Doha after accusing Qatar of ignoring an agreement not to interfere in each others' affairs.
Qatar is seen as a supporter of Islamist groups such as the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt and elsewhere in the Middle East -- which are viewed with suspicion or outright hostility by some fellow GCC members. Qatar has also been criticized by its Gulf neighbors for cosying up to Iran.
Still, some observers say it's too soon to call the death of the council.
"It's right for some people to feel let down after the 38th cooperation summit... but those who think the council has ended are ignorant," tweeted Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, a political science analyst in the UAE.


"Tesla's addressable market of sustainable transport will attract fierce competition from some of the world's best capitalized tech firms with arguably superior access to capital, talent and business models that can monetize vehicle data and content opportunities," Jonas wrote.
Jonas added that this is "threatening the long-term independence of Tesla as a stand-alone entity."
Tesla is currently valued at about $50 billion, making it worth more than established auto giants Ford (F), Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) and Nissan (NSANY) and putting it within striking distance of surpassing GM (GM) and Honda (HMC).
But even though Tesla's stock is still up 40% in 2017, it has plunged more than 20% since it hit an all-time high near $390 a share in mid-September.
Concerns about production delays for the Model 3, which is meant to be Tesla's affordable, mass market car, are weighing on the company.
The fact that Tesla has added yet another new product to the mix -- a Semi truck -- also has investors nervous about Tesla biting off more than it can chew.
And there are lingering questions about whether Tesla's acquisition of SolarCity, a renewable energy company, co-founded by two of his cousins, of which Musk was chairman, will serve as yet another distraction for the still unprofitable Tesla.
Related: Tesla's truck won't be out until 2019...but there are already orders for it
That's where SpaceX comes in. SpaceX, which has backing from Musk as well as venture capital firm Draper Fisher Jurvetson, mutual fund giant Fidelity and Google owner Alphabet, is valued at $21.5 billion, according to research firm CB Insights.
That makes SpaceX the sixth-most valuable unicorn startup on the planet, albeit a company that's not as big as Tesla.
But Jonas thinks SpaceX has a brighter future than Tesla. He argues SpaceX could be worth as much as $121 billion if everything goes right for the company. The space travel business could be worth as much as $1.75 trillion by 2040, Jonas wrote.
And while SpaceX must contend with the Jeff Bezos-backed Blue Origin and United Launch Alliance -- a joint venture of Lockheed Martin (LMT) and Boeing (BA) -- there is far less competition than there is in the automotive world.
"Our preliminary modeling of SpaceX reveals a launch business that could be in a highly dominant position, positioning the company to enter highly profitable markets, such as proprietary satellite broadband," Jonas wrote.
Related: Musk trolls Tesla haters on Twitter
Jonas noted that Tesla and SpaceX already share knowledge about manufacturing -- particularly the use of aluminum casting --and that SpaceX employees have often been used to beta test Tesla cars. So a further alliance wouldn't be out of the question.
A merger of Tesla and SpaceX could also reassure Wall Street that Musk will remain as focused on his electric car business as he is on one day setting foot on Mars.
"Investors widely expect Elon Musk to, over time, devote increasing amounts of his time and talents to SpaceX, raising the very real question of who could replace him at Tesla. A combination of efforts between the two firms could address this important issue," Jonas wrote.
Jonas added that there seems to be a shift in how Musk has addressed the SpaceX-Tesla speculation in the past year.
Related: Tesla board member leaves firm amidst misconduct allegations
During a conference call in August 2016, Musk said, "I don't think there's a strong product rationale to combine SpaceX and Tesla" and added that while the companies cooperate, "it's not enough that would justify merging them into one entity."
Fast forward to August of this year though and Musk said the "cross-fertilization of knowledge from the rocket and spacecraft history to auto...has really been quite valuable" and it's helped him think about how Tesla can better make mass-market vehicles.
Tesla and SpaceX were not immediately available for comment about the Morgan Stanley report.


Related: Trump's top trade issues: Where they stand
The Commerce Department took up the case in November. It hit Vietnam on Tuesday with duties of more than 500% on cold-rolled steel that's based on Chinese materials and over 200% on corrosion-resistant steel with similar origins.
Steel has for years been a major point of trade friction between the U.S. and China, the world's biggest producer of the metal.
American and European steelmakers have accused China of dumping its unwanted metal on other markets, pushing down prices, forcing rivals to close their plants and killing thousands of jobs.
U.S. Steel said the move "represents a critical step to shutting down one of the many paths used to flood the U.S. with dumped and subsidized steel."
"This decision presents an encouraging sign for the steel industry and should put other countries and companies on notice that their cheating will no longer be tolerated," the company said in a statement.
Beijing has defended itself, saying overcapacity is a global problem brought on by weaker demand.
The Chinese and Vietnamese governments didn't immediately respond to requests for comment Wednesday.
Related: U.S. trade deficit with China and Mexico is growing
Last month, a European Union agency said it had also found that Chinese steel was being rerouted through Vietnam to evade tariffs, according to Reuters.
President Trump has criticized China in the past over steel, accusing it of cheating on prices. But his administration hasn't yet announced the results of a separate investigation into whether shipments of steel from other countries pose a risk to national security.
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross had said his team would announce its findings, which could result in big tariffs, by the end of June. But Trump told The Wall Street Journal in July that he wanted to tackle several other big goals, including passing tax cuts, before he returned to the investigation.
The U.S. Commerce Department said Tuesday that it would make its final ruling on the Vietnam steel case in February.


The firm, which was scheduled to publish its annual report on Wednesday, said it would release the results "when it is in a position to do so."
It said it would also investigate whether previous financial results need to be corrected.

Steinhoff, which was already facing a criminal and tax investigation in Germany, said that it approached PwC about conducting an independent investigation into its accounting issues.
The firm's market value on Tuesday had been roughly €13 billion ($15.4 billion).
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
The fallout spread quickly.
Steinhoff spun off its Africa business earlier this year, but retains a majority stake in the firm. Its stock tumbled by as much as 29% in Johannesburg.
Steinhoff reminded shareholders in a statement that it "has a number of high quality profitable businesses around the world" and urged them to "exercise caution."


The stumbling block remains how to pay for the reauthorization bill that will fund CHIP for the next five years. The House bill, which passed in November largely along party lines, would squeeze funds out of the Affordable Care Act and Medicare, which Democrats have decried. The Senate hasn't made much progress on the bill and hasn't specified how it would pay for the funding.
Congress is under a lot of pressure to provide some immediate support for CHIP as part of its temporary funding plan to prevent a shutdown Friday. The legislation "includes a provision to assure states of the future of the Children's Health Insurance Program while a bipartisan reauthorization agreement is completed," said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Tuesday.
Related: Displaced Puerto Ricans face obstacles getting health care
Not every state can simply end coverage for children. It depends on how they set up their programs.
States have been able to keep their CHIP programs going since the federal funding expired by using their unspent allotments and by receiving grants from the federal Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Some 16 states, plus the District of Columbia, have received a total of $1.2 billion of the $2.9 billion available in grants, said Maureen Hensley-Quinn, senior program director at the National Academy for State Health Policy.
Are your children currently enrolled in CHIP? Are you concerned they may lose their health insurance because Congress has not reauthorized the program. Tell me about it at healthcarestories@cnn.com. You could be featured in an upcoming CNNMoney story.
However, some states are starting to run out of funds, and a few have begun notifying parents that benefits may end in coming months. Some 3.7 million kids were enrolled in standalone CHIP programs, and 1.2 million of them could become uninsured if they can't afford alternate coverage, according to the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission.
Late last month, Colorado began informing parents that the program will end on Jan. 31 if Congress doesn't reauthorize the funds. The state, which has 75,000 children and 800 pregnant women enrolled in CHIP, urges them to get whatever medical care they need now and to start researching private insurance options.
Related: Senate may strengthen Obamacare even as it kills individual mandate
Both parents and medical providers are worried about what this would mean, said Colorado Lieutenant Governor Donna Lynne.
"You can imagine the uncertainty it creates for families," Lynne said. "Providers are very concerned about their patients."
Oklahoma, meanwhile, is telling participants in some of its CHIP-funded programs that their coverage may terminate at the end of February if Congress doesn't act.
There's not much parents can do if their states eliminate the program, said Genevieve Kenney, co-director of the Health Policy Center at the Urban Institute.
"They can't really prepare for this," she said. "There's not much in their control that can minimize the fallout."
Even if Congress agrees to reauthorize the program, some policy experts fear the damage can be long lasting.
The CHIP program has greatly reduced the number of uninsured children in America. But if parents think the program is unstable, they may not opt to enroll their kids, said Joan Alker, executive director of the Center for Children and Families at Georgetown University.


"This wipes out everything that President Trump has done for coal," said Murray, the CEO of Murray Energy, one of America's largest coal companies.
The tax bill the Senate passed last week would help companies by lowering the corporate tax rate, but it also eliminates some tax breaks.
For coal companies, it could be a double-whammy. It would preserve the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) and impose new limits on the interest payments that businesses can write off. Murray Energy estimates that these changes would raise its tax bill by $60 million per year.
The House bill eliminates the AMT, something that would save Murray Energy and other companies money. The AMT prevents companies from claiming so many tax credits and deductions that they owe Uncle Sam nothing at all.
Like other coal companies, Murray Energy borrows heavily to pay for its expensive mining operations. The Senate bill would cap the amount of interest payments that can be written off to 30% of a company's income.
Auto dealers would also have been harmed by the Senate bill's interest deduction cap. But, after fierce lobbying from auto dealers, the Senate made a last-minute change to the legislation that exempts them from the interest deduction cap.
Related: Senate bill would allow oil drilling in Alaskan refuge
Murray declined to say if he shared his concerns with Trump, who has promised to "put our coal miners back to work" by reducing environmental regulations. Trump attended a West Virginia fundraiser hosted by Murray in June 2016.
"I know he cares about the coal miners and their jobs," Murray said.
Murray warned that a bankruptcy of his Ohio-based company would hurt its 5,500 employees along with their families. Asked if other coal mining companies could go out of business, he said: "Most certainly."
Roughly half of American coal jobs have disappeared since the end of 2011 amid a wave of coal bankruptcies, according to a Columbia University study. The research found that coal's decline has been mostly caused by an abundance of cheap natural gas that has led power plants to switch away from coal. Regulation, which Trump commonly blames for coal's troubles, also hurt coal but not by as much as natural gas.
More recently, the coal industry has been pressured by declining costs for renewable energy like solar and wind.
Related: John Oliver sued by coal CEO over 'character assassination'
Murray's comments about the tax overhaul are not the first time he's made dire predictions about his own business.
In August, Murray warned that his company could immediately go bankrupt if the Trump administration didn't issue an emergency order protecting coal-fired power plants from being closed. "Our time is running out. Please fight for us," Murray wrote in a letter to the White House.
The Trump administration ultimately rejected the cry for help, deciding there wasn't enough evidence to "warrant the use of this emergency authority."
Murray told CNNMoney that his company now believes it can survive by ramping up exports. That could shield Murray Energy from the shutdown of more U.S. power plants that it supplies. "We believe we can get through it," he said.
Murray is known for fiercely defending the coal industry. In June, he filed a defamation lawsuit against comedian John Oliver, HBO and CNN owner Time Warner (TWX), alleging "character assassination" during an episode of "Last Week Tonight." HBO has filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit. A hearing on the motion is scheduled for January 10 in West Virginia, according to an HBO spokesman.
The coal boss has also enraged environmentalists by repeatedly denying the risks posed by climate change, a stance he repeated on Tuesday.
"Climate change is not only a hoax, it's a fraud," Murray said.
--CNNMoney's Lydia DePillis and Chris Isidore contributed to this report.


Speculation reached a fever pitch after the Financial Times said that Murdoch's son James could join Disney as part of the deal, and perhaps succeed CEO Bob Iger.
The two companies have declined to comment, but investors won't be changing the channel.
2. Retail trouble: Shares in Steinhoff International plunged as much as 60% on Wednesday.
Steinhoff isn't a household name in the U.S. But the retailer is a major player in Africa and Europe, where its holdings include the U.K.'s Poundland.
CEO Markus Jooste resigned on Wednesday and the company announced an investigation into "accounting irregularities."
Steinhoff also delayed its annual results, saying it would publish "when it is in a position to do so."
3. Global markets drop: It's shaping up to be a tough day for stocks.
U.S. stock futures were lower. European markets were awash in red, following the mood set in Asia.
The benchmark Shanghai Composite was about the only index to buck the trend, posting a gain of nearly 0.7%.
U.S. oil futures dropped 0.4% to trade near $57 per barrel.
On Tuesday, the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 0.5%. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq suffered smaller losses.
4. But wait! Bitcoin is back: Bitcoin has surged above $12,000 for the first time.
The digital currency is up 1,100% since the start of the year -- despite leading figures in finance and economics warning of a bubble.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Companies and economics: American Eagle (AEO) and H&R Block (HRB) will release earnings before the open, while Broadcom (AVGO) and lululemon (LULU) will follow after the close.
The U.S. crude inventories report for the week of December 2 is set to be released at 10:30 a.m. ET.
Canada's central bank will announce an interest rates decision at 10 a.m. ET.
The Australian dollar dropped against other major currencies after new data showed the economy grew slower than expected in the third quarter. Australia has not suffered a recession, defined as two consecutive quarters of contraction, since 1991.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Wednesday -- H&R Block (HRB), American Eagle (AEO) earnings Thursday -- DOJ vs. AT&T status conference Friday -- Jobs report


Related: What the heck is going on with bitcoin?
Much of the stunning ascent has been driven by the expectation that big, professional investors are set to start trading it. It's also been propelled by mom-and-pop investors who don't want to miss its meteoric rise.
People are bidding its price higher even though leading figures in finance and economics are telling them to beware.
Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz said last week that bitcoin "ought to be outlawed." Criticism has also come from the likes of JPMorgan Chase (JPM) CEO Jamie Dimon and legendary investor Warren Buffett.
Related: Nobel winner says bitcoin 'ought to be outlawed'
But some financial institutions are helping bring bitcoin more into the mainstream.
Starting next week, investors will be able to trade bitcoin futures via the Chicago Board Options Exchange, which is expected to increase interest from hedge funds and big asset managers.
Futures allow traders to bet on the future price of assets like currencies, metals and agricultural commodities.

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange is set to follow with a similar move later in December, while New York's Nasdaq wants to list bitcoin futures starting in the middle of next year.
"The fact the CME, CBOE and Nasdaq will now all offer bitcoin products lends additional legitimacy," said Dave Chapman, managing director at Hong Kong's Octagon Strategy, a digital currency exchange.
Bitcoin is one of many cryptocurrencies, virtual "coins" that are "mined" by computers using complex algorithms.
Its recent rise has been far from smooth. After powering past $11,000 last week, it plunged by more than $2,000, providing a stark reminder of its extreme volatility.
Related: Can anything stop bitcoin?
But cryptocurrency industry insiders are unfazed. They predict bitcoin will soar far higher in the coming months.
Arthur Hayes, CEO of Hong Kong's Bitmex, an exchange for trading financial instruments based on bitcoin, told CNNMoney last week that he thinks it could hit $50,000 next year.
Octagon's Chapman is willing to go even further. He believes bitcoin could reach $100,000 before 2018 is out despite a growing number of rival cryptocurrencies that could vie for investors' attention.
Bitcoin is "the most battle hardened and proven cryptocurrency right now," he said. "For now, it's unsurpassable."


Those senators, along with others, offered legislative fixes -- including protecting private student loan borrowers, holding financial executives accountable for causing harm to the U.S. economy and providing consumers with stronger tools to control their credit reports.
While a number of technical corrections were made, none of the proposed changes were adopted.
"I will offer amendments today to try to make improvements to this bill," said Brown at the hearing. "But I am not optimistic that many will be adopted, because what is driving this bill is the demands of the banking industry, not the needs of ordinary Americans."
Related: Next up: Big fight over Dodd-Frank rollback
In order to advance the bill, Republicans and several moderate Democrats on the Senate panel brokered a deal not to accept any amendments to the legislative proposal, which was spearheaded by the committee chairman, Sen. Mike Crapo.
Crapo's measure not only raises the threshold for too-big-to-fail banks but it also exempts financial institutions with less than $10 billion in assets from the so-called Volcker Rule, which bars banks from making risky market bets with their own capital.
"This bill, like the tax bill last week and the health care bill before it, sends the message that this Congress is not very interested in helping hardworking middle class Americans," said Brown during the hearing.
Crapo agreed there were gaps in the proposal, but said a driving reason certain provisions were not included was a failure to reach bipartisan agreement on many of them.
"Some of us, I'm one and you're one," Crapo said, as he nodded to Brown, "would like to see other financial issues covered. But we were not able to get the kind of consensus we needed on many of them."
At the outset of the hearing, a number of senators made clear they planned to vote down any legislative fixes in order to honor the months of work to craft the bipartisan legislation.
"This bill is a product of months of bipartisan negotiation," said Sen. Jon Tester, a Democrat, who described proposed amendments as having "the sole goal of potentially driving wedges" between lawmakers.
"The fact is it's been years. We've been at this for five or six years negotiating on a bill -- and this is the final product," he said.
Senators on both sides of the aisle acknowledged their Democratic colleagues offered "many good agreements," but said they would still stick to their pledges.
"We've agreed to link arms to make sure that we don't move this bill dramatically in any one direction or the other," said Sen. Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat.
Related: Republicans say CFPB is crippling the economy. Really?
While Tester acknowledged he and other members of the panel didn't get everything they wanted, he said the proposal is "a very good step."
That sentiment was echoed by Republican lawmakers, who also noted its imperfections.
"This is a good bill ... but there ain't no Coupe de Ville hiding at the bottom of a Cracker Jack box," Sen. John Kennedy, a Republican, said referencing a song by Meatloaf called "Two Out of Three Ain't Bad."
"There are going to be some amendments offered today that have merit, but I'm going to have to reluctantly vote against them because I gave my word that we wouldn't start to retrade the agreement," said Kennedy.
Warren expressed alarm over her colleagues' actions.
"I am very disturbed to hear my colleagues say they are going to vote down amendments, even amendments they think are good amendments, because of a deal that was negotiated behind closed doors," said Warren. "We ought to pass a better bill than the one that has been offered to us."
Related: Too-big-to-fail banks keep getting bigger
Crapo initially began the process of drafting a legislative proposal with Brown. But talks broke down earlier this fall, prompting Crapo to negotiate with moderate Democrats on the Senate panel, including Sens. Jon Tester, Heidi Heitkamp and Joe Donnelly.
Efforts to overhaul the 2010 Dodd-Frank law have failed in the past because Democrats have argued Republicans went too far in gutting safeguards aimed at protecting consumers and ensuring that Wall Street doesn't cause another meltdown.
The latest plan, however, has gotten initial support from regulators like Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen and Jerome Powell, Trump's pick to be the next Fed chair.
In testimony before the Joint Economic Committee in November, Yellen said the bill is "a move in a direction that we think would be good," while emphasizing she hadn't reviewed the proposal closely.
Powell also endorsed Crapo's measure to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions during a hearing last week, while agreeing it would still give latitude to the Fed to supervise and regulate banks as needed.


"We have resolved the situation that created the delays," Gaut told CNNMoney.
The holidays are always a frenzied period for delivery companies. But the growing popularity of online shopping has made for more packages to process and deliver.
This year's Cyber Monday was the largest online shopping day ever. A record $6.59 billion was spent online overall, according to Adobe Analytics data.
Related: Holiday hiring is getting more difficult for retailers
UPS (UPS) predicts that it will deliver 750 million packages between Thanksgiving and Christmas. That's up 5% from last year, when UPS delivered 712 million packages.
The seasonal challenges have been compounded by the fact the improving economy has made it more difficult -- and expensive -- to find seasonal help.
This year, UPS brought on 95,000 seasonal workers for the holidays. It added the same number of people in 2015 and 2016.
And as usual, the company has leased additional planes and rented more trucks to manage the high volume, and has assigned more workers to office locations that are typically swamped.
"We are taking all necessary steps to ensure we are serving our customers' demand, especially during this holiday period," Gaut said.
Additionally, UPS has told more than 100 package delivery centers in areas with high demand that drivers may be asked to work extra hours through January 5 -- up to 70 hours over eight days.
The Teamsters union, which represents 250,000 UPS employees, isn't happy with that plan. James Hoffa, the Teamsters' general president, said in a letter to UPS CEO David Abney on Monday that the move will take a "physical toll" on workers, and hinders their ability to spend time with family over the holidays.
UPS and the union are currently in the middle of contract negotiations.
-- CNNMoney's Chris Isidore and Kaya Yurieff contributed to this report.


Related: CVS is buying Aetna in massive deal that could transform health care
Of course the deal is not a sure thing. It needs to get antitrust clearance from the Justice Department and courts. And part of the value of the deal is tied to CVS stock, which could fall in value before the deal is expected to close in late 2018.
Investors seem to be skeptical that the deal will close at all, with Aetna shares trading more than 10% below the stated $207 price.
Related: What the CVS-Aetna deal means for consumers
Bertolini would also collect nearly $10 million in cash under a "change of control" clause in his compensation package, according to analysis by executive compensation firm Equilar. That provision would also accelerate stock option vesting that would add another $70 million to his net worth.
Bertolini, 61, has been at Aetna since 2003, and CEO of the company since 2010. Even though shares are trading well below the $207 merger price, they are up more than 400% since he became CEO.


The poll of 150 CEOs was taken between November 2 and November 17 as the Republican tax plan was building momentum in Congress. The Business Roundtable said many CEOs are confident that the legislation, which would slash the corporate tax rate to 20% from 35%, will get enacted.
Despite anticipating tax cuts, the Business Roundtable's employment gauge retreated a bit from the four-year highs hit during the summer. The percentage of CEOs who plan to cut jobs ticked up to 18%.
None of that is to say that business leaders sound bummed about Washington or the economy. On the contrary, more CEOs are also planning to step up capital spending on things like new equipment and factories. That's a good sign because business spending has been a missing link during the recovery from the Great Recession.
Dimon, who serves as the Business Roundtable's chairman, predicted that overhauling the outdated tax system will make the United States more competitive and eventually help American workers.
"We're in favor of wages going up for the American public," Dimon, the CEO of JPMorgan Chase (JPM), told reporters during a conference call. Under Dimon's leadership, the Business Roundtable has spent millions to champion tax reform through a national TV and online advertising campaign.
Related: Tax cuts could make it harder to fight next recession
Dimon said that tax reform will "lead to capital expenditures, productivity and wages." He cautioned though that it may take time for workers to see the benefit, saying the "cumulative effect is more important than what happens tomorrow."
For many Americans, the key will be whether they will finally enjoy stronger wage growth after years of anemic pay hikes that have struggled to keep up with inflation.
One reason for hope: 31% of CEOs polled by Business Roundtable pointed to labor costs as the greatest cost pressure facing their company.
Pointing to several studies that he did not name, Business Roundtable CEO Joshua Bolten predicted that a "substantial portion of the corporate rate cut" will "ultimately benefit" workers.
It's the first time in six years that regulatory costs were not the biggest expense headache for business leaders. Bolten said business leaders no longer "have to anticipate the next regulatory hammer that's going to hit their industry."
Related: How tax reform could hinder innovation in the U.S.
However, it's not clear if rising CEO optimism and euphoria on Wall Street will translate to new and better jobs for Main Street.
Rather than ramp up hiring, many companies may instead use their tax savings to reward shareholders with mega share buybacks and generous dividends. After all, companies already have tons of cash and CEOs will be reluctant to hire more workers unless they know the demand is there to justify the expenses.
"You don't just 'build it and they will come,'" said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices.
More critically, the U.S. may lack the qualified workers required to feed a hiring boom. The unemployment rate has dropped to a 17-year low of 4.1% and companies are struggling to find skilled workers to fill record-high job openings.
"With an unemployment rate of 4.1%, we're basically out of supply," said David Kelly, chief global strategist at JPMorgan Funds. "I don't think you will get much more employment growth."


The trade deficit in goods and services was $463 billion from January through October, up 12% from a year ago, the Commerce Department said Tuesday. The United States has a surplus in services, such as banking, but a bigger deficit in goods, such as cars.
And the gap with Trump's two favorite rhetorical trade targets, Mexico and China, is getting bigger. The overall trade deficit with Mexico is up 11% this year, and the deficit with China is up 7%.
A trade deficit doesn't mean the United States is losing money to China or Mexico, which is how Trump sometimes framed it during his presidential campaign. It means American businesses and consumers bought more goods and services from Mexico or China than those countries' consumers bought from American businesses.
Trade experts say the deficit is not an appropriate way to value a trading relationship. The Trump administration disagrees.
The trade deficit does point out some problems in America's relationships with other countries. For example, economists widely believe the deficit with China is bigger because China blocks some American companies from its market.
But there is no correlation between a growing U.S. trade deficit and a weak economy. When the U.S. economy was growing 4% a year in the late 1990s, the trade deficit was ballooning. When the Great Recession began in late 2007, the trade deficit shrank.
This year, consumer confidence and business optimism are at their highest in years. Unemployment is 4.1%, the lowest since 2000. Those factors drive up demand for imports, which are up 6% this year. Exports are up 5%.


The fast food chain first introduced the Dollar Menu in the 1990s but started tweaking it to include higher priced items in 2013, when the company was suffering from a sales slump. It called that menu the Dollar Menu & More.
McDonald's (MCD) profits have increased significantly this year, compared to last year, and its stock price has soared by about a third.
"We built this menu with variety and value firmly in mind," said Chris Kempczinksi, president of McDonald's USA, in a statement.
Related: McDonald's brings back the McRib
The new menu will offer $1 items like sausage burritos, McChicken sandwiches, cheeseburgers and soft drinks of any size.
The $2 items will include Sausage McGriddles, 2-piece Buttermilk Crispy Tenders, Bacon McDoubles and small McCafé beverages (but not coffee or iced coffee.)
Related: McDonald's vows to reboot Szechuan Sauce for 'Rick and Morty' fans
The $3 items will include the Sausage McMuffin with Egg, the Triple Cheeseburger and the Happy Meal. This will also have a new item called the Classic Chicken Sandwich.
It's the first time Happy Meals have been included on a value menu, according to McDonald's.


Compared to male-owned companies, startups owned by women "face different sets of challenges in terms of operating and growing," said Dell Gines, senior community affairs advisor at the Kansas City Fed.
The report continues to beat the drum on the topic of female participation in the economy. It's a subject that Fed Chair Janet Yellen has championed.
Yellen argues that overall economic growth would be stronger if more women were in the job market.
She noted in a speech in May that despite progress over generations "evidence suggests that barriers to women's continued progress remain."
Related: Yellen's solution for the economy: More working women
That narrative is especially true in the small business sector. Companies run by women were more challenged to make a profit, generate revenue above $1 million and boost employment compared to their male counterparts. They were also turned down for loans more often than male-owned firms.
About the same number of male and female-owned companies have outstanding debt, but women tend to take out far less. Approximately 65% of women-owned businesses had $100,000 or less in debt; about half of male-run firms had more than $100,000 in debt.
Despite the lower debt load, women are more likely to report financial problems in the first 12 months of opening a business than men. They more frequently reported not applying for loans for fear of being turned down. About 47% of women-run firms that applied for financing got it, compared to 61% of firms operated by men.
To make up for lack of access to credit, women rely more heavily on credit cards and small business grants to run their businesses. And their small businesses tend to truly be quite small: 60% of them have one to four employees. Only 3% of them have 50 employees or more.
The New York and Kansas City Fed surveyed nearly 16,000 firms and employers nationwide for their report.


More than 75% of U.S. industries have experienced an increase in concentration levels over the last two decades, according to a study by three professors -- Gustavo Grullon of Rice University, Yelena Larkin of York University and Roni Michaely of Cornell.
The trend is a good one for companies. Corporate profits and stock prices are up, and the consolidation and reduced competition is clearly part of the reason, said Larkin. But a lack of competition can lead to higher prices and lost jobs, among other problems.
Related: CVS is buying Aetna in massive deal that could transform health care
"Even in cases where prices have fallen, such as airlines, service has deteriorated with the decreased competition," said Dean Baker, co-chairman of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a liberal think tank.
And Baker says if tax reform does bring about a sharp drop in corporate taxes, that could free up money for companies to make even more acquisitions.
CVS (CVS), which just announced a deal to buy health insurer Aetna (AET), is the latest example of this consolidation trend.
The drug store sector is now dominated by two major players -- CVS and Walgreens (WBA), which has purchased a number of other chains in order to grow. About 10 years ago CVS bought Caremark, which administers prescription drug benefits. That's now the majority of its business. With its proposed purchase of Aetna (AET), it's taking the next step to becoming a major player in the health insurance industry.
Of course, consumer choice isn't necessarily dwindling in every industry. Technology has created new players into many established sectors. Uber is competing with long-entrenched taxi services. Airbnb gives travelers an alternative to hotels. And when it comes to media, the competition has only gotten tougher thanks to the streaming services such as Netflix (NFLX), Amazon Prime and Hulu that are taking on broadcast and cable networks.
Air travel is another industry that has experienced a rash of consolidation. The nation began this century with ten major carriers. A series of bankruptcies and mergers has narrowed those carriers down to just four -- American Airlines (AAL), United Continental (UAL), Delta (DAL) and Southwest (LUV). Between them, they control more than 80% of U.S. air traffic.
Related: CVS-Aetna deal is a major test for Trump
U.S. air fares are actually lower than they were before the last 20 years of mergers. But they're higher than they would be without so much consolidation, said Philippon. He points out that the profit earned for every mile flown by passengers is twice as great for U.S. airlines as it is for European airlines, where there is far less consolidation.
The nation's largest banks were already considered "too big to fail" at the time of the financial markets meltdown a decade ago. Since then, they have only gotten larger, partly due to mergers that occurred during that crisis. As a result, the four largest banks -- JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Bank of America (BAC), Citigroup (C) and Wells Fargo (WFC) -- hold an even larger percentage of the nation's deposits and loans than they did prior to the meltdown.
The retail sector, meanwhile, is now dominated by fewer players even without the help of mergers, thanks to Amazon (AMZN) and the growth of online shopping. But it had already been turned on its head by the growth of big box retailers like Walmart (WMT).
In many ways, Amazon and Walmart are becoming something of a duopoly, growing and grabbing more market share. And they've used that strength to buy smaller companies -- Amazon recently bought grocer Whole Foods while Walmart bought online retailer Jet.
Together they have driven many Main Street stores and some national retailers out of business. They're also a big driver behind a record number of store closings by troubled retail chains such as JCPenney (JCP) and Sears (SHLD).


Mark Zoradi, CEO of Cinemark, told CNNMoney that the new pricing program is clearly geared toward Millennials, who are used to paying monthly fees for TV and movies on Netflix (NFLX) and Amazon (AMZN) and music subscriptions on Spotify.
Zoradi added that Cinemark has been researching the idea of a monthly service since the start of the year and found that most consumers wanted the ability to stockpile discounted tickets.
In other words, if you sign up for Movie Club but you really only care about summer blockbusters, you could wind up with four months of discounted tickets to use just as May rolls around and Hollywood starts churning out action movies and sequels.
Movie Club also differs from a service called MoviePass, which introduced a $9.95 a month plan in August that lets you see an unlimited number of movies in theaters. It subsequently rolled out a limited time offering for an $89.95 annual plan too.
MoviePass buys tickets from Cinemark and other chains and resells them to consumers at a discount. On the surface, it's a better deal if you really like to go to the movies a lot but don't want to buy any pricey popcorn or sodas.
And shares of the company that is in the process of buying a majority stake in MoviePass, Helios and Matheson Analytics (HMNY), have soared more than 265% this year.
The new Movie Club service from Cinemark could be a way to lure back customers to theaters after a tough 2017.
Related: Can MoviePass be the Netflix of theaters?
There were several big duds at the box office this summer and it's unclear if even a successful debut of "Star Wars: The Last Jedi" later this month will lead to a winning year for studios and theater chains.
The slump at the multiplex is a big reason why theater chains have missed out on this year's big market rally.
Cinemark's shares have fallen 5%. Regal (RGC) is flat. IMAX (IMAX) is down more than 20%. And AMC (AMC) has plunged more than 50% this year after warning in August that its earnings would miss forecasts.
The industry's challenges are even leading to some consolidation. Regal said Tuesday that it plans to be bought by the U.K.'s Cineworld.
The movie theater chains face many headwinds. Many are in investment mode, spending more to make theaters nicer to attract more customers.
Part of the problem is the Alamo Drafthouse Cinema phenomenon, as many consumers in urban areas are going to chains like Alamo that offer more upscale food and drinks as well as a movie. The standard multiplex at the suburban mall may be losing its allure.
Related: 'House of Cards' made Netflix a powerhouse. What now?
Zoradi conceded that it was necessary to make the theater experience more swanky to get people off the couch -- and/or mobile devices. That means better food and booze options, more reclining seats and other luxury items.
"We have spent a lot of time and money to make the theatrical experience unique," he said. "We know people want to get out of the house and have a shared experience."
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
The big chains also seem to be recognizing that the industry's business model just needs to change.
While Cinemark thinks that a flat subscription plan could work, Regal's CEO told investors in October that the company plans to start experimenting with charging more for tickets during peak movie times and less at times when attendance tends to be lighter.
In other words, it's Uber-esque surge pricing for movies.
So will any of these experiments work?
Zoradi thinks that there are still plenty of movies that people want to see in theaters instead of waiting for them to come out on Netflix or on demand. But time will tell if a monthly subscription plan like Netflix is the cure for what's ailing Hollywood.


"We should be paying down the debt now, so if we have a war or recession and we need to use tax cuts or increase government spending we're in a position to do so," said David Kelly, chief global strategist at JPMorgan Funds.
U.S. national debt held by the public has nearly tripled over the past decade to nearly $15 trillion today.
"It's wrong to deficit-finance a tax cut in a full employment economy when we already have high deficits," he said.
Republicans argue that the tax plan -- which would slash the corporate tax rate to 20% from 35% and encourage companies to repatriate overseas profits -- will pay for itself with much faster economic growth.
Independent analysts doubt that. In fact, the Joint Committee on Taxation, the Congressional scorekeeper for tax bills, estimates the Senate tax bill will only generate enough growth to create about $408 billion in net new revenue over the next decade.
That means even including the economic boost from the tax plan, the bill would still add about $1 trillion to deficits. In other words, the tax cuts may pay for less than one-third of their cost.
"It could leave the government with fewer bullets during the next downturn," Jaret Seiberg, managing director at Cowen Washington Research Group, wrote in a report.
Related: Here's what's in the Senate tax bill
Debt problem 'should keep people awake'
The eight-year-old recovery from the Great Recession hasn't been robust, but it has been resilient. It's already the third-longest expansion in history. While few economists anticipate an imminent downturn, another one will come eventually. And when that happens, the government's borrowing costs may not be as absurdly cheap as they are now.
Seiberg wrote that the next recession could be "deeper and longer than it might otherwise be" if the government is unable or unwilling to pile on more debt due to the tax plan.
Goldman Sachs recently warned in a report that larger deficits and rising debt could "reduce the ability to ease fiscal policy in response to an economic downturn."
The Federal Reserve's options may be more limited as well. While the Fed has begun to raise interest rates and shrink its $4.4 trillion balance sheet, both remain near crisis levels.
Fed chief Janet Yellen told Congress last week that America's debt burden is very concerning and "should keep people awake." Yellen indicated the problem will worsen as the country's population ages because spending on Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security will outpace tax revenue.
The GOP tax plan could leave Congress with less financial flexibility to tackle these long-term challenges.
Related: 13 ways the tax bills would affect people
Modest economic benefit
To be sure, there is widespread consensus that the U.S. tax code is outdated and overdue for a makeover. But many observers don't believe the bills passed by House and Senate offer the kind of reform that's needed.
"These are deficit-financed tax cuts that do little to reform the tax code...The code remains complex," Seiberg wrote.
Not only that, but the tax plan may not provide the kind of growth that would justify the cost.
Goldman Sachs estimates that the Senate tax legislation would boost growth by about 0.3 percentage points in 2018 and 2019. Goldman said the effect in 2020 and beyond "looks minimal and could actually be slightly negative."
JPMorgan's Kelly thinks the tax overhaul will only contribute "a little bit" to faster wage growth and hiring.
Keep in mind the U.S. is already enjoying the lowest unemployment rate in 17 years and there is a shortage of skilled workers to fill record-high job openings.
"We are basically out of qualified workers, or very close to it. That will limit economic growth," Kelly said.
Related: The real reason Wall Street is euphoric over tax plan
Will Main Street get a raise?
Trump often mentions the trillions of dollars sitting overseas that companies would be given a tax break on if they return it to the U.S. Those repatriated profits could be used to hire more workers and boost wages.
However, Goldman Sachs said "we do not estimate a growth effect from those repatriated profits." That suggests the money is likely to have a bigger impact on investors through massive share buybacks and fat dividends.
Wall Street seems to be betting that many CEOs will spend their tax savings on shareholders, not workers. The Dow has soared nearly 1,000 points over the past month as the tax overhaul made its way through Congress.
But markets are notoriously short-sighted and Wall Street's interests often don't align with Main Street's.
"This is unambiguously positive to the stock market," said Kelly. "The real question is whether it's the appropriate thing to do in the long-term interest of the economy."


A Fed governor since 2012, Powell is seen as a non-controversial pick for the role.
2. The deal that wasn't: British Prime Minister Theresa May failed Monday to move Brexit negotiations with the European Union on to the critical issue of future trading arrangements.
May traveled to Brussels to outline arrangements that she hoped would convince the EU that hard barriers would not return to the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland after Brexit.
The deal was scuttled after Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party, which props up May's minority government in Westminster, made its objections clear.
The episode underscores the fragile nature of the negotiations, which must be completed by March 2019. Many businesses are preparing to move jobs and investment out of the U.K. in early 2018 if trade talks haven't started.
The pound, which had gained on hopes of progress in the talks, dropped 0.7% against the dollar on Tuesday.
3. Movie merger: U.K. theater operator Cineworld has struck a deal to buy Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) for $3.6 billion.
The deal will give Cineworld access to the largest box office market in the world. The combined company will have more than 9,500 screens across Europe and the U.S.
Shares in Cineworld were off by less than 1% in London.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were mixed.
European markets were in positive territory. Britain's FTSE 100, which is stocked with exporters that love a weaker pound, added 0.3%.
Asian markets ended with losses. The Shanghai Composite was particularly hard hit, shedding nearly 2%.
5. Monday market recap: The Dow Jones industrial average added 0.2% on Monday, while the S&P 500 posted a small loss.
The Nasdaq dropped 1.1% in a session that saw tech stocks like Adobe (ADBE) and Nvidia (NVDA) tumble.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
6. Earnings and economics: AutoZone (AZO) and Lands' End (LE) will publish earnings before the open, while Dave & Busters (PLAY) will follow after the close.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
7. Coming this week:
Wednesday -- H&R Block (HRB), American Eagle (AEO) earnings Thursday -- DOJ vs. AT&T status conference Friday -- Jobs report


As part of the investment in Boom, JAL also has options to purchase as many as 20 of the supersonic planes.
Related: Five airlines want you to fly supersonic again
JAL's funding is a significant endorsement from a highly respected airline.
"This is about signaling to the broader ecosystem that this is something that there's real airline customer interest in," Blake Scholl, Boom's founder and CEO, said in an interview with CNNMoney. "The money is largely symbolic, but it's an important symbol. JAL doesn't put $10 million around without thinking really hard about it."
Scholl said Boom has been working with JAL since last year. Airlines who get in line early for all-new jets can benefit from intimate involvement in the design process, giving their wish list for features they think will please passengers, pilots, flight attendants and maintenance crews.
Related: Branson and startup unveil supersonic plane
Civilians haven't been able to buy a ticket to fly supersonic since Concorde was retired from in 2003. The Franco-British jet traveled at twice the speed of sound, crossing the Atlantic in just three and a half hours.
The iconic plane flew regularly between Europe and New York for 27 years but was withdrawn from service because of high costs. Its retirement was also hastened by a crash in 2000 that killed 113 people.
Including JAL's investment, Boom has now raised a total of $51 million, according to Scholl, and he suggested more funds are in the pipeline.

The money the company already has is more than enough to get it through developing a small two-seat demonstration aircraft and conducting its first test flight, he said. That aircraft, dubbed the XB-1, is expected to fly by the end of next year.
The project still faces extremely high hurdles. Its initial funding is a drop in the bucket compared with the billions of dollars Boom will need to develop, build, test, certify and mass produce a full-scale airliner.
Related: What ever happened to the Soviets' spectacular rival to Concorde?
In the jet age, there has never been a new entrant in commercial aviation that didn't receive significant state funding or already have a track record producing other aircraft.

Boom says it has interest from five airlines in buying a total of 76 of its supersonic airliners if it succeeds in bringing the plane to market.
Virgin Atlantic Airways is the only other customer that's been publicly identified. It holds options to purchase the first 10 Boom jets.
"Richard got a special deal in exchange for being first," Scholl said, referring to Virgin founder Sir Richard Branson.
Related: Elon Musk wants to fly you anywhere in the world in less than an hour
Scholl acknowledged that JAL is the first airline to place appreciable dollars behind its interest in the aircraft, which would fly at more than twice the speed of sound.
Plane makers covet the backing of large and established airlines. JAL and rival All Nippon Airways, were among the first to purchase Boeing's (BA) 787 Dreamliner back in 2004, a major boost to the program.
"Through this partnership, we hope to contribute to the future of supersonic travel with the intent of providing more 'time' to our valued passengers while emphasizing flight safety," Yoshiharu Ueki, president of Japan Airlines, said in a statement about the Boom investment.
Related: Sharp-nosed Japanese jetliner could be game changer for U.S. flyers
The Japanese archipelago is among the most attractive areas for supersonic flying because planes don't have to travel over very much land to reach big cities. That reduces the risk of noise pollution caused by a sonic boom. Supersonic flight is banned over Europe and the United States.
At twice the speed of sound, a flight between San Francisco and Tokyo would take around five and a half hours, including a stop for fuel along the way, Scholl said. Today, a conventional subsonic aircraft does the journey in just over 11 hours.
The speed isn't just attractive for intercontinental flights, Scholl said. A flight from Tokyo to Hong Kong could be cut from roughly five hours to around two hours, offering airlines a supersonic shuttle between two of the world's biggest financial centers.


A Fed governor since 2012 and a former Treasury official under the George W. Bush administration, Powell is seen as a non-controversial pick for the role and is widely expected to secure the job.
Related: Jerome Powell says Fed likely to hike rates in December
"We expect an uncomplicated committee vote, despite some Democratic opposition," Ian Katz, an analyst at policy research firm Capital Alpha Partners wrote in a note to clients. "Full Senate approval by early February, when Janet Yellen's term ends, appears likely at this point."
During Powell's first confirmation hearing before the Senate last week, there was strong support for the president's choice.
"Governor Powell has proved he is qualified to lead the Fed," Sen. Mike Crapo, a Republican from Idaho and chairman of the committee, said at the hearing.
Democrats voted nearly unanimously to confirm Powell when President Obama nominated him to the Fed board in 2012 and then again in 2014. Now, some are raising questions about whether he would be too aggressive in dialing back post-crisis reforms.
Warren told the Senate panel on Tuesday that she would not support Powell's nomination over concerns about the rollback of the Dodd-Frank rules.
"Our financial rules need to be stronger not weaker," she said, expressing her doubts that Powell wouldn't direct the Fed to preserve critical rules.
Related: Janet Yellen submits resignation from the Fed
Conversely, Republicans have offered few, if any, criticisms of Powell this time around.
His nomination under Obama drew opposition from Republicans like former Sen. David Vitter, who tried to delay Powell's confirmation process, arguing he would be a 'rubber stamp' for Fed chairman Ben Bernanke's policies.
Sen. Dean Heller, a Republican from Nevada, told Powell at last week's hearing he was trying to get to yes, after voting against him twice during the Obama years.
Powell, 64, has affirmed his leadership at the Fed would represent continuity with his predecessors: Yellen and Bernanke. He has also lauded the central bank's patient approach in gradually moving interest rates higher and slowly unwinding its $4.5 trillion balance sheet.
Powell has played a key role in helping to shape the Fed's policies over the last five years, and has been a consistent ally of Yellen.
The Fed governor has also left the door open to consider "appropriate ways" to ease rules on banks, while still preserving core pieces of the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory law, including annual stress tests and strong capital requirements.
At the confirmation hearing last week, Powell endorsed a GOP plan by senators to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions, while agreeing it would still give latitude to the Fed to supervise and regulate banks as needed.
In April, the Fed tapped Powell to serve as the new point man overseeing how Wall Street banks are regulated after Daniel Tarullo, the central bank's regulatory czar, stepped down. Tarullo held the position for the past eight years.
Related: Powell would be the first investment banker to chair the Fed
Powell spent much of his career in investment banking and private equity before joining the Fed.
A Princeton graduate, he was a lawyer in New York before he joined the investment bank Dillon, Read & Co. in 1984. He stayed there until he joined the Treasury Department in 1990. After he left Treasury, he became a partner in 1997 at The Carlyle Group (CG), the private equity and asset management giant. He left Carlyle in 2005.
Should he be confirmed, Powell would not only be the first former investment banker to head the Fed, but he'd also be the first individual who is not an economist to take the helm in more than 40 years.
--CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie and Chris Isidore contributed to this report.


Spearheaded by Sherrod Brown, the ranking member of the Senate Banking Committee, and Sen. Gary Peters, the letter was sent in response to Trump's decision to name Office and Management Budget Director Mulvaney to temporarily lead the CFPB. Trump made the appointment on November 24, shortly after the previous director Richard Cordray announced it would be his last day at the federal government's controversial consumer watchdog agency.
Related: Republicans say CFPB is crippling the economy. Really?
Proponents of the agency argue naming Mulvaney, who worked to kill the agency while he served in Congress, signals Republicans are still out to dismantle it.
In their letter, Democrats described Mulvaney's appointment under the Federal Vacancies Reform Act as tantamount to "political interference" of an independent agency by the White House. They said the move would jeopardize the work of the bureau.
"Assigning leadership of the CFPB to someone who already has a full-time job reporting to the White House and who does not believe in the CFPB's mission jeopardizes the agency's independence and effectiveness," the senators wrote.
Democrats argue the agency has worked to helped millions of Americans who have been ripped off by mortgage schemes or taken advantage of by predatory financial firms. Actions by the agency have resulted in $12 billion in relief for more than 29 million Americans.
Critics of the agency -- including Mulvaney -- argue the CFPB is the epitome of government overreach and wields too much unchecked power.
Mulvaney has argued the agency is "trampling on capitalism" and has promised to remedy that problem immediately.
Related: Why Wall Street and Republicans hate the CFPB
Since starting the job last Monday, he's already announced a 30-day freeze on new regulations to make sure they are not "choking off" lending.
"Rumors that I am going to set the place on fire, blow it up or lock the doors are completely false," Mulvaney said last week.
But Mulvaney's public distaste for the bureau is raising questions about what will happen to the many open investigations and lawsuits the agency has launched against companies and banks. He's expected to be briefed on roughly 100 lawsuits it is involved in.
Court documents and regulatory filings show these include Wells Fargo (WFC), online real estate firm Zillow (Z) and student loan processor Heartland Campus Solutions. There are likely other ongoing investigations into companies that the CFPB has yet to disclose.
Last week, Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren called for the agency's inspector general to review several of Muvlaney's early directives, including the 30-day regulatory freeze.
"Mr. Mulvaney provided no clarity on his authority to enact these moratoria, their impact, or how they would be implemented," Warren wrote in a Nov. 30 letter. "For all intents and purposes, Mr. Mulvaney appears to have announced a 30-day shutdown of the CFPB."
--CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed to this report.


Auto dealers pay a lot more in interest than many other businesses because they use loans to buy the cars from automakers that they then sell to consumers.
But late Friday night, the auto dealers' lobbying organization won a change in the bill that makes these auto dealer loans exempt from the bill's new interest deduction cap.
"Without the change [in the legislation] you would have seen dealers having significantly higher tax liability," said Jared Allen, spokesman for the National Automobile Dealers Association. To make up for that, he said, they would order fewer cars from the automakers.
The same change was made to the House version of the bill, which means that the new language will probably make it into the final version of the law.
The cost of giving dealers the interest payment tax break hasn't been calculated. The 30% cap on interest deductions was expected to raise tax revenue by about $300 billion over the next 10 years, but only a fraction of that would have been accounted for by auto dealership loans.
Related: The Senate tax bill would allow oil drilling in the Alaska wilderness
Even if this tax breaks won't cost all that much, it's an example of what's wrong with the tax reform process, said Howard Gleckman, editor of the blog TaxVox, and senior fellow at the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center.
"It's what one of my colleagues likes to call 'tax deform,' rather than tax reform," Gleckman said.
He said that tax breaks aimed a specific industries or even specific companies were supposed to be eliminated in return for lower corporate tax rates on businesses.
These types of tax breaks are inserted into bills in order to win the votes of specific members of Congress and get the legislation passed. In this case, the language came from Sen. Rand Paul, an early critic of the bill who ended up voting for it.
"It's not surprising it was included," said Gleckman said, referring to the break for dealers. "Congress has been doing this since there's been tax legislation."
13 ways the tax bills would affect people: Senate and House differ on key points
Auto dealerships have quite a bit of political sway. They are spread fairly evenly across all 435 congressional districts, and are often major contributors to congressional and legislative races. And they employ about 1.1 million people, more than the number of people who work building cars and auto parts.
"Almost every congressional district has a significant number of jobs in dealerships," said NADA's Allen. "The members of Congress understand they are small business owners who employ locally, pay taxes locally. We make very good neighbors and constituents for thousands of communities."
Besides auto dealers, the tax break also stays in place for other dealerships that sell trucks, recreational vehicles, farm equipment and construction equipment.


AT&T would control Time Warner's content that airs on AT&T's DirecTV and U-Verse offerings. CVS would control Aetna, whose doctors prescribe drugs that are insured and sold by CVS.
Prior to AT&T-Time Warner, vertical mergers were practically guaranteed approval. But by taking AT&T and Time Warner (TWX) to court, Trump's Justice Department could be the first since the Carter administration to challenge a vertical merger through the court system.
Just because it's a vertical merger doesn't mean regulators will block CVS (CVS) from buying Aetna. The Trump administration has approved other vertical mergers, including Amazon's purchase of Whole Foods.
"Every case is fact-specfic," said David Balto, a Clinton administration policy director for the Federal Trade Commission, another antitrust regulator. "Other cases of vertical mergers don't raise competitive concerns."
Related: Trump Justice Department puts Corporate America on notice
But the CVS-Aetna deal shares another, perhaps more important trait with AT&T and Time Warner: They're both at least partially "defensive mergers," meant to stave off competition.
AT&T (T) is trying to buy a giant content maker to protect itself against Netflix and other streaming competitors. Similarly, CVS wants to prevent Amazon from luring customers away from its pharmacy business.
That could be a dealbreaker: The Justice Department has recently shown little tolerance for defensive mergers.
When Staples claimed in 2015 that it needed to buy OfficeDepot to fend off Amazon (AMZN), regulators offered no sympathy and later blocked the deal. Halliburton was prevented from buying Baker Hughes last year, even though crashing oil prices hurt both companies.
Regulators also blocked two health insurance mega-mergers earlier this year -- including Aetna's proposed deal for rival Humana -- despite claims from the insurance industry that the deals were necessary to protect themselves from growing uncertainty in the marketplace.
On the surface, the CVS-Aetna merger seems like one that the new antitrust sheriff, Assistant Attorney General Makan Delrahim, would at least heavily scrutinize -- if not block.
Related: AT&T's battle with Trump could enter rare territory
Yet every deal is unique, with its own particularities. The health insurance market is very different from the media industry. So the Justice Department will have to weigh each case on its own merits.
"The issues in the CVS-Aetna merger are not all going to be similar to those in AT&T-Time Warner," said Maurice Stucke, antitrust law professor at the University of Tennessee and former DOJ prosecutor in the Clinton and George W. Bush administrations. "I would expect a careful review, but it's premature to say if the merger will be blocked."
The Justice Department's argument against AT&T's purchase of Time Warner is that the deal could allow AT&T to charge competitors like Comcast more to carry Turner television networks, including TNT, TBS and CNN.
If Comcast refused to pay, those stations could be blacked out for Comcast subscribers, and AT&T could lure away angry customers with its DirecTV service. (DirecTV would have access to those stations because they'd be part of the same parent company.) AT&T has promised the Justice Department it would settle disputes with content providers in arbitration rather than taking them off the air.
It's not immediately clear that CVS's purchase of Aetna (AET) would create a similar situation.
For example, CVS already serves as the pharmacy benefits manager for Aetna customers, so CVS wouldn't be adding any share of the market by buying the insurer. One big caveat: The companies negotiate those agreements every few years, so CVS wouldn't have to worry about losing Aetna to a rival one day.
Stucke said Delrahim and the Justice Department would look at a basic question when considering the deal: Could CVS and Aetna illegally work together to hurt competing pharmacies and insurance companies, reducing consumer choice and raising prices?
CVS dominates the pharmacy business, but it accepts insurance from Express Scripts (ESRX) and other rivals, not just the CVS-owned Caremark plan. And Aetna and CVS don't compete much, except in offering drug plans for Medicare subscribers.
Regulators could approve the deal on the condition of so-called behavioral remedies, under which CVS and Aetna would promise to play fair in the marketplace. But Delrahim isn't known as a dealmaker. He has said publicly that he shuns that kind of promise. Instead, the companies could be forced to sell off some of their Medicare business.
In 2010, Delrahim was on the other side. He lobbied for Comcast when it was trying to merge with NBCUniversal, a deal that was approved in 2011 after the companies agreed to their own behavioral remedies related to net neutrality.
It's hard to read the tea leaves on this deal. The only thing that seems certain is we can throw out our old assumptions about antitrust enforcement.
"We've had 35 years of light antitrust enforcement, and now there are growing signs of skepticism," Stucke said. "If companies expected leniency with a Republican president -- that assumption is being challenged by the AT&T merger."


Aetna CEO Mark Bertolini said during a conference call with analysts Monday that the combined resources of CVS and Aetna could make the pharmacies and walk-in clinics kind of like the medical version of the Genius Bar at Apple Stores, with experts dispensing quick, convenient and reliable health care knowledge.
"The combined company will also be able to better understand patients' health goals, guide them through the health care system, and help them achieve their best health. There will be expanded opportunities to bring health care services to consumers every day," the companies added in a release.
The company explained this with an example of how diabetics could get quicker, easier treatment.
CVS and Aetna said that patients will be able to go to a local CVS or minute clinic in between doctor visits for glucose level monitoring, counseling on how and when to use medications and advice on weight loss programs and better dietary habits.
"These types of interventions are things that the traditional health care system could be doing, but the traditional health care system lacks the key elements of convenience and coordination that help to engage consumers in their health," CVS CEO Larry Merlo said in the release.
Related: CVS is buying Aetna in a massive health care deal
Merlo added during the conference call that rising health care costs are a major problem for consumers and that the combination of CVS and Aetna will lead to lower expenses and better service for consumers and health care providers.
It's unclear just how quickly customers might start seeing savings -- and how much cheaper drugs might actually be, for that matter.
It's also not certain if this will mainly be good for the 90 million customers of CVS and Caremark as well as the 23 million people who have Aetna insurance or if people with other insurance and pharmacy plans can also benefit.
CVS also recently took over the pharmacy operations at Target (TGT).
CVS has existing partnerships with UnitedHealth's OptumRx and is planning to create a new pharmacy benefits management company with insurer Anthem called IngenioRx.
Merlo and Aetna's Bertolini, who will join the combined company's board if a deal goes through, both stressed that CVS-Aetna will also be better able to serve the aging population in the U.S., which is increasingly relying on the government's Medicare and Medicaid programs for health care.
Bertolini said during the conference call that many Medicare/Medicaid patients are "confused" and "wandering through the system" seeing numerous doctors and taking many different medications.
He said that the CVS-Aetna merger can eliminate much of the "unnecessary complexities" consumers face when seeing a doctor and create a "new front door to the health care system."
In other words, CVS and Aetna would rather that sick people go to a pharmacy or minute clinic first instead of an already stressed emergency room.
So how close to reality is this vision, one where a trip to the drug store makes visits to the doctor's office or hospital less necessary? That's not clear. It's uncertain if the CVS-Aetna deal will be approved by federal regulators.
Keep in mind that Aetna had tried to merge with competitor Humana (HUM) and that deal was blocked on antitrust grounds. So was a deal between two other insurers -- Anthem (ANTM) and Cigna (CI).
But the fact that CVS and Aetna are not really competitors could make it more likely that Washington will approve the combination. And if CVS and Aetna are allowed to merge, more deals could follow that may drastically change how you get health care services.
There is already speculation that the other insurers could now be a good strategic fit for CVS rival Walgreens (WBA) as well as Walmart (WMT), which operates a lucrative pharmacy business.
There is also rampant speculation about what plans Amazon (AMZN) has for the drug business after it received wholesale pharmacy licenses in a dozen states in October.
Related: CVS to offer next-day drug delivery
Could Amazon, which has expanded its own brick and mortar operations through the opening of its own book stores and purchase of Whole Foods, be looking to become a big drug store retailer as well?
What's more, many businesses offer their employees health care plans that feature a combination of one of the big five insurers -- UnitedHealth (UNH) is the other -- and pharmacy benefits management services from CVS and Caremark, UnitedHealth's OptumRx or their rival PBM giant Express Scripts (ESRX).
It is possible that if CVS-Aetna leads to other insurer-drug retail deals, then CVS and other pharmacy chains may be able to negotiate for more favorable employee insurer plans and cheaper prices for prescription drugs from Big Pharma giants like Pfizer (PFE), Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Eli Lilly (LLY).
The ultimate goal, after all, is a land grab. CVS would rather become the preeminent place for all health care needs before Walgreens, Walmart or Amazon beats them to the punch.
So if CVS-Aetna gets the green light from Washington, the way Americans get medical advice may drastically change over the next few years. More people could go to one-stop shops where they are diagnosed, given medications and treatment plans all at once.


The back-and-forth day was almost the mirror image of what happened on Friday when concerns about the Russia scandal caused stocks to plunge before they eventually rebounded.
Related: The real reason Wall Street is euphoric over tax plan
Despite the turbulence, it's clear Wall Street loves the tax overhaul making its way through Congress. The Dow did manage to close at its 81st record high since last year's election. The U.S. Tax Reform Fun, (TAXR) an ETF that holds stocks that could benefit from the tax overhaul, jumped another 1%.
Both the House and Senate bills, which now have to be reconciled, call for slashing the corporate tax rate to 20% from 35%. They would also offer a tax break for companies to bring foreign profits sitting overseas back to the United States.
While Republican leaders promise the tax plan will unleash huge economic growth, spur hiring and lift wages, Wall Street and many economists are far less certain of such an outcome.
But investors can win, even if Main Street doesn't. Markets are betting companies will use their spare cash to help Wall Street by ramping up stock repurchases and bolstering their dividends. Both moves could keep the stock market soaring, even if jobs and wages don't take off as well. The Dow, up an incredible 6,000 points since President Trump's election, smashed through the 24,000 level last week.


"I just felt so alone," says Alba, reflecting on being one of the only women in a leadership role during her early days at the company.

Alba, now 36, knew she wanted to start a company that made safe, organic products. She says she had an allergic reaction to baby detergent while cleaning onesies for her first child.
"I just felt like how the heck could something that's marketed to babies specifically, and all of that, give me this type of reaction. Like what's going on?" Alba recalls.
So she started researching online and eventually made her way to Washington D.C., lobbying for chemical reform on Capitol Hill, and later partnering with three other co-founders -- all men -- to launch The Honest Company.
The mother of two, who has a third on the way, co-founded the consumer goods brand in 2011. When she was raising her initial seed funding she was pregnant with her second child, and pitching to a room full of mostly men.
Alba also says many potential investors didn't take her seriously because she was a celebrity.
"It made me more determined... Everyone pretty much thought I was nuts," the Golden Globes nominee admits. "Being successful in entertainment doesn't mean you're going to be successful in business."
Related: Christy Turlington Burns on her mission to help all mothers
Alba says she worked with her co-founders to make the board more diverse, but they initially had other priorities.
"It's not that they didn't want to, it's just, we were thinking month-to-month about financial goals and that's more important than building a long-term vision and strategy," she tells Harlow.
The Honest Company tells CNN that Alba and Brian Lee, a co-founder and former CEO, sought out women to join the board but it was challenging to get anyone -- women or men -- to commit to a VC-backed startup.
Lee, who left his post as CEO in March, did not respond to a request for comment from CNN.
Today, Alba says she is committed to changing the company's demographics. She hired a new CEO, Nick Vlahos, who is restructuring the company's management team. And she is devising ways to help women at the company build their career paths and get to that "C-suite executive capability."
"We're going to have a curriculum and a program and a mentorship in-house, inside of The Honest Company, for women specifically. It's necessary," Alba says.
The Honest Company's Chief People Officer Janis Hoyt, is among the women hired under the new leadership.
"We're taking an opportunity to really focus on women and how they are represented, especially in the VP level and above," Hoyt says. "As we've grown from a startup to a more structured consumer, products, goods company, we're able to focus on that now and move in that direction."
Related: Diane von Furstenberg: 'I've never met a woman who isn't strong'
The Honest Company recently launched its first employee resource group, Women Excelling in Leadership and Living. "This group is really here to shed light on some of the bias that plays out in workplace, but also how can we offer professional development and growth and really support the network of women," Hoyt says.
A recent McKinsey report finds that companies with more gender diversity are 15% more likely to have financial returns above their industry averages.
The Honest Company, which is based in Santa Monica, California, launched with 17 home products and now makes more than 100, including diapers, cleaning supplies and personal care products. The company reported $300 million in sales in 2016.
The brand has also encountered some hurdles, including getting hit with several lawsuits. It recently agreed to pay $1.55 million to settle a nationwide class action lawsuit that claimed the company misled buyers about some ingredients in its laundry detergent and dish soap.
"We have to be more stringent on the way we communicate our marketing materials," Alba says.
She argues that the company sometimes faces more scrutiny from the press because she is a celebrity.
"We've had exchanges before they write articles. And I say, 'Why don't you bring in X, Y, and Z company, that is dealing with the exact same thing?' And they're like, 'Because they're not Jessica Alba,'" she says.
During her toughest moments as an entrepreneur, Alba says she often would seek inspiration from Eleanor Roosevelt's leadership style. "She was a huge inspiration for me," she later told CNN.
"She did so many things for so many different people and groups of folks, and she was just one woman," Alba says. "One person can move mountains if you have the perseverance and the determination and the vision to make it happen."


More good news came Friday: The manufacturing industry expanded in November for the 15th month in a row, according to the monthly ISM index. It's been growing almost nonstop since a brief five-month recession that began in late 2015.
Related: NAFTA talks are in trouble
And the United States has added 138,000 manufacturing jobs so far this year, far better than the 34,000 factory jobs lost over the same period last year. Last year's losses reinforced President Trump's portrayal of manufacturing in a long decline.
"One by one, the factories shuttered and left our shores, with not even a thought about the millions upon millions of American workers left behind," he said in his inaugural address in January.

Despite that narrative of lost jobs, some measures show the industry is thriving. For example, what's known as the industry's total real output, the value of all the goods it produces, has been hovering near an all-time high for three years.
Trump campaigned heavily on bringing manufacturing jobs back to the United States, particularly by renegotiating America's trade deals, such as NAFTA, the pact with Canada and Mexico. All three countries say NAFTA negotiations are not going well, despite some progress on peripheral issues.
Regardless of trade policy, though, manufacturing has rebounded for a variety of reasons, both domestic and global.
Related: U.S. wins tuna trade battle against Mexico
Manufacturing has benefited this year from a weaker U.S. dollar. The industry depends heavily on exporting its products -- from pipes to pickup trucks. When the dollar's value is high, as it was in 2015, when manufacturing was in a recession, U.S. exports are more expensive and less attractive to foreign buyers.

The dollar is down about 9% compared with the world's most traded currencies this year, according to the ICE dollar index. At the same time, the global economy is on pace to post its best year of growth since 2011, according to the IMF.
Put those two factors together, and it's not surprising that U.S. exports were up 8% in the first half of this year compared with the same period in 2016.
Another factor: The U.S. economy is performing well. Unemployment is 4.1%, its lowest since 2000. The economy has added jobs for 85 consecutive months, the longest streak in recorded U.S. history. A healthy economy increases demand for manufactured goods in America, from cars to solar panels.
Companies have been hiring in particular for manufacturing jobs in metals and electronic products. Those sectors have added 32,000 jobs and 13,000 jobs respectively.
Related: Mexico is surviving Year 1 of Trump
Germán Curá plans to bring 600 manufacturing jobs in December to Bay City, Texas, where his European firm, Tenaris, is opening a $1.8 billion steel pipe plant. The rise of the U.S. shale industry largely drove the company's decision to open the plant, but Curá argues that the ability to use advanced technology to create jobs also played a role.
Along with market size and enforcement of trade laws, "I think manufacturing in the States is coming back because companies have understood that with the appropriate technology with automation ... in the end it's translated in our ability to look at manufacturing as a sustainable, feasible activity," he says.
That sentiment may mark a shift in manufacturing, which has long been considered a victim of automation. One study from Ball State University estimates that 87% of the manufacturing jobs lost between 2000 and 2010 were attributed to automation and improved efficiency.
Curá says the typical employee at Tenaris, which also has operations in Canada and Mexico, has changed from "a person pushing a pipe to a person operating a robot."
In surveys, manufacturers across the United States say they can't find workers with the right skills, causing some positions to go unfilled. The Trump administration plans to invest more federal dollars in apprenticeship programs.
Curá adds that manufacturers don't have a choice. They need to prepare workers for the factory jobs of the future. Tenaris has an in-house job training program for new hires.
"Our job as a manufacturing industry overall is to embrace something that's unavoidable and retrain workers," Curá says.


The acquisition is not a done deal. It will have to be approved by antitrust regulators, who have been skeptical of similar health care mergers.
Aetna shares were higher ahead of the open. CVS shares were sharply lower.
2. Brexit crunch lunch: British Prime Minister Theresa May will meet European leaders Jean-Claude Juncker and Donald Tusk for lunch in Brussels.
The meeting could be a crucial turning point in Brexit talks.
May is hoping that the European Union will soon certify that "sufficient progress" has been made on three key issues: The Irish border, citizens' rights and a financial settlement.
If a breakthrough is achieved, Britain will be able to start work on the hundreds of trade, regulatory and legal agreements that are needed to ensure its economy can avoid significant disruption after March 2019.
3. Tax plan: The U.S. dollar has strengthened after the Senate passed a sweeping tax overhaul bill early on Saturday.
Just one Republican, Bob Corker of Tennessee, voted against it on deficit concerns.
However, the Senate bill differs from the tax bill passed by the House in mid-November. Those differences now must be reconciled and a final piece of legislation voted on by both chambers.
Wall Street is betting that companies will use spare cash from the tax cuts to purchase boatloads of stock and beef up their dividends.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were higher.
European markets posted gains in early trade, while Asian markets ended the session mixed.
The dollar added 0.3% against a basket of major currencies. U.S. crude oil futures dropped 1% to dip below $58 per barrel.
The Dow Jones industrial average shed 0.2% on Friday, but still managed to add 2.9% over the week. It was the index's best week this year.
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq also posted losses on Friday.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Earnings and economics: U.S. factory orders data will be published at 10:00 a.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- NABE Economic forecast survey; Brexit lunch Wednesday -- H&R Block (HRB), American Eagle (AEO) earnings Thursday -- DOJ vs. AT&T status conference Friday -- Jobs report


Maduro said the Venezuelan cryptocurrency would be backed by the country's oil, gold, gas and diamond reserves. Venezuela is home to the world's largest crude oil reserves, but its production has steadily declined to a 13-year low after companies halted some operations because of unpaid bills.
Related: 'Death spiral': 4,000% inflation in Venezuela
Its gold, gas and diamond holdings are few smaller and they're counted by the nation's central bank in its $9.7 billion of dwindling foreign reserves, a paltry sum for any country.
Maduro blames Trump administration sanctions for making U.S. banks unwilling to participate in financial transactions with the Venezuelan government, either as buyers or payment processors.
However, the cryptocurrency is unlikely to resolve the country's deep financial problems.
The Venezuelan government and its state-run oil company, PDVSA, both defaulted on certain bonds in November, according to ratings agencies. Many experts believe the missed payments mean the country is set to default on all of its roughly $65 billion debt due to bondholders. That would likely worsen the nation's already severe food and medical shortages.
In total, Venezuela owes about $141 billion to its investors. They include China, Russia, oil service companies and a slew of other entities, according to Moody's Investor Service. Russian leaders recently agreed to delay $3.5 billion of Venezuelan debt payments, but that break is unlikely to resolve the South American nation's debt crisis.
Related: Russia extends financial lifeline to Venezuela
Maduro's announcement also comes at a time of growing interest in cryptocurrencies.
Bitcoin has enjoyed a stunning rise, soaring more than 1,000% in value this year. It started 2017 at less than $1,000, but skyrocketed past $11,000 last week. But some high-profile figures in finance and economics have warned of a potential bubble.

What's also breathtaking is the collapse of Venezuela's currency this year. It took about 3,100 bolivars to buy one U.S. dollar at the beginning of the year. Now, a dollar is worth 103,000 bolivars, according to the unofficial exchange rate tracked by dolartoday.com. One expert says inflation is on track to hit 4,000% this year.
Maduro said Sunday that the new cryptocurrency would be used to make financial transactions. But it's unclear whether bondholders would exchange payments due in U.S. dollars -- the dominant global currency -- for a new and potentially unpredictable digital currency.
Maduro, whose regime has been widely labeled a dictatorship, didn't say whether the cryptocurrency would be used by ordinary Venezuelans to buy groceries, medicines or other basics.
Related: Venezuela just defaulted, moving deeper into crisis
It isn't the first time Maduro has been creative with Venezuela's cash. His government created a new exchange rate in 2015 then later got rid of it. The country's other two official rates are considered meaningless and heavily overvalued in light of the nation's economic collapse and lack of reliable data.
With soaring inflation, Maduro promised a year ago to print bills of bolivars with higher denominations to try to alleviate Venezuelans' financial pain somewhat. But there was such high demand for them upon arrival that cash shortages persisted. Venezuelans queue up daily outside ATMs, sometimes for over an hour. The maximum that can be withdrawn from an ATM in Venezuela is 30,000 bolivars (about 30 U.S. cents).
Maduro is known to make sweeping statements that are met with applause but don't produce any tangible results. In September, he announced a plan to give rabbits to families suffering from food shortages in order to help address widespread hunger.
So far, no further news of the "rabbit plan" has emerged.


ANWR has been closed to oil exploration since 1980 because of concerns about the impact on the region's caribou, polar bears and other fragile ecosystems.
Related: Here's what's in the Senate Republican tax bill
The 1002 area, which is thought to contain massive oil reserves, has been the topic of fierce debate since at least the late 1970s.
So far, bids to allow drilling in the area have been unsuccessful.
But Murkowski, like her politician father before her, has lobbied hard to lift the drilling ban. She argues it will spur Alaska's economy and help pay for the tax breaks, which an analysis shows could add more than $1 trillion to the country's national debt.
Alaska's other senator, Republican Dan Sullivan, has also argued in favor of developing there. In a Washington Post op-ed last month, he said the state requires developers to use the "best available technology" and ensure the "protection of our incredible species."
But environmentalists say drilling poses a significant threat to the area's wildlife.
On November 9, more than 30 scientists sent a letter to Murkowski that called on her to ensure the zone remains protected.
Related: Trump wants to drill for oil in Alaska's fragile wildlife refuge
"Based on our experience in the Arctic, we oppose oil exploration, development and production in the Arctic Refuge. Such activity would be incompatible with the purposes for which the refuge was established, including 'to conserve fish and wildlife populations and habitats in their natural diversity,'" the scientists wrote.
After Saturday's Senate vote, one of the co-signers, David Yarnold, called the provision "simply shameful" in a statement.
"The Arctic Refuge isn't a bank," said Yarnold, who's also the CEO of Audubon, an environmental and conservation nonprofit. "Drilling there won't pay for the tax cuts the Senate just passed."
Nothing is set in stone. The House and Senate versions of the tax bill look very different, and a single version will need to be hashed out in a process known as reconciliation. Lawmakers would need to add the drilling provision to the House bill for it to become law.
Both chambers will need to vote again on the final draft.
Correction: The headline on an earlier version of this article incorrectly referred to the part of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge that would be opened to drilling.


The acquisition is not a done deal. It will have to be approved by antitrust regulators, who have been skeptical of similar health care mergers.
Buying Aetna puts CVS in a better position to compete with other integrated health care providers, such as UnitedHealthcare (UNH) and pharmacy benefits manager Optum. PBMs like Optum and CVS's Caremark help manage prescription drug plans for commercial health insurers.
Together, UnitedHealthCare and Optum have already taken business away from CVS, said Ana Gupte, a health care analyst for investment firm Leerink.
Gupte added that Amazon's rumored desire to enter into the pharmacy business could be another motivating factor.
Related: Amazon may be factor behind rumored CVS, Aetna merger
Aetna, meanwhile, hasn't been growing as quickly as its peers, Gupte pointed out. A shakeup could be good for business.
And by teaming up, CVS and Aetna are following broader industry trends, said George Hill, a health care technology & distribution analyst with RBC Capital Markets.
Pharmacies like CVS and health care providers like Aetna are looking for ways to make it cheaper and easier for their clients to access medication and care, he said, because that's what their clients want. Joining forces is an efficient way to do that.
But it's not entirely clear if or how quickly savings would get passed down to consumers. Gupte pointed out that Aetna already has a deal with CVS Caremark, so prescription drug prices may not go down. Customers could see benefits down the road, however, if CVS turns some storefronts into clinics or primary care centers.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
But advocacy groups have criticized the deal. The Coalition to Protect Patient Choice said that "mergers like these have a dismal history," adding, "consumers suffer by paying more and getting less choice for the vital drugs they need."
The prospects for the deal are uncertain, since mergers involving health insurance companies have recently run into regulatory roadblocks. In 2015, Aetna and Humana (HUM) announced a $34 billion merger, while Anthem (ANTX) agreed to acquire Cigna (CI) for $54 billion. Both deals were called off in February after they were blocked by federal judges citing antitrust concerns.
-- CNNMoney's Nathaniel Meyersohn and Seth Fiegerman contributed to this report.


Covered California's marketing riches contrast starkly with the advertising budget for the federal health insurance exchange, healthcare.gov. The feds have slashed ad dollars to $10 million, down from $100 million last year.
The huge discrepancy reflects conflicting attitudes toward the ACA, commonly known as Obamacare, said Gerald Kominski, director at the University of California-Los Angeles Center for Health Policy Research.
"A $10 million advertising budget for healthcare.gov, which supports exchanges in 30-something states, is ... in keeping with the goal of this administration to destroy the ACA," he said. "California's budget reflects a different approach to the ACA, which is that it is an important source of insurance."
Other health care experts say marketing is not the best use of money now that the exchanges are a known commodity, especially in California. They suggest the dollars could be better spent on things like reducing premiums.
"All of this money being used on murals and bus tours and TV ads, etc., it's not going to change the number of enrollees that much," said Sally Pipes, the president and CEO of the Pacific Research Institute in San Francisco, which advocates for free-market policies. "It would be better to save money and reduce taxes so that people have lower tax burden."
Related: These states are doing Obamacare open enrollment their own way
California is one of 11 states, plus the District of Columbia, that operate their own exchanges. The remaining 39 states use the federal healthcare.gov site.
Altogether, Covered California plans to spend $111.5 million on marketing in 2017-18, which includes support for enrollment helpers called navigators, ads, staff salaries and more.
Covered California leaders and consumer health advocates say the agency's sizable marketing budget is necessary because of recent federal moves to undercut the ACA. The Trump administration shortened the enrollment period to 45 days in most states and stopped paying insurers to provide a subsidy that helps many low-income consumers with out-of-pocket medical costs.
"It sounds like a lot ... but it's a very legitimate expenditure," said Betsy Imholz, director of special projects for Consumers Union.
The federal government's $10 million advertising investment is "ridiculously inadequate" by comparison, she said. Covered California will spend that amount on online ads alone.
Ed Haislmaier, a senior research fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation, said the feds' advertising cuts reflect the needed transition from promoting the exchange as a new option to maintaining it as an established program.
"Growing awareness is not going to magically get desired people to enroll," he said.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), which runs the federal exchange, explained that it cut advertising in part because it did not seem to be boosting first-time enrollment. For 2017 plans, first-time enrollment declined by 42% and total enrollment fell by 500,000 people to 12.2 million. Covered California has about 1.4 million enrollees.
HHS plans to use its smaller budget on digital media promotion like YouTube videos and targeted ads on search engines. It will also focus on emailing and calling healthcare.gov consumers directly to remind them of the Dec. 15 enrollment deadline.
Californians who purchase their insurance through Covered California or on the open market will continue to have three months, until Jan. 31, to enroll in plans for next year.
Related: Why California is wincing over Trump-backed health plan associations
Peter Lee, Covered California's executive director, said he believes that spreading the word about open enrollment creates a risk pool that includes both healthy and sick people.
"Yes, marketing costs money, but marketing means more people sign up, and the people that sign up are healthier and help lower premiums," he said.
Advertising likely helped lower premiums by 6% to 8% in 2015 and 2016 by creating a more balanced risk pool, according to a recent marketing report from Covered California.
This year, as in some previous years, Lee paraded across the state in a colorful charter bus promoting the start of open enrollment. He touted the 12 new murals, and echoed the primary message of Covered California's ads: Life can change in an instant due to unexpected injuries, such as falling off a ladder.
One mural painted outside an AltaMed clinic in East Los Angeles features people dancing and exercising around a doctor. A mural painted outside La Familia Counseling Center in Sacramento shows a woman holding a bowl above her head, out of which flow children riding bikes and a basketball player.
How much the murals, the tour bus or the ads will help cut through the confusion, let alone increase enrollment, is unclear.
"I don't know if marketing will be able to address how complex this open enrollment will be," said Kevin Knauss, an insurance agent in the Sacramento area.
Kaiser Health News senior correspondent Anna Gorman contributed to this report.
Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.


But Wall Street can cash in, even if Main Street doesn't.
Markets are betting that companies would use their new spare cash to help investors: by purchasing boatloads of stock and beefing up their dividends. Both outcomes can help propel the soaring stock market to new heights, even if jobs and wages don't follow suit.
"The additional cash will definitely help buybacks," said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices.
Investors love stock buybacks because they're less risky than investments in new projects that may or may not work. Even better, buybacks make earnings per share, a key measure of profitability, instantly look better simply by reducing the number of shares in the ratio. Underlying profits don't even need to improve.
During the last overseas tax holiday in 2004, companies leaned very heavily on buybacks. In fact, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities later concluded that the 2004 tax holiday "did not produce the promised economic benefits" because companies mostly bought back stock instead of investing to grow their businesses.
Related: Goldman warns markets haven't been this pricey since 1900
Stock buybacks have been a centerpiece of the current bull market. S&P 500 companies have repurchased an incredible $3.8 trillion of stock since the end of March 2010, according to Silverblatt. This key source of market support has been slowing, but the tax bill would likely put CEOs under pressure to ramp it back up.
Silverblatt joked that the big winner from the GOP tax plan would be Home Depot because companies will have to "reinforce their boardroom doors" from all the shareholders screaming for buybacks.
What about hiring and boosting wages? The outlook looks less certain there. The unemployment rate is at 4.1% and job openings are at an all-time high.
And it's not like companies are cash-strapped. Even before potential tax cuts, S&P 500 companies have a record $1.5 trillion in cash.
"Companies already have enough money to do whatever they want now," said Silverblatt.
2. Jobs report: The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics plans to report November's jobs numbers on Friday.
We've had a good run. The economy has grown by roughly 1.7 million jobs so far in 2017. In October, 261,000 jobs were added -- making it the best month for job growth of the Trump administration. Unemployment fell to 4.1%, a 17-year low.
But wages continue to disappoint. Last month, they grew by just 2.4% compared to the same period last year, even lower than September's growth rate.
Related: U.S. unemployment drops to lowest in 17 years
November's numbers will be revealed as the government continues to hash out a tax bill the president promises will boost wages by $4,000 a year on average. Experts warn that figure may be inflated.
3. Government budget showdown: Funding for the government is set to expire on December 8, and partisan issues -- like the future of DACA -- mean negotiations will be fierce.
Related: Hill leaders take first steps to prevent year-end shutdown
Legislators on Capitol Hill are hoping to avoid a shutdown by pushing the deadline. House Speaker Paul Ryan announced plans this week to pass a short-term spending bill to keep Washington open while budget talks continue, and Senate Democrats seem eager to keep the government open. But Trump has signaled that he may want to play hardball.
4. Media deal in court: AT&T (T) and the Justice Department will be in court on Thursday.
The Justice Department filed a suit against AT&T and Time Warner on November 20 to block AT&T's bid to buy Time Warner (TWX), CNN's parent company, citing antitrust concerns. The first big question the judge needs to decide is when to schedule a trial. The two sides disagree when that should be.
The case is being closely watched. It also could have implications for other big mergers. CVS (CVS) reportedly is poised to possibly acquire Aetna (AET).
5. Coming this week:
Monday -- NABE Economic forecast survey
Wednesday -- H&R Block (HRB), American Eagle (AEO) earnings
Thursday -- DOJ vs. AT&T status conference
Friday -- Jobs report


Related: Republicans say CFPB is crippling the economy. Really?
"There seems to be a collective amnesia in this room, in this committee, in this Congress -- a collective amnesia about what happened 10 years ago," Brown said last week during Jerome Powell's confirmation hearing to be the next Fed chair.
"But Americans still struggle because of low wages, because of underemployment or unemployment, and lack of opportunities. Loosening the rules for some of the country's largest banks is not the way to solve these problems."
A handful of Republicans including Senator Dean Heller of Nevada and Tim Scott of South Carolina have also filed their own remedies to the bill.
Senator Mike Crapo, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee who spearheaded the bill with the support of 20 senators, has touted it as one that has garnered "very strong bipartisan support for tailoring and simplifying regulations" for smaller institutions and community banks, while also improving access to mortgage credit and housing for Americans.
One of the biggest changes in Crapo's measure calls for raising the threshold at which banks are labeled as too big to fail to $250 billion from $50 billion in assets -- an effort both Powell and Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen have expressed support for. Doing so, would alleviate those firms from some of the most stringent rules under the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory reform law.
Related: Too-big-to-fail banks keep getting bigger
It would also exempt banks with less than $10 billion in assets from the so-called Volcker Rule, which bars institutions from making risky market bets with their own capital.
And while the legislative proposal has the backing of 10 Democrats, progressive like Brown and Warren have staunchly opposed the measure for its inadequate consumer protections.
Republican efforts to overhaul the 2010 law have failed in the past because Democrats have argued they went too far in gutting safeguards aimed at protecting consumers and ensuring that Wall Street doesn't cause another meltdown.
Crapo initially began the process of drafting a legislative proposal with Brown. But talks broke down earlier this fall, prompting Crapo to begin negotiating with moderate Democrats on the Senate panel, including Senators Jon Tester, Heidi Heitkamp and Joe Donnelly.
Among the more than 100 proposed fixes are giving Americans greater control over their own personal information and stronger tools to oversee their credit reports.
Related: Senators introduce data breach disclosure bill
Other changes include exempting banks from any form of regulatory relief if the financial firm has previously failed its annual Fed stress test or has a history of misconduct tied to its home mortgage business.
Democratic staffers told reporters on Friday the bill as proposed would put taxpayers at greater risk for another bailout by loosening regulations on how often banks face a financial health checkup and would exempt dozens of the largest U.S. firms from drafting so-called "living wills," a plan required to unwind a failing bank safely.
What's more Crapo's proposal would also erase a number of critical protections to home buyers, according to Democratic staffers.
For example, it would block certain homeowners from going to court to stop banks from wrongfully foreclosing and kicking them out of their homes.
Related: Trump kills rule that made it easier for people to sue banks
The proposal would also allow the banks to sell customers adjustable rate mortgages without disclosing what the interest rate would rise to when the teaser rate expires.
It would also rid of new reporting requirements of mortgage data collected by banks that impede regulators ability to spot lending trends like discriminating against minorities.
Crapo's bill would also provide Americans with less protection from massive data breaches like Equifax under the proposal, according to staff.
Still, the bill has gotten some early support from regulators at the Federal Reserve.
Powell endorsed Crapo's measure to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions during Tuesday's hearing, while agreeing it would still give latitude to the Fed to supervise and regulate banks as needed.


Now, President Donald Trump wants to promote a renaissance of these health plans and make it easier for them to operate across state lines — with less regulation.
In a recent executive order, Trump directed the Department of Labor to look into ways to "allow more small businesses to avoid many of the [Affordable Care Act's] costly requirements."
Because the plans would do business in more than one state, they could "figure out a way to pull back some authority states have," said Kevin Lucia, senior research professor at Georgetown University's Center on Health Insurance Reforms.
Related: Rising Obamacare costs frighten some early retirees
That does not sit well in California, where key state policymakers warn that weaker regulation of these plans could destabilize the small-employer and individual markets, which have gained important consumer protections under the ACA and state health laws — including minimum benefit levels.
"President Trump is trying to loosen those rules, and return us to the bad old days" that were disastrous for consumers, said California Insurance Commissioner Dave Jones. Tens of thousands of consumers were "left in the lurch" without insurance when their associations folded, and millions of dollars in medical claims went unpaid, he said.
In the 1980s and 1990s, association plan failures hit a number of small businesses, affecting employees across industries. Thousands of farm workers suffered when a plan created by Sherman Oaks-based Sunkist Growers collapsed. When Irvine-based Rubell-Helms Insurance Services went out of business, it reportedly left $10 million in medical claims unpaid.
In 1995, California banned a common form of health care associations known as multiple employer welfare arrangements, or MEWAs, in which small businesses jointly purchased health coverage in the same way Trump is now proposing. The plans that already existed at the time could remain in business as long as they met certain financial requirements.
That ban followed "decades of bad experience," said Jones.
But some business groups say that these plans offer companies flexibility in the face of state regulations that add cost and administrative burdens.
"Small-business owners are being pummeled," said Tom Scott, California director of the National Federation of Independent Business. The looser regulations could save businesses thousands of dollars a year, he said.
Still, California lawmakers said they will do everything they can to prevent these plans from bypassing state regulations.
State Senator Ed Hernandez (D-West Covina), chairman of the Senate Health Committee, said he will consider legislation to ban the sale of policies that don't meet minimum benefit requirements.
Related: Latinos may not get the same hard sell on Obamacare this year
"I'm committed to do everything I can to make sure we don't go backward to having skinny plans in the state," he said. Consumers need to be guaranteed coverage with robust health benefits and a cap on out-of-pocket expenses, he added.
Policy experts say the impact of Trump's plan will depend on the precise details, which are still being considered by the Department of Labor. But Trump has suggested he wants the association plans to be treated the same as large-employer insurance, which would free them from regulations that govern the benefits they offer.
Supporters of the idea argue that the greater flexibility on benefits, plus the bargaining clout that comes with size, would lower the cost of these plans, providing relief to small employers hit by rising health care costs and state taxes.
"It's very, very easy and it's very competitive," said Jack Stoughton, CEO of Los Angeles-based Stoughton Printing Co., which produces 12-inch record jackets for vinyl records by bands such as Led Zeppelin and Wilco.
His workers receive health benefits through one of the few remaining MEWAs in California.
But Beth Capell, a longtime health care consumer lobbyist, said these cheaper plans compromise the quality of health coverage for small-business employees and individuals.
"There was a fairly concerted outcry" to get rid of association health plans in the 1990s, and they should not be resurrected, Capell said.
Deborah Kelch, director of the Insure the Uninsured Project in Sacramento, said state officials banned new MEWAs in the 1990s because they feared the associations would siphon off healthy people, leaving many small businesses with sicker and costlier enrollees — and higher premiums. The legislative changes from the 1990s helped ensure that the remaining MEWAs stayed afloat, she said.
Today, only four MEWAs remain in California, covering about 150,000 employees and their dependents. The enrollees say the model works.
Stoughton's roughly 50 workers have a choice of three insurance carriers — Kaiser Permanente, Health Net and Blue Shield — and the association acts as an intermediary between the employees and the insurers.
The Printing Industries Association of Southern California, a trade association for printers, administers the insurance for Stoughton's business. That allows him to limit his human resources staff to half of a full-time employee, he said.
"We want to be able to concentrate on what we do. We don't want to shop around" for health insurance, he said.
The greatest number of association health plan members in California are in agriculture. Two farm trade groups, UnitedAg and Western Growers, offer farmers health care that they say caters to their unique workforce, which includes a large number of Spanish-speaking immigrants.
Related: These states are doing Obamacare enrollment their own way
Kirti Mutatkar, CEO of UnitedAg, which covers 700 agricultural businesses and 43,000 members through its association, says her company doesn't offer "cookie-cutter" health coverage.
UnitedAg offers free telemedicine and 10 free clinic visits in some of its plans, she said. It has bilingual customer support services and a network of doctors in Mexico. The members of the board includeenrollees who have a say in what their health coverage looks like.
"If UnitedAg could take their brand of administering health care to other areas, I can't see the downside," said A.J. Cisney, general manager of Rancho Guadalupe, which grows fruit and broccoli on California's Central Coast.
But that would be anathema to actuaries and health insurers, who worry about competing with more lightly regulated plans. They say the proliferation of such plans could undermine consumer protections and increase the potential for the kind of health insurance fraud that plagued many of the old association plans.
But Scott, of the National Federation of Independent Business, does not believe past is necessarily prologue.
"Times change, business models change," he said.
Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.


Related: The worst day for mall diamonds in 25 years
The filing said the enforcement office thinks Signet may have violated a federal law that bars companies from "unfair, deceptive, or abusive act or practice" when offering consumers a financial product or service.
Signet, which owns Kay Jewelers, Zales and Jared The Galleria Of Jewelry, offers customers financing options through company credit cards.
In addition, Signet said the New York Attorney General's Office "is investigating similar issues." The AG's office told CNNMoney it is investigating the company's financing practices.
Signet said it believes it has acted lawfully, adding "Signet has been cooperating with both regulators and maintains its belief that the CFPB and NYAG's potential claims lack merit."
The company said last month that revenue fell $30 million during the most recent quarter. It also warned that profit heading into next year will be light. Hurricanes and weak sales on engagement and wedding rings led to a "challenging" quarter, CEO Virginia Drosos said.
Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly said the CFPB's enforcement office had recommended action against Signet. In fact, it is considering a recommendation.


The moderate senator said Thursday these provisions will "most likely" be included in the upcoming continuing resolution to temporarily fund the federal government. She noted Friday that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell "committed to support passage" of the bills before the end of the year.
Related: Here's what's in the Senate tax bill
Since the Senate and House still have to agree on a joint tax bill in conference committee, Collins has time to see whether the two Obamacare measures are passed in the spending bill.
"So I'm going to know whether or not those provisions made it and that matters hugely to me," she said at a Christian Science Monitor breakfast Thursday, adding she's primarily concerned about the increase in premiums that could result from ending the mandate.
The elimination of the mandate could increase premiums by 10% and could leave 13 million more people without coverage over a decade, according to the Congressional Budget Office. But it could also prompt healthy people to forgo coverage, leaving mostly sicker people in Obamacare policies. This, in turn, could make insurers flee the Affordable Care Act exchanges, which would rock the individual market.
The stabilization bill, co-authored by Tennessee Republican Senator Lamar Alexander and Washington Democratic Senator Patty Murray, calls for funding Obamacare's cost-sharing reduction payments for two years. In October, President Trump ended federal support for these subsidies, which help lower-income enrollees pay for medical care. The elimination of this funding prompted insurers to raise premiums for 2018 since they must still provide the subsidies.
Meanwhile, Collins said Friday her bill would appropriate $5 billion in 2018 and in 2019 to help states create state-based reinsurance programs that would help insurers pay for high-cost patients. (The original Collins-Nelson bill introduced earlier this year would have appropriated $2.25 billion each of those years.)
"The combination of those two bills would more than than offset the premium increase that would be caused by [repealing the individual mandate]," Collins said at the breakfast.
Related: Obamacare enrollment could fall millions short for 2018
But the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office and health policy experts don't agree.
The CBO issued a report Wednesday that said that passing the Alexander-Murray bill will not substantially change the impact of repealing the mandate.
And health policy experts have questioned whether Collins' bill would help reduce premiums long-term since it only provides funding for two years.
An even bigger question is whether either of these bills will actually become law. Conservative House Republicans said earlier this week that they would not support the Alexander-Murray bill, which they called a bailout for insurance companies.
.@RepMarkMeadows explaining what CSR payments actually do - it's a payment to insurance companies, not individuals



Electronically enabled luggage has grown in popularity as road-warriors opt to make their luggage useful beyond simply storing clothes.
Related: The suitcase to consider when you're going Away
American spokesman Ross Feinstein said the airline has had no incidents with "smart bags," but said the airline's new rules are designed to align with the existing regulations.
The Federal Aviation Administration has long-standing rules about lithium ion batteries in items like laptops and medical equipment. It requires spare uninstalled batteries to travel in carry-on baggage with the passenger.
The FAA rules are designed to keep possible over-heating or short-circuiting batteries out of the cargo hold in case they catch fire. In the cabin they can quickly be reached by a crew member or a passenger in the event of an issue. Only U.S. airlines are subject to the FAA rules.
Related: This suitcase will follow you home like a puppy
American is the first airline to extend those FAA rules to smart bags. The other major U.S. airlines are expected to follow suit and the International Civil Aviation Organization has a working group among airlines and regulators to develop a broader standard.
Separate from any federal requirement, American Airlines says it conducted its own analysis of the "smart bags" and decided to implement these new rules itself.
"Smart bags" can mean a lot of different things. They include luggage doubling as a scooter or personal transportation vehicle, a suitcase with a power bank to charge electronic devices, a suitcase with a GPS locator or electronic lock or self-propelled bags that follow their owner.


And the updated dip could soon appear on a new menu item: Nachos. Arnold said the dish -- which stacks chips, queso, beans and salsa -- is currently being served at the company's test kitchen in New York City.
The news was reported earlier by Business Insider.
After a series of food safety scandals over the past few years, Chipotle (CMG) has struggled to draw customers back to its stores.
Related: Chipotle looking to hire a new CEO
So when the burrito chain announced plans to add queso to its menu in July, it was pegged as the cheesy vehicle that could vault Chipotle out of its sales slump.
But the roll out has not been smooth. Critics couldn't get past the queso's gritty texture and lack of spice. One customer declared the dish "tastes like crayons."
Chipotle defended the product, insisting the unusual texture could be chalked up to the use of all-natural ingredients.
Arnold, the Chipotle spokesperson, said the new recipe achieves a smoother consistency but still leaves out preservatives and artificial ingredients.
Reporters at CNNMoney who tried both versions of the dip confirmed the new recipe brings marked improvement in texture, but some tasters agreed Chipotle could crank up the spiciness.
Even as Chipotle fine tunes its queso recipe, the company says it's driving sales.
Related: Chipotle's profit ravaged by hurricanes, hack and high avocado prices
During an earnings call with investors in October, Chipotle chief marketing officer Mark Crumpacker noted "the addition of anything new [to the menu] generates significant interest, positive and negative."
The company's sales rose 17% last quarter and its profits more than doubled. That ended a long streak of declines for Chipotle. The same quarter in 2016, for example, saw sales down 22% compared to the same period in 2015.
"This new menu item not only increased sales with existing customers, it also attracted new and lapsed customers into our restaurants. About 19% of these new and returning customers are trying queso, while many of the others were simply driven in by the advertising," Crumpacker said.
For the uninitiated, queso is Spanish for "cheese," but it commonly refers to a melted cheese dish popularized in Tex-Mex cuisine. The warm cheese is typically blended with chile, peppers or other seasonings.
Queso's flavor and consistency can vary and its taste is distinct from its distant cousin, nacho cheese, a standard side dish at ballparks, arenas and movie theaters.
--CNNMoney's Danielle Wiener-Bronner contributed to this report.


That's hardly a big drop when you consider that stocks hit all-time highs this week on growing hopes that the Senate will pass a tax reform bill. The Dow topped 24,000 for the first time on Thursday.
This also is not the first time the market has grown nervous about Trump administration chaos. But previous sell-offs have been fleeting.
The Dow plunged 373 points on May 17 after reports surfaced of a memo from former FBI Director James Comey that said Trump had asked him to stop the investigation of Flynn.
But the market quickly rebounded and hit an all-time high on June 8 -- the day Comey testified in front of Congress.
Related: CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index still shows signs of greed
Stocks also fell briefly on July 11 after Donald Trump Jr. released a chain of emails showing that he had agreed to meet a Russian attorney who claimed to have incriminating information on Hillary Clinton. Stocks recovered by the end of the day.
Then, on August 17, there were rumors that Gary Cohn, the director of the White House's National Economic Council, was thinking of resigning because of Trump's initial response to violence at a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. Trump blamed "both sides."
The Dow plunged nearly 275 points that day as investors worried that Cohn, formerly the chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs, might leave. But those rumors didn't last long, either.
The bottom line is that Wall Street still believes in the Trump agenda.
Investors are still in a cheery mood because the economy seems to be gaining steam, the job market is healthy, consumers are spending, and businesses are churning out solid profits.
"Tax reform doesn't need to be affected by the political and legal issues facing Mr. Flynn, and ultimately the market will look past the politics and focus on the positive economic fundamentals and benefits of tax reform," said Chris Zaccarelli, chief investment officer with Independent Advisor Alliance, in an email.
"The Trump rally may be interrupted, but it will resume as long as the economy continues to improve and corporate profitability continues on the path it's been on," Zaccarelli added.


Blue Apron (APRN) is the worst-performing IPO of the year, according to data from Dealogic. It's worth around $560 million right now, a fraction of the $1.9 billion valuation that Wall Street awarded it when it hit the market. Shares are trading at a little over $3, down about 70% from their high.
Although Blue Apron still holds 40% of the U.S. meal kit market share, it dropped 17 percentage points from last year, according to a study by Second Measure. 860,000 customers use the service, according to the company's November quarterly filing.
Blue Apron said customers fell 9% last quarter because it cut back on advertising spending to save money.
Related: Blue Apron serves up lukewarm IPO
It's already unprofitable, so customer defections make matters worse. Blue Apron had anticipated that it would one day turn a profit -- but groceries are an expensive business, and it likely needs to maintain a higher level of customer growth to achieve its goal.
A number of missteps over a tumultuous past five months haven't helped the company's cause.
One of its co-founders stepped down as COO a month after the IPO. In August, the company said unforeseen delays at a new fulfillment center in Linden, New Jersey hurt business.
In October, Blue Apron slashed its workforce by 6%, laying off roughly 300 employees.
In Salzberg's letter to employees, he noted "near-term challenges and uncertainty created with the launch of our Linden fulfillment center" have plagued Blue Apron.
But the company's issues stretch beyond self-inflicted wounds. Competition from rival start-ups and consolidation within the grocery industry have taken their toll.
Related: Tech industry food fight heats up
In September, Albertsons, which owns the Safeway supermarket chain, bought Plated for around $200 million.
HelloFresh, a German meal kit company that operates in the United States, announced in October that it was going public on Frankfurt's stock exchange.
Start-ups Sun Basket, Home Chef, Green Chef and Chef Plate also round out a crowded food service delivery field.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
And then, of course, there's the biggest cook in the kitchen: Amazon.
In July, three weeks after buying Whole Foods, Amazon filed to trademark a prepared meal service with the motto "We do the prep. You be the chef."
Blue Apron's new leadership will have to stir up a fresh recipe quickly to avoid slipping further down the food chain.
--CNNMoney's Seth Fiegerman, Paul La Monica and Matt Egan contributed to this report.


"This drama is clearly going to cause some near-term volatility," said Ryan Detrick, senior market strategist at LPL Financial.
The VIX, a barometer of market turbulence, soared as much as 29% to its highest level since August before retreating. Gold, which often does well during times of fear, gained 0.5%. The S&P 500 fell 0.2%. The Nasdaq closed down 0.4%.
The sharp slide in the stock market came within minutes of the ABC News report on Flynn, who pleaded guilty on Friday to charges he lied to the FBI about conversations with Russia's ambassador, according to court documents.
"This is how a market reacts when there is a large unknown. Everyone wants to know: What's the next shoe to drop?" said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities.

Related: Dow rockets past 24,000
Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group, said it's "obvious" that the ABC News report was the catalyst for the tumble.
"It's potentially the biggest political headache he has to deal with," Boockvar said.
The selloff reflects fears that the Russia scandal will imperil Trump's economic agenda, especially tax cuts. Indeed, the market trimmed its losses after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell declared that Republicans have enough votes to pass the tax bill.
The GOP tax plan has helped send U.S. stocks soaring in recent weeks. The Dow spiked 332 points on Thursday and closed above the 24,000 level for the first time.
Despite Friday's panic attack, the Dow still rose 2.9% for the week, its best performance of 2017.


Robert Shiller, who won a Nobel for his work on bubbles, said the currency appeals to some investors because it has an "anti-government, anti-regulation feel."
"It's such a wonderful story," he said at a conference in Lithuania, according to Bloomberg. "If it were only true."
Wall Street titans were getting in on the action, too.
Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein told Bloomberg that the currency serves as "a vehicle for perpetrating fraud." Billionaire investor Carl Icahn said on CNBC that it "seems like a bubble."
The digital currency previously attracted the derision of JPMorgan boss Jamie Dimon, who called it a "fraud" that would "eventually blow up." Warren Buffett has warned of a "real bubble."
Related: Bitcoin at $11,000: What the heck is going on?
The criticisms have done little to temper bitcoin's (XBT) meteoric -- if wild -- rise this week.
The virtual currency powered above $11,000 for the first time on Wednesday, capping a jaw-dropping rally of more than 1,000% since the start of the year. But it then plunged by more than $2,000, providing a stark reminder of its extreme volatility.
It was trading at $10,700 on Friday.
Some experts argue that the gains in recent weeks have been driven in part by the expectation that more major investors -- like hedge funds and asset managers -- are gearing up to start investing in the digital currency.
CME Group, which owns the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, said Friday it will list bitcoin futures in mid-December. Nasdaq, meanwhile, plans to launch bitcoin futures next year. Futures allow traders to bet on the future price of assets like currencies and metals.
Blankfein acknowledged that the currency could have potential if volatility drops.
"If it works out and gets more established ... we'll get to it," he said.
There appears to be substantially more enthusiasm for bitcoin in Silicon Valley, where tech luminaries Peter Thiel and Marc Andreessen are among its backers.
-- Daniel Shane contributed reporting.


A decade later, the American economy has recovered in many ways. Employers have been steadily adding jobs since early 2010, the stock market is booming and home prices have reached new all-time highs.
Related: U.S. economy posts best growth in years
But in other ways, Americans still carry the scars of the recession, some of which will never heal.
Take Karen Moyers, 58, of Conroe, Texas. After building up her savings in the hairdressing business, she lost nearly all of it in an investment fund managed by a financial advisor during the crash. Now, she is working in a jewelry store for lower wages than she once made and only has enough savings to live on for about a year should she lose her job.
"I can't save any money like I used to," Moyers said. "You think it'll come back, and it never came back."
One decade later, here's where the economy has recovered and where it still has a ways to go.
Jobs are back, but the workforce has shrunk
One of the most remarkable aspects of America's rebound is the unemployment rate. It sunk to a 16-year low of 4.1% in October, with some industries — like trucking, construction, and oilfield services — reporting difficulty finding workers.
Even a more expansive measure of unemployment -- which includes people who want a job but have been discouraged from looking for one and those who work part-time but want to work full-time -- has matched its pre-recession low of 7.9%.

But even that isn't the whole story. The share of Americans who are working or want to work has been falling for a couple decades, from a peak of 67.3% in 2000 to 62.5% in 2015.
In large part, that reflects how America's workforce is getting older and retiring faster, and economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas expect the overall rate to keep falling. Still, participation rates for prime-age workers remain depressed as well, with large numbers of people sidelined by opioid addiction, low wages that make work less attractive, and the high cost of childcare that keeps women in particular at home.
There is some good news: As the labor market has tightened up, employers have started to hire people who often face discrimination in the workplace, such as the formerly incarcerated, as Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen mentioned before the Joint Economic Committee this week. Partly as a result of the tighter labor market, African Americans have narrowed the labor force participation gap with white people in recent years, going from more than three percentage points below average labor force participation in 2011 to only half a point today.
How have you fared in the 10 years since the recession began? Click here to share your story with CNNMoney.
Wages are rising, but wealth hasn't recovered
For several years during the recovery, the big problem was wages: Even as hiring picked up, paychecks remained depressed.
That started to change around 2015, as state and local minimum wage hikes kicked in and employers started raising base pay to attract and retain good workers. Now, median household income is back up to approximately where it was in 2007, at just above $59,000 a year.
In 2016, the Federal Reserve found that 70% of adults reported living comfortably or doing okay financially, up from 62% when they began asking the question in 2013.

But the recession didn't just impact earnings — it also took a sledgehammer to savings and investments. The median household's net worth dropped by 40% between 2007 and 2013, according to a triennial survey by the Fed, and had only recovered slightly by 2016.
"It's no surprise that people aren't back to where they were in 2007, but incredibly striking that we haven't gotten back to where we were 20 years ago," said Harvard University economics professor Karen Dynan, a former chief economist at the U.S. Treasury Department. "Even more so because people have gotten older and closer to retirement."
Net worth is also highly stratified by race, with black households holding one-tenth the assets of white households. Also, wealth inequality by income level grew to its widest point ever in 2016.

The decline in net worth has implications for retirement security, with 28% of Americans over age 18 claiming no savings whatsoever, a 2016 Fed survey reported. Still, Americans are feeling better about their prospects, according to Gallup: 54% of those who haven't retired yet say they'll be able to live comfortably when they do. That's up from 38% in 2012, but still below pre-recession levels.
Home prices are rising, but fewer people are buying
A big part of the plunge in household net worth had to do with housing.
As the financial crisis deepened, the delinquency rate for single-family mortgages spiked to 11.5%, and millions of homes went into foreclosure. In three years, the total amount of equity held by homeowners was cut in half.
Now that the real estate market has recovered and mortgages have stabilized, household equity has bounced back to exceed its pre-recession high. The delinquency rate has also steadily been sinking back towards its 2005 low of 1.42%.
However, owning a home just isn't as popular as it used to be. The homeownership rate sank from 69.4% in 2004 to 63.1% in the middle of last year, and has only just started to bounce back.
The reasons behind that trend are complex. First-time homebuyers have been locked out of the market by tight credit, shaky incomes, hefty student loan debts, and skyrocketing home prices in cities with available jobs, forcing many younger people onto the apartment market. Although many of them neither rent nor buy: One in three young people lived with their parents in 2015, up from one in four a decade earlier, the Census Bureau reported.
In recent months, economists have been scanning the horizon for another crisis that could destabilize American families, identifying everything from rising interest rates to subprime auto loans as potential risks.
In a speech this month at the Brookings Institution, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation chairman Martin Gruenberg warned against proposals in Congress aimed at weakening the regulations that were passed in the wake of the financial collapse.
Related: Janet Yellen touts economy before stepping down
"History shows that the seeds of banking crises are sown by the decisions banks and bank policymakers make when they have maximum confidence that the horizon is clear," Gruenberg said.
Dismantling the Dodd-Frank rules that keep those institutions in check and protect consumers, he said, will make it harder to protect the economy from a crisis like the one that happened a decade ago.


Best known for its vegan mayo, Just Mayo, Hampton Creek also sells cookie dough and salad dressings in stores like Whole Foods, Kroger, and Walmart. The company plans on selling Just Scramble directly to restaurants for now, and to consumers through grocery stores by the end of 2018.
For a company best known for producing a version of the blandest condiment, Hampton Creek has been a surprising magnet for drama.
Its entire board of directors, minus Tetrick, resigned in June amid rumors of clashes with the founder. Target announced it would no longer sell the brand in August, citing food safety allegations. The company was briefly under investigation by the government after a Bloomberg News story alleged it artificially inflated demand for its mayo with fake shoppers. It has been sued by competing mayo makers and Jaden Smith over product names, and tangled with the FDA over health claims and its use of the word "mayo."
If successful, the new egg substitute could be a palette cleanser for the company, which has raised around $245 million. It announced a new round of funding led by Radicle Impact and Blue Horizon on Thursday, but did not disclose the amount.
Hampton Creek held a small breakfast on Thursday so members of the press could taste the final version of Just Scramble. Chefs from Hampton Creek whipped up a dish with mushrooms and goat cheese, as well as a plain version.
When cooked, the texture is incredibly similar to a real scrambled egg, though a touch grainier. When mixed with other ingredients it's probably close enough that anyone who didn't know would assume they were eating a regular egg. On its own, there is a slight earthy aftertaste.
Related: Mayo maker says it is no longer being investigated
For restaurants, how it performs in the kitchen is as important as the taste. Just Scramble cooks as quickly as real eggs without any unusual odors. Each bottle of Just Scramble is the equivalent of about 7 eggs. The form factor is familiar to restaurants, where it's common to use buckets of liquified eggs to make everything from omelets to cakes.
Tetrick said the company struggled with early prototypes and went through thousands of test recipes before it hit on the final formula. Its food scientists tried various beans and plants, including soy and pea protein, the key ingredient in other vegan eggs.
Some batches would evaporate, others wouldn't coagulate at all. A few tests looked great but tasted terrible. Mung bean protein turned out to be the best candidate for taste and texture.
Mung beans are a popular ingredient in many Asian foods. Hampton Creek is currently getting its supply, which isn't organic, from existing mung bean farms in China. But it touts the crop as an environmentally friendly alternative to poultry farming because it uses less water and results in lower greenhouse gas emissions.
Founded in 2011, the 130-person company is also working on making lab-grown meats from real animal proteins. Its goal, according to Tetrick, is to provide more environmental alternatives to meat that will appeal to regular people, not just vegans and vegetarians.
"At the end of the day we've found there's a limited number of things consumers are thinking about, led by, 'Shut up, does it taste good?'" said Tetrick. "Does it taste good, does it make me feel good and can I afford it?"
Hampton Creek did not disclose its price per 322-gram bottle, but says it will be comparable to premium cage-free organic eggs. There are plenty of other egg alternatives on the market, but it is still a niche category mostly relegated to health food stores.
U.S. consumers eat more than 76.5 billion eggs a year. That's a huge opportunity for any company that can make the idea of faux-eggs appeal to mainstream consumers.
Correction: An earlier version of this article reported Hampton Creek raised $220 million.


That's a legacy of the Good Friday Agreement, which dismantled military checkpoints and watchtowers as part of a peace process that sought to end decades of sectarian violence. Gone too are the customs controls and inspections used to catch smugglers.
Britain and Ireland both want to avoid a return to a "hard border" that would not only delay people and commerce, but also revive memories of violence between Catholics and Protestants.

Here's the problem: Britain has made clear that it plans to leave the EU's internal market and customs union in March 2019. It also wants to reduce the number of immigrants after Brexit.
Those plans imply the need for physical controls at the border.
Membership in the internal market has allowed companies in Northern Ireland to do business in all 28 EU member states, selling goods and services to 500 million people living across the bloc.
But Brexit will leave Northern Ireland outside the EU. That means goods crossing into Ireland from Northern Ireland (whatever their origin) will need to be inspected -- and tariffs applied -- before they are allowed to enter that vast market.
"A hard border is a real possibility, and a frictionless border is almost an oxymoron," Katy Hayward of Queen's University Belfast wrote earlier this year. "This is especially true given that the overall logic of Brexit is interpreted by the U.K. government as being to 'take back' control of immigration, laws and trade."
Some analysts have suggested that whiz bang technology that tracks the movement of goods and people can be used to reduce friction.
New IT systems and technology could be combined with inspections and audits of goods away from the border. One think tank has even advocated drone patrols.
The tech solutions are largely unproven, however, and would cost billions.

Related: Britain and EU make progress on Brexit divorce bill
None of the proposals floated thus far are able to match the frictionless trade made possible by EU membership.
"We do not currently see how it will be possible to reconcile there being no border with the [British] government's policy of leaving the single market and the customs union," a committee of U.K. lawmakers warned Friday.
"The government's proposals, by its own admission, are untested and to some extent speculative," it added.
Related: 17 years without a raise? Welcome to Brexit Britain
The EU, meanwhile, has said that Northern Ireland might need to remain inside its internal market and customs union. Doing so would effectively create a sea border between Northern Ireland and the rest of the U.K.
The British government has argued for months that it can only fully address the Irish border issue when there is more clarity on future trade rules with the EU.
But negotiators are now racing to make headway on the issue, one of three areas where "sufficient progress" must be made before the EU will allow the Brexit to move onto future terms of trade.
Time is of the essence: Only 16 months remain until Britain leaves the EU and a border returns in Ireland.
If a breakthrough is achieved, Britain will be able to start work on the hundreds of trade, regulatory and legal agreements that are needed to ensure its economy can avoid significant disruption after March 2019.
If talks collapse, or get stuck on the Irish border issue, businesses are likely to start activating contingency plans in early 2018, moving more jobs and investment out of the U.K.


The S&P 500 added 0.8% and the Nasdaq gained 0.7% on Thursday. Both are near record highs.
Friday could be more restrained: U.S. stock futures were pointing lower.
2. Tax bill hurdle: The dollar is under pressure after U.S. tax reform hit a snag in the Senate.
Senate Republicans had hoped their tax bill would easily win approval this week, but there are now concerns over its cost.
Sen. Bob Corker, a Republican from Tennessee, has made clear that he will not vote for a tax bill that increases the deficit.
The problem: A new analysis shows the bill would add more than $1 trillion to the federal budget deficit over the next decade.
Republicans, who had been on track to pass the bill along party lines, are now considering whether to include future tax increases.
3. Oil up: U.S. crude futures were trading 0.5% higher at $57.70 per barrel.
The gain comes after OPEC and other major oil producers including Russia agreed to extend their production cuts until the end of 2018.
OPEC and its allies first agreed to slash output in late 2016, a response to oversupply and an oil price crash.
There are signs that the global oil glut is now shrinking.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Global market overview: European markets opened lower, while Asian markets ended the session mixed.
Bitcoin (XBT) continued its wild ride, swinging as high as $10,050 and as low as $9,400.
Gold reversed some of its weekly losses, edging 0.2% higher.
5. Earnings and economics: Big Lots (BIG) will release earnings before the U.S. open.
The Institute for Supply Management will publish its November index at 10:00 a.m. ET.
Canada will release third quarter GDP and November unemployment data at 8:30 a.m.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday -- Institute for Supply Management index; Auto sales data; Canada GDP and unemployment data


But having visited a bitcoin mine in Iceland this summer, I saw the thousands of computers racing to authenticate bitcoin transactions. You can't just dismiss this as a fad.
Sign up for the weekly Quest newsletter in your inbox
Still, there's another (pardon the pun) side to the bitcoin. We should not just accept the notion that bitcoin is the new source of money for the future, replacing paper currencies and gold. The fact that bitcoin prices roared up to over $11,000 and then just as quickly fell back to $9,300 in a matter of hours shows all the hallmarks of pure speculation. Money is being invested purely on the possibility of making more money because other investors are pouring in and pushing the price higher. This is different from stocks where the price is led by the earnings of the company involved, dividends and other tangible financial measures.
Whatever happens to bitcoin, other cryptocurrencies are gaining ground and more respect. Ethereum, for instance, has far more transparency. So while this week reinforced the fact the crypto revolution is coming, it also showed you can lose your shirt buying and selling bitcoin.
Trump impressed with Modi's moves in India

A Trump administration official said the White House is "very encouraged" with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's reforms -- especially efforts to overhaul India's tax code and simplify regulations. The comments came as Ivanka Trump spoke at the Global Entrepreneurship Summit in Hyderabad and encouraged India to boost the number of women in the workplace.
President Trump has a personal stake in India's success. The Trump Organization, now run by sons Donald Jr. and Eric, has five properties in development in India.
And India's economy is starting to rebound, but its growth rate still trails China's.
-- Paul R. La Monica
Stocks on fire as Dow hits 24K. Too hot?

The Dow has rocketed through another milestone: 24,000. That marks a nearly 6,000-point boom since last year's election.
The latest milestone happened as support builds in the Senate for corporate tax cuts, stimulus that could bolster already-strong earnings and economic growth.
But stocks are so hot that it's pretty tough to find a bargain on Wall Street right now. Even some retailers like Macy's and Sears have come back to life. Goldman Sachs says stocks, bonds and credit are more expensive than at any time since 1900.
Lofty price tags mean long-term returns are likely to be less explosive.
-- Matt Egan
What's left for Trump to sanction?

President Trump is getting ready to turn up the heat on North Korea again. But after a heavy clampdown on Kim Jong Un's regime earlier this year, what options are left?
In short, North Korea's access to Chinese banking institutions, cutting down on oil exports to North Korea and putting more strain on the country's shipping industry, given its heavy reliance on trade.
Trump's challenge: Getting China and other countries to pressure North Korea, too. So far, their pressure hasn't amounted to the kind of regime change Trump wants to see.
-- Patrick Gillespie
Why Matt Lauer's firing is a big deal

On Wednesday, NBC fired Matt Lauer, the longtime co-host of the "Today" show, after the network received a complaint about "inappropriate sexual behavior in the workplace."
The program is broadcast to millions across the U.S. each day and is one of the most profitable franchises on television. It's also notable because Lauer led conversations on air about sexual assault and harassment.
Lauer joins a growing list of men in media who have been pushed out following allegations of sexual misconduct.
-- Julia Horowitz
Quick takes
Republican tax bill could be devastating for hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico
U.K. makes Brexit progress with EU, but London Stock Exchange is in turmoil
Don't cry for me? Wall Street bulls love Macri and are coming back to Argentina
The royal wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle could cost millions
U.S. automakers are worried about Trump's stance on NAFTA
Sears, Barnes & Noble suffer. Kroger rebounds. Amazon's big Cyber Monday
What's next
Europe's comeback continues: Eurozone growth comes out next Thursday and it will likely show another quarter of sequential and annual growth, a welcome sign for the region's economy, which has been sluggish for years. Eurozone growth is expected to be 2.5% annually for the third quarter. It's the final revision.
Is Japan finally breaking deflation? Its growth comes out at 6:50 p.m. ET on Thursday. Growth is only expected to be 1.7% but the outlook has slightly improved for Japan this year as it continues its decades long battle with deflation -- when prices and wages go down.
Brazil's anemic recovery: The country is just beginning to emerge from its longest recession in history. Unemployment is still over 12%. GDP comes out Friday and is expected to be about 1%.
Manufacturing in Year 1 of Trump: The key U.S. manufacturing index ISM publishes on Friday. It has wavered between a surge of optimism for President Trump's fiscal agenda and concerns that he may not be able to herald it through. But lately it's having a moment. It's also a key U.S. economic indicator.
Look for the Trump tweet on...the U.S. trade deficit! America's trade balance comes out on Tuesday and Trump uses the U.S. deficit to justify his unusual trade practices. So far this year, the deficit is larger than it was in 2016.


Related: World gets first peek at Boeing '797'
Boeing (BA) hasn't yet given the green light to build the small twin-aisle airplane, which will seat between 225 and 270, though the company in September formally created a program office to oversee the possible development. Beezhold is the second executive Boeing has publicly named to the team. The other is the program office's vice president. The jet is dryly called the New Mid-Market Airplane, but has already been dubbed the Boeing '797' by prospective customers.
The airplane would be larger than Boeing's biggest single-aisle 737 Max jets, but would not have the flying endurance of its 787 Dreamliner. Airlines want to relieve congestion on busy routes currently flown with smaller jets.

Analysts estimate the '797' project will cost between $10 billion and $15 billion to develop and the plane wouldn't be ready until 2024 or 2025.
Related: Boeing '797' doesn't exist yet. One airline already says it wants it first
Beezhold is a long-time company veteran who in 2011 was in charge of developing new tools and processes to significantly reduce the cost of designing and manufacturing airliners. That work was put into action developing the 777X, which is manufactured using significantly more automation than previous Boeing airliners.
Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly reported that Beezhold had been named chief project engineer of Boeing's New Mid-Market Airplane, or the '797.'


Here's where key trade topics and issues stand:
NAFTA talks are not making progress; Trump threatens to withdraw
Trump would undoubtedly put NAFTA, the trade pact between the U.S., Canada and Mexico, in the "horror show" category.
True to his word, his administration has started to renegotiate the deal with America's southern and northern neighbors. Round 5 of the NAFTA talks began on Friday in Mexico City.
But negotiations aren't going well: Round 4 ended with sharp rebukes from Canadian and Mexican leaders toward Trump's top negotiator, Robert Lighthizer. He hurled criticism back at them. Little progress has been made on key issues, such as how and where cars are manufactured in North America.
Trump routinely threatens to withdraw from NAFTA.
Relations have been rocky for other reasons. The U.S. just won a contentious trade battle over tuna imported from Mexico. The Trump administration also hit Canada with tariffs as high as 18% on softwood lumber.
On top of all that, the U.S. and Canada are also in a bitter dispute over American aerospace giant Boeing's trade complaint against Canadian rival Bombardier.

Trump and China: Lots of smiles, not much change
Trump lauded Chinese President Xi Jinping during his visit to Beijing last week, tweeting that Xi "is a highly respected and powerful representative of his people."
But in the 10 months since Trump took office, not much has changed for U.S.-China trade relations.
Trump did sign $250 billion of deals while he was in China across industries such as energy, technology and aviation.
But some are nonbinding, meaning the companies involved don't have to stick to the terms of the deal. And one agreement for China to buy $37 billion of Boeing jets may not be new. In 2015, Xi announced a $38 billion deal when he visited Boeing's plant in Washington state.
More broadly, Trump didn't expand market access for U.S. companies in China, nor was there any word about the U.S. investigation into Chinese intellectual property theft, something U.S. businesses say is a major problem.
Trump also completely reneged on a campaign promise to label China a currency manipulator. During his campaign, he cited China's currency manipulation as a key reason the U.S., in his view, was losing in trade to China.
But Trump never did label China a currency manipulator -- saying publicly he wouldn't because he wants China to help with the North Korea nuclear threat.
Trump has gotten tough with China in some respects. His administration has slapped tariffs on Chinese goods, such as aluminum foil, plywood, tool chests and other items. However, those are relatively minor issues compared with intellectual property theft and dumping of major commodities, such as steel.
TPP is coming back -- without the U.S.
One of Trump's first actions as president was to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a sweeping trade agreement with 11 other nations meant to lower trade barriers. At the time, many considered TPP dead.
But it made a surprise comeback this week. During Trump's Asia trip, trade ministers from all other TPP nations -- which include Mexico, Canada and Japan -- agreed to "core elements" of TPP. Talks will continue into next year.
Trump and his trade team aren't participating in the new talks. They prefer to sign one-on-one deals, also known as bilateral trade agreements. Trump argues that bilateral deals are easier to enforce compared with major multinational ones.
The U.S. trade deficit is getting bigger
Arguably Trump's biggest trade promise has been his vow to lower the U.S. trade deficit. Trump says a trade deficit is like losing money. Trade experts say a trade deficit is not at all like losing money, nor is it an accurate reflection of the benefits and costs of a trade deal.
So far this year, the U.S. trade deficit is $405 billion. That's higher than the same period last year ($370 billion) and 2015 ($376 billion), according to Commerce Department figures from January to September. That does not mean the U.S. lost $405 billion. It means American businesses and consumers imported more than they exported, which is in line with a consumer economy.
Through the first half of this year, the U.S. trade deficit with Mexico and China also got bigger. It would be hard for Trump to reverse those years-long trends overnight, but some experts argue it might be nearly impossible for him ever to lower the trade deficit without harming U.S. workers.
Many U.S. factory jobs depend on cheap imports of parts, like tubes, wheels and screws, to stay in the United States. If Trump makes those imports more expensive, companies will have to raise prices, which would likely result in fewer sales and jobs.
Looming investigations: Trump's ' big sledgehammer'
The Trump administration launched two controversial trade investigations earlier this year that have an uncertain fate. The Commerce Department is determining whether imports of steel and aluminum pose a risk to U.S. national security.
If the investigations find there is a national security risk, Trump can apply tariffs on all steel or aluminum imports from around the world. He can also raise tariffs as high as he wants. A former Clinton administration official dubbed the so-called Section 232 investigation a "big sledgehammer."
Trade experts say the investigations could risk a trade war in which the U.S. slaps tariffs on other nations and they retaliate.
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said in the spring that he aimed to have the investigations finished by June. But they've been put on hold. Trump told The Wall Street Journal in July  that he wanted to repeal Obamacare, pass tax cuts and maybe get an infrastructure bill done before he returned to the investigation.
--CNNMoney's Jethro Mullen and Daniel Shane contributed reporting to this article.


"It has been my great privilege and honor to serve in the Federal Reserve System," Yellen, the first woman to lead the Fed, wrote to Trump.
The president decided in October not to nominate Yellen for a second term as Fed chair, despite having said that she was doing an "excellent" job. Trump instead chose Powell, who is currently a Fed governor.
In her letter to Trump, Yellen praised Bernanke for his leadership during the financial crisis. She also touted the economy's gains over the last eight years, noting that 17 million jobs have been created.
Yellen served at the Fed in various roles over the course of three decades. She was originally a Fed governor, then president of the Fed's San Francisco branch, then Fed vice chair.


Of course, bitcoin's meteoric rise has led to some skepticism. JPMorgan Chase (JPM) CEO Jamie Dimon has bashed it on numerous occasions, calling it a "fraud" that's better off being used by drug dealers and North Korea.
And Saudi Prince Alwaleed, a billionaire whose Kingdom Holding Company owns stakes in Apple (AAPL) and Citigroup (C), told CNBC before he was arrested in a sweeping anti-corruption probe that he thought bitcoin was an "Enron in the making" that will implode.
But while some see a bubble about to burst, others see opportunity. Lloyd Blankfein, the CEO of JPMorgan Chase rival Goldman Sachs (GS), took issue with bitcoin critics.
Blankfein tweeted last month that "folks also were skeptical when paper money displaced gold." Interestingly, technical analysts at Goldman also correctly predicted earlier this month that bitcoin prices would soon top $8,000.
Related: Bitcoin hits $13,000 on Zimbabwe exchange
Blankfein raises an interesting point though. Sure, some investors are likely flocking to bitcoin as a speculative bet because they've watched the price climb higher and higher.
But there's also a legitimate case to be made that bitcoin, ethereum, litecoin and other cryptocurrencies are the future of money and that more and more people will conduct actual transactions using these currencies.
To that end, Square -- the popular mobile payment service run by Twitter (TWTR) CEO Jack Dorsey -- recently announced a trial that will let some users of its Cash app purchase bitcoin.
"We're always listening to our customers and we've found that they are interested in using the Cash app to buy bitcoin," said a spokesperson for Square (SQ) in an email to CNNMoney.
"We believe cryptocurrency can greatly impact the ability of individuals to participate in the global financial system," the Square spokesperson added.
And CME Group, owner of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, said earlier this month it plans to soon list bitcoin futures contracts. CME (CME) CEO Terry Duffy noted that there has been "increasing client interest in the evolving cryptocurrency markets."
Futures let investors buy and sell an asset at a specified price at a later date, They're popular bets for currencies, metals and agricultural commodities. In other words, CME Group is now treating bitcoin as a legitimate financial asset.
Related: Bitcoin prices have been incredibly volatile. What's going on?
Many others agree. Frank Holmes, CEO and chief investment officer of U.S. Global Investors, wrote in a recent note to clients that bitcoin prices should keep rising simply because more and more people are likely to use it.
"Bitcoin adoption could multiply the more people become aware of how much of their wealth is controlled by governments and the big banks," he said.
Holmes added that more startup companies are also looking to raise money through so-called initial coin offerings - the sale of digital currencies to investors instead of stock. That should lead to a further rise in bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.
Dragonchain, a crytpocurrency startup originally backed by Disney (DIS), has held an ICO. Filecoin, a cloud storage company, raised more than $250 million earlier this year from an ICO -- the biggest ever.
And online retailer Overstock (OSTK) is even planning an ICO for its tZero blockhain unit.
"In an effort to bypass the rules and costs associated with getting listed on an exchange, many startups now are opting to raise funds by issuing their own digital currency based on blockchain technology," Holmes wrote.
Related: Cash is still king in the digital era
To be sure, bitcoin prices have moved wildly in the past couple of months. There have been several big crashes of at least 20%.
Still, the price has always come roaring back -- and analytics firm Meltwater has noted an interesting trend. Bitcoin prices have moved higher simply based on the sheer volume of news coverage... regardless of whether the reports or positive or negative.
In other words, there is no such thing as bad publicity for bitcoin, no matter how much Jamie Dimon and others bash it.
Have you been buying bitcoin? Do you view it more as an investment like stocks and commodities or as the currency of the future? Email me at paul.lamonica@turner.com or DM me @lamonicabuzz on Twitter and you may be included in a future story.


In 2006, $783 billion worth of U.S. dollars was changing hands globally. Last year, it was $1.46 trillion, the San Francisco Fed found in a study. A separate New York Fed study estimates that the majority of dollars are held outside the country.
"Reports of the death of cash have been greatly exaggerated," San Francisco Fed President John Williams wrote in a blog post. "In most countries, demand for notes and coins is strong and shows no signs of slowing down."
Economic factors, fluctuating interest rates and even natural disasters can cause demand for dollars to increase. Around the world, the dollar is seen as a safe currency to hold at times of political and economic turmoil.
Related: Venmo now lets you shop online
But cash of all kinds is growing, not just dollars. Williams found that in 40 of 42 major economies -- from Europe and Asia to Latin America and the United States -- the growth of cash circulation outpaced economic growth over the last 10 years.
The San Francisco Fed's findings are backed up by the private sector. Today, 83% of global transactions are in cash, according to Western Union, the payment transfer service. That's down only slightly from 85% a decade ago. (Western Union did not provide a U.S.-only figure.)
"We don't believe in a world that will be cashless," said Odilon Almeida, president of Western Union's global money transfer division. "Cash will continue to be the bulk of payments ... for the next 50 years. But digital will grow faster."
There are plenty of reasons to prefer cash. It's convenient. It doesn't require a bank account or a mobile phone. And in emergencies, it's good to have stashed under the mattress.
Related: Move over Venmo. Meet Zelle, the latest mobile payment app
Take Argentina. Cash circulation there rose 900% in the past decade, the most of any nation, according to the Fed study. For much of that time, Argentina's economy suffered from high inflation and populist policies that crushed the value of the currency, the peso, and ultimately caused a recession.
The former government's ruling populist party, which lost the presidential election in 2015, also restricted Argentines from taking U.S. dollars out of their bank accounts. That probably contributed to the cash surge.
Cash circulation also increased dramatically in other nations in varying types of distress: 442% in Mozambique, 413% in Myanmar, 355% in Ukraine.
In more advanced countries, cash circulation didn't soar as much, but it still outpaced overall economic growth. That includes the United Kingdom, Canada and Japan.
Related: U.S. unemployment drops to lowest in 17 years
The exceptions in the Fed report are Sweden and Norway, where cash in circulation declined over the past decade. Norway's largest bank, DNB, has eliminated cash at its branches, while Sweden has created an infrastructure that discourages cash payments.
So cash may not be dying, but checks are -- at least in the United States. A separate Federal Reserve study published in June found that checks made up only 13% of noncash payments in America in 2015. In 2000, checks made up nearly 60%.


"I knew after giving birth the first time and my experience delivering Grace that something around the birth and pregnancy space was something I was connected to and wanted to do something about," she says in a new podcast episode of CNN's Boss Files with Poppy Harlow.
A lot has changed since Turlington Burns rose to fame as one of the first supermodels in the 1990s. "I always had the hope that I would do something else," she says. Turlington Burns is now also a mother of two.
Related: Diane von Furstenberg: 'I've never met a woman who isn't strong'
On a 2005 trip to her mother's native El Salvador as an ambassador with the non-profit CARE, Turlington Burns says she "realized that if I gave birth in that community with my first pregnancy that had the unexpected third stage of labor, I would not have made it. I'm sure I wouldn't have. I left that trip thinking 'Okay this is a community, this is the kind of community that I want to be able to help and impact.'"
After she returned from that trip, she enrolled at Columbia University -- where she studied public health. Simultaneously, she produced the global maternal health documentary No Woman No Cry in 2010.
The same year she founded the non-profit Every Mother Counts. The mission is simple, yet critical: To make pregnancy and childbirth safe for every mother, everywhere in the world.
Today, Every Mother Counts provides aid to mothers in the U.S., Bangladesh, Guatemala, Haiti, India, Tanzania and Uganda. The non-profit addresses three key barriers to maternal health: Transportation to medical care, education to ensure women are prepared for motherhood and essential supplies for prenatal and postnatal care.
Maternal mortality is on the rise in the U.S., making it the only industrialized country where that is the case. The number of women in the U.S. who die due to complications during pregnancy and childbirth has nearly doubled in the past 25 years, according to EMC. Roughly 700 women die each year in the United States as a result of pregnancy or delivery complications, according to the CDC.
The risk is particularly high for African American women, who die from pregnancy-related complications four times more than white women, Turlington Burns notes. The divide is even more staggering in her hometown where it's "12 times [higher] in New York City, and there are pockets all over the country where that's true," she says.

The loss of her father to lung cancer in 1997 is, in many ways, what first turned Turlington Burns on to doing public advocacy work. Both she and her father had previously been smokers -- but after his death she picked up the phone and started calling organizations including the American Cancer Society. She told her personal story in a Public Service Announcement.
"I just completely lost it on camera. I think that campaign was really effective. I still have people that will come to me and go 'I quit smoking because of that PSA'."
That was a turning point for her. "I think that feeling of in a way healing, a loss like that, through taking action was really important," she says.
More recently, her organization has teamed up with CNN and Every Mother Counts for a new CNNGo series presenting the journeys of women giving birth across America. The films seek to raise the profile and issues of maternal health in the United States. Turlington Burns is the executive producer.
Despite her meteoric rise to fame as a supermodel -- Turlington Burns says it is her education, not her looks, that has given her the most confidence in life. She was honored in 2014 as one of Time's 100 Most Influential People -- and has held positions on Harvard Medical School's Global Health Council and the Harvard School of Public Health Board of Dean's Advisors.
Related: Gretchen Carlson speaks: 'The floodgates have opened'
Asked what she hopes her two young children will say about her one day, Turlington Burns responds. "I would want them to think that I cared about others more in a way than myself...that my focus was and is about everyone having the same opportunities and chances and accesses."
Turlington Burns says, she is always striving to choose the path that's going to serve others. "I am proud of the choices that I've made and I think about the choices as examples to my kids all the time of," she says. But, she tells Harlow, "I always think that there's more. There's so much more to do."


"Anyone in this country, now in this time, can be a great entrepreneur or an owner of a great company," said Hassan Alansary, 23, who is studying public relations at Riyadh's Imam University.
"The last action of prince Mohammed bin Salman... [tells us] that corruption is not going to be a problem anymore: 'Go work, go find a job, go develop your skills. I'll be with you through all the challenges.'"

The anti-corruption drive took foreign investors by surprise, coming just days after the kingdom hosted a huge conference -- dubbed "Davos in the Desert" -- attended by many global fund managers.
There has been an "uptick" in money transfers out of Saudi Arabia following the arrests, and ratings agency S&P warned Sunday of a "new level of uncertainty."
Related: Arrested Saudi prince built empire from Riyadh to Silicon Valley
But the crackdown could also improve prospects for the economy in the medium-term, the agency added, and "empower Saudi citizens."
"I think of it as making the economy more efficient, streamlining economic activity and making sure everything is systemized," said Abdulaziz Albassam, a Harvard Business School graduate who runs Oasis Capital, a fund that invests in early stage startups in the U.S.
"We are going into a new era, change is happening... it's going in the right direction."

The 28-year-old executive moved back to Saudi Arabia in May, excited at the opportunities he believes will come from the crown prince's Vision 2030, a blueprint for breaking the kingdom's addiction to oil by diversifying its economy.
"I had a chance of staying in the U.S. and after a while that place got comfortable to me," he told CNNMoney in Riyadh. "But with all the reforms, the exciting momentum happening here, I thought why stay there when I can come back and be a force of further change through my entrepreneurial efforts."
Albassam is working on launching an online banking platform, together with a business partner.

That enthusiasm was shared by attendees at a youth forum in Riyadh last week, sponsored by the crown prince.
In addition to tackling corrupt practices that have cost the kingdom at least $100 billion, Mohammed bin Salman's reforms have included cutting subsidies, introducing new taxes and lifting a ban on women driving next year.
"Everybody here has to be ready for change," said Amani Almasaad, a 32-year-old business analyst at Saudi Telecom. "After enabling ladies this year... everyone has to decide how to use this to enable them."
Related: Saudi Arabia wants to build a $500 billion mega-city spanning 3 countries
Many are being encouraged by Saudi Arabia's new emphasis on technology and innovation. Last week, the government said it would make it easier for foreign entrepreneurs to get licenses to launch startups in the kingdom. That's part of an effort to boost the contribution of the private sector to 65% of GDP from 40% at present.
Lujain AlUbaid, co-founder of a non-profit incubator and accelerator called Tasamy, says she's received more than 2,000 applications for new startups in 2017, more than the combined total for the last three years.

"As a society, we are changing a lot," AlUbaid told CNNMoney. "But what has changed the most over the last two years, is that the language of the leadership has changed... knowing there is a lot of transparency and support."
Foreign companies are also seizing opportunities to grow.
GE (GE), which has been in Saudi Arabia for decades and employs more than 4,000 people there, has already trained more than 500 young men and women on a new program to expose students to innovation, invention and advanced manufacturing.
Related: Saudi Arabia wants foreign help in its massive economic overhaul
"What is exciting now is this energy that you are seeing... There is more momentum now and there's more focus. We can do even a lot more," said Rania Rostom, regional chief innovation officer at GE.


For GE's 300,000 employees and millions of shareholders, the consequences have been painful. More than $100 billion in market value has vanished from GE since November 2016, more than the combined values of Ford (F), Delta (DAL) and UnitedContinental (UAL). GE, still a staple in investment portfolios, has plummeted 42% this year.
The stock crashed to a six-year low last week after the company admitted it can no longer afford the dividend that once symbolized its stability. It's only the second time since the Great Depression that GE has cut the dividend.
John Flannery, the CEO brought in to clean up the mess, acknowledged that fixing GE will take time and require selling off another chunk of its shrinking empire.
This mainstay of corporate America is experiencing a low point even as the rest of the economy surges.
"When many people think of GE, they think of America," said John Inch, a Deutsche Bank analyst who covers GE. "It's hard for them to understand how this thing fell apart so quickly."
Related: GE is broken. Fixing it will be long and difficult
GE's shopping spree gone bad
Welch, the CEO from 1981 to 2001, built GE into a super-conglomerate that owned a major bank and NBC. But that business model has since been cast aside as overly complex, and in retrospect, it's clear that Welch's shopping spree masked problems.
Those problems blew up when he left. The most obvious example is GE Capital, the finance company that dealt GE a near-fatal blow during the 2008 crisis.
"Immelt inherited a company from Jack Welch that had brushed a lot of issues under the rug," Inch said.
Martin Sankey, a senior research analyst at Neuberger Berman who has been following GE closely since 1981, said Welch made his share of mistakes with deals and operations, "some of which showed up on his watch and others showed up later."
Not long ago, the criticism of Welch would have been unthinkable. He was a larger-than-life force whom Fortune named "manager of the century" in 1999. That aura has since been punctured.
Welch, who declined to comment for this story, still appears frequently on CNBC. He recently launched an online MBA program at Strayer University, named after himself.

Related: GE is breaking up with the light bulb
'Train wreck'
One of the chief responsibilities of the CEO is deciding where to deploy cash. After Immelt took over from Welch, GE often picked the wrong places at the wrong times.
Those poor decisions about mergers and acquisitions have contributed to the cash crunch: This giant company no longer generates enough money to pay for investments in the business and dividends for shareholders. The crunch has been years in the making, but only recently has Wall Street come to grips with how bad it is.
Consider GE's $9.5 billion acquisition of Alstom's power business, which makes coal-fueled turbines used by power plants. The 2015 transaction was GE's biggest-ever industrial purchase.
For GE, the deal represented a doubling down on fossil fuels, even as renewable sources of energy, like solar, were gaining popularity. Not surprisingly, GE admitted this week that Alstom has been a major disappointment, and that its power business is in shambles.
"If we could go back in the time machine today, we would pay a substantially lower price than we did," Flannery said on CNBC.
Inch called the Alstom deal a "disaster" that supports GE's reputation for "buying high and selling low."
Elsewhere, he said GE overpaid for many of its oil-and-gas properties, forcing it to merge those businesses last year with Baker Hughes (BHGE), a major provider of services and equipment for oil drilling. GE said this week it's already exploring ways to exit its majority stake in Baker Hughes.
GE has had an "abysmal M&A history," Scott Davis, CEO and lead analyst at Melius Research, wrote in a recent report.
Much of it occurred under Immelt, who himself once had a reputation as a world-class CEO. He was named one of the "world's best CEOs" by Barron's three times and sat on CEO councils under both President Trump and former President Barack Obama.
Yet GE was the worst-performing stock in the Dow during Immelt's 16-year reign. It was an original member of the venerable stock average. Now there's talk of kicking GE out of the Dow altogether.
Davis described Immelt's tenure was a "train wreck" and said his exit this year "came about 10 years too late."
Related: Will GE get kicked out of the Dow?
Immelt is gone now, and GE is shedding businesses -- but at a time when many of those businesses are at a low point. For instance, the company has put its century-old railroad business up for sale. But Flannery has warned that rail faces a "protracted slowdown" in North America, suggesting that buyers will not exactly be lining up.
Likewise, GE is looking to unload its business that makes light bulbs -- the product that, perhaps more than any other, symbolizes the company's history of innovation. Light bulb sales soared between 2007 and 2014, thanks to the LED lighting that GE helped to invent. The problem is that LED bulbs last for decades, so sales have tumbled.
Aswath Damodaran, a finance professor at the Stern School of Business, blamed Immelt for not moving more quickly and aggressively to shrink a maturing GE.
"Accept the fact you're aging. Don't fight it with acquisitions," said Damodaran. "That's like a 75-year-old doing a face lift. You can't look good for long because gravity will work its magic sooner or later."
Immelt declined to comment.
'Too proud' to let go of GE Capital
Consider GE Capital, which was built into a behemoth by Welch and Immelt through a series of acquisitions. It was essentially a too-big-to-fail bank, inside a company that makes power plants and MRI machines.
GE Capital became a huge liability during the financial crisis. It got so bad that GE couldn't borrow money when the overnight lending market vanished, forcing it to get an emergency investment from Warren Buffett and other investors.
Pankaj Patel, who worked at GE during the 1990s, defended GE management by arguing the company was a victim of a once-in-a-generation meltdown.
"They got caught in the middle of the financial crisis," said Patel.
Others argue GE should have sold GE Capital long before it got so big that it endangered the rest of the company.
"They were too proud. They couldn't let it go. By the time they spun off GE Capital, it was already damaged and nobody would give them a fair price," Damodaran said.
Related: GE cuts dividend for 2nd time since Great Depression
'Murky' accounting
GE has long been criticized for using cloudy accounting and confusing reporting metrics that made it difficult for investors to determine the company's true health.
The SEC charged GE with accounting fraud in 2009, alleging the company used "overly aggressive accounting" to make false and misleading statements to investors. GE agreed to pay $50 million to settle the charges, though the company neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.
GE's accounting remains controversial. The Wall Street Journal published a recent series highlighting how the company's "murky" accounting makes it hard to understand its cash flow.
Take GE's "industrial CFOA," which is supposed to gauge free cash flow. But a footnote explains this measure excludes deal taxes as well as pension plan funding, a huge cost at GE.
"It's gone on for many years," said Deutsche Bank's Inch. "The important numbers are buried. They don't want people to understand."
Acknowledging that these issues have hurt GE, Flannery promised last week to simplify reporting and increase transparency. However, GE stopped short of abandoning customized metrics altogether.
Flannery has downplayed accounting concerns, telling CNBC, "There is no accounting issue. ... No one's been had."
GE declined further comment.
Accounting scrutiny is a headache GE does not need. Flannery already faces what he calls a "heavy lift" turning around this great company. He expressed optimism about that challenge, citing GE's long history of remaking itself.
For this next chapter in the GE story, the company is planning to shrink itself by selling its transportation, light bulb and other businesses.
The goal is to make the GE of the future more nimble, easier to operate and squarely focused on its core strengths: health care, power and aviation. Flannery has also vowed to improve GE's culture by making it more open and transparent. And to do a better job of allocating GE's limited resources.
The dream is to make GE a modern industrial leader that is once again on a sustainable financial path.
"This is the opportunity, really of a lifetime, to reinvent an iconic company," Flannery said.


"Whoever controls the lithium supply chain will control the future of the electric vehicle space," said Simon Moores, managing director at research and data provider Benchmark Mineral Intelligence. "There's a global battery arms race."
Related: How China plans to beat the U.S. at technology
China has limited lithium resources of its own, so it's looking abroad.
In September, Chinese automaker Great Wall Motor (GWLLF) bought a stake in Pilbara Minerals (PILBF), an Australian lithium miner. Earlier this year, China's Ganfeng Lithium snapped up 20% of an Argentine project. Last year, China's Tianqi Lithium took a 2% stake in Chile's SQM (SQM), one of the world's top miners of the metal.
The Chinese government has been quietly instructing state-owned enterprises to hunt down lithium resources outside China, according to Francois Perrin, a portfolio manager at investment firm East Capital. He predicts that over the next few years, China will wield increasing influence over the supply of lithium and other metals used in electric batteries.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said he didn't have any specific information on the trend of Chinese investment in lithium supplies.
"We always strive to deepen economic cooperation with all countries in all fields, including in energy and auto sectors," he said in response to a question from CNN. "I wouldn't find it surprising if there is Chinese cooperation with other countries in mining certain minerals."

The Chinese firms involved in the recent deals didn't respond to requests for comment. Neither did the National Development and Reform Commission, which helps guide the country's economic policies.
Beijing has a track record of directing Chinese companies to do its bidding, such as squeezing South Korea's tourism industry earlier this year over a dispute with Seoul over a U.S. missile defense system.
It also has history of using crucial natural resources under its control as diplomatic weapons: it was widely accused of restricting exports in 2010 of a group of minerals that are vital for many high-tech devices.
The pursuit of lithium for electric cars fits with Chinese President Xi Jinping's plans, according to analysts.
"China's aggressive moves in the lithium sector speak to the country taking leadership around important issues such as public health and fighting climate change," said Chris Berry, founder of research firm House Mountain Partners. China wants to be a global leader in lithium, from mining the metal to processing it, he said.
Related: These countries want to ban gas and diesel cars
Western companies haven't so far shown much interest in the kinds of investments for electric cars made by their Chinese counterparts, according to experts.
"They're late to the party," Moores said.
Like China, the U.S. and Europe have few lithium resources of their own and rely on supplies shipped from elsewhere. Tesla (TSLA) and other electric car makers could end up scrambling for a limited supply of crucial resources where China is the biggest player.

The growing global appetite for lithium is already driving up its price. It's gained 40% since the start of the year to trade around $14,000 per ton, according to Benchmark Mineral Intelligence.
"This is an incredible bull market like lithium's never seen," Moores said.
A lot of the demand comes from China's large and growing battery manufacturing industry.
Tesla's huge Gigafactory in the Nevada desert gets a lot of headlines, but China produces about two-thirds of the global supply of batteries for electric vehicles, according to Benchmark Mineral Intelligence. And the firm estimates that China is building about half of the 20 or more battery mega-factories currently in the works.
Related: Inside Tesla's enormous Gigafactory
With the biggest market for electric vehicles and the biggest battery supply, China is making itself an inescapable destination for global automakers. They have been lining up recently to announce plans to make their electric cars in the country.

"The message to Tesla and other aspiring electric vehicle makers: 'You are free to produce anywhere in the world, but better to produce electric vehicles inside China,'" said Michael Dunne, head of Hong Kong-based consultant Dunne Automotive.
Tesla has said its working on plans for building its cars in China. Volkswagen (VLKAY), the world's biggest automaker, has just announced a $12 billion plan to make electric cars in the country. Experts say others will soon follow.
Related: Volkswagen needs batteries that would fill 4 Gigafactories
And it's not just lithium that China's locking down.
Cobalt, another metal used to make electric vehicle batteries, is even scarcer. Almost two-thirds of supply is mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo, a war-torn country in central Africa.
Last year, China bought a majority stake in Congo's biggest cobalt mine for more than $2.5 billion, helping secure long-term supply of the metal. Since that deal, the price of cobalt has more than doubled.
"The cobalt supply situation is a serious concern," Perrin said.


The economic impact is likely to be limited, however.
"The economy is in such good shape with 2.5% growth, strong business confidence, full employment and a fiscal surplus that few major decisions need to be taken for the time being," said Holger Schmieding, chief European economist at Berenberg Bank.
2. Brexit jobs losses: The European Union will announce new host cities on Monday for two coveted agencies that are leaving Britain because of Brexit.
The European Medicines Agency and the European Banking Authority, which employ roughly 1,000 people, had been based in London.
It's one of the first concrete examples of organizations and jobs leaving Britain because of Brexit.
3. Markets in fear mode: The CNNMoney Fear & Greed Index has swung into "fear" territory.
The gauge of investor sentiment, which tracks volatility and six other key market barometers, had been indicating "greed" for several weeks.
U.S. stock futures were pointing lower.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed 0.4% lower on Friday, while the S&P 500 dropped 0.3%. The Nasdaq shed 0.2%.
Still, It's been at least a decade since things were going this well for Wall Street. The Nasdaq is up 26% this year, compared to a 15.5% jump for the S&P 500 and an 18% gain by the Dow.
4. Global market overview: European stocks were mostly lower in early trading. Asian markets ended mixed.
U.S. oil futures edged higher to trade around $56.80 per barrel.
Bitcoin has surged above $8,000, the latest in a series of milestones to be topped by the digital currency. A year ago, Bitcoin was trading at around $740.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Earnings and economics: Urban Outfitters (URBN) will report earnings after the closing bell.
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi is speaking at 9:00 a.m. ET in Brussels.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- Urban Outfitters (URBN) earnings Tuesday -- Campbell (CPB), Lowe's, Salesforce and HP earnings Wednesday -- Consumer sentiment survey, U.K. budget, Fed minutes Thursday -- Markets closed for Thanksgiving  Friday -- Markets close at 1 p.m.


The firm has until next March to dig itself out of massive debt and get its balance sheet in order, failing which it will have to stop trading publicly.
Related: Apple-backed group to buy Toshiba chip business for $18 billion
Seeking a major injection of cash is the latest survival move from Toshiba, which is dealing with a crippling financial crisis.
The struggling company agreed to sell its prized memory chip business in September, to a consortium led by private equity firm Bain Capital and backed financially by Apple, (AAPL) Dell (DVMT) and other U.S. and Japanese firms.
But regulatory reviews and a challenge from U.S. data storage firm Western Digital could delay the sale beyond the critical March deadline.
Related: Toshiba: Too big to fail?
The collapse of Toshiba's U.S. nuclear unit Westinghouse, which filed for bankruptcy earlier this year, cost the storied Japanese company some $6.4 billion.
The loss forced Toshiba to report a negative net worth for the last fiscal year.


But Jodi Balsam, a former NFL lawyer who was responsible for the league constitution and bylaws from 1994 to 2007, says it's unlikely the other owners would level such severe punishment on Jones.
The reason, she says, is that owners fear their own turn in the barrel.
"Jones has a lot of friends in the league, and it's unlikely they would agree to punish one of their own because what comes around goes around," Balsam, now an associate professor at Brooklyn Law School, tells CNNMoney.
The NFL executive committee, made up of the owners of all 32 teams, can oust a fellow owner. But it takes a three-quarters vote. And Jones is powerful, despite his occasional flair for public controversy.
Besides winning three Super Bowls and running the most valuable team in America's most profitable sport, he helped Las Vegas and Los Angeles land NFL teams. And he was instrumental to securing the league's lucrative TV rights deal.
Related: NFL: Jerry Jones is hurting the league
Jones is upset that his star running back, Ezekiel Elliott, was suspended six games earlier this season for domestic violence allegations. He also has taken a much harsher stance than Goodell on players who kneel during the National Anthem to protest racial injustice. At one point Jones said he wanted to bench players for kneeling.
To block Goodell's path to a new contract, Jones has argued that every owner should get to review the terms of any deal. But in May, all 32 owners voted to give that power to a committee of six owners. (Jones was an honorary, non-voting member until he threatened to sue and was removed.)
In response to the threat of a lawsuit, the lawyer representing that committee sent a letter to Jones' lawyer warning Jones to stop sabotaging the negotiations.
Related: What's driving Jerry Jones' beef with Roger Goodell
Balsam says an NFL owner has never been removed for misbehavior.
In the NBA, Clippers owner Donald Sterling was pushed out of the league in 2014, but that was for racist comments that turned him into a national outcast. Sterling was banned from his own team and forced to sell.
Balsam says when NFL owners have lost teams, it's usually been for financial reasons.
"The league usually works these things out behind the scenes," she said. "But owners have quietly departed as a result of persuasive efforts by fellow owners and the league office when they're incapable of running the team."
What's more likely is that Jones might be fined, Balsam says.
The bylaws allow either the executive committee or the commissioner to fine an owner up to $500,000 for each violation.
Balsam says it's highly unusual for the NFL to fine owners for their comments and actions. It's different from other leagues in that way. For example, the NBA has fined Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban several times for his behavior.
But, while it might be unusual to incur a fine, Jones is more than just badmouthing Goodell. He's threatening to sue the league -- his fellow owners.
If he is punished, Balsam says it would be more effective for the committee to do it because Goodell has a personal tie to the matter. His job is at stake.
Related: NFL owners weigh contract extension for Roger Goodell
Goodell's contract still has more than a year and a half to run. But the calendar could be pressuring the league to act now to renew his deal.
Not only are major network TV deals ending in 2021 and 2022, but the league's collective bargaining agreement with players ends after the 2020 season. If the NFL brought in a new commissioner, that person would only have a year or so to get up to speed.
Balsam says she doesn't understand Jones' endgame. She says the best time to replace a commissioner is after he or she negotiates a successful CBA -- not right before. And Goodell is a very skilled negotiator, she says: The past two deals he did were favorable for owners.
Goodell worked in the league for 24 years before being named commissioner. In that time he handled football and business operations and played a key role in the league's expansion.
When he took over as commissioner he helped broker a 10-year CBA and nine-year deals with CBS, NBC and Fox.
He also helped grow the league's revenue to over $12 billion in 2014 and has set a goal of $25 billion by 2027.
The NFL, Jones' attorney and the Dallas Cowboys did not respond to requests for comment.


The House bill that passed last week would slash the corporate tax rate to 20% from 35%. The tax cut would lift big bank earnings by 15%, according to KBW. Profits at Wells Fargo (WFC), Bank of America (BAC) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM) could soar by 20% or more.
Of course, the tax overhaul still faces obstacles in the Senate. And even if it gets through there, it'll have to be reconciled with the starkly different version passed by the House.
Still, hopes for big tax cuts have helped lift the stock market to new heights. The Dow has surged nearly 19% this year, while the Nasdaq is up a whopping 26%.
Stocks aren't just booming in the U.S. It's a global phenomenon, driven by a rare period of synchronized growth from major economies. The global stock market has climbed every single month this year, something that's never happened during the 30-year history of the MSCI AC World Index, according to Charles Schwab.
It also helps that inflation remains very low, something that should keep central banks from raising interest rates too rapidly. Wall Street has dubbed it a "goldilocks" backdrop: steady growth that is neither too hot nor too cold.
If anything, the risk is that euphoria takes over and ruins the party by sparking a melt-up that overheats the market.
There are already signs that investors are chasing gains, no matter the price level.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch polled investors and found record-high levels who believe stocks are overvalued (48%) and are taking above-normal levels of risk (16%). Yet they continue to plow into stocks, with average cash levels dipping to four-year lows.
The survey is, according to BofA, "an indicator of irrational exuberance."
2. Black Friday is finally here: Holiday shopping season is officially here. Unofficially, it's been here for weeks. Amazon (AMZN), Sears (SHLD), Home Depot (HD) and other retailers are already offering reduced prices for some items, and Walmart (WMT) already hosted some of its shopping parties (yes, shopping parties).
But that doesn't mean Black Friday and Thanksgiving don't matter to retailers. This year, several stores will open their doors on Thanksgiving Day and remain open or reopen them on Black Friday. Some, like GameStop, are reversing decisions made in previous years to close on Thanksgiving in honor of the holiday. And the stakes are high for brick-and-mortar locations -- more store closings have been announced in 2017 than any other year on record.
Last year, more people shopped on Black Friday than they did in 2015. But they spent less, according to the National Retail Federation. This year, the NRF expects holiday sales in November and December to tick up by about 4% compared to 2016 -- but PricewaterhouseCoopers predicts that Black Friday shopping will fall by 16%.
3. U.K. budget announcement: The British government will publish its autumn budget on Wednesday. U.K. citizens will be watching for whether Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond will dip into the country's reserves to prepare for a "no deal" Brexit: The nightmare scenario in which Britain leaves the European Union in 2019 without agreeing to a new deal with the bloc.
If that happens, it would be a financial and logistical disaster: Flights would be grounded, border crossings delayed, and tens of thousand of jobs lost. And without a trade deal with Europe, British households could pay an extra $345 per year.
Talks between the U.K. and the E.U. are supposed to wrap up next summer, but little progress has been made so far.
4. Earnings end on a high note? After weeks of mostly solid earnings this past quarter, we'll hear from three more high-performing companies. Hewlett Packard (HPE) and Salesforce (CRM), both set to report on Tuesday, have soared by more than 45% and 56% this year, respectively.
Lowe's (LOW), which also plans to share its results on Tuesday, has risen nearly 12% this year. That still puts it well ahead of most other retailers.
5. Coming this week:
Tuesday -- Campbell (CPB), Lowe's, Salesforce and HP earnings
Wednesday -- Consumer sentiment survey
Thursday -- Markets closed for Thanksgiving
Friday -- Markets close at 1 p.m.


Opens: 5 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day and will stay open until 1 a.m. Friday. Reopens Friday at 8 a.m. and closes at 10 p.m.
Highlights: You can get a 50-inch 4K Smart TV for $180 (save $320), a Google Home Mini for $30 (save $20 plus get a $10 gift card), or up to $150 off a 10.5-inch iPad Pro. Get more details here and see the full ad here.
Pro-Tip: My Best Buy members get early access to Black Friday deals starting Monday November 20.
Online: Best Buy says "almost" every deal will be available online beginning Thanksgiving morning. Shoppers get free shipping all season long.
Dick's Sporting Goods
Opens: 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving and will remain open until 2 a.m. Friday. Reopens Friday from 5 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Highlights: "Select" locations will have discounts on items exclusively available at Dick's -- including apparel from Patagonia and Adidas and the Bowflex M5. The store is also offering rewards cash for Yeti purchases, 50% to 70% off bikes, 40% off Adidas apparel, a Warrior in-ground basketball hoop for $400 (save $600), and a Stiga tennis table for $250 (save $250). See the full ad here.
Online: All deals will be available online Thanksgiving day. The site offers free shipping or the option to pick up in stores. Dick's will also hold a Cyber Week sale that kicks off Sunday November 26.
Kmart
Opens: 6 a.m. on Thanksgiving and will stay open until 10 p.m. on Black Friday. Some stores close at midnight or 2 a.m. on Friday and reopen at 6 a.m.
Highlights: Grab a 55-inch Samsung 4K Smart TV for $500 (save $200) or luxurious 1,000 thread count sheets for $20 (save 30). Barbie dolls will go on sale for $2 (save $5 to $8), and some small kitchen appliances will be 50% off. See the full ad here.
Online: Kmart's discounts will be available online from 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving through 2 p.m. on Black Friday.
Kohl's
Opens: 5 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day. Hours may vary by location.
Deals: Shoppers can snag a PlayStation 4 for $200 (save $100), a diamond bracelet for $70 (save $230), a Google Home for $80 (save $50), or a Sky Rider HD camera drone for $50 (save $100). For $20, parents can grab a Disney castle toy or an indoor basketball game. See the full ad here.
Pro-Tip: According to Wallethub, Kohl's will offer some of the steepest discounts of any major retailer this Black Friday. On average, its markdowns will hit 66.3% off. Deals will be especially hot for jewelry.
Online: Some deals go live on Kohls.com Monday November 20 at 1 a.m. ET. Doorbuster deals go live at 1 a.m. ET on Thursday November 23.
Macy's
Opens: 5 p.m. on Thanksgiving, though it may vary by location.
Highlights: The steepest discounts will be so-called doorbusters that will be available when doors open on Thanksgiving through 1 p.m. Friday. The discounts will briefly come back Saturday until 1 p.m. Mail-in rebates, offered only in stores, will score you some free items, such as a glassware set or select kitchen electronics. See the full ad here.
Pro-Tip: If you need a blender, Wallethub says Macy's is offering one of the best discounts around for its A3500 Vitamix blender. You can grab it for $350 (save $250) on Black Friday.
Online: More than 500 deals will be live online beginning Thanksgiving morning. A round of Cyber Week savings will go live on Sunday, November 26 and end Wednesday November 29.
Sears
Opens: 6 p.m. to midnight on Thanksgiving, though some locations will stay closed. All stores will reopen at 5 a.m. on Black Friday.
Highlights: You can save more than $1,000 on a Kenmore refrigerator or a NordicTrack elliptical. They'll go on sale for $1,000 and $600, respectively. Most deals will end at 2 p.m. on Black Friday. See the full ad here.
Online: All deals will be available online all day Thanksgiving through 2 p.m. on Black Friday.
Target
Opens: 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving, closes at midnight and reopens Friday at 6 a.m.
Highlights: Target is promising the "lowest prices of the year" on video games, TVs and other electronics. Customers who spend $50 on Black Friday will get a 20% off coupon for a future shopping trip.
Deals include an XBox One S 500 GB console for $190 (save $90 and get a $25 gift card) and a 65-inch Samsung 4K TV for $850 (save $156). Get more details here and see the full ad here.
Pro-Tip: REDcard holders will get early access to more than 100 deals online starting Wednesday Nov. 22.
Online: Black Friday deals will be available on Target.com early Thanksgiving morning.
Toys "R" Us
Opens: 5 p.m. on Thanksgiving until 11 p.m. Friday.
Highlights: A few pre-Black Friday sales will show up Sunday November 19 and run through Wednesday November 22. A few deals will be available only in stores through midnight. They include a a Barbie Pink Passport Townhouse for $60 (50% off) and a motorized Power Wheels Boomerang for $250 (save $150). Get more details here and see the full ad here.
Online: Black Friday deals will go live on Toysrus.com/BlackFriday Wednesday Nov. 22 at 9 p.m. ET. Toys "R" Us offers a pick-up-in-store option.
Walmart
Opens: Black Friday sales begin at 6 p.m., but most Walmart stores will be open all day on Thanksgiving. Hours vary by location.
Highlights: Walmart will release color-coded maps of its stores to help customers find what they are looking for. Among the deals it's touted: a Dyson cordless vacuum cleaner for $190 (save $176), a Google Chromecast for $20 (save $15), a iPad 5th Gen 32GB for $249 (save $80), and a Samsung 65-inch Class Curved 4K Smart TV for $1,000 (save $300). Get more details here and see the full ad here.
Online: Deals begin on Walmart.com at 12:01 a.m. ET on Thanksgiving.


Ending the DACA program, which was enacted through an executive order by President Barack Obama in 2012, could upend the lives of the nearly 689,000 15- to 36-year olds who gained DACA status.
But there is still some hope for DACA recipients. The Trump administration gave Congress until March 5 to enact an alternative before those protected under the program lose their ability to work, study and live without fear in the U.S.
Related: DACA in flux: 5 things business owners need to know
Should Congress fail to meet the deadline, those with DACA status will lose their work authorization and their employers may be forced to lay them off.
Many graduating high schoolers may no longer be able to attend college. And all DACA status holders would lose their identification cards, which in many states allows them to drive legally.
This is a significant problem, said Randy Kapps, director of research with Migration Policy Institute. "If they get caught driving without a license, they can be arrested and held in ICE custody and potentially face deportation," he said.
While their future in the U.S. now hangs in the balance, a report from the Migration Policy Institute provides a detailed profile of Dreamers with DACA status. Here are some of the key findings:

In order to qualify for DACA status, a person must either be enrolled in school, already have a high school diploma or have a GED. This means almost all of those covered by DACA are high-school educated.
Of the 689,800 DACA holders, 20% are currently in middle or high school and a little less than half (44%) have graduated high school, but have not enrolled in college.
Related: DACA students are worried. The clock is ticking
Another 18% of DACA recipients are enrolled in college, making them almost as likely to enroll in college as the average American in the same age group. The difference is that just 4% of DACA recipients have completed a bachelor's degree -- a much smaller percentage than their American peers.
The report also found that one out of three DACA recipients who is enrolled in school also holds a job, which is on par with other young American adults.

Just over half (55%) of DACA recipients -- about 400,000 -- are working, while most of the rest are in school, unemployed or not in the labor force, the report said.
And Dreamers are employed across a variety of service and professional jobs.
"What our research shows is that DACA recipients are largely a working class population," said Kapps.
"This may come as a surprise to people that so many of them are in these mid-skill jobs," he said.
While a large number of Dreamers hold retail jobs or work in the food services or hospitality industries, many are also teachers, health care providers, business managers and social workers.
The report found that about 9,000 are employed as teachers, while some 14,000 are working as health care practitioner and support jobs. Another 14,000 work as managers.
"The jobs they hold are generally better compared to someone who is undocumented and not eligible for DACA," said Kapps.
The report said DACA recipients are half as likely to work in construction as compared to undocumented individuals who don't have DACA status.

Should Congress fail to act by the March 5 deadline, the Migration Policy Institute estimates that an average of 915 DACA holders every day will lose their ability to work and their protection from deportation every day between March 6, 2018 through March 20, 2020.
Related: These men and women will be out of work if Trump repeals DACA
"The stakes are high for several hundred thousand immigrants who could lose their work authorization and also be at risk of deportation," said Kapps. "The same holds true for the many businesses that employ them, and for the communities where they live."


Both sides choose to highlight different measures, or stress the estimated effects of the bill in different years.
The truth is there are many ways to determine how a tax plan might help or hurt income groups.
One key assessment is what happens to after-tax income. That's a measure economists use to assess an income group's well-being once tax changes are made, said Martin Sullivan, chief economist of Tax Analysts.
And it's one way to measure how progressive tax changes would be. The more after-tax income rises for low- and middle-income households as a result of those changes, the better off they'll be.
To see how middle-income and other households might fare under the Senate bill, CNNMoney calculated after-tax income changes using distribution tables created by the Joint Committee on Taxation, the nonpartisan tax scorekeeper for the House and Senate.
One caveat: the JCT's analysis excludes certain measures in the bill -- including the doubling of the estate tax exemption, which would disproportionately benefit higher income groups if it were included.
Broadly speaking, middle-income groups would see their after-tax incomes rise on average in four of the five years the JCT analyzed. But those increases are mostly modest and often less than that of the wealthiest households.
What's more, the size of the increases for the middle class shrink over time, in part because their tax cuts in the bill would expire after 2025, and because the Senate bill would slow inflation adjustments in the tax code. That means over time more income from the middle class could be taxed at higher rates and the value of their tax benefits would decline, according to Lily Batchelder, a former chief tax counsel on the Senate Finance Committee.
Here's how the numbers break out from year to year:
In 2019: Every income group would end up with more after-tax income. Those making between $50,000 and $75,000 would see theirs rise by 1.3%, less than the 3% jump for those making between $500,000 and $1 million, or the 2.1% bump for households making more than $1 million.
In 2021: The $200,000 to $500,000 income group would do best, seeing a 2% rise in after-tax income. But those making $40,000 to $50,000 would only see a 0.5% bump. Those making $50,000 to $75,000 again get a 1.3% increase, just a little below the 1.5% jump in after-tax incomes for those making $1 million or more.
In 2023: The $30,000 to $40,000 band would see zero change while those making less would actually see slightly less after-tax income than they would if no tax changes were made.
Groups making $40,000 or more would have a little more money after paying Uncle Sam. But those who would enjoy the biggest bumps are those making from $500,000 to $1 million (2%) and those making $200,000 to $500,000 (1.6%).
In 2025: Those making $30,000 to $40,000 would see zero change in their after-tax income while those making less would see a less than 1% drop in their after-tax incomes.
By contrast, those making between $500,000 and $1 million would see a 2% jump.
And those making $50,000 to $75,000 along with those making more than $1 million would get less of a pop, at 0.8%.
In 2027: Every group would experience drops in average after-tax income or no change, except for those at the high end. Households bringing in $500,000 or more would see tiny increases of less than 0.5%.


In the latest evidence of volatility, CNN has learned that IAC is entertaining potential buyers for The Daily Beast, the news and opinion site launched nearly a decade ago by former Vanity Fair editor Tina Brown.
"IAC has made it known it's a seller and various outlets are taking a look," one source with knowledge of IAC's sales pitch said. "They're shopping to all interested parties."
Other sources with knowledge of the talks said IAC was only entertaining offers initiated by outside parties, and that no formal sales effort was in place.
The sources did not disclose any other details, including how much IAC hopes to get for the Beast. An IAC spokesperson said "IAC does not comment on rumors or speculation."
Minutes after this report was published, Daily Beast president Heather Dietrick emailed staff and said there was "no sales process going on for The Beast," but that IAC often "fields inquiries from third parties looking to talk about purchases, sales, or investments."
"In fact I wouldn't be surprised if others come by and ask to take a peek because of the way we've been driving the conversation in news lately," she wrote.
The Daily Beast is hardly alone.
Related: Why there's so much anxiety in the media business right now
Mashable, which was valued at $250 million early last year, has reportedly agreed to sell itself for just $50 million to the trade publisher Ziff Davis.
Univision is reportedly looking for investors to buy a minority stake in their Fusion Media Group, which includes the former Gawker Media sites and the Onion, as well as Fusion TV.
Meanwhile, BuzzFeed is on track to miss its revenue targets by as much as 20% and is no longer likely to file for an initial public offering next year, the Wall Street Journal reported Thursday. Vice, too, will fall short of its projected revenues.
Even CNN Digital, which brought in its highest revenue in history this year, expects to fall short of its revenue projections by at least $20 million dollars, according to BuzzFeed.
So, what happened?
In a number of cases, companies failed to meet the sky-high numbers they promised to investors. Some, like BuzzFeed and Mashable, scaled-up by being omnipresent on social media without figuring out how to make enough money off those platforms.
Meanwhile, those platforms -- most notably Facebook and Google -- started taking larger and larger chunks of the available advertising revenue. Today, the Facebook-Google duopoly owns between 60 to 70% of the U.S. digital ad market, leaving digital media companies to fight over crumbs.


Walmart was not available for comment and Tesla was not commenting on specific orders.
Meijer, a Michigan-based supermarket chain, told Bloomberg at Thursday's event that it had placed orders for four trucks, putting down a $5,000 deposit for each one.
The company said in a statement it had made a "small financial commitment" to test the new truck technology, "which has the potential to not only reduce our carbon footprint but also realize cost savings that will allow us to keep prices low for our customers."
And J.B. Hunt Transport Services (JBHT), a top logistics and trucking company, said Friday it had made a reservation to buy "multiple" Tesla Semis.
"Reserving Tesla trucks marks an important step in our efforts to implement industry-changing technology," said J.B. Hunt CEO John Roberts in a statement.
Related: Does Tesla have enough cash to fix Model 3 production issues?
Roberts added that the use of these trucks will be most beneficial for local routes and that J.B. Hunt planned to first deploy the Tesla Semi on the West Coast.
That makes sense, according to Jerry Hirsch, editor at Trucks.com.
Hirsch thinks Tesla may only get a small number of orders for the Semi from companies mostly looking to use them for short hauls -- about 20 to 250 miles -- from ports on the California coast to distribution centers in the inland part of the state.
That's because there still appear to be limitations for how far the Semi can go before being charged. Musk boasted that the Semi will be able to go 500 miles at full speed before needing to stop to recharge the battery.
But as CNNMoney's auto guru Peter Valdes-Dapena pointed out, diesel trucks can travel much further before needing to be refueled. And filling up the tank is a lot faster than charging a battery.
Hirsch agrees. "The Tesla Semi is not for long haul trucking," he said.
Related: An Elon Musk email from May is making people upset
Still, the Semi is likely to make some waves in the industry. Hirsch said that the decision to have the driver sit in the center of the truck will improve the aerodynamics of the vehicle and that other truck manufacturers may follow suit.
"Everybody in the trucking industry is going to look at this," Hirsch said. "This is going to spark a change among other manufacturers, radical changes that have been previously resisted."
But Hirsch is still not certain that the Semi will wind up being a huge generator of sales (or profits) anytime soon for Tesla.
For one, it's unclear if Tesla will actually get the Semi rolling out by 2019 as promised. Musk is notorious for making overly lofty promises and missing deadlines.
Tesla also has a lot on its plate right now with trying to deliver its new Model 3 to customers in a timely fashion.
The "cheaper" Model 3 is what many on Wall Street hope will vault Tesla into the upper echelon of mass market auto makers. Tesla is currently more of a niche, luxury car company, selling the high-end Model S sedan and Model X crossover.
Wall Street seems to be buying into the Tesla (TSLA) hype though. Shares rose Friday and they are up almost 50% so far this year. The surprise introduction of a new version of Tesla's beloved Roadster sports car also helped push the stock higher.
But Tesla has pulled back recently due to concerns about Model 3 production and integration issues with Tesla's acquisition of solar panel company SolarCity -- a firm co-founded by two of Musk's cousins. Tesla shares are about 20% below their record high.
Related: Tesla's cars can now accelerate...more slowly
And Hirsch thinks that tough competition could be a problem for Tesla too. The company is not alone in trying to reinvent the trucking industry and make it more green.
He noted that engine maker Cummins (CMI), German auto giant Daimler (DDAIF) and commercial truck company Navistar (NAV) are all working on their own electric trucks.
Toyota (TM) is testing a hydrogen fuel cell truck as well. And so is a startup called Nikola Motor, which just so happens to be the first name of the famed inventor that Tesla is named after.
All this competition could become a problem if Tesla can't live up to its production goals.
"Tesla never gets things done in the time frame they say they will," Hirsch said. "There may not be meaningful distribution of this vehicle for at least three years."


It doesn't seem like a children's retailer would have much in common with a home-improvement store, but successful retailers share a winning formula for keeping Amazon at bay.
Controlling costs
Walmart (WMT) knows that keeping its costs low can go a long way toward boosting its profit.
Its decision not to hire holiday workers this season will likely increase its profitability this quarter, the company said. This week, Walmart boosted its forecast for the holiday shopping season.
Related: Walmart is killing Target and making Amazon sweat
Best Buy (BBY) has also successfully avoided financial mismanagement and high debt burdens, which have brought down its competitors like the bankrupt RadioShack.
And Costco has put pressure on vendors to bring down costs, letting it keep prices low for customers.
"When times are tough, such as they have been for the past ten years, executives need to really know what they're doing," says Richard Feinberg, professor of retail management at Purdue. "All these retailers control their costs, which can be more effective than simply increasing revenue."
That's because a dollar saved is a dollar earned in profit, whereas a dollar raised in revenue only increases profit by a percentage (the profit margin).
Becoming a destination
Children's Place (PLCE) is more than just a kids clothing store, says Ron Friedman, a retail expert and partner at Marcum LLP.
"It's a children's apparel destination," Friedman says. "It's a brick and mortar store just for kids. It's in the name."
That kind of experience-oriented focus is a common factor in keeping successful retailers humming.
"Retailers that want to succeed have to be an entertaining destination for consumers, especially Millennials," Feinberg says.
Similarly, Best Buy established itself as a destination to ask for help and advice with home and electronics needs. That's particularly important in the age of smart houses.
Best Buy has benefited from hiring teams of experts to help consumers understand and install new smart products.
Related: When will stores open on Black Friday 2017?
Just as Amazon doesn't do a great job helping customers understand how to work their new smart oven, it also can't help customers understand the difference between a socket wrench and a ratchet set.
"Home Depot is a place where you can go and ask questions, like Best Buy," Friedman says. "People value that."
Selling stuff Amazon can't
Think about it: When was the last time you purchased a $2 hand soap online? Shipping costs more than the soap!
By keeping prices cheap and plentiful stores, Dollar General (DG) has kept itself Amazon-proof.
Amazon probably could sell dollar items, but likely wouldn't make much money on them because of shipping costs, according to Feinberg.
"Dollar stores are, for now, a special form of business," Feinberg says.
Costco (COST) is another company immune to the rise of e-commerce as consumers save by buying in bulk.
And Home Depot's (HD) items are too onerous for a company like Amazon to ship. Buying plywood online doesn't make a lot of sense -- for customers or for retailers.
However, Feinberg warns that no business, not even home improvement, should turn a blind eye to Amazon.
Amazon has already started to disrupt businesses that are seemingly out of Amazon's element, like pharmaceuticals and groceries.
"If you're not buying your plywood from Amazon now, you will be in the future," he says. "They'll find a way to do it."


"The company walked away from $400 million at the same time they changed their promotional appeal," said Instinet analyst Simeon Siegel.
While Victoria's Secret was in the middle of its reboot, a consumer shift took hold that opened the door for competitors: "Bralettes."
Designed for comfort, bralettes are unconstructed bras without padding or underwire. They're around half the price of Victoria's Secret underwire bras, which run about $35.
Victoria's Secret tried to step up its bralette appeal, promoting "no padding is sexy" ads.
But the consumer shift chipped away at the store's stronghold on bras and paved the way for more options online and lower-cost retailers.
Related: Fallen angels? Victoria's Secret sales plunge
American Eagle's Aerie collection gained a foothold and startups and smaller companies entered the market.
"Anyone who could make a T-shirt could make a bralette," said Siegel.
At the same time, online shopping hurt Victoria's Secret, a staple of malls across the country.
Victoria's Secret sales have slipped 11% from last year, parent company L Brands reported on Thursday.
L Brands  (LB) has stumbled 25% this year as Victoria's Secret hits the reset button (L Brands also owns Bath & Body Works, a bright spot: Bath & Body sales have climbed 4% this year).
Despite headwinds from bralettes and a rapidly-changing retail industry, Victoria's Secret says its best days are still ahead.
The store believes bralettes are a short-term trend and that structured bras are making a comeback. As consumer preferences switch back, Victoria's Secret believes it's well positioned to capitalize, said Siegel.
"It all depends on their ability to bring customers back by selling an experience that is not replicable online," he said.
Analysts also say there is significant opportunity in international markets like China. The store's annual fashion show is in Shanghai later this month for the first time.
Victoria's Secret will be put to the test during the holiday shopping stretch and into next year, said Morgan Stanley analyst Kimberly Greenberger.
But analysts like Greenberger are optimistic about the store's strength in the long run. Victoria's Secret still holds the largest market share of intimate apparel in the country and can fend off new rivals as it continues to adapt to changing customer preferences.


As long as you've already got enough emergency savings, investing a little extra cash in the market is a great way to start growing your money.
"No amount is too small to get started," says LJPR Financial Advisors CEO Leon LaBrecque. "Spare change can really add up."
Related: The secret to being a great saver
Starting out when you're young is even more valuable because there's more time for your investments to grow.
So what's the game plan? Should you buy big names? What about exchange traded funds (ETFs)?
CNNMoney spoke with the pros to help you cut through the noise and make smart financial choices as you dive into the market.

Don't put all of your eggs in one basket
Experts agree that if you don't have much money, it's best to avoid investing in individual stocks. That's because having a broad range of investments will substantially lower your risk.
"Diversified mutual funds or exchange traded funds (ETFs) are the best way to grow," says Luxenberg. "Picking one or a handful of stocks is a crapshoot and one could hit a home run but more likely you'll strike out."
Mutual funds, which are operated by professional fund managers, allow you to pool together smaller amounts of money with other investors to create a diversified mix of stocks, bonds or other securities. You'll own a slice of the total pie.
These funds give you a variety of options and maximize your exposure to a swath of the market. The idea is that by spreading out your money, you're less likely to get burned by one or two poor-performing stocks.
Luxenberg recommends a fund that gives you a chunk of the whole market. Vanguard has several mutual fund options, including ones tied to international indexes or emerging markets. Fidelity and Charles Schwab also have a variety of funds to choose from that will track an entire index.
Related: How to invest $1,000
ETFs have become another great way to diversify. Much like mutual funds, they also track entire sectors or major indexes, but they're traded on exchanges just like stocks and usually have lower fees than mutual funds.
An ETF like  SPDR (SPY), which tracks the S&P 500's performance, is a popular play. It has grown nearly 25% over the past three years.
You can also invest in an ETF that follows whole industries like tech, aerospace or pharmaceuticals.
Keep your fees low
Financial professionals stress keeping your account fees low, especially If you only have a little bit of money to invest.
"You don't want to incur high commissions or high fees because that really eats into your investment." says Luxenberg.
With the rise of low-fee ETFs, be wary of paying more than 0.4 or 0.5% in fees. Fund managers usually charge a bit more in fees than an account you'll manage yourself. But funds that follow indexes usually charge less than actively managed funds.
Related: 10 best investing apps (and sites)
Save with an app
Plenty of new investing apps will save you money on fees, and allow you to invest with as little as $1.
Robinhood launched in 2015 and offers free trades. All you need is enough money to buy a single share.
Acorns, which charges $1 a month until you hit $5,000 (then you pay a 0.25% fee), links to your debit card and automatically rounds up your change to the next dollar. The app invests that extra change into an investment account.
If you're having trouble deciding which stocks to buy, consider Betterment and Wealthfront. The apps ask you basic questions about your age, income, goals and risk-level, and selects a portfolio that makes sense based on sophisticated computer models.
Betterment offers fees ranging from 0.15% - 0.35% depending on how much money you invest and you only need $1 to start. You'll need $500 to start with Wealthfront, but the app manages your money for no cost up to $10,000.
FeeX can also help you track your fees. The website is free and analyzes your accounts to tell you whether your fees might be too high.
--CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie contributed to this report
Got a money question for Broke No More? Ask us here to be included in a future column.


That's not all. The U.S. recently won a longstanding trade battle with Mexico over tuna. Canada is pushing back against U.S. tariffs on Canadian lumber. Along with several other nations, Canada and Mexico are trying to revive TPP, the trade deal Trump left. Mexico is also pursuing talks with Brazil, Argentina and the European Union.
Related: Canada fights back against Trump tariffs
Things could be easier this round, experts say. For one, the politics have changed. Republican senators support NAFTA and Trump needs them to pass tax reform so he's unlikely to threaten a NAFTA withdrawal like he did in October..
All sides agreed to take a different tack this time around. After the fireworks to end Round 4, Freeland, Guajardo and Lighthizer won't be attending this time, though they all recently convened at a summit in Vietnam.
The three leaders are letting their negotiating teams take the reins and focus on areas where everyone agrees. The negotiators may also focus on items not currently covered by NAFTA, such as digital commerce. NAFTA became law in 1994 before the Amazon economy existed.
"They could probably check some boxes off and make some progress," says Welles Orr, a lawyer at the firm Miller & Chevalier who served on the original U.S. staff that helped get NAFTA passed into law.
But Orr adds:"They're going to give the negotiation time to revisit some of the more explosive, controversial, call it 'poison pill' proposals the administration has put out."
Related: Mexico is surviving Year 1 of Trump
Indeed, the thorny issues are unlikely to be discussed during this round, according to a Trump administration statement. The main disagreement revolves around how and where cars are manufactured across North America. NAFTA currently requires that 62% of parts used to make cars sold in North America must come from the region in order for the car not to be taxed at the border.
The Trump administration wants to raise that threshold to 85% in an effort to create more manufacturing jobs in the United States. And there's another twist: Trump's team wants half of all car parts made in the region to be manufactured in the U.S., and the rest to come from Canada and Mexico. Canadian and Mexican officials made it clear that's a deal breaker.
However, another proposal may be seeing the light of compromise. Trump's trade team is proposing a "sunset clause" which means NAFTA would terminate every five years unless all three countries agreed to keep it for another five. Initially, that was met with swift rebuke.
But Guajardo, the Mexican trade official, is proposing an alternative. He said Wednesday that in the new agreement, all three countries could legally be forced to evaluate the benefits and costs of NAFTA every five years, though he wouldn't commit to terminating it.
"We're making a compromise that every five years we will evaluate what's happening," Guajardo told Radio Formula in Mexico. But "we aren't putting in an automatic termination mechanism," because it would send a "bad message for investors."


Wells Fargo declined to give further details or to say when the alleged misconduct took place. The bank said it plans to announce a successor by the end of the year. Codel, a 24-year veteran of the bank who was also on the operating committee, was unavailable for comment.
"Difficult as this situation is, the decision reflects our commitment to our values and culture and to executive accountability," CEO Tim Sloan said in a statement.
Related: Wells Fargo illegally repossessed another 450 service members' cars
Wells Fargo's infamous fake-accounts scandal forced the ouster of longtime CEO John Stumpf last year as well as community banking boss Carrie Tolstedt. The bank has also terminated an unspecified number of bank managers over sales issues.
The division that Codel led is one of the biggest lenders in America. The business funds nearly one in every eight loans in the country and is a major servicer of loans. It employs about 45,000 people.
One of the division's biggest departments is Wells Fargo Dealer Services, the bank's troubled auto lending business.
Just this week, the Justice Department said Wells Fargo illegally repossessed the vehicles of 450 service members between January 2008 and July 2015. That's on top of a settlement last year with the Justice Department for illegally seizing 413 vehicles owned by service members.
Wells Fargo's auto business has also admitted charging as many as 570,000 customers since 2012 for car insurance they didn't need. The bank estimates that about 20,000 of those customers may have had their cars repossessed because they couldn't pay for the additional insurance.
Wells Fargo recently said one former employee has alleged "retaliation for raising concerns" about the bank's auto lending tactics.
The mortgage business has also been in trouble. In October, Wells Fargo said it wrongly hit an unknown number of homebuyers with fees to lock in mortgage rates. Borrowers were charged for missing a deadline to lock in promised interest rates, even though the delay was the bank's fault.
Despite all those problems, Wells Fargo said Codel's firing "did not involve the business or operations of Consumer Lending, the servicing of its customers, or its performance or financial results."


Requests for comments are open until Jan. 16 and, Hoadley said, it may be a challenge to institute any changes before 2020.
Related: Pressure builds to cut Medicare patients in on Part D drug deals
But other parts of the proposed rule are more likely to take effect sooner. Those include:
-- Allowing enrollees to buy drugs at the pharmacy they prefer, by revising participation rules to motivate more local pharmacies to participate in the program.
-- Lowering drug costs by allowing for midyear changes to prescription drug formularies when a generic becomes available.
-- Treating lower-cost drugs called biosimilars, such as cancer drug Zarxio, the same as generics when determining how much they cost out-of-pocket.
While the request for information on the fees and discounts is not yet a proposal, pressure has been building for the administration to take action.
Earlier this year, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) released a fact sheet that set the stage for change, describing how the fees kept Medicare Part D and monthly premiums lower but translated to higher out-of-pocket spending by enrollees and increased costs to the program overall.
Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.


The upgrade is welcome news for Modi, who has seen India's GDP growth slump to a three-year low on his watch. The drop -- from 7% at the end of last year to 5.7% in the quarter ended July -- is being blamed on two of his biggest initiatives.
Related: India's economy in 'downward spiral.' What did Modi get wrong?
Modi abruptly banned 86% of the country's cash in November last year, with the aim of combating tax evasion and promoting digital payments. The ban delivered a sharp shock to India's cash-dependent economy that many businesses haven't recovered from.
Then, in July, the government replaced dozens of state tariffs with a single national sales tax. While largely seen as a positive move, the change further disrupted economic activity as businesses struggled to adapt.
Moody's acknowledged that the cash ban and tax reform "have undermined growth over the near term."
But the policy changes would ultimately foster "strong and sustainable growth" by making it easier to do business, boosting productivity and stimulating investment, the ratings agency added.
Related: India's small firms reel from 'terrible year' after cash ban
The government celebrated the rare upgrade.
"It is a major international recognition of major economic and institutional reforms," Finance Minister Arun Jaitley told reporters.
But some analysts questioned Moody's timing and reasoning. Rival agencies such as S&P and Fitch have not upgraded India since 2006 and 2004 respectively.
Describing the cash ban as a positive factor for the Indian economy "should raise some eyebrows," Shilan Shah, India economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a research note.
Shah added that Moody's had ignored loan waivers for farmers doled out by several Indian state governments this year, which could put more pressure on the country's public debt.
India will report its latest GDP growth figures on Nov. 30.


Moutai's stock has been on a tear this year, soaring by as much as 107%. With a whopping market value of $130.9 billion, the company dwarfs Diageo (DEO), the producer of Johnnie Walker whisky.
At the heart of the popular brand is baijiu, a Chinese liquor distilled from sorghum and rice. Baijiu used to be a premium beverage, passed out at events such as government banquets. Now, it's found across the country.
Soon after Xinhua published its rare critique, Moutai acknowledged its stock price "has risen a lot."
"Moutai is aware of recent media and research reports," it said in a statement to the Shanghai stock exchange. "We solemnly remind investors to take account of potential risks, invest rationally and not to follow the trend blindly."
Related: The world's most valuable liquor company is now Chinese
Hao Hong, head of research at BOCOM International, the securities arm of China's Bank of Communications, called the Xinhua column "the catalyst" for Friday's stock plunge.
"Any sort of negative news, especially from official media, could be a catalyst for people to take their money off the table," he told CNNMoney.
It is unusual for Chinese authorities to single out a stock. The last time it happened in such a high-profile way -- when Tencent (TCEHY) was blamed for children spending too much time playing its "Honor of Kings" mobile game -- the tech giant also suffered a selloff, Hong noted.
Officials were probably trying to "protect smaller investors" from rising risk, he added.
Investors have been excited by Moutai's robust earnings growth, its beloved brand and a cash flow rarely seen among Chinese firms, helped by a steady rise in prices.
"Very predictable company -- I mean, that's the beauty of it," Hong said. "Only two other companies can generate such big [profits]: Tencent and Alibaba (BABA)."
Related: How to drink baijiu: Beijing's pros share their tips
By Friday's market close, Moutai had stabilized slightly, trading down 4%. Most analysts continue to have a buy rating on the stock, and zero recommend selling.
-- Serenitie Wang contributed reporting.


Now 22 years old and soon to receive her teaching certificate from the University of Wisconsin, Pigorsch faces a vastly changed landscape.
Along with diminished leverage with school boards, teachers have seen lower pay, reduced pension and health insurance benefits and higher turnover as educators hop from one district to another in search of raises, a new report finds.
With the Supreme Court preparing to hear a case that could make paying dues to unions voluntary for public sector employees -- like they already are in right-to-work states -- Wisconsin's experience could soon confront teachers across the country as well.
In the five years since Act 10 was passed, median salaries for teachers in the state have fallen by 2.6% and median benefits declined 18.6%, according to an analysis of state administrative data by the left-leaning Center for American Progress Action Fund.

In addition, 10.5% of public school teachers in Wisconsin left the profession after the 2010-2011 school year, up from 6.4% the year before. The exit rate remains elevated, at 8.8%.
As a consequence, the report found, Wisconsin's educational workforce is less experienced: Teachers had an average of 13.9 years experience under their belt in the 2015-2016 academic year, down from 14.6 years in 2010-2011.
Teachers aren't just moving out of the state or out of the field entirely. A higher percentage of teachers are also moving to other districts: From 2015 to 2016, the percentage who did so jumped from 1.3% to 3.4%, according to the report.
"In a climate right now where we see the only way an educator could get a pay raise is moving to another district, that's a natural outcome," said Christina Brey, a spokeswoman for the Wisconsin Education Association Council, which represents grade school employees.
That's particularly difficult for rural districts, which can't afford to pay more to retain good teachers. The report found that teachers in rural areas were the most likely to move districts, and the average level of experience among teachers in those areas had fallen the most: One out of four rural teachers had taught for fewer than five years in 2015-2016, up from 17.6% in the year before Act 10 passed.
"Rural schools oftentimes are seen as starting grounds, where newer teachers can put in a year or two before moving to a wealthier area where they can get a pay raise," Brey said.
So how has all this affected kids?
Related: Billionaire pulls the plug on DNAInfo, Gothamist after vote to unionize
The report's authors, David Madland and Alex Rowell, reviewed other research that suggested that as collective bargaining agreements expired, students performed slightly worse on standardized tests, particularly in already struggling schools.
But perfect measurement is difficult, since the tests have changed several times since Act 10 passed. The conservative, Madison-based John K. MacIver Institute for Public Policy, which supports Act 10, argues that other metrics — such as graduation rates and the number of advanced placement tests taken — are trending upward.
"I think if this cataclysmic destruction scenario was going to play out, you wouldn't be seeing such positive education news," says Chris Richardson, the organization's communications director.
Nobody disputes, however, that Act 10 had a devastating impact on Wisconsin's unions, which went from representing 14.1% of workers in the state in 2011 to 9% in 2016.
The case currently pending before the Supreme Court, Janus vs. AFSCME, could make paying dues to unions voluntary for public sector employees. (Currently, in non-right-to-work states that allow collective bargaining for public employees, all workers covered by a union contract must pay dues.)
That would cut into the unions' budgets and reduce their power, which could lead to the same weakening of pay and benefits that Wisconsin's teachers have experienced.
But unions in other states have seen this coming for a long time. The unions weathered a similar case that deadlocked last year after the death of Justice Antonin Scalia, and they have since taken steps to build confidence among their membership so they will keep paying dues even if it's no longer required.
Related: Why the world isn't getting a pay raise
"As a result of the dress rehearsal that they got, they all in their own ways have taken steps to be as prepared as they can be," says Michael Childers, director of the School for Workers at the University of Wisconsin. "It's not like they haven't seen this coming."
In the years since Act 10 passed, Brey said her union has adapted by becoming more active on the local level, and offering more training and other services to make membership more appealing for teachers.
Meanwhile, Pigorsch is considering where to look for a job after she earns her certificate in January. Many of her peers, she said, have been warned off by older teachers who've become cynical about the changes to Wisconsin schools. She wants to stay and try to improve things in Wisconsin, but better pay and stronger representation are just across the St. Croix River in Minnesota.
"A part of me thinks I want to start my career feeling good about being a teacher, and being respected, and having the benefits that a union can give me," Pigorsch said. "If the students from the state's top teaching school don't even want to teach in their own home state, I don't think that's a very good sign."


Disney (DIS) has also expressed interest in a similar deal. Those talks are no longer active, but could be revived.
The suitors want Fox's movie and television studios, entertainment cable networks, and international businesses. Fox would keep its news and sports holdings.
Any deal would be a global media blockbuster.
2. Tesla surprises: What will investors think of this? Tesla (TSLA) unveiled two electric vehicles on Thursday.
The first is an all-new version of its Roadster sports car that can go from a stop to 60 miles an hour in 1.9 seconds. The $200,000 car will have a range of 620 miles and a top speed of over 250 miles an hour.
The second is a new semi-truck, which CEO Elon Musk said can go zero-to-60 in five seconds with an empty trailer. With a full load, the truck can still reach that speed in 20 seconds, much faster than any diesel-powered truck.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Oil leak in U.S.: TransCanada (TRP) shares could take a hit after the firm announced an oil leak from its Keystone Pipeline in Marshall County, South Dakota.
A total of 210,000 gallons of oil leaked out before crews shut down the pipeline Thursday morning. The amount of leaked oil is equivalent to one-third of an Olympic swimming pool.
Officials are investigating the cause of the leak.
Nebraska officials are expected to announce a decision in the coming days on whether the proposed Keystone XL Pipeline, a sister project, can move forward.
4. Global stock market overview: U.S. stock futures were lower after a stunning rally on Thursday.
Stocks soared thanks to strong quarterly results and healthy outlooks from Cisco Systems (CSCO) and Walmart (WMT). A tax reform bill -- which has a long way to go -- was approved by the House.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose nearly 200 points to snap a two-day losing streak. The S&P 500 added 0.8% and the Nasdaq jumped 1.3% to hit a record high.
European markets dipped in early trading on Friday. Asian markets ended the day with mixed results.
5. Earnings and economics: Retailers Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF), Buckle (BKE) and Foot Locker (FL) will release earnings before the opening bell on Friday.
Shares in Ross Stores (ROST) are expected to surge at the open after the company reported better-than-expected quarterly numbers.
The U.S. Census Bureau will release data on October housing starts and building permits at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday -- Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) earnings


Real estate brokers told CNNMoney that the huge deposit (which is refundable) applies to 10 luxury apartments in the complex that are set to go under the hammer.
"This is an indication of how hot the market is here in Hong Kong," said Paul Zimmerman, director of think thank Civic Exchange and a district council member in the city. Prices have been fueled by years of low interest rates and money flowing in from mainland China, he said.
Related: Move over London, the world has a new luxury housing capital
Prospective buyers for the luxury condos at the new complex, which is named Victoria Harbor, are expected to have deep pockets.
They have to be willing to buy at least two units and cough up the eye-watering deposit just for a 90-minute viewing session. Even then, they don't get to set foot in the actual apartments but have to make do with a mockup in a different part of the city.
What's more, paying the deposit doesn't guarantee they will actually get the apartments, as they then have to bid against other potential buyers.
The brokers declined to give estimates for how much the condos, which range from 1,200 to 1,600 square feet, are likely to sell for. But similar sized units in the same neighborhood sold this month for as much as 66 million Hong Kong dollars ($8.5 million), according to data from real estate agent Centaline.
A spokesperson for Sun Hung Kai said the viewing arrangement was "not uncommon" for high-end properties in the city, calling the apartments "rare and of high quality."
Related: Could these stacked homes solve Hong Kong's housing problem
Stratospheric real estate prices are nothing new in Hong Kong. The city's housing was named the world's priciest housing market for the seventh year running in the latest annual study by public policy firm Demographia.
Home prices have soared by around 170% since the dark days of the global financial crisis in 2009, according to Centaline data.
But many inhabitants have been left out of the property boom in Hong Kong, which is known for its high levels of inequality. About 20% of Hong Kongers live in poverty, according to official statistics.


Sign up for the weekly Quest newsletter in your inbox
What's fascinating is the enormous swell of support from the youth for these changes. "About time" is the response to the economic changes. "Good riddance" (and worse) is thrown at those arrested for corruption.
It's too soon to say what the long term result will be, but life is changing here in Saudi and it's about time.
Canada fights back as NAFTA talks restart

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau isn't tolerating President Trump's tariffs on Canadian lumber.
Trudeau's administration filed a motion to create a panel of trade judges to resolve a dispute between American and Canadian lumber companies. The U.S. has slapped an 18% tariff on Canadian lumber. The timing is critical: NAFTA talks aren't going well and Round 5 begins in Mexico City on Friday.
Trudeau, and Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, are also looking for alternatives: Their countries essentially agreed to revive TPP with nine other countries. Trump didn't commit, but he did return from Asia to brag about all the deals he signed with China and others.
-- Patrick Gillespie
Can Saudi Arabia be the next Silicon Valley?

Saudi Arabia wants to become less reliant on oil.
The government is taking steps to make it easier for entrepreneurs to launch startups there. Saudi Arabia has no major tech firms, but a Saudi governor who helps oversee small businesses hopes the kingdom will one day be home to its own Apple or Google.
Meanwhile, the United States is becoming more like Saudi Arabia. Thanks to a booming shale gas industry, the International Energy Agency predicts America will export more oil than it imports within the next decade.
-- Paul R. La Monica
Boeing & Airbus fly high in battle for the skies

Boeing and Airbus were big winners at the Dubai Air Show. Boeing inked deals to sell 225 of its 737 Max planes to FlyDubai and 40 787-10 Dreamliners to Emirates. The two purchases are worth $42 billion at list prices.
But Airbus countered that with a sale of 430 A320neo jets to Indigo Partners, which owns several low-cost airlines around the globe. The deal is worth $50 billion at list prices.
Investors are giddy. Airbus rose this week and its stock is up more than 35% this year. Boeing rallied too. It's soared 70% in 2017 -- tops in the Dow.
-- Paul R. La Monica
The Chinese tech giant taking on Facebook

Watch out, Zuckerberg. Shares in Tencent, a Chinese social media and gaming conglomerate, have more than doubled in value over the past year, and the company is inching closer to Facebook's $570 billion market cap.
Its secret weapon: WeChat, a wildly popular social networking platform with almost one billion users.
While Facebook is decidedly more global -- almost all of WeChat's users are in China -- investors also have their eyes on Tencent's investments in smartphone games, mobile payments and music streaming.
-- Julia Horowitz
Quick takes
Putin gives Venezuela a lifeline after default. Watch out: You may own its debt
Speaking of Russia, Moscow is relinquishing control of iconic Kalashnikov
GE's cash crunch forces dividend to be halved. Fixing this mess will be difficult
Life in Zimbabwe under Robert Mugabe: Food shortages, corruption, inflation
Norway used oil to build a $1T pension fund. Now it wants to dump oil stocks
What's next
Thanksgiving festivities: U.S. markets will be closed on Thursday in observance of Thanksgiving Day. Trading will also shut down at 1 p.m. ET on Friday. Due to the holiday, Quest's Profitable Moment will be published on Wednesday next week.
Earnings parade continues: Not to be outdone by the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade in Manhattan, another batch of major companies are due to report results next week. Highlights include Lowe's, Salesforce, GameStop, Campbell Soup and both HP Inc. and HP Enterprises.


Sign up for the weekly Quest newsletter in your inbox
What's fascinating is the enormous swell of support from the youth for these changes. "About time" is the response to the economic changes. "Good riddance" (and worse) is thrown at those arrested for corruption.
It's too soon to say what the long term result will be, but life is changing here in Saudi and it's about time.
Canada fights back as NAFTA talks restart

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau isn't tolerating President Trump's tariffs on Canadian lumber.
Trudeau's administration filed a motion to create a panel of trade judges to resolve a dispute between American and Canadian lumber companies. The U.S. has slapped an 18% tariff on Canadian lumber. The timing is critical: NAFTA talks aren't going well and Round 5 begins in Mexico City on Friday.
Trudeau, and Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, are also looking for alternatives: Their countries essentially agreed to revive TPP with nine other countries. Trump didn't commit, but he did return from Asia to brag about all the deals he signed with China and others.
-- Patrick Gillespie
Can Saudi Arabia be the next Silicon Valley?

Saudi Arabia wants to become less reliant on oil.
The government is taking steps to make it easier for entrepreneurs to launch startups there. Saudi Arabia has no major tech firms, but a Saudi governor who helps oversee small businesses hopes the kingdom will one day be home to its own Apple or Google.
Meanwhile, the United States is becoming more like Saudi Arabia. Thanks to a booming shale gas industry, the International Energy Agency predicts America will export more oil than it imports within the next decade.
-- Paul R. La Monica
Boeing & Airbus fly high in battle for the skies

Boeing and Airbus were big winners at the Dubai Air Show. Boeing inked deals to sell 225 of its 737 Max planes to FlyDubai and 40 787-10 Dreamliners to Emirates. The two purchases are worth $42 billion at list prices.
But Airbus countered that with a sale of 430 A320neo jets to Indigo Partners, which owns several low-cost airlines around the globe. The deal is worth $50 billion at list prices.
Investors are giddy. Airbus rose this week and its stock is up more than 35% this year. Boeing rallied too. It's soared 70% in 2017 -- tops in the Dow.
-- Paul R. La Monica
The Chinese tech giant taking on Facebook

Watch out, Zuckerberg. Shares in Tencent, a Chinese social media and gaming conglomerate, have more than doubled in value over the past year, and the company is inching closer to Facebook's $570 billion market cap.
Its secret weapon: WeChat, a wildly popular social networking platform with almost one billion users.
While Facebook is decidedly more global -- almost all of WeChat's users are in China -- investors also have their eyes on Tencent's investments in smartphone games, mobile payments and music streaming.
-- Julia Horowitz
Quick takes
Putin gives Venezuela a lifeline after default. Watch out: You may own its debt
Speaking of Russia, Moscow is relinquishing control of iconic Kalashnikov
GE's cash crunch forces dividend to be halved. Fixing this mess will be difficult
Life in Zimbabwe under Robert Mugabe: Food shortages, corruption, inflation
Norway used oil to build a $1T pension fund. Now it wants to dump oil stocks
What's next
Thanksgiving festivities: U.S. markets will be closed on Thursday in observance of Thanksgiving Day. Trading will also shut down at 1 p.m. ET on Friday. Due to the holiday, Quest's Profitable Moment will be published on Wednesday next week.
Earnings parade continues: Not to be outdone by the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade in Manhattan, another batch of major companies are due to report results next week. Highlights include Lowe's, Salesforce, GameStop, Campbell Soup and both HP Inc. and HP Enterprises.


He has reiterated his criticism of current Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, who claims tax reform will pay for itself, and expressed concerns about how the proposal will add to the national debt.
"There's little reason to think this is going to spur much investment or growth. Look how low interest rates already are. Look how high the stock market is," he said.
Summers, a Democrat who led the Treasury Department under President Clinton and served as one of President Obama's top economic advisers, called the Trump administration's claim that middle class American families will receive a pay raise of $4,000 to $9,000 "ludicrous" and "absurd."
Related: Will Trump's tax plan really give you a $4,000 pay raise?
While Summers agrees that the corporate tax rate should be cut, he said he's worried that the House and Senate bills favor businesses over individuals.
"I cannot understand what possible values would lead you to set up a tax plan where the benefits to people go steadily down over time and the benefits to corporations go steadily up, up over time," he said.
And he called it "madness" that Senate Republicans wanted to wrap in a repeal of the Obamacare individual mandate, which requires people to have health insurance.
Summers has been particularly critical of Mnuchin's claims as to how much the GOP tax plan will cost. In an interview with Politico, Summers said he was "not aware of so irresponsible an estimate coming from a Treasury secretary in the last 50 years."
He told Gangel that he doesn't think he's made it too personal.
"I've been doing this for a lot of years and I've never said anything like that about any public official before. But when claims become unmoored from any possible reality, I think it's important to call that out," Summers said.
Mnuchin, for his part, said Sunday that "lots and lots of economists" have come out in support of the administration's claims.
"We've been completely transparent. Different models will show different things," Mnuchin said.
Related: Mnuchin says most in middle class will get a tax break
Mnuchin seems to be under a lot of pressure from Trump, Summers said.
"There's enormous pressure within that administration for loyalty and fealty," he said.
Still, Summers said that he would have resigned by now.
"I would have resigned to any administration of which I was a part that had gone anything like this far, in terms of fake facts on the economic side, or in terms of embracing racists in its political rhetoric," he said. " ... I don't know how some of these people face their children."
He said he's "surprised and disturbed" that there haven't been more resignations, especially considering President Trump's response to a rally of white supremacists in Charlottesville. The president blamed the conflict that left one counter-protester dead on "many sides."
"The idea that there would be an expectation that cabinet officials would be defending comments at press conferences that others saw as racist, that doesn't seem to me to be a healthy way to run a government," Summers said.


The gamble paid off. Sales grew 1% last quarter, and profit in its consumer food division was up 10%. That offset an 18% decline in coffee earnings.
There's more buzz-worthy news: Coffee has been steadily getting cheaper. Its price has fallen more than 20% over the past year. That's a trend Smucker's Chief Financial Officer Mark Belgya said he expects to continue into 2018.
That was enough to send Smucker's (SJM) stock up 10% Thursday.
Related: Your morning cup of coffee will get more expensive
Smucker's got burned in the past when boosting coffee prices.
When it raised coffee prices by nearly 10% in the summer of 2014, due to higher commodity costs, it had to scale back after conceding that the price hikes were too aggressive.
Mark Smucker, president of U.S. retail coffee for the firm, said the company "wouldn't rip the Band-Aid off as quickly again in the future" if commodity prices rose again.
But it did.
When the company reported in August, the head of Smucker's coffee and U.S. food and beverage businesses said coffee prices were "out of line" and lowered prices again.
Smucker isn't the only company to take advantage of lowered Arabic coffee costs. Starbucks raised their prices on higher commodity costs in 2016, but it hasn't lowered them. When coffee prices fell, Starbucks continued to cite "rising costs" for keeping prices at their elevated levels.


There is still a ways to go before any tax bill is passed by both chambers of Congress and then gets sent to President Trump to sign into law.
But consumers aren't waiting to see if their tax bill will be lower. They are continuing to shop until they drop. Walmart's solid sales -- both at its brick-and-mortar stores and its rapidly growing online business -- are a testament to that.
And businesses are spending too. Cisco surged to its highest level in 16 years thanks to healthy sales of security products used by corporations around the globe.
"Volatility finally made an appearance and it only lasted a few days," said Paul Townsen, managing director at Crossmark Global Investments. "Earnings seem to make people forget about everything else. They continue to be the driver of the market."
Cisco's earnings fueled another big move in tech stocks, which have been among the top market performers this year. The tech heavy Nasdaq jumped nearly 1.4% to a new all-time high and briefly topped the 6,800 level.
The Nasdaq is up 26% this year, compared to a 15.5% jump in the S&P 500 and 19% gain for the Dow.
Apple (AAPL), Google owner Alphabet (GOOGL), Microsoft (MSFT), Amazon (AMZN) and Facebook (FB) -- the five largest companies in America and among the top stocks on Wall Street this year -- all rallied Thursday.
Related: Walmart is killing Target and making Amazon sweat
Is there anything that could slow this red hot market down?
Steve Cucchiaro, president and chief investment officer at 3EDGE Asset Management, said he's a little worried that inflation may eventually come back with a vengeance. But there's no sign of it just yet.
So for now, investors may be able to sit back and enjoy the market's relentless grind higher. Nothing has been able to hold back stocks for long.
Political fights in Washington, worries about Brexit and concerns about China's economy slowing down have, so far, been mere speed bumps on Wall Street.
"This recent 1% dip in stocks had people talking about the beginning of the end," Cucchiaro said. "But we've had many tests and the market has succeeded in passing all of them."


If he is appointed as interim head of the consumer watchdog agency, Mulvaney would also continue to serve as director of the OMB. Mulvaney was one of the agency's most vocal critics during his time in the House and voted in favor to kill the agency.
The administration can appoint a current government official into a new job as long as they are confirmed by the Senate under the Federal Vacancies Act to serve in an acting capacity. The official is not required to leave their current position to fill the new role until a permanent replacement is confirmed by the Senate.
"The Administration will announce an acting director and the President's choice to replace Mr. Cordray at the appropriate time," said Raj Shah, principal deputy press secretary told CNN in a statement.
Republicans have long loathed the fledgling agency, which was created under the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory reform law. They argue that Cordray overstepped his regulatory authority and has lacked oversight during his tenure at the CFPB.
Democrats are already lining up to scrutinize any future Trump nominee.
"The White House has said it wants to stand up for the middle class. If that's true, the President must nominate a successor who will put working people ahead of Wall Street," Sen. Sherrod Brown, the top Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee said in a statement Wednesday.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat from Massachusetts who helped create the CFPB, said the new director "must be someone with a track record of protecting consumers and holding financial firms responsible when they cheat people."
Related: Trump's war on regulation comes with big tradeoffs
"This is no place for another Trump-appointed industry hack," she said in a statement.
Trump has come out against regulations that he sees as hurting businesses -- a position that's put his administration and the CFPB on opposite sides of many issues.
Earlier this month, Trump signed legislation repealing a rule issued by the CFPB that made it easier for consumers to team up to sue banks and credit card companies.
At the OMB, Mulvaney has spearheaded efforts by the administration to slash regulations on businesses as part of the administration's efforts to spur economic growth.
--CNNMoney's Julia Horowitz contributed to this report.


Barnes & Noble confirmed Sandell's offer in a statement, but said the company is skeptical that the deal could work as proposed. It added that Chairman Leonard Riggio "has no intention" of participating in Sandell's plan.
This isn't the first time Sandell has attempted to take Barnes & Noble private.
Barnes & Noble's (BKS) stock spiked 17% in July after Sandell approached it with an offer, but the bookstore rebuffed the plan.
The trouble Barnes & Noble faces are familiar for retailers: Amazon has eaten into sales at its 632 locations across the country, leading to tumbling profit over the past several years. Sales were down more than 6% last year.
Related: Barnes & Noble reeling as Amazon eats its lunch
"2017 has proved to be an extremely challenging year for Barnes & Noble," chairman Leonard Riggio wrote in a June letter to shareholders. "Consumers are changing their shopping behavior and we have to do a better job of anticipating their needs."
Despite the boost it received from takeover rumors, the bookseller is down 35% this year and more than 50% over the past three years.


The House bill would mean tax cuts on average for all income groups in 2018 and most income groups in 2027, but the biggest benefits go to those at the top, according to the Tax Policy Center.
But that doesn't mean everyone in every income group would pay less. The TPC estimates that next year about 10% of middle income filers and 20% of the highest income households would pay more. Those percentages rise to 30% for each group by 2027.
Here are some key provisions in the bill.
FOR INDIVIDUALS
Reduces income tax brackets: There are seven federal income tax brackets in today's code that are taxed at 10%, 15%, 25%, 28%, 33%, 35% and 39.6%.
The House bill consolidates those into four brackets:
12% (up to first $45,000 of taxable income for individuals; $90,000 for married couples filing jointly)
25% (over $45,000 to $200,000 for individuals; over $90,000 to $260,000 for married couples)
35% (over $200,000 to $500,000 for individuals; over $260,000 to $1 million for married couples)
39.6% (over $500,000 for individuals; over $1 million for married couples)
There is also a 6% surtax or "bubble rate" that applies to adjusted gross income over $1 million ($1.2 million for couples) until it effectively claws back the benefits of the 12% bracket for the highest income households.
Doubles the standard deduction: The bill raises today's standard deduction for singles to $12,200 from $6,350 currently; and it raises it for married couples filing jointly to $24,400 from $12,700.
That would drastically reduce the number of people who opt to itemize their deductions, since the only reason to do so is if your individual deductions combined exceed the standard deduction amount.
Eliminates personal exemptions: Today you're allowed to claim a $4,050 personal exemption for yourself, your spouse and each of your dependents. The House bill eliminates that option.
Related: Senate tax cuts permanent for business, temporary for you
For families with three or more kids, that could mute, if not negate any tax relief they might enjoy as a result of other provisions in the bill.
Expands child tax credit: The bill would increase for five years the child tax credit to $1,600, up from $1,000, for any child under 17.
But that $600 increase won't be available to the lowest-income families if they don't end up owing federal income taxes. That's because unlike the first $1,000, the extra $600 won't be refundable. Refundable means that if your federal income tax bill is zero, you get a check from the government because of the credit.
The bill would let more people claim the child tax credit. The income level where the credit starts to phase out would increase to $115,000 for single parents, up from $75,000 today, and to $230,000 for married parents, up from $110,000.
Creates a new $300 family tax credit: Taxpayers may claim a $300 non-refundable tax credit for themselves as well as any nonchild dependent -- for instance, a son or daughter over 17 whom you're supporting, an ailing elderly mother or an adult child with a disability.
So a family of four -- two parents, a 12-year-old daughter and an 18-year-old son -- could reduce their tax bill by up to $2,500, said Elaine Maag, a senior research associate at the Urban Institute. They could claim the $1,600 child tax credit for the daughter, the $300 nonchild dependent credit for the son and a $300 credit for each parent.
The income thresholds governing the family tax credit are the same as for the child tax credit.
The family credit would expire after five years.
Kills state and local income tax deduction, limits property tax break: The prospect of fully repealing the state and local tax deduction, which lets filers deduct their property taxes as well as their state and local income or sales taxes, has been met with strong opposition from lawmakers in high-tax states and cities.
So the House bill preserves an itemized property tax deduction for property taxes but only up to $10,000.
Limits deductible mortgage interest: The bill preserves the mortgage deduction as is for existing mortgages. But for newly purchased homes, you would only be able to claim a deduction for interest you pay on mortgage debt up to $500,000, down from $1 million today.
But since the bill doubles the standard deduction, only 4% of filers would still claim the mortgage interest deduction, down from 21% today, according to Tax Policy Center estimates.
How do you think tax reform will affect you? Share your story with CNNMoney here
Repeals many other deductions: These include those for medical expenses, tax preparation fees, alimony payments, student loan interest and moving expenses.
Repeals the Alternative Minimum Tax: The AMT, originally intended to ensure the richest tax filers pay at least some tax by disallowing many tax breaks, but it most typically hits filers making between $200,000 and $1 million today.
Those who make more usually find they owe more tax under the regular income tax code, so end up having to pay that tab instead.
Repeals the estate tax: The estate tax today affects just 0.2% of all estates, and only those with more than $5.49 million in assets (or $10.98 million if you leave a spouse behind).
Nevertheless, Republicans are still pushing to repeal it. The House bill, however, would delay repeal until 2024, and in the meantime doubles the exemption levels.
Given that the White House and Republicans have been pushing tax reform as a boon to the middle class and given that the estate tax exemption levels already protect the vast majority of family farms and businesses from having to pay it, this provision may face a steep climb to the finish line.
FOR BUSINESSES
Lowers corporate tax rate: The bill would permanently cut the corporate rate to 20% from 35%.
Republicans argue that corporate tax cuts are good for the middle class because they will increase investment, jobs and wages. The White House even asserts that a corporate tax cut will result in at least a $4,000 boost in annual income for households.
But a lot of economists push back on the idea that the middle class will see a big raise soon, if at all.
Creates territorial tax system: U.S. companies owe U.S. tax on all their profits, regardless of where those profits are earned.
Many argue that this "worldwide" system puts American businesses at a disadvantage to foreign competitors. That's because those competitors come from countries with territorial tax systems, meaning they don't owe tax to their own governments on income they make offshore.
The House GOP bill would switch corporate taxation to a territorial system. That way, American companies would owe U.S. tax only on what they earn here. Their offshore profits would only be taxed by the country where the money is made.
Taxes existing overseas profits: The House bill would impose a one-time rate of 14% on existing foreign profits if they're being held offshore in cash. Foreign profits that are invested in noncash assets offshore would be taxed at 7%. Companies would have up to eight years to pay what they owe.
The measure would raise revenue from income that has so far escaped U.S. taxation. Under current law, companies pay U.S. tax only when they bring the money home. But it's also meant to entice companies to invest some of the foreign profits stateside.
Lowers tax rate on pass-throughs: Most U.S. businesses, large and small, are set up as pass-through businesses, not corporations. They're called pass-throughs because their profits are passed through to the owners, shareholders and partners, who pay tax on them through their personal returns.
The House bill would lower the top income tax rate on pass-throughs' profits to 25% from 39.6% today.
It would also offer a phased in lower rate of 9% for businesses that earn less than $75,000. That's below the 12% bottom bracket in the House bill and below today's 10% bracket.


"The power generation industry is experiencing disruption of unprecedented scope and speed," explained Lisa Davis, a Siemens board member. "Renewables are putting other forms of power generation under increasing pressure."
Related: GE is broken. Fixing it will be long and difficult
Another Siemens division that provides large electrical motors and generators to miners, steel producers and shipbuilders will also shed some jobs.
The job cuts amount to nearly 2% of Siemens' global workforce of more than 370,000. About half of them will fall in Germany, where some locations will close. In the U.S., 1,800 jobs will be lost through the consolidation of production facilities and administrative functions.
Siemens said it's hoping to move quickly to slim down these businesses. However, speed isn't guaranteed.
"Given the structure of the businesses that are affected, it might take years to implement the restructuring," spokesperson Robin Zimmermann told CNNMoney.
The company said it currently has 3,200 open positions and it hopes to transfer affected workers into these jobs whenever possible.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
The job cut announcement comes in the same month that a Siemens-controlled business in Spain -- Siemens Gamesa -- announced it would cut 6,000 jobs, or about 22% of its workforce.
This renewable energy business sells wind turbines globally. It said the job cuts would be spread across 24 countries.


What do you get for your money with Curry?
The fee gets you a lifetime subscription to at least 15 pre-recorded video lessons designed by Curry that cover shooting, ball-handling, footwork and scoring. You also get a workbook, access to other students online and interactive assignments.
Yup, it seems Curry's class comes with homework.
While Curry may offer comments during office hours, he generally won't be providing feedback directly to students. According to MasterClass, the company behind the lessons, Curry may choose to evaluate the work of a select few students. (The company asks begs you not to submit work unless you're asked.)
Related: Fast break: Nike's new NBA jerseys keep ripping apart
MasterClass says Curry's lessons will show players how to transform their games.
Curry was often overlooked  by college coaches but went on to have a stellar career at Davidson College. He was drafted seventh by the Warriors in 2009 and is now one of the best players in the league.
Basically -- if anyone knows how to undergo a radical transformation, it's Curry.
One note though: There's no guarantee that you'll get drafted by an NBA team and beat LeBron James in the Finals.


Matsen said the decision does not reflect a particular view on energy prices or the sustainability of the sector.
It's a dramatic shift for a fund that still sources much of its capital from oil revenue.
Norway is a major oil producer, and it has plowed its energy earnings into the fund in order to fund pensions and other government expenses.
The fund is among the world's biggest investors in stocks, owning $667 billion worth of shares in over 9,000 companies globally.
It owns on average 1.3% of all listed companies worldwide.
Oil and gas stocks account for around 6% of its benchmark index. Its biggest holdings include stakes in Royal Dutch Shell (RDSB), Exxon Mobil (XOM), and BP (BP).
Related: This pension fund is now worth $1,000,000,000,000
Government finances in Norway have been hit hard by the drop in oil prices in recent years. In 2016, the government tapped the fund for the first time ever in order to plug a hole in its budget.
The pension fund's managers said they remain worried about the impact of falling oil prices on overall government revenue.
Norway, for example, owns two thirds of state oil company Statoil.
"The government's wealth can be made less vulnerable to a permanent drop in oil prices if the [pension fund] is not invested in oil and gas stocks," the fund's managers said.
The proposal to sell oil and gas stocks must be approved by the government.


Walmart, which owns Jet.com, ModCloth, Bonobos, Moosejaw and several other shopping sites, said its digital sales rose a stunning 50% in the United States during the third quarter.
That's more than double the growth rate that Target (TGT) just posted for online sales. It's higher than Amazon's growth rate for revenue, too.
Walmart has made a big bet on digital.
It recently bought Parcel, a logistics startup that will allow Walmart to launch same-day delivery services for online purchases in New York City.
Related: Cool or creepy? Walmart to deliver to your home...and come inside to put everything away
It's working with the smart-lock company August Home on a test program that will let you order food from Walmart and have the delivery people come and put it away in your fridge.
And Jet recently launched a line of household products targeted at millennial shoppers called Uniquely J.
Walmart also revamped its return policy to make it easier and faster for customers to start the return process using the Walmart app.
And Walmart is taking a page from Amazon's book by selling other retailers' products on its own site. Walmart recently announced that it will sell clothes from Lord & Taylor.
The company is thriving in China as well. Sales from Walmart and Sam's club locations there are solid, and online growth is robust thanks to a partnership with the Chinese e-commerce firm JD.com (JD), the top rival to Alibaba (BABA).
Related: Target's holiday outlook isn't very merry
This and other initiatives are helping boost traffic and sales at Walmart's physical stores, not just its digital sites. And Wall Street has noticed.
Shares of Walmart are up about 45% this year, while other big retailers like Target, JCPenney (JCP), Macy's (M) and Sears (SHLD) have plunged.
It seems investors and shoppers alike are increasingly viewing the online mass-merchandise battle as one with two winners -- Walmart and Amazon (AMZN) -- and many losers. Amazon's stock has soared more than 50% this year.
Walmart is also holding its own in the supermarket business, posting solid sales growth, particularly online. That's despite an increased threat from Amazon, which now owns Whole Foods and has been cutting that chain's prices.
Related: Walmart is putting even more robots on its stores
There may be room for some other specialty retailers to thrive.
Best Buy (BBY) disappointed Wall Street on Thursday with sales that missed forecasts and a tepid outlook, but its stock is still up nearly 30% this year.
Home Depot (HD) is benefiting from the housing boom, partly because homebuilders and do-it-yourself customers want to see its products in a brick-and-mortar store. Kiddie apparel company Children's Place (PLCE) has enjoyed solid sales, too.


But the appearance of tanks on the streets of the capital Harare have pushed the price gap even wider. Bitcoin was trading on international exchanges for roughly $7,500 on Thursday.
The digital currency was quoted more broadly in line with world prices in online market places that allow buyers and sellers in Zimbabwe to deal directly with each other.
Related: Mugabe's exit is 'a done deal' but Zimbabwe is still in limbo
Elevated Bitcoin prices in Zimbabwe appear to be the result of the country's dysfunctional economy and mismatched supply and demand.
Since 2009, business in the country has been conducted in a number of foreign currencies, but exchange rates on the thriving black market are highly distorted. Dollars are in short supply, and strict capital controls are in place.
Last year, the country started printing bond notes -- backed by U.S dollars -- in a bid to ease a chronic shortage of cash. But many Zimbabweans worry they are a backdoor to the reintroduction of a local currency that would be doomed to massive devaluation.
"In Zimbabwe, you are very limited with what you can do with the money in your bank account," Golix says on its website. "Bitcoin is better than the money we're using now."
Related: How Robert Mugabe killed one of Africa's richest economies
There is also the problem that local demand for Bitcoin far outstrips supply.
Only 16 Bitcoin have been traded on Golix over the past 24 hours, and 160 over the previous month.
Bitcoins are created through "mining" -- a process in which computers race to solve complex math problem, and winners are rewarded with chunks of the digital currency.
Mining requires huge amounts of electricity, and Golix says that energy prices in the region are simply too high to make the process cost effective.
Related: What is Bitcoin?
"Bitcoin in circulation in Africa comes from people who bought it at an exchange elsewhere," the exchange says on its website.
Supply is likely remain low, however. Golix doesn't allow Bitcoin sellers to take their money away in cash.


"It is the [company's] employees - and more particularly the senior management team - that must execute at this critical juncture and provide the foundation for a successful turnaround," it said in the filing.
Among the 17 executives who would get payments is chairman and CEO David Brandon, who joined the company in 2015.
The company said it also has filed for an incentive program for other employees beyond the senior management.
"This type of plan is standard practice for a company involved in a restructuring," it said in response to questions. It said it will continue consulting with its creditors about the incentive program ahead of approval by the bankruptcy court.
While the company asked for $16 million, the bonus plan could actually pay out $32 million if the company reaches much better than expected profit targets. The filing says that's a result the company "will find very difficult to achieve."
Related: Why Hasbro might buy Mattel
The filing also disclosed that some of Toys "R" Us's top executives received a combined $8.2 million in "retention" bonuses prior to the bankruptcy filing. But those payments are not included in the new incentive plan for which the company is seeking permission. They would be required to return the retention payments should they quit the company within a year of the payment.
The company said it had 1,600 stores at the time of the bankruptcy filing, and 65,000 employees, although it has gone ahead with plans to hire additional seasonal help for the holiday season. It lost $330 million in the first half of this year as sales fell by 5%, and has lost more than $1.8 billion since its last reported a profitable year five years ago.
Toys "R" Us has been struggling for years, not just with a shift of consumers buying goods from online competitors such as Amazon (AMZN), but also with increased competition from traditional brick-and-mortar retailers such as Wal-Mart (WMT) and Target (TGT).
Related: Target's holiday outlook isn't very merry
It is also not the only traditional retailer to run into financial trouble. Bankruptcy filings this year alone include Gymboree, Payless Shoes and RadioShack, which recently completed its second trip through bankruptcy.
Earlier this year Sears Holding (SHLD), owner of the Sears and Kmart brands, warned there was "substantial doubt" it will be able to stay in business.
Bankruptcies in the retail sector are up about 30% so far this year, according to BankruptcyData.com, and the number of store closings has more than tripled to about 6,700, breaking a record set during the worst of the Great Recession.


Related: How China plans to beat the U.S. at technology
Under the plan announced Thursday, VW and its partners are aiming to develop and produce as many as 40 new electric and hybrid vehicle models in China between now and 2025. It expects the first of the new models to hit the Chinese market next year.
VW's top China exec, Jochem Heizmann, said the German company is "determined to be at the forefront" of China's electric vehicle revolution.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
China accounts for about 50% of the global market for clean energy vehicles, according to investment firm East Capital. Chinese officials said two months ago that they were working on a plan to eventually phase out the production and sale of vehicles powered solely by fossil fuels.
Governments in the U.K., France and India have also set out timetables for doing away with vehicles that run purely on gasoline.

China is already a massive market for VW, and the company has a lot of experience making cars there with local partners. Doing so avoids hefty import tariffs but also means it has to share its technology with the Chinese firms.
Tesla (TSLA), which has been trying for years to figure out how to produce its electric cars in China, may set up a factory in Shanghai's free trade zone. That arrangement could enable the U.S. company to avoid teaming up with a Chinese company, but it would still have to pay the import tariffs.
Related: Tesla could face an uphill slog in China
VW said last year that it aims to sell 1.5 million electric and hybrid vehicles in China by 2025.
Other Western automakers are also revving up electric car businesses in China.
Earlier this month, Ford (F) announced it would create a new brand to make fully electric cars in China with a local partner.


The major question for investors is whether the House and Senate Republicans will be able to reconcile their competing versions of the plan without losing votes.
One sign of trouble: Sen. Ron Johnson became the first Republican to formally come out against his party's plan on Wednesday.
2. Markets rebound: Global markets are swinging higher after several days of rough trading.
U.S. stock futures were up and European and Asian markets were higher. Oil prices rebounded to gain 0.3%.
The Dow Jones industrial average and the S&P 500 closed 0.6% lower on Wednesday. The Nasdaq shed 0.5%.
3. Volkswagen goes electric: Shares in Volkswagen (VLKPY) opened 2% higher in Frankfurt after the automaker announced plans to spend, together with a local partner, $12 billion on electric cars in China.
China is Volkswagen's biggest single market. The company delivered 303,800 vehicles in the country in October, an annual increase of 9.2%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Stock market movers: Cisco Systems (CSCO) shares were higher in extended trading after the company said it expects revenue to jump after two years of declines.
5. Earnings and economics: Best Buy (BBY), J.M. Smucker (SJM), Viacom (VIAB) and Wal-Mart (WMT) will release their earnings before the open, while Gap (GPS), Haynes Intl (HAYN) and Williams-Sonoma (WSM) will follow after the close.
The Bank of England is holding a forum in Liverpool. Officials will discus the state of the U.K. economy and how the central bank's policies affect Britons.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Thursday -- Best Buy, Walmart, Gap, Viacom (VIA) earnings  Friday -- Abercrombie & Fitch earnings


The debt relief couldn't come at a better time for Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro. American ratings agencies, such as S&P Global, declared Venezuela and its state-run oil company, PDVSA, in default this week.
Despite the help from Russia, Venezuela's debt woes won't go away anytime soon. It owes over $60 billion just to bondholders. Its central bank only has $9.6 billion left. Venezuela has slowly drained its reserves in recent years to make debt payments.
A default could trigger a dangerous series of events that would ultimately exacerbate Venezuela's humanitarian crisis, which is marked by severe shortages of food and medicine.
But for now, President Vladimir Putin continues to make life a little easier for Maduro. It's a trend that's ratcheted up this year after China, once a major lender to Venezuela, has shown no interest in giving Maduro more money.
Related: Venezuela is in default, moving deeper into crisis
In October, Putin and Maduro met in Moscow, and some foreign policy experts see Putin's investment as a geopolitical attempt to build influence in Latin America, a region where the U.S. once held complete sway. President Trump has slapped several tariffs on Maduro and his government. Maduro calls Trump an "emperor" waging an "economic war."
Beyond the desire to get paid back, Russia's state-run oil company Rosneft has a vested interest in Maduro's government. Last December, Roseneft took a nearly 50% stake in Citgo, a U.S.-based oil company that's owned by Venezuela's energy giant, PDVSA, as collateral for a $1.5 billion loan to Maduro's government.
Venezuela's oil minister said in October that he's in talks with Moscow for a potential swap, exchanging Rosneft's stake in Citgo for Russian ownership of Venezuelan oil fields. He did not give further details on the plan. Reuters first reported the potential swap.
The Russia-Venezuela ties raised eyebrows when Citgo made a $500,000 donation to President Trump's inauguration committee. The donation occurred on December 22, 2016, according to Federal Election Commission records released in April. News outlets first reported on Russia's stake in Citgo the very next day -- December 23.
At a time when Venezuela faces mass shortages of basic food and medicine, the Citgo donation was equal to what Pepsi (PEP), Verizon (VZ) and Walmart (WMT) combined had donated to the inauguration committee.


Related: Tax reform: It's now or never says White House adviser Gary Cohn
But when a moderator asked the executives in the room if they would increase their investments in the U.S. if the GOP's tax overhaul plan passes, only a few raised their hands.
The ho-hum response surprised Cohn, who was on stage, prompting him to laughingly ask, "Why aren't the other hands up?"
In an interview with CNBC last week, Cohn identified CEOs as the "most excited group out there" when it came to the GOP's tax plans.
The administration has touted its plan as the biggest cut ever to the corporate tax rate -- from 35% to 20%. Provisions would also allow companies to write off the cost of any new capital purchases over the next five years.
On Monday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin also reassured executives, telling them President Trump would never sign a tax bill with a corporate tax rate above 20%.
"It's not going up," he said at the Wall Street Journal event. "I can tell you this is one of the things the president feels very strongly about."
Related: Mnuchin says most in the middle class will get tax break
The GOP tax plan also seeks to encourage U.S. multinationals to bring their existing overseas profits back to the U.S. by offering a one-time, low tax rate on them. It's called "deemed repatriation" and means corporations would have to pay the tax whether they bring the money back or not. The one-time tax also serves to capture revenue on overseas profits that under current law are subject to U.S. taxes.
Under today's tax code, companies would have to pay a 35% rate on those profits when they bring them home. But both the Senate and House tax proposals would tax them at far lower rates.
The goal is to get companies to use that cash to create jobs by building new factories and investing in their businesses.
American companies had about $1.3 trillion in cash stashed overseas at the end of 2016, according to Moody Analytics.
Related: U.S. companies still hoarding cash overseas
The top 5 U.S. cash hoarders -- Apple (AAPL), Microsoft (MSFT), Alphabet (GOOG), Cisco (CSCO) and Oracle (ORCL) -- held 88% of their money overseas at the end of last year.
It's not just Big Tech though. Other cash-rich companies include Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), Amgen (AMGN), Gilead Sciences (GILD), Ford (F), Merck (MKGAF) and Pfizer (PFE). Each of them were sitting on at least $25 billion in cash at the end of last year, according to Moody's.
It's unclear whether companies would use their cash for something else like paying down corporate debt. Or reward investors with dividend increases, share buybacks and other measures to boost stock prices, which wouldn't help average Americans who have little, if any money, in the stock market.
--CNNMoney's Matt Egan and Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report.


What's more, if you take a step back and look at how Coke (KO) has done over the past two decades, shares have barely budged while archrival Pepsi (PEP) and the S&P 500 have soared.
It's easy to see why Coke has struggled. Sales and profits haven't been growing all that much.
And there's been a backlash to both full-calorie sodas as well as some of Coke's diet drinks due to the use of artificial sweeteners. Diet Coke's sales slide has been particularly problematic.
That's why Coke began to transform into more of a diversified beverage giant, as opposed to just carbonated colas, under Kent's watch.
Related: Want to buy the world a Coke? Asia sales give Coca-Cola a boost
Kent was CEO from 2008 until earlier this year and the company's chief operating officer before that. (Quincey was also Coke COO before getting promoted.) Coke started to push its bottled water brand, Dasani, more aggressively.
Coke also bought vitaminwater maker Glaceau in 2007 while Kent was COO and then purchased stakes in K-cup coffee maker Keurig Green Mountain and energy drink leader Monster Beverage during Kent's tenure as CEO.
Keurig was eventually sold to Krispy Kreme and Panera owner JAB and Coke booked a more than $25 million profit by unloading its investment to JAB.
But what's next for Coke under Quincey, who has promised to turn Coke into a "total beverage company?"
For starters, investors will surely grill Quincey about whether Coke plans to buy the remaining stake in Monster Beverage (MNST). There has been constant speculation about a full-blown takeover ever since Coke first invested more than $2 billion in Monster in 2014.
The success of seltzer may also be something that Coke wants a bigger part of. The company recently bought Mexican sparkling water brand Topo Chico, which is popular in Texas.
That's led to speculation that Quincey may want to promote Topo Chico even more nationwide in an attempt to steal the thunder from National Beverage's (FIZZ) super popular LaCroix brand.
Wall Street will also want to know whether Quincey aims to make even bigger bets outside of the core beverage market. Pepsi has found success by branching out into snacks and cereal with Frito-Lay and Quaker.
Some analysts are speculating that Coke could make a bold acquisition in order to diversify further.
Related: Coca-Cola replacing Coke Zero with a new soda
Susquehanna analyst Pablo Zuanic wrote in a preview to the Coke investor day that investors may push Coke to do food deals of its own.
Brand-name food giants have been on a buying binge lately, scooping up trendy snack companies. It might make sense for Coke to try and get a piece of this market too.
In just past the few years, Hershey (HSY) bought jerky snack maker Krave, ConAgra (CAG) acquired Boomchickapop parent company Angie's Artisan Treats and Kellogg (K) gobbled up Chicago Bar, the owner of the RXBar protein bar.
Zuanic also suggested that Coke could consider buying a coffee chain like Dunkin' Donuts.
It makes some strategic sense. Coke is already producing and selling Dunkin'-branded iced coffee beverages in supermarkets.
But Coke could find some competition if it wanted to buy the doughnut company's parent Dunkin' Brands (DNKN). There is speculation that JAB might be interested.
Still, the potentially most lucrative, albeit controversial, move that Coke could make is to graduate towards more adult beverages and make a big push into alcohol. And why not? Jack Daniel's and Coke is already a popular bar staple after all.
Related: Coke plans job cuts as sales slump
Bonnie Herzog, an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities, wrote in a report this week that the question of how much of a presence Coke wants to have in alcohol is among the most important the company faces.
Would Coke want to buy a brewer or wine and spirits company outright? Starting its own brand could be costly. An easier route could be for Coke to simply start making more non-alcoholic mixers, such as juices and syrups, that can be added to booze.
But whatever it is that Quincey touts to Wall Street, it's clear that Coke must do more to boost sales or it could find itself vulnerable to a takeover.
Zuanic speculated that Anheuser-Busch InBev (BUD) could be a natural buyer.
A-B InBev is backed by private equity giant 3G, the company that has done several partnerships with Warren Buffett, whose Berkshire Hathaway (BRKB) firm just so happens to own 400 million Coca-Cola shares.
Buffett, a diehard Cherry Coke fan, would likely jump at the chance to own Coke outright if a deal made financial sense -- but it probably wouldn't unless Coke stock continues to lag the overall market.


The change was made to accommodate complicated budget rules that Republicans have chosen to use so they can pass tax reform without any Democratic votes.
By contrast, the bill still makes permanent the corporate tax rate cut to 20%, along with most other business tax provisions.
Related: 3 ways the tax bills could affect homeowners
As it is, Republicans in the House and Senate have already agreed to let a tax reform bill add $1.5 trillion to deficits over 10 years. But because of the complex budget rules allowing passage on a strict party-line vote, the bill is not allowed to add to deficits beyond the first decade.
Making all tax cuts permanent would violate that rule. So Republicans have essentially created yet another major fiscal cliff in 2025 akin to the one Congress dealt with in 2012 when faced with the expiration of the Bush tax cuts.
And just as lawmakers in 2012 chose to make the majority of Bush tax cuts "permanent," Republicans are likely banking on a future Congress to do the same in 2025.
"Does anyone really believe Congress will allow the individual tax cuts to sunset in eight years? This is an obvious ruse to hide very real costs and make more room for debt-financed cuts and giveaways," said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.
Related from CNN: GOP in House and Senate confident they have vote on tax bills
If those tax cuts are extended, the bill will add much more to deficits over time than the official "score" of the bill will reveal.
And that means that sometime in the future, should lawmakers decide they need more money to, say, keep paying promised benefits in Medicare or Social Security or to keep pace with fast-growing interest payments due on the nation's debt, they'll need to either raise taxes or cut spending even more than otherwise might be the case.


Of the people who have selected Obamacare plans for 2018, about 346,000 were new to the exchanges while 1.1. million were renewing their coverage.
Still the pace has slowed a bit since the initial days of the open enrollment period, which began Nov. 1 and runs through Dec. 15. Just over 150,000 people picked plans in each of the first four days, on average, but that rate cooled slightly to 134,000 in the first 11 days.
The increased interest in Obamacare policies is not necessarily all good news. Usually, the sickest consumers are the ones who rush to secure coverage. Insurers are concerned that younger and healthier people will forgo enrollment for 2018 amid all the uncertainty and negativity coming out of Washington D.C. That could prompt carriers to raise premiums in the future.
Related: What repealing Obamacare's individual mandate means
Also, strong initial sign-ups don't necessarily result in record enrollment. Last year, many consumers rushed to pick policies in November and December, particularly after President Trump was elected. Ultimately, however, half a million fewer Americans signed up for Obamacare coverage for 2017 by the time open enrollment ended on Jan. 31. (Consumers are not actually enrolled until they pay their first month's premium.)
Enrollment in coming years could sag more if Republicans get their way. GOP senators announced Tuesday that they would seek to repeal Obamacare's individual mandate as part of their tax overhaul bill.
Axing the mandate, which requires nearly all Americans to have health insurance or pay a penalty, would likely wreak havoc on the Obamacare market. It would remove the stick that the health reform law wields to prod younger and healthier people to sign up for coverage.
Some 4 million fewer people would be covered in the first year the repeal would take effect, the Congressional Budget Office said last week. That number would rise to 13 million by 2027, as compared to current law. Meanwhile, premiums would rise by about 10% in most years of the decade.
While experts have mixed views on how effective the mandate has been, many feel that removing it would cause the Obamacare market to tilt even more towards sicker and older consumers.
Related: Trump administration is making it even harder to sign up for Obamacare
That, in turn, could make insurers think twice about participating in the exchanges, especially since they would still be required to cover those with pre-existing conditions and not charge them more based on their medical history.
Regardless of what Congress does, the Trump administration has taken several steps that critics say will dampen enrollment for 2018. While it is maintaining the federal exchange, healthcare.gov, it has slashed funding for open enrollment advertising and support. Also, consumers will have only six weeks to sign up for coverage on the federal exchange, rather than the three months or more they had in previous years.
Premiums for the benchmark silver Obamacare plan are soaring 37%, on average, for 2018. But eight in 10 consumers will be able to find policies for $75 or less. That's because the price spike means many enrollees will receive more generous premium subsidies.
Are you shopping for Obamacare coverage for 2018? What has your experience been? Tell us about it at healthcarestories@cnn.com and you could be featured in a CNNMoney story.


Here's the story behind Zimbabwe's economic rise and fall:
1980s
Mugabe was elected the first prime minister of a newly independent Zimbabwe in 1980 after spending years in prison for his politics.
He was adored by many as a Nelson Mandela-style figure who would lead the country forward following decades of British and white-dominated rule.
"He always had a populist stance, which meant he wanted to work in the best interest of his people but not necessarily the economy," said Funmi Akinluyi, a portfolio manager who invests in Africa and frontier markets at Silk Invest.
Mugabe earned international recognition for education and health initiatives, and the nation steadily grew its exports of manufactured and agricultural products. Zimbabwe was famous for its tobacco production, and its weather supported year-round farming.
1990s
As Mugabe's political momentum faded, critics accused him of using brutality and bribery to maintain his power. He has consistently denied wrongdoing.
Mugabe's mismanagement of the country's farming sector was a turning point that contributed to an economic catastrophe.
The aim of government land reforms was to end decades of farm ownership by white landlords, which many viewed as a colonial injustice.
The 1992 "Land Acquisition Act" allowed Mugabe to force landowners to give up their property and redistribute it. In 1993, Mugabe threatened to expel white landowners who objected to the rules.
2000s
It wasn't until 2000 that Mugabe's campaign gathered strength and he forced 4,000 white farmers to give up their land. Zimbabwe's agricultural output dropped almost overnight.
"There was an immediate food shortage," remembers Akinluyi. "People went hungry."
The move was followed by two years of bad harvests and an extended dry spell, leading to the country's worst famine in 60 years.
In the midst of chronic shortages of basic goods, the central bank ramped up its money-printing machines to finance imports. The result was rampant inflation.
At the peak of the crisis, prices were doubling every 24 hours. Cato Institute economists estimate monthly inflation peaked at 7.9 billion percent in 2008.
Unemployment soared, public services collapsed and the economy shrank by 18% in 2008.
Zimbabwe abandoned its currency in 2009, leaving transactions to be conducted in U.S. dollars, South African rand and seven other currencies.
2010s
Mugabe responded to international sanctions in 2010 by threatening to seize all Western-owned investments in the country.
The threat has kept prospective investors away.
"The political risk outweighs the opportunity that you know is there," said Akinluyi.
Mugabe's government had shifted its focus from farms to mines, ordering nearly all diamond miners to halt activity and abandon their facilities. The plan is for a state-run entity to take over operations.

Zimbabwe now struggles to earn cash from outside nations after strangling top export industries. A severe drought has squeezed the country further, leading to frequent bank runs in 2016.
Late last year, the country began printing so-called bond notes, worth $1 each, in a bid to ease a chronic cash shortage.
Akinluyi said the current situation is upsetting because Zimbabwe had so much potential.
"They have diamonds, coal, copper, iron ore... [You] name it, they have resources," she said. "I personally think it would be quick [to turn things around] with the right person in power."
-- Ivana Kottasova and Eleni Giokos contributed reporting.


Earlier this month, Trump's commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross, reaffirmed tariffs as high as 18% on Canadian lumber exported to the United States. The tariffs were applied in April.
Related: Mexico is surviving Year 1 of Trump
The latest turn in the lumber fight comes at a particularly tense time.
The United States, Canada and Mexico are renegotiating NAFTA, the trade pact that President Trump has called the worst deal ever. Trump's trade team has proposed erasing the provision in NAFTA that allows countries to convene panels of judges to resolve disputes like the lumber battle.
The next round of NAFTA negotiations begins Friday, and the talks aren't going well.
At the last round, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer lambasted his Canadian and Mexican counterparts for what he said was an unwillingness to compromise. Those two sharply criticized Lighthizer's trade proposals at the same press conference.
Trump routinely threatens to withdraw from NAFTA, and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau acknowledged during a recent visit to Washington that the agreement may not last much longer.
Lumber and NAFTA aren't the only points of contention. Canadian plane manufacturer Bombardier and its American competitor Boeing are in a bitter dispute that has brought in both governments. Ross, the commerce secretary, slapped a 300% tariff on one of Bombardier's jets sold in the United States.
Related: Mexico loses trade battle to Trump
American and Canadian companies have argued about lumber since the 1980s. One point of dispute is that American companies tend to harvest trees on private land but Canadian firms work in forests owned by the Canadian government.
The George W. Bush administration hit Canadian lumber with tariffs in the early 2000s. Canada claimed at the time that they resulted in the loss of 30,000 lumber jobs.
Those tariffs were lifted after the World Trade Organization ruled in Canada's favor, and a temporary pricing agreement was in place until last year. Canadian and American officials couldn't reach a new deal during the Obama administration, and once the pricing agreement expired, American lumber firms filed new complaints with the Trump administration.
--CNNMoney's Jon Ostrower contributed to this report.


Sears spent just $67 million on all of its advertising in in the first half of this year, according to figures from Kantar Media -- on television and digital ads as well as print, radio and direct mail. That's down 29% from the same period in 2016. Kmart cut in its ad budget by 41%, to $21 million in the same period.
Related: Cash-starved Sears is putting everything on sale
Compare those figures to Walmart (WMT), the nation's largest retailer, which spent $227 million on advertising in the first half of this year. Macy's (M) spent $186 million and Target (TGT) budgeted $164 million. Even JC Penney (JCP), which has plenty of its own problems, spent more than double what Sears did.
Sears was the biggest advertiser in the retail sector as recently as 2003, and it held that title going back as far as 1996, when Kantar started keeping records. "Come see the softer side of Sears," was an ad slogan well known by virtually every American.
And Kmart was among the top five retail advertisers as recently as 2001. Many of its ads in the late 90's and early 2000's featured Martha Stewart, who had locked in a splashy partnership with the company to peddle her lifestyle brand. Some of its ads were even directed by Spike Lee. Now it isn't even among the top 20 among advertisers in retail.
Sears would not comment on Kantar's estimates of its ad spending "for competitive reasons." Analysis of the effectiveness of its marketing caused it to cut back on traditional television and print ads and concentrate more on digital and social channels, according to spokesman Brian Hanover.
He pointed out that both brands have started their holiday sales early and brought back its Wish Book catalog.
Related: Sears revives its classic Wish Book
The advertising pullback comes as difficulty mounts at the two chains, prompting Sears Holdings (SHLD) to admit there is "substantial doubt" about its ability to stay in business.
Shoppers have turned their backs on both stores.
Less than 8% of households visited a Sears in September, the most recent month available, according to figures from Kantar Retail, another arm of the Kantar research firm. Slightly fewer households visited a Kmart. That compares to 63% of households that shopped at Walmart and the same percentage of homes that shopped at Amazon (AMZN).
Other retailers trail far behind that figure, but well ahead of Sears and Kmart. For instance, 29% of households shopped at a Target and 18% at went to JC Penney. In fact, more households shopped at Rite-Aid and Office Depot than at Sears or Kmart that month.
"Their issue is not just share of households. It's share of mind, share of awareness," said Leon Nicholas, an analyst at Kantar Retail. "It's very, very, very hard to see a way this works."


To redeem the discount, Amazon is offering a printable coupon only accessible to Prime members on its website.
Related: Amazon pop-up stores to open in Whole Foods stores
"These are the latest new lower prices in our ongoing integration and innovation with Amazon, and we're just getting started," Whole Foods CEO John Mackey said in a prepared statement. Whole Foods said this Prime-specific deal is a "sneak preview" for future exclusive deals.
Whole Foods also announced it is cutting prices on boneless skinless chicken breasts, shrimp, Russet potatoes, bagged salad mixes, broccoli, organic eggs and milk from Organic Valley, Applewood hot dogs, and Chobani and Fage yogurt.
It's the second time Amazon took the knife to Whole Foods' prices. The company slashed prices on nearly 500 grocery items in August, shortly after its $13.7 billion purchase closed. The cheaper prices led to a foot traffic spike at Whole Foods, with many new customers defecting from its rivals.


The buyer is a private company called TransKomplektHolding, which is owned in part by Kalashnikov chief executive Alexey Krivoruchko. The firm already has a 49% stake in Kalashnikov.
The sale is a part of a broader privatization drive, announced by President Vladimir Putin in 2016. Back then, Russia was suffering from a double whammy of collapsing oil prices and sanctions, and needed cash desperately.
Late last year, Moscow sold a 19.5% stake in its oil giant Rosneft to Qatar's sovereign wealth fund and Glencore.
Oil prices have since recovered somewhat, easing the pressure on the government to rush privatizations of some of its most prized assets.
Kalashnikov suffered a slump in export revenues after sanctions were imposed on Russia following the annexation of Ukraine. The company was banned from importing its guns into the United States.
However, a major modernization of Russia's military arsenal has boosted domestic sales.
Related: Russia may build its new jetliners in the Middle East

Krivoruchko could soon solidify his control over the company.
A spokesperson for Rostec confirmed Tuesday that a second deal was in the works that would see two other investors in Transkomplektholding -- Iskander Makhmudov and Andrei Bokarev -- sell their stakes. Kalashnikov confirmed their exit on Wednesday.
Russian state news agency Tass and the business newspaper Kommersant have both identified Krivoruchko as a potential buyer.
Kalashnikov supplies 95% of all small arms in Russia and exports to more than 27 countries around the world. It has also recently diversified into other products including drones and boats.
Its famed AK-47 was designed for the Soviet military by Mikhail Kalashnikov under the direction of Josef Stalin. The assault rifle became popular because of its light weight, and ability to be used in all weather conditions while holding high capacity magazines. The weapon is used by militaries and insurgent groups around the world.
-- Anastasia Anashkina and Sebastian Shukla contributed reporting.


Target, like most other retailers, is contending with tough competition from Amazon (AMZN) as well as a resurgent Walmart (WMT).
Target has been boosting its online retail presence to try and attract more customers.
But it said Wednesday that digital sales were up 24% in the quarter -- a pullback from the 32% increase it posted in the second quarter and lower than the e-commerce growth rates that Amazon and Walmart posted in the third quarter.
CEO Brian Cornell also pointed out that the company expects the overall retail environment in the fourth quarter to be "highly competitive." Translation: More price cuts will probably be needed to entice customers to shop at Target.
Related: Jeff Bezos is having a moment
Target's stock is now down more than 20% this year. While that's not as horrific as the drops for Macy's (M), Sears (SHLD) and JCPenney (JCP) -- which have all lost more than 45% of their value this year -- it's obviously a troubling sign.
Investors and consumers seem to increasingly view the general merchandise retail race as one primarily between Walmart and Amazon.
Walmart shares have gained more than 30%, thanks in large part to strong online sales growth and a flurry of digital acquisitions, such as Jet.com, ModCloth and Bonobos.
And Amazon's stock has soared more than 50%. Its purchase of Whole Foods may put even more pressure on the grocery business of Target.
To that end, Amazon and Whole Foods announced price cuts for all customers (with even deeper ones for Amazon Prime members) on organic and no antibiotic turkeys as well as other holiday food staples on Wednesday.


All four states -- Arkansas, Indiana and New Hampshire, in addition to Iowa -- have expanded Medicaid under the health law, which allowed states to include adults with incomes up to 138% of the federal poverty level, or about $16,000 for one person. So, in theory, most adults are required to have insurance under the ACA. In practice, each state still has a significant number of uninsured, ranging from 5% to 8% of the population.
The retroactive coverage "can compensate for the sorts of errors and lapses that can so easily occur on the part of both the applicant and the government bureaucracy" that delay applications, said Gordon Bonnyman, staff attorney at the Tennessee Justice Center, a public interest law firm that represents low-income and uninsured residents.
State and federal officials say eliminating the retroactive coverage helps encourage people to sign up for and maintain coverage when they're healthy rather than waiting until they're sick to enroll. It also fits into federal officials' efforts to make Medicaid, the federal-state program that provides health care for low-income adults and children, more like private insurance.
But consumer advocates and health care providers say the shift will saddle patients with hefty medical bills and leave hospitals to absorb more uncompensated care when patients can't pay. Some worry this could be the start of a trend.
In Iowa, the change applies to just about anyone coming into Medicaid — except for pregnant women and children under age 1. The change will affect up to 40,000 residents annually and save the program more than $36 million a year.
Related: Trump administration opens door for states to impose Medicaid work requirements
"We're making it a lot more likely that Medicaid-eligible members are going to incur significant medical debt," said Mary Nelle Trefz, health policy associate at the Child & Family Policy Center in Des Moines, whose organization opposed the change.
When someone has a traumatic health event, the initial focus is to get them stabilized, not figure out how to pay for it, said MaryBeth Musumeci, associate director of the Program on Medicaid and the Uninsured at the Kaiser Family Foundation. (Kaiser Health News is an editorially independent program of the foundation.)
Patients may neglect to apply immediately for Medicaid, leaving them financially responsible for days or months of care they received before they got in their application, even though they may have been eligible for Medicaid all along.
That's not the only issue, advocates say. Unlike the commercial insurance market where re-enrollment through someone's employer is routine, Medicaid requires that beneficiaries' eligibility be reassesed every year.
"People fall through the cracks," said Andrea Callow, associate director of Medicaid initiatives at Families USA, a consumer advocacy group.
In addition, complications can arise for people who might need Medicaid coverage for long-term care services.
"The criteria are complicated. For a layperson to find those criteria and figure out if they're eligible" is challenging and they may need extra time, said Musumeci. Once patients have secured coverage, they may already have accrued hefty expenses.
Maybe so, but some people argue that a 90-day retroactive eligibility guarantee is counterproductive.
"We're trying to get people to behave more responsibly, not less responsibly," said Gail Wilensky, an economist who oversaw the Medicaid and Medicare programs in the early 1990s under President George H.W. Bush. "That is not the signal you're sending" with three months of retroactive eligibility. A 30-day time frame is more reasonable, Wilensky said.
In contrast to Iowa, the waivers in Arkansas, Indiana and New Hampshire generally apply only to adults who gained coverage under the law's Medicaid expansion. (Indiana's waiver also applies to other groups.)
Related: Pressure builds to cut Medicare patients in on prescription deals
Kentucky has a request pending that, like Iowa, would eliminate retroactive Medicaid eligibility except for pregnant women and children under 1, according to KFF.
Under federal law, officials can waive some Medicaid coverage rules to give states flexibility to experiment with different approaches to providing services. And retroactive eligibility waivers in Medicaid are hardly new. A few states like Tennessee have had them in place for years. Tennessee officials eliminated retroactive eligibility for all Medicaid beneficiaries in 1994 when the state significantly expanded coverage under TennCare, as Medicaid is known there. At the time, the state even allowed uninsured people to buy into the program who wouldn't otherwise qualify based on income, said Bonnyman.
"There was no reason for anybody to be uninsured except undocumented immigrants," said Bonnyman. "It didn't seem to have the potential for harm."
But state officials revamped that program after serious financial problems. Eligibility for TennCare has become more restrictive again.
Other states that waived retroactive coverage for at least some Medicaid groups include Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts and Utah, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.
Bonnyman said his group frequently works with Medicaid beneficiaries who have medical bills they can't afford that accumulated during the months before they applied for Medicaid.
"If you're a moderate- to low-income working family, one or two days in the hospital is enough to ruin you financially," he said.
Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.


Some 4 million fewer people would be covered in the first year the repeal would take effect, the Congressional Budget Office said last week. That number would rise to 13 million by 2027, as compared to current law. Meanwhile, premiums would rise by about 10% in most years of the decade.
Related: Axing Obamacare individual mandate would save $338 billion: CBO
But most importantly, repealing the mandate would remove the stick that Obamacare wields to prod younger and healthier Americans to sign up for coverage. While experts have mixed views on how effective the mandate has been, many feel that removing it would cause the Obamacare market to tilt even more towards sicker and older consumers.
That, in turn, could make insurers think twice about participating in the exchanges, especially since they would still be required to cover those with pre-existing conditions and not charge them more based on their medical history.
Repealing the ACA's individual mandate doesn't sound like something that could be bad for anyone. But, it's the mechanism that allows guaranteed coverage for pre-existing conditions.
There is substantial uncertainty about how effective the individual mandate has been. But, what matters is whether insurers would be willing to participate in a market that guarantees coverage for pre-existing conditions with no mandate. I'm doubtful.

A coalition of physician, hospital and health insurance industry associations called on Congress Tuesday to keep the individual mandate. The group, including the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, America's Health Insurance Plans and the BlueCross BlueShield Association, warned the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate that there would be "serious consequences" if Congress simply repeals the mandate while leaving Obamacare's other regulations in place.
"Repealing the individual mandate without a workable alternative will reduce enrollment, further destabilizing an already fragile individual and small group health insurance market on which more than 10 million Americans rely," the coalition wrote. "Eliminating the individual mandate by itself likely will result in a significant increase in premiums, which would in turn substantially increase the number of uninsured Americans."
Related: Individual mandate repeal to be included in Senate's tax bill
The penalty for not having health coverage in 2017 is $695 per adult and $347.50 per child, or 2.5% of one's household income, whichever is greater.


Related: What bad year? Facebook's stock is up 50%
Facebook runs the world's most popular social network, with more than 2 billion users globally. It also owns two other hugely popular global platforms, Instagram and WhatsApp.
Tencent's own social network, WeChat, has almost one billion users, mostly in China. With Western rivals like Facebook and Twitter (TWTR) shut out, WeChat has a commanding position in the world's most populous country.
But it isn't just social networking that has gotten investors excited about Tencent. The company has been expanding deeper into other areas including smartphone games, mobile payments and streaming music. All that has helped fuel record profits this year.
On Wednesday evening in Hong Kong, the company reported that profits jumped almost 70% in the latest quarter compared with the same period last year. That comfortably beat analysts' forecasts.
Tencent is also investing heavily in other tech companies around the world. As well as pouring money into startups in Asia, it's taken a 5% stake in Elon Musk's electric-car maker, Tesla (TSLA), and bought up 12% of Snap (SNAP), the parent company of SnapChat.

Even before the latest set of bumper profits, analysts expected Tencent's shares to keep rising.
Some of them predict the Chinese tech company will soon pass the $500-billion milestone, putting it in the ballpark of another U.S. giant, Amazon (AMZN), which is worth roughly $550 billion. But it would still have a long way to go to catch up with top dogs Apple (AAPL) ($880 billion) and Google's parent company, Alphabet (GOOGL) ($720 billion).
Related: How China plans to beat the U.S. at technology
The speed of Tencent's charge toward the half-a-trillion mark is highlighted by the fact that it only hit the $300-billion mark about six months ago.
It isn't the only Chinese tech titan getting closer to joining the $500 billion club either.
E-commerce company Alibaba (BABA), which is frequently compared to Amazon, has seen its value soar to around $465 billion. The company's stock price has also doubled over the past year.
Related: $24 billion in 24 hours: World's biggest shopping day sets new record
But those surging share prices and some eye-popping IPOs have led to fears from some market watchers that a bubble could be forming in China's high-flying tech stocks.


Airbus shares jumped 3.3% in Paris.
Rival manufacturer Boeing (BA) quickly struck back, announcing an order from FlyDubai for 737 MAX airplanes with a list price value of $27 billion.
The deal includes a commitment by the low-cost airline to buy 175 planes, with options on a further 50.
2. Markets in the red: Global markets slumped on Wednesday, and U.S. stock futures were pointing to a negative open.
U.S. crude futures were trading 1% lower.
The CNNMoney Fear & Greed Index, which looks at volatility and six other key market barometers, has moved from greed to neutral. The next stop could be fear.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed 0.1% lower on Tuesday, while the S&P 500 dropped 0.2% and the Nasdaq shed 0.3%.
3. Japan's winning streak: Japan's economy grew 1.4% in the third quarter thanks to strong employment, solid domestic consumption and export growth.
The country has now posted seven straight quarters of expansion, its longest period of uninterrupted growth since 2001.
The Japanese yen strengthened against major currencies.
It's not all good news: Economists warn the world's third biggest economy might start running into capacity constraints. Japan's growth story has also been overshadowed by a series of corporate scandals and low wage growth for workers.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Earnings and economics: Target (TGT) plans to release earnings before the opening bell, while Cisco Systems (CSCO), Stein Mart (SMRT) and L Brands (LB) will follow after the close.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics will release its October inflation report at 8:30 a.m. ET. The latest data on retail sales will be released at the same time.
The weekly U.S. crude inventories report will follow at 10:30 a.m.
The U.K.'s unemployment rate was just 4.3% in the three months to September. But prices are rising faster than wages as the country negotiates its departure from the European Union.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Wednesday -- Target, Cisco (CSCO), L Brands earnings; U.S. retail sales for October; U.K. unemployment  Thursday -- Best Buy, Walmart, Gap, Viacom (VIA) earnings  Friday -- Abercrombie & Fitch earnings


Boeing said it was the biggest ever order from the Middle East for single-aisle passenger planes.
Related: Airbus just inked its biggest airplane order ever
Its announcement came less than two hours after Airbus said it had reached a deal to sell 430 A320neo jetliners -- worth roughly $50 billion at list prices -- to Indigo Partners, which owns several low-cost airlines around the world.
Buyers typically receive discounts of 40% to 60% on the list prices, but can get bigger reductions for huge deals.
The flurry of orders for the global rivals came at the Dubai Air Show, one of a series of international events where the two companies like to clinch big deals.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
Boeing stole the early headlines with an order for 40 planes, worth $15 billion at list prices, from Dubai's Emirates airline on Sunday.
But after a quiet start, Airbus seized the attention Wednesday with the enormous Indigo Partners deal, which it said was its "largest single commercial announcement ever."
The U.S. plane maker then fired back with the FlyDubai announcement.
Boeing had a strong lead on its European rival in total orders for this year going into the Dubai event.
FlyDubai, which was already a big Boeing customer, is a low-cost sibling to Emirates, also set up by the Dubai government. The two state-owned airlines have been separate since FlyDubai's founding, but in July announced a partnership agreement that stopped short of a merger but allows them to issue tickets for each other, coordinate schedules and launch new routes.
-- Jon Ostrower contributed to this report.


Related: Boeing gets $27 billion order from Middle Eastern airline
The stunning magnitude of the deal -- which Airbus (EADSF) called its "largest single commercial announcement ever" -- caught many in the aviation industry by surprise. To put it in perspective, a single airline with 430 planes would rank among the 10 largest carriers on the planet.
Worth nearly $50 billion at list prices, the deal is a major rebound for Airbus, which has significantly lagged its U.S. arch rival Boeing in orders this year. Buyers typically receive discounts of 40% to 60% on the list prices, but can get even bigger reductions for really huge deals.
Airbus and Boeing went into the air show with 288 and 605 net orders, respectively. If all the deals they each announced at the show are finalized before the end of the year, they will head into the last weeks of 2017 neck-and-neck in the race for the biggest annual order tally.
Related: Emirates looks past turmoil with huge Boeing deal
The Indigo Partners deal is the single largest order by number of aircraft that any individual plane maker has received. But at this stage, it's still a memorandum of understanding, a non-binding agreement that needs to be finalized before it is considered a firm order.
American Airlines in 2011 ordered 460 new planes in a single deal, but that was spread between both Boeing and Airbus. Indian low-cost airline IndiGo (which isn't connected to Indigo Partners) bought 250 Airbus jets in 2015.

But the biggest order by value came from Emirates airline of Dubai in 2013. It agreed to buy 150 Boeing 777X planes and 50 A380s, which were worth a total of $99 billion at list prices.
Wednesday's historic deal represents a final grand act for Airbus's chief salesman, John Leahy, who plans to retire from the company once a successor is selected.
Related: Frontier Airlines is doubling in size
Leahy, a smooth-talking New Yorker, became a famous thorn in the side of Boeing and other Airbus rivals during his more than 20 years in the job. He sold tens of thousands of jetliners for the European plane maker, helping it draw alongside its big U.S. rival in terms of both sales and deliveries.


As part of a settlement reached last year, Wells Fargo has "identified additional violations" that affected about 450 service members between January 2008 and July 2015, according to the DOJ.
Wells Fargo (WFC) has agreed to repair the credit of the service members and to pay each $10,000, plus any lost equity in the vehicle, with interest.
"Losing an automobile through an unlawful repossession while serving our country is a problem service members should not have to confront," Sandra Brown, acting United States Attorney, said in a statement.
Related: Wells Fargo customer: It felt like my car was held as extortion
Wells Fargo said in a statement that it's committed to "ensuring all service member customers have the protections and benefits available to them." The bank said it's in the process of notifying and refunding impacted customers.
Dennis Singleton found out that Wells Fargo had repossessed his car in 2013 just as he was preparing to go to Afghanistan.
"I said, 'Hey, they can't do that!'" Singleton told CNNMoney last year. "Honestly, I just think it sucks."
Under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, courts must sign off on vehicle repossessions if the service member took out the loan and made a payment prior to entering military service.
Wells Fargo and its troubled auto lending division are no stranger to legal problems. Wells Fargo has admitted to charging as many as 570,000 customers since 2012 for car insurance they didn't need. The bank estimates that about 20,000 of those customers may have had their cars repossessed as a result of their inability to pay for the additional car insurance.
Wells Fargo recently said one former employee has alleged "retaliation for raising concerns" about the bank's auto lending tactics.
All of this is on top of Wells Fargo's infamous fake account scandal. Wells Fargo recently raised its estimate of the number of unauthorized accounts its employees opened to 3.5 million.
--CNNMoney's Jackie Wattles and Aaron Smith contributed to this report.


In addition, FEMA's attorney in Puerto Rico, Graciela Zavala-Garcia, wrote to attorneys at Greenberg Traurig on Oct. 12 saying the agency's chief counsel "concluded that the PREPA contract does not contain some necessary provisions."
Still those warnings were not heeded by PREPA.
Instead, PREPA pressed ahead with the deal on Oct. 17, disregarding lawyers' recommendations, including terms for canceling the contract, ceiling prices and breach of contract.
Related: Here's the other small firm that won a big Puerto Rico power deal
Several lawmakers on Capitol Hill have called for reviews of why Whitefish was chosen over bigger, more established utilities. In the wake of escalating public outrage and a growing litany of government reviews, PREPA agreed to void the deal immediately. That was less than two weeks after the deal was signed.
"A legacy of dysfunction (at PREPA) has created a competence deficit that threatens the Island's ability to improve conditions for its citizens. Confidence in the utility's ability to manage contracts and time-sensitive disaster related infrastructure work is long gone," said Rob Bishop, Chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.
Puerto Rico's Governor Ricardo Rossello made two appearances on Capitol Hill Tuesday. At both hearings, Rossello dodged questions about the Whitefish contract, citing the ongoing investigations and referred the questions to the head of PREPA, executive director Ricardo Ramos.
Instead, Rossello reminded lawmakers he called for the cancellation of the Whitefish contract and has been a "willing participant" in investigations into the deal.
Related: Puerto Rico is killing its $300 million Whitefish contract. Now what?
At the Senate hearing, PREPA's Ramos told lawmakers the state-owned utility "could have done better" in terms of how it awarded the contract to Whitefish.
"I chose to contract with Whitefish because my priority was securing the immediate assistance that we needed to begin restoring power as quickly as possible to our most critical customers," said Ramos in prepared testimony.
PREPA has been heavily criticized for allowing Whitefish to charge $319 to $462 an hour for linemen and supervisors, according to the documents released on Monday.
For now, PREPA has defended its decision. Ramos told lawmakers on Tuesday that six private companies bid for the contract and all offered similar labor rates. "If there was price gouging, then it involves six companies," said Ramos.
Related: $300 million Puerto Rico power deal now under government review
Last month, FEMA administrator Brock Long told members of a Senate panel the agency would never have signed off on the deal.
"There's no lawyer inside FEMA that would've ever agreed to the language that was in that contract to begin with," Long said.
To be sure, approval by FEMA on such deals isn't mandatory. The agency only requires a detailed audit of Puerto Rico's emergency spending.
Typically, agencies like PREPA will pay a contractor first as part of a disaster relief deal. Then it would submit a request for reimbursement to FEMA, which would then audit the expense and determine if it is eligible for repayment, an agency spokesperson told CNN. It's unclear how the disaster relief agency makes its assessment.
But lawmakers have raised questions about whether the Whitefish contract would meet the agency's requirements.
"As I understand these contracts, there's a big question about whether you could find them eligible for reimbursement," Rep. Peter DeFazio, a Democrat from Oregon, asked Long at a House hearing earlier this month.
Long assured a Senate panel earlier in the week that "not one dollar" from FEMA has gone toward the Whitefish contract.
CNNMoney's Jill Disis contributed to this report.


Even though revenue grew, the hurricanes took a bite out of Home Depot's profit. Several stores in the hurricane zones were forced to close stores, and they faced shortages as a result of supplier delays.
Also, profit margins on hurricane-related products are tighter than the goods the company typically sells. Plywood and lumber are competitive commodities and only have profit margins of around 20%, while the everyday items Home Depot sells like power tools and accessories can have margins upwards of 50%, explained Wedbush Securities research director Seth Basham.
Home Depot's profit still rose by nearly 11% over the prior year, but it would have been even higher without disaster expenses, estimated GlobalData Retail director Neil Saunders.
Home Depot (HD) gained 1% on Tuesday and is up nearly 25% this year. It's one of the few bright spots in a bleak retail landscape.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
Both Home Depot and rival Lowe's (LOW), which has gained 10% this year, are benefiting from a strong housing recovery.
Total home sales and home prices continue to rise, boosting spending on renovations and upgrades. Home values are up 6.5% in 2017 compared to the same period last year, according to Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the National Association of Realtors.
Home Depot looks like it's Amazon- and Walmart-proof and largely immune to online shopping's disruptions to traditional retailers.
People have proven willing to go to physical stores to buy home improvement products and tools, especially contractors and builders.
"The home improvement sector continues to paint a better outlook as it sidesteps broader retail woes," said Moody's Vice President Bill Fahy.
Home Depot is in position to gain from other retailers' struggles.
For example, as Sears continues to lose its stronghold on appliances, tools and outdoor products, Home Depot could be the main beneficiary, predicts Saunders.


But Buffalo Wild Wings, known as B-Dubs to its fans, has been struggling due to rising food costs and slumping sales. That could make it vulnerable to a takeover. The stock is still down more than 5% in 2017 -- despite Tuesday's big pop.
Longtime CEO Sally Smith announced in June that she would retire at the end of the year after investors elected three candidates to the company's board who were backed by activist shareholder firm Marcato Capital. Marcato owns about a 6% stake in Buffalo Wild Wings.
Still, there have been some recent signs of a turnaround at Buffalo Wild Wings.
Shares soared after its most recent earnings report in October. Sales of so-called boneless chicken wings helped boost profits. One of the problems that Buffalo Wild Wings was facing was a spike in the price it paid suppliers for its namesake wings.
By offering cheaper boneless wings, which are really just breast meat cut to look more like wings, Buffalo Wild Wings was able to boost profit margins.
Related: Buffalo Wild Wings spikes after going boneless
There are still concerns that ratings declines for National Football League games this season are hurting sales though. Papa John's (PZZA), the pizza partner of the NFL, has already blamed the National Anthem protests by some players for weak sales.
Same-store sales at Buffalo Wild Wings, which measure the performance at the company's locations open at least a year, fell 2.3% from a year ago at the company-owned restaurants and were down 3.2% at franchise-run locations.
Buffalo Wild Wings CFO Alexander Ware said during the company's conference call last month that he expected similar sales declines in the fourth quarter on Thursday nights, Sundays and Monday nights when the NFL plays its games.
So Buffalo Wild Wings may still be a company that, like a defensive back struggling to cover a star wide receiver, gets a lot of penalty flags from Wall Street.
For that reason, several analysts think that Buffalo Wild Wings would be wise to say yes to any deal from Roark.
"We believe Roark's extensive restaurant experience could aid Buffalo Wild Wing's turnaround and cash in-hand is difficult to turn down unless investors believe a recovery is already well underway," said BTIG's Peter Saleh in a report Tuesday.
Morgan Stanley analyst John Glass added in a report that a deal makes sense since it would give the investors at Marcato a chance to quickly cash in on their investment.
Related: Panera bought by Krispy Kreme parent for $7.5 billion
Of course, it remains to be seen whether a takeover actually happens or not.
But a Buffalo Wild Wings acquisition would just be the latest deal in what's been an incredibly busy year for restaurant mergers. Private equity firms and other investment companies have been hungry for deals.
Oak Hill Capital bought Checkers. Golden Gate Capital ate up Bob Evans Restaurants. And Krispy Kreme owner JAB acquired Panera.
Publicly traded restaurant chains appear eager to grow as well. Burger King parent Restaurant Brands (QSR) scooped up Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen this year while Olive Garden owner Darden (DRI) gobbled up Cheddar's Scratch Kitchen.


Earlier this year, lawmakers punted on a number of critical issues until the first and second week of December, including a possible government shutdown. Congress has until midnight on December 8 to pass a spending bill, or risk the federal government running out of money.
Related: Mnuchin says most int he middle class will get tax break
"It's really important to get it done," Cohn stressed. "We've gotta get taxes done this year."
Republicans haven't been shy about hiding their motivation to get tax reform done in the weeks ahead. If they fail to do so, their donors could wind up abandoning them, imperiling their chances of keeping the majority in 2018.
Congress hasn't been able to move any significant changes to the tax code in more than 30 years.
CEOs are certainly losing confidence in the prospect, given how far apart the House and Senate proposals are.
Roughly 58% of CEOs surveyed at the conference during Cohn's panel expressed pessimism as to whether Washington can get tax reform done by the end of 2017.
But Cohn waved off doubts, and pointed to the progress that both chambers are making on their respective legislative proposals.
House lawmakers are expected to vote on their tax reform bill this week. In the Senate, Republicans have begun marking up their own tax plan in the finance committee, a process that could take several days.
Related: What's in the Senate Republicans' tax bill
Cohn said he expects both chambers to make significant progress by the end of this week, before lawmakers head to their home states for Thanksgiving recess.
"So by the end of this week... we will have the bill through the House and we will have the Senate Finance committee done," said Cohn. "The only thing left to do is get the full Senate vote on the bill."
He did raise the possibility that both sides would have to reconcile the bill in a conference committee, which would require both chambers to vote on the bill for a second time.
Still, Cohn downplayed differences between the two plans.
"The question should be: 'Do the bills deliver middle-income tax relief?' And the answer to both is, 'Yes'. How they get there is different," said Cohn.
Later Tuesday, Senate Republicans moved to include a repeal of Obamacare's individual mandate in the revised version of the chamber's tax overhaul. That's expected to be released by the Senate finance committee later today.
Cohn suggested on Tuesday that the administration would press ahead regardless of whether enough senators vote to repeal the individual mandate.
"We are still plotting ahead on tax reform whether [that] happens or it doesn't happens," said Cohn.
--CNN's Lauren Fox contributed to this report.


Mattel's stock rose 5% more Tuesday while Hasbro was flat. Hasbro had no comment on the takeover talk. Mattel was not immediately available for comment.
A deal would unite Hasbro, the owner of Mr. Potato Head, Monopoly, Tonka, My Little Pony and most Disney toy licenses, with Mattel, the parent of Fisher-Price, Thomas and Friends, Barbie and Hot Wheels.
Why might a deal make sense? Hasbro is operating from a position of strength. Its stock is up about 25% this year. Analysts expect Hasbro's earnings will increase 12% this year and that sales will rise nearly 7%.
Simply put, Hasbro has the toys that kids want -- and it could scoop up Mattel on the cheap.
That's because Mattel, which lost the Disney (DIS) license -- most notably the lucrative line of Princess dolls and "Frozen" toys -- to Hasbro in 2016, has been in a tailspin.
Profits have been falling as sales have slid. The company even suspended its dividend to shareholders last month after its latest bleak earnings report.
Related: Barbie's first hijab
Mattel brought in a new CEO, former Google (GOOGL) executive Margo Georgiadis, earlier this year to focus more on high-tech toys. But that has not stopped the bleeding. Even with the stock's recent rumor-fueled gains, Mattel shares are down 33% this year.
Another possible reason for a toy tie-up: Both companies could have a disappointing holiday season and a tough 2018 because of the bankruptcy of Toys 'R' Us. A combination could give the two companies more clout with other stores that sell their toys.
Hasbro and Mattel each warned last month that fourth-quarter results won't be as strong as previously thought because of the troubles facing Toys 'R' Us. That's also a key reason why Hasbro's stock, despite the impressive gain this year, is down 17% from its 52-week high.
Hasbro's earnings and sales growth are expected to slow next year, and Wall Street is forecasting yet another decline in revenue for Mattel in 2018. The two companies could arguably do better if they were united.
Still, it remains to be seen whether Mattel wants to be acquired -- and, if it did, whether antitrust regulators would allow such a deal.
Related: Hasbro hurt by Toys 'R' Us bankruptcy
Mattel tried to buy Hasbro once before, in 1996, but Hasbro turned the offer down, citing concerns that the companies would have to sell several brands to get government approval.
Regulators could still argue today that a Hasbro-Mattel deal could create a monopoly -- the real-life kind -- but officials might allow the merger to pass Go this time around.
That's because the entire toy industry has been struggling.
Many kids prefer to play video games on Nintendo (NTDOY), Microsoft (MSFT) and Sony (SNE) consoles, or on apps. The digital world is hurting old-fashioned toy makers.
The rise of Amazon (AMZN) and Walmart (WMT) -- both of whom pride themselves on offering deep discounts -- may also be hurting traditional toy companies. Their increased clout makes it tougher for toy companies to sell their products at a premium price.
Not even the mighty Lego is immune. The maker of the plastic toy bricks posted a surprise drop in sales in September and announced layoffs, too.
Shares of smaller toy companies Jakks Pacific (JAKK) and Canada's Spin Master, which makes Hatchimals toys, have been hit in the past month, too, because of concerns about the Toys 'R' Us bankruptcy.
So while a Hasbro-Mattel deal may not have made sense 20 years ago, the timing might be right now.


Under rules set by its creditors, Greece has to keep a budget surplus of at least 1.75%. But economists expect the surplus to reach 3% this year thanks to higher tax revenues and additional spending cuts.
Tsipras was first elected on the promise of ending years of tough austerity prescribed by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. The two groups have lent Greece over €300 billion ($350 billion) to prevent it from defaulting on its debts and dropping out of the euro. In return, they asked for deep spending cuts and tax rises.
Tsipras was forced to agree to even more drastic measures in order to secure a third bailout in 2015.
Greece appears to be sticking to the plan, and the economy is growing again after years of recession. The European Commission expects the Greek economy to expand by 1.6% this year and by 2.5% in both 2018 and 2019.
Related: They want to kill the euro
Tsipras said that €720 million ($845 million) will be distributed to roughly 3.4 million lower and middle income families. The tax free payments will vary based on the size and income of families.
Another €315 million ($370 million) will be given to pensioners in the form of rebates for health care payments.
Related: The last thing Europe needs: another Greek crisis
Tsipras angered Greece's international creditors last year when he announced a €600 million ($704 million) bonus for the country's pensioners.
The groups appear to be on board this time around. A European Commission spokesperson said this year's payments appear "to be broadly in line" with discussions between the creditors and Tsipras' government.


The dramatic shifts envisioned by the IEA in its World Energy Outlook would transform the U.S. from an energy importer into a major player in global markets capable of producing 30 million barrels of oil and gas a day by 2025.
The U.S. surpassed Russia in 2011 to become the world's top producer of oil and gas, with a current daily output of 24 million barrels. But the expected increase would put the U.S. further into uncharted territory.
It's a revolution powered by one factor above all others: shale.
"A remarkable ability to unlock new resources cost-effectively pushes combined United States oil and gas output to a level 50% higher than any other country has ever managed," the IEA said on Tuesday.
Paris-based IEA predicts that U.S. shale oil producers will boost their output by 8 million barrels a day between 2010 and 2025, an increase that "would match the highest sustained period of oil output growth by a single country in the history of oil markets" -- rivaling even the massive increase posted by Saudi Arabia between 1966 and 1981.
The expected U.S. surge will account for 80% of the increase in global supply over the time period.
American shale producers have been forced to endure a collapse that sent crude prices from $100 a barrel in 2014 to a low of $26 in 2016. The decline left many producers unprofitable, and tens of thousands of jobs were lost.
But the price crash had another effect: it forced a wave of innovation that has improved shale producers' productivity and efficiency.
"The U.S. [shale] oil industry avoided the blow by morphing into a leaner, more agile version of its former self; it has since proved remarkably resilient to lower prices," the IEA said.
Related: BP CEO: Oil prices won't spike much higher
The report includes several caveats: While the U.S. will become a major exporter of light crude and refined products, it will remain a major importer of heavier crude oil that is used in many of its refineries.
"Even with the extraordinary move to a net export position, the health of the U.S. energy economy remains intricately linked with those of its neighbors in North America and with choices made by countries further afield," the group said.
The forecasts are also underpinned by some major assumptions: The report assumes that governments stick to promises they've made on energy, including pledges by India and China to move away from fossil fuels.
In the U.S., the report assumes that improvements in fuel economy standards for cars and trucks will help reduce demand for oil. If the standards stay at today's levels, the U.S. would remain a net oil importer in 2040.
If the assumptions do hold, the U.S. will find itself in a very rare position.
"There are many examples of a country switching from being a net energy exporter to a net importer: it is very rare to see the opposite, especially when the country in question is one of the world's largest importers of oil."
"Yet this is precisely what is happening as a result of the U.S. shale revolution -- both for oil and for natural gas," the IEA said.


Flannery warned that 2018 will be difficult, dubbing it a "reset year for us."
That's not exactly music to the ears of GE's long-suffering shareholders, especially when the rest of the stock market is booming. GE shares closed at a five-and-a-half year low on Monday.
GE faces a "tough slog ahead," Cowen & Co. analyst Gautam Khanna wrote in a research report on Monday.
Scott Davis, head analyst at Melius Research, said it's still "early days" for Flannery to "fix the GE mess he was handed."
While Davis has "high hopes," he wrote in a report that GE is facing a "debacle" and it's "hard to have much confidence yet."
Related: GE cuts dividend for second time since Great Depression
GE is not just one of America's most storied companies. It's one of the country's biggest employers, with nearly 300,000 workers, and one of its most widely held stocks.
Facing a serious cash crunch, GE has cut its dividend to save about $4 billion a year. It also plans to jettison more businesses, including the transportation division that makes trains and railroad parts. GE is even getting rid of the light bulb business that long symbolized the innovative company. And it's thinking about relinquishing a majority stake in Baker Hughes (BHGE), which was formed when it combined with GE's oil-and-gas assets.
Flannery has said these sales are necessary to simplify GE and refocus the company on core areas: aviation, healthcare and power.
"Complexity has hurt us," the new GE CEO said.
Yet even a slimmed-down GE will still be quite complex, making everything from jet engines and MRI machines to power plants.
And it'll take time to sell off these various businesses, especially the ones like transportation that GE admits are slumping right now. Flannery warned that the transportation division faces a "protracted slowdown in North America" due in part to shrinking coal shipments.
Related: GE is breaking up with the light bulb
The other problem is that some of the businesses GE is keeping are in even worse shape. GE now expects to earn just $1.00 to $1.07 per share next year. That's roughly half the goal GE had less than a year ago.
GE warned it will take one to two years to fix its power division, which supplies over 30% of the world's energy in 140 countries. The business has been hit hard as utilities move away from fossil fuels in favor of renewable energy like solar and wind. GE expects a "challenging market into 2019," which will force further cost-cutting.
"It's a heavy lift to turn around," Flannery admitted.
Davis put it this way: "Power is still a mess."
That mess threatens to delay efforts to fix GE's cash crunch. Free cash flow, which measures how much cash is generated after investing in the business, has dropped for six-straight years.
GE said it expects industrial free cash flow, which includes dividends from Baker Hughes but excludes deal taxes and pension obligations, of $6 billion to $7 billion in 2018.
That's barely enough to cover even the lowered dividend payments.
But Cowen's Khanna thinks GE's "cherry-picked" definition of free cash flow has inflated its figures, making things appear better than they are. He noted that GE is borrowing $6 billion to fund its pension obligations through 2020.
Underlying free cash flow "appears close to zero as most industrial firms would define it," Khanna wrote.


Owning Venezuela's debt has become a divisive issue. Some critics say that by buying the debt, investors are providing a lifeline of support to President Nicolas Maduro, who has been labeled a "dictator" by the Trump administration. They argue that the government has prioritized paying bondholders instead of feeding and aiding its people. Medical shortages have caused children to die in hospitals and food shortages make millions of people go hungry.
Related: Venezuela just defaulted, moving deeper into crisis
Experts on all sides say government policies, not the debt, are to blame for the suffering. The question is whether buying the bonds are allows the government to continue its crippling policies.
Venezuela owes over $60 billion to bondholders. The country's central bank has only $9.6 billion left.
Harvard professor Ricardo Hausmann, who served as a Venezuelan minister in 1990s, calls Venezuelan debt "hunger bonds."
"If you are a decent human being, investing in Venezuelan bonds should make you feel mildly nauseous," Hausmann wrote.
Related: Venezuela: We can't pay our debts anymore
Many Venezuelan bonds aren't purchased directly from the government, which would finance the regime. In fact, as of August, the Trump administration made that illegal. Instead, bond traders buy them from other traders on the "secondary" market, and those funds go the bank or investment firm on the other side of the transaction, not to the Venezuelan government.
Some portfolio managers who own Venezuelan debt condemn Maduro's regime and all its policies.
"We're certainly not propping up this regime," says Michael Conelius, portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price who oversees a bond fund that includes Venezuelan debt. "Bondholders are as much a thorn in the side of the regime as anything else."

All sides agreed that Venezuela's default was only a matter of time. And its debt is held by millions of Americans who have 401(k) accounts, according to data from Morningstar and Market Axess.
These are the top institutional holders of Venezuelan debt -- bonds sold by both the government and state-owned oil company PDVSA:
-- Fidelity Investments: $572 million  -- T. Rowe Price: $370 million  -- BlackRock iShares: $222 million -- Goldman Sachs $187 million  -- Invesco Powershares: $113 million
Fidelity and Invesco declined to comment; BlackRock didn't respond to CNNMoney. Goldman bought bonds soon after the Venezuelan government issued them in May, which sparked huge public backlash. A Goldman spokesperson said at the time that it hopes to see a change of government and policies.
Fidelity's website says it is the top 401(k) provider in the United States with 67.2 million customer accounts. But it's unclear how many of those accounts have money in funds that contain Venezuelan debt. The same goes for the other investing firms.
Fidelity's "New Market Income Fund" holds $252 million in Venezuelan debt, according to an analysis of the most recent prospectus by CNNMoney. It makes up a sliver of the total fund, but some bonds pay hefty interest to investors, as high as 13%. By comparison, interest on a 10-year U.S. Treasury bond is 2.3%.
Related: Venezuelan leaders tell hungry citizens to eat rabbits
Dozens of other mutual funds and investment banks also own the country's bonds.
One caveat: The Morningstar and Market Axess data don't include hedge funds or international investors who don't have to disclose their holdings. Market Axess cautions that much more of Venezuela's debt could be held by those entities than the mutual funds.
Since Maduro announced plans to restructure the bonds -- something investors took to mean he would stop paying -- bond prices have tanked. A PDVSA bond that matures in 2022 plunged to 28 cents on the dollar from 48 cents after the announcement, according to Market Axess BondTicker.


"People want to think about how they can use their money to make a positive impact, but often they don't have the information to make those decisions," said Cherny, who has also worked as a financial fraud prosecutor.
Aspiration was launched in 2014 and so far has raised $20 million in investment, including some from impact investors who target a social or environmental return as well as a profit.
Related: These super-rich families are investing their fortunes to help others
It has developed an app and online checking account that gives customers a personalized sustainability score based on their spending habits.
Helping people and the planet
When you use the account to make a purchase, Aspiration shows you two scores for the vendor: a "people score" based on employee pay and workforce diversity, and a "planet score" that takes into account factors such as emissions and energy efficiency. It also shows you scores for similar businesses.
Aspiration analyzes information about thousands of companies. It's also working on ways to track customer behavior, to see whether they change their spending habits in response to their sustainability score.
One company has already found plenty of evidence that shoppers will make different choices when presented with social and environmental product rankings.
"People are interested in voting with their dollars, and supporting companies that share their values," said Alexander Gillett, chief executive of HowGood, which ranks the sustainability of food products by assessing 60 to 70 data points covering everything from chemical usage to labor practices.
Related: 6 ways to make an impact investment
According to Gillett, products that receive HowGood's top ranking see an average uplift in sales of 230%. This can, in turn, encourage producers to shift towards a more sustainable business model to boost their ranking.
Gillett and his brother Arthur founded HowGood in 2007. They spent five years working with experts from across the food industry to develop their rankings -- good, great and best -- which can be displayed alongside products on supermarket shelves.
HowGood rates more than 250,000 products, and its ratings are on display in grocers across the U.S., including Giant Food. HowGood hopes to further expand online soon.
Impact shopping needn't cost more
Shopping sustainably doesn't necessarily mean spending more.
"There's a myth that you have to go somewhere fancy for sustainability," said Cherny. "Even within categories, there are differences. Pizza Hut does better than Papa John's. McDonald's does better than Burger King."
Related: Investors cash in by keeping convicts out of jail
Like Aspiration, HowGood has its sights set on expanding beyond the U.S. Impact investors and others have so far committed $6.2 million to the company, which has plans to branch out beyond food.
"We want to rate every product in the world ultimately, but we want to rate them well," Gillett said.


Governor Mark Carney said that in addition to using social media to communicate with the public, the Bank of England now limits internal memos to a maximum of six pages.
2. Default in Caracas: Venezuela, a nation spiraling into a humanitarian crisis, has defaulted on its debt, according to a statement issued Monday night by S&P Global Ratings.
The agency said the 30-day grace period had expired for a payment that was due in October.
The default risks setting off a dangerous series of events that could exacerbate food and medical shortages in the country.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Stocks to watch: Shares in Buffalo Wild Wings (BWLD) are set to surge by about 30% following reports that private equity firm Roark Capital is trying to purchase the chain.
Roark Capital, which is based in Atlanta, owns a range of restaurant chains including Arby's and Auntie Anne's.
Shares in Madison Square Garden Company (MSG) could also be on the move after the firm announced CEO David O'Connor has left the business. The stock hit a record high last week.
Dick's Sporting Goods (DKS), Home Depot (HD) and TJX (TJX) are among the firms reporting earnings before the opening bell.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were slightly lower, trading just below all-time highs set earlier this month.
European markets were mostly negative in afternoon trading. Traders are digesting an inflation report from the U.K. that shows prices rose by 3% in October from last year.
Stocks in Germany were flat after the country reported better-than-expected GDP data.
"It will not get better than this," economists at Berenberg Bank said of the 0.8% expansion over the previous quarter. The bank raised its forecast for annual GDP growth from 2.2% to 2.5%.
Most Asian markets ended the day with modest losses.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Tuesday -- Home Depot (HD), TJX (TJX) earnings  Wednesday -- Target (TGT), Cisco (CSCO), L Brands (LB) earnings; U.S. retail sales for October; U.K. unemployment  Thursday -- Best Buy (BBY), Walmart (WMT), Gap (GPS), Viacom (VIA) earnings  Friday -- Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) earnings


If enough holders of a particular bond demand full and immediate repayment, it can prompt investors across all Venezuelan bonds to demand the same thing. Since Venezuela doesn't have the money to pay all its bondholders right now, investors would then be entitled to seize the country's assets -- primarily barrels of oil -- outside its borders.
Related: Trump administration bars U.S. banks from some Venezuelan debt
Venezuela has no other meaningful income other than the oil it sells abroad. The government, meanwhile, has failed for years to ship in enough food and medicine for its citizens. As a result, Venezuelans are waiting hours in line to buy food and dying in hospitals that lack basic resources.
If investors seize the country's oil shipments, the food and medical shortages would worsen quickly.
"Then it's pandemonium," says Fernando Freijedo, an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit, a research firm. "The humanitarian crisis is already pretty dire ... it boggles the mind what could happen next."
It's not immediately clear what steps bondholders will take. Argentina went through a vaguely similar default, and its bondholders battled with the government for about 15 years until settling in 2016. Every case is different, though.
Related: Venezuela admits it can't pay all its debts anymore
Venezuela and its state-run oil company, PDVSA, owe more than $60 billion just to bondholders. In total, the country owes far more: $196 billion, according to a paper published by the Harvard Law Roundtable and authored by lawyers Mark Walker and Richard Cooper.
Beyond bond payments, Venezuela owes money to China, Russia, oil service providers, U.S. airlines and many other entities. The nation's central bank only has $9.6 billion in reserves because it has slowly drained its bank account over the years to make payments.
The S&P default announcement Monday came after Venezuelan government officials met with bondholders in Caracas. The meeting was reportedly brief and offered no clarity on how the government plans to restructure its debt.

The Venezuelan government blames its debt woes -- and inability to pay -- on a longstanding "economic war" waged by the U.S. More recently, the Trump administration slapped financial sanctions on Venezuela and PDVSA, barring banks in the U.S. from trading or investing in any newly issued Venezuelan debt.
But experts say the socialist Venezuelan regime that has been in power since 1999 bears the brunt of the blame. It fixed -- or froze -- prices on everything from a cup of coffee to a tank of gas in an effort to make goods more affordable for the masses. For years, Venezuelan leaders also fixed the exchange rate for their currency, the bolivar.
Related: Venezuela is blaming Trump for missed debt payments
Those moves were among the driving forces behind the food shortages. Farmers couldn't sell at low prices without going out of business because their cost of production was much higher. Importers also couldn't afford to ship in food, knowing they would have to sell at much lower prices than what they paid for at the port.
When food shortages grew worse, an illegal black market emerged where venders sold basic foods at vastly higher prices than the government's artificially low prices. Inflation soared, making the bolivar almost worthless.
One U.S. dollar currently buys more than 55,200 bolivars. At the beginning of the year, a dollar was worth about 3,200 bolivars, according to dolartoday.com, a website that tracks the unofficial rate that millions in Venezuela use to determine payments.
The International Monetary Fund predicts that inflation in Venezuela will hit 650% this year and 2,300% in 2018.
--This story has been updated to characterize Venezuela's government as socialist.


"We're kind of getting used to trauma, whatever that may be, geopolitical, economic, terrorists, call it whatever it is. We're getting better at it. This is what we do and we have to be able to take the business on, grow the business," said Emirates President Tim Clark in an interview with CNN.
In addition to the deal with Boeing, Emirates unveiled a new first class for its long-range 777 jets. The opulent suites feature some technology firsts for commercial aviation, including video chat to contact a flight attendant and virtual windows that pipe in fiber optic video for the suite in the middle of the jet's cabin.
But traffic growth is at the lowest level in the region since the global financial crisis in 2009, according to Bernstein Research. Rivals Etihad Airways, based in the nearby United Arab Emirates capital of Abu Dhabi, is in the midst of a management and strategy overhaul after its bets on ailing European carriers Air Berlin and Alitalia turned sour. And Qatar Airways remains in the midst of a regional embargo after the UAE and many of its neighbors cut off diplomatic ties to the Gulf state.
"We've faced a flat-lining of demand for all the reasons out of our control. We have adjusted our capacity...it's only 2% growth, but does that mean to say Emirates is going to be stuck at 2% growth? I don't think so," said Clark.
The phase of slow growth for Emirates comes after a blistering expansion that has added 100 A380s and 109 777s to its fleet over the last decade. That rapid expansion has drawn howls of protest from U.S. and European carriers who allege Emirates, Qatar and Etihad are unfairly reshaping the aviation market with subsidized state support.
Middle East consolidation
But the tumultuous landscape has forced Emirates to adapt, retiring older planes and aligning itself with its low-cost sibling FlyDubai. The carrier began its operations mimicking Southwest Airlines and flying shorter flights around the region with fewer frills. FlyDubai at the show unveiled new lie-flat seats to attract business fliers accustomed to the opulent perks found on Emirates.
The UAE may still undergo a broader airline consolidation and Clark said a similar alignment or collaboration with Etihad may materialize over time.
"I take guidance from my bosses, basically, if they want to take it on, we can do a lot of things," said Clark. "There are things we can do immediately without conflicting with competition rules in the overseas markets and getting better value for both [Emirates and Etihad]."
Rethinking growth
Sunday's Boeing deal comes after Emirates in 2014 canceled an agreement with Airbus for 70 long-range A350 jets after the plane maker decided to redesign parts of the airplane.
The Boeing deal is worth $15.1 billion at list prices, but airlines regularly receive discounts of 40% to 60%.
While a significant win for Boeing, "this is the weakest Dubai Air Show in terms of orders in many years, with only 60 orders after the first two days (2015 had 126 orders and 2013 had 552 orders)," wrote Bernstein analyst Doug Harned.
Related: Superjumbo airline Emirates thinking smaller again
The twin-aisle 787-10, which seats about 320 passengers, doesn't have the globespanning endurance of the larger jets in Emirates' fleet. Instead, the aircraft will likely be deployed on new and existing shorter regional flights that don't need the range or enormous capacity of the Boeing 777 and double-deck A380, for which Emirates is the largest operator of both planes.
"It gives us far more in our arsenal to deal with the type segmentation of demand that we're looking at in the next decade," said Clark.
Over the long term, Emirates plans to move its operations to the new Dubai World Central Airport from Dubai International Airport. The new gateway will eventually be able to accommodate 220 million passengers flying through every year. That's more than double the 104.2 million passengers that used Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport in 2016, the world's busiest airport.


This source also said owners are wary of replacing Goodell so soon before the league's collective bargaining agreement with the players expires, in 2020.
The contract discussion comes at a difficult moment for the league, which faces declining TV ratings, growing concerns about brain damage and domestic violence, and player protests over racial injustice.
The terms of Goodell's deal are being considered by a compensation committee comprising six owners: Arthur Blank of the Falcons, Clark Hunt of the Chiefs, Robert K. Kraft of the Patriots, John Mara of the Giants, Bob McNair of the Texans and Art Rooney of the Steelers.
Those six are expected to talk by phone on Monday.
ESPN reported on Sunday that Goodell had asked for a salary of $49.5 million a year, the use of a private jet for life and lifetime health insurance for his family. Goodell was paid $31.7 million in 2015, the most recent figure publicly available.
Two NFL sources disputed the ESPN report. One NFL source told CNNMoney that Goodell already has use of a private jet and health care for his family.
Goodell's leadership has been tested most recently by the protests. They started during a 2016 preseason game when then-49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick took a knee during the singing of the National Anthem.
The movement grew this year, particularly after President Trump said owners should fire anyone who takes a knee.
Goodell says everyone should stand for the Anthem and the league needs to "move past this controversy." But he also says players have the freedom to express themselves. League rules say only that players "should" stand.
Related: NFL commissioner: 'We need to move past this controversy'
Some fans have said protests are disrespectful to the American flag and to the military, and have boycotted the NFL. Papa John's founder and CEO John Schnatter said the protests have hurt sales and blamed Goodell.
He's not the only person questioning Goodell's leadership and handling of the protests. Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones has even threatened to sue the NFL to block Goodell's contract renewal.
On Sunday, when the Cowboys played the Atlanta Falcons, Jones and Blank, the chairman of the compensation committee, didn't greet each other, as is customary for owners to do at a game.
Jones is also upset over Goodell's treatment of his star running back, Ezekiel Elliott, who was suspended six games earlier this season for domestic violence allegations.
A spokesman for the NFL said all 32 owners agreed previously to give the committee the authority to decide whether Goodell should get an extension.
Related: NFL owners gather to discuss National Anthem protests
It's not clear how much Goodell was paid in 2016 and 2017. His salary was cut continually between 2012, when he made $44.2 million, and 2015. That is when the NFL dropped its federal tax exemption. As a result, Goodell's salary is no longer public.
Goodell took the job in 2006. Between 2008 and 2015, he was paid more than $205 million.


"Budweiser has been declining for a long time," said Eric Shepard, an industry tracker at Beer Marketer's Insights. "Premium light [beer] doesn't have the popularity it once did."
That's particularly true for younger drinkers, Shepard added.
The drop-off in domestic beers isn't confined to just Budweiser and Bud Light: Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP), the maker of Coors Light and Miller Lite, announced last month that U.S. sales dipped nearly 3% last quarter.
Related: Not America's beer? Bud sales fall in U.S.
Budweiser is betting on a management shakeup to help turn sales around.
AB-InBev's announced on Monday that Michel Doukeris, A-B InBev's current chief sales officer, will replace João Castro Neves on January 1 as head of the company's North America division.
The U.S. is AB-InBev's "most important market," CEO Carlos Brito said in a news release.
Aside from the sales slump, Budweiser missed its last attempt to rebrand itself. A-B InBev's highly-marketed campaign to brand Budweiser as "America" on bottles and cans during the summer failed to catch on with beer lovers.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
Budweiser is now turning to its old Prohibition-era lager to return the brew to past glory. A-B InBev announced last month that it was releasing a limited-edition "1933 Repeal and Reserve Amber Lager" with a higher alcohol content than the regular beer for the holidays.
Doukeris and the Prohibition-style bud will also have to compete with rising popularity of Corona and Modelo.
Constellation Brands (STZ), the owner of the two Mexican imported beers, reported that sales increased 13% last quarter. Constellation is up 43% this year compared to A-B InBev's (BUDFF) 11% gain.
-- CNNMoney's Paul R. La Monica contributed to this story.


"We were sorry to hear Jeremy was sick and were able to get in touch with him directly regarding where and when he ate," said Chipotle spokesman Chris Arnold, in an email to CNNMoney. "There have been no other reported claims of illness at the restaurant where he dined. We take all claims seriously, but we can't confirm any link to Chipotle given the details he shared with us."
Representatives for Jordan, a Broadway actor and star of Warner Bros. television show "Supergirl" did not immediately respond to messages from CNNMoney. (Warner Bros. and CNNMoney share the parent company Time Warner.)
Nick Setyan, analyst for Wedbush Securities, said that Jordan's Instagram post was definitely the cause tor the drop in stock price, even if the company wasn't actually to blame.
"It is 100% the reason why it is down today," said Setyan, senior vice president of equity research, in an email to CNNMoney. "Unfortunately, Chipotle is exposed to these types of unsubstantiated claims for the foreseeable future."
Related: Chipotle earnings prevail, despite host of troubles
Since 2015, Chipotle restaurants in various locations around the country have been plagued by outbreaks of E. coli and norovirus, sickening hundreds of people. The most recent reports of illness happened in July at a restaurant in Sterling, Virginia.
Rodents were also sighted at one of its Dallas restaurants earlier this year, and a video of the vermin went viral..
But the Mexican-style fast food chain said that sales and profits rose significantly its latest quarter, despite costly Hurricanes Irma and Harvey and April malware attack.


Still, a GE (GE) without light bulbs feels like an AT&T without telephone service, Campbell's without tomato soup or GM without Chevrolet.
Light bulbs' and GE: An intertwined history
Thomas Edison invented the first commercially viable incandescent light bulb in 1879. A year later, he founded the Edison Lamp Company and began manufacturing light bulbs for sale. By 1890, Edison had consolidated Edison Lamp with most of his other businesses under Edison General Electric, and in 1892 merged with the Thomson-Houston Electric Company to form the GE we all know.
Light bulbs quickly took off after that, as did innovation that improved the invention. In 1892, GE began machine-molding bulbs instead of hand-blowing them. In 1906, GE engineer William Coolidge developed the modern light bulb with a long-lasting and super-bright tungsten filament -- an improvement that GE commercialized in 1911.
Related: GE cuts its dividend for just second time since the Depression
By 1935, GE's light bulbs were bright enough to light the first ever Major League Baseball night game, played in Cincinnati. GE invented the fluorescent bulb in 1938, the halogen lamp in 1959 and the LED in 1962.
GE made more recent advances too. In 2001, it introduced GE Reveal light bulbs that filter out yellow light to produce more natural illumination. And in 2010, it produced its first ever smart LED bulb that connects to the internet.
When GE ditches its lighting division, a move scheduled for next year or 2019, it will be the first time the light bulb hasn't been part of GE since the darn thing was invented.
What's wrong with light bulbs
So why ditch light bulbs now? The market is dimming, so to speak.
Business was booming between 2007 and 2014, when customers bought up expensive LED light bulbs to replace their inefficient incandescents.
But there's a problem for light bulb makers like GE: LEDs last for decades. With no need to replace them, the bottom fell out of the market. Prices -- and revenue -- began to tumble.
Related: GE wants to unload its iconic light bulb business
The dust finally appears to be settling, and IHS lighting analyst Jamie Fox said in a recent report that he expects growth to return to the light bulb market this year.
GE agrees and actually has high near-term hopes for its lighting business. The company said Monday it expects light bulb sales to grow a modest 5% and profit to rise 15% next year.
But that growth will largely be fueled by Current, a billion-dollar GE business that sells LED lighting systems to businesses. GE plans on selling Current along with its consumer lighting division (a buyer has yet to emerge).
In its presentation to investors Monday, GE said its future would focus on businesses with strong growth, predictability and cash generation. None of those apply to light bulbs.


Judge will represent Pepsi beverages, including regular, Diet Pepsi and Pepsi Zero Sugar. The company said it would work with Judge in 2018 and into the future, but did not immediately disclose further terms of the deal.
"We are thrilled to welcome Aaron to the Pepsi family," said Justin Toman, the senior director of sports marketing for PepsiCo (PEP). "He's one of the biggest rising stars in baseball and we're looking forward to working together to engage baseball enthusiasts in new and unique ways next season and beyond."
Related: MLB drops Pepsi for Coca-Cola
Judge's baseball career has seen nothing short of a meteoric rise this year. He scored the most home runs by a rookie and has won over baseball fans everywhere. He's considered a shoo-in to be named American League Rookie of the Year.
The superstar's stately last name has also brought about a slew of punny souvenirs and fan rituals. A section in the right-field bleachers at Yankee Stadium has been christened the "Judge's Chambers," where fans often don judge's robes, barristers' wigs and hold signs reading "All Rise."
Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor is even known to be a fan.
The relationship is also a major get for Pepsi.
Major League Baseball hasn't been a big fan of the company as of late -- in April, the league announced that it was dropping Pepsi in favor of a new deal with rival Coca-Cola.
Even though Coke became the MLB's official sponsor, Pepsi held onto existing partnerships with 11 teams, including the New York Yankees.


The proposed split, or "fork," would have allowed for faster transaction processing speeds.
"One of the main problems with Bitcoin is that it does not scale up properly as more and more users adopt it," said Daniele Bianchi, assistant professor of finance at Warwick Business School.
But not everyone was on board with the plan. Bianchi said that opponents preferred the status quo because they see Bitcoin as an investment rather than a method of payment.
John Spallanzani, chief macro strategist at the broker GFI, said that calling off the split caused Bitcoin prices to collapse and rival digital currencies to surge.
But he expected Monday's rebound and says it could continue.
"Bitcoin has been prone to sizable corrections and we had two such large corrections just this year," he said. "However, [in each case Bitcoin] subsequently made a new high."
Related: What is Bitcoin?
Bitcoin owners don't have too much to complain about. The currency has gained nearly 600% this year, and its price has doubled from as recently as mid-September.
The momentum has been helped by several major endorsements. Japan recognized Bitcoin as legal tender in April. And CME Group (CME), which owns the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, announced plans last month to start listing Bitcoin futures contracts during the fourth quarter.
But analysts are divided on the future of the alternative currency.
"Bitcoin prices will be volatile -- it has been like that the last few years and it will be like that the next few years," said Ronnie Moas, an analyst at Standpoint Research. He thinks Bitcoin could reach $50,000 in just a few years.
Researchers at UBS, however, say that recent price rises are the result of speculative trading.
They wrote in a research note that following a twenty-fold increase in Bitcoin prices over two years, "cryptocurrency prices are almost certainly a bubble."


"Either we can do the deal legally if there is a legal framework," Total CEO Patrick Pouyanné told CNNMoney Emerging Markets Editor John Defterios.
"If we cannot do that for legal reasons, because of [a] change of [the] regime of sanctions, then we have to revisit it."
Trump unveiled a tough and comprehensive new policy towards Iran last month. He accused Tehran of violating the nuclear accord, and announced that he would no longer certify that the lifting of sanctions was in U.S. interests.
The agreement is now effectively in limbo while Congress decides how to respond, but Trump's strategy risks setting off a chain of events that ends up derailing the nuclear deal.
Total is expanding in the U.S.
"If there is a sanctions regime [on Iran], we have to look at it carefully," said Pouyanné. "We work in the U.S., we have assets in the U.S., we just acquired more assets in the U.S."
Total last week increased its U.S. presence with the purchase of a portfolio of liquified natural gas assets from Engie (ENGIY), including the company's stake in the Cameron LNG project in Louisiana, one of the first new gas export terminals in North America.
That deal ups the stakes for the French firm. For now, though, it's business as usual in Iran.
"We are working on the project. We launched the tenders, we should award... contracts by January," Pouyanné said. "I hope by that time, Congress will have an answer for the president and the president will have to renew, or not [renew], the certification."
Losing Total would be a huge blow for Iran. Tehran needs foreign investment to develop its vast energy potential and it was recently touting projects worth $200 billion in the hope of attracting companies such as BP (BP), Russia's Gazprom (GZPFY) and Petronas of Malaysia.


Market research firm Euromonitor International says that South Korean skin care brands that manufacture snail cream have rapidly expanded their presence in the U.S. since 2011.
Now their creams are even being sold by Target (TGT) and CVS (CVS), which says the customer response has been "tremendous."
The chains declined to provide sales numbers for snail cream. But Alicia Yoon, founder of New-York based Peach and Lily, which supplies Target and CVS with Korean beauty products, said snail products are a top seller.
"Snail cream is one of our best sellers on our website," said Yoon. "In the same way that it's become a mainstream ingredient in Korea, I think that's going to happen here in the U.S."
Snail mucin was first used in beauty products by Chilean skincare brand Elicina in 1995. The idea came from snail farmers in the country, who claimed that scratches on their hands healed faster when they handled garden snails.
It wasn't until a decade later, when South Korean companies introduced snail products to their home market, that the creams really took off.
South Korea is a cosmetics powerhouse, and its $7.2 billion market ranks 8th in the world in terms of sales. Its consumers are known for their willingness to experiment with new and unusual ingredients, according to Yoon.
Snail slime advocates say that it can improve skin imperfections like scars, wrinkles and acne.
Sabrina Fabi, a dermatologist and assistant clinical professor at the University of California, San Diego, said there are chemicals in the secretions that may reduce signs of aging.
But she cautioned that the effectiveness of beauty creams depends on the concentration of the active ingredient, and whether it is delivered into the skin.
Related: The visionary behind Africa's leading natural skincare brand

Jeb Gleason-Allured, the editor in chief of Global Cosmetic Industry magazine, said that there may be a limit to American interest in snail slime.
"I suspect in the age of people going for vegan and animal-free products there may be limitations, and also there's the psychological hurdle," said Gleason-Allured.
"But when you polarize people, that means at least a portion of your audience is going to be really compelled by the novelty," he added.
Related: China lifts ban on stinky cheese imports
Beauty labels from around the world are seeking to capitalize on the trend, and have started producing their own creams. Elicina, for example, now sells to 45 countries.
Gleason-Allured said the next key growth market is China.
"China doesn't have as strong a domestic trend-setting beauty industry at this stage," he explained. "That's really the market everyone's going for."


Early alarms have already sounded. Data from Visa and business advisory firm BDO show that October sales at brick-and-mortar shops declined 5% compared to the previous year. Spending on clothing and footwear was particularly weak.
Online sales are rising, but not quickly enough to compensate for losses in the shops.
"Falling real wages, muted consumer confidence and lingering uncertainties over the direction of the U.K. economy are having a substantial impact on spending," warned Annabel Fiddes, an economist at IHS Markit who helped compile the Visa report.

Retailers across developed economies are under intense pressure from e-commerce giants like Amazon (AMZN). In the U.S., thousands of stores have closed.
But experts say that much of the pain in the U.K. is being caused by Brexit.
The value of the pound dropped sharply after Britain voted to leave the European Union in June 2016, forcing Brits to pay higher prices for imported goods.
Wage increases haven't kept pace with inflation, which now stands at 3%. Household debt has been growing by about 4% a year, and the Bank of England just squeezed consumers by hiking interest rates, which makes it more expensive to borrow money.
"There will be spending this Christmas ... but people are being more cautious and more choosy," said BDO's top retail expert, Sophie Michael.
Michael predicts the trend might lead to a winner-take-all scenario during the crucial holiday season where stores that can't attract shoppers could be forced to close.

Many retailers are also worried over how Britain's departure from the EU will affect their business. Nearly 17 months after Britain voted to leave the EU, negotiators still have not broached the subject of their future trading relationship, which is critical for retailers that import goods.
"We've underestimated the impact of Brexit," said James Bidwell, co-founder of the digital consultancy Re_Set. "The inability of the government to actually move the agenda on is making it difficult for all businesses, but particularly retailers."
"It's impacting how consumers are feeling," added Bidwell, the former CEO of Anthropologie's European division.
Related: Walmart is turning holiday shopping into a party
David Roth, head of WPP's global retail division, said that retailers would try to boost sales by advertising on social media. But he predicts holiday retail sales will be flat.
"If I was a retailer and sales were flat, I'd be pleased," he said. "I would chalk that down as a success."


Oil crashed in late 2014 and 2015 before hitting a low of around $26 in February 2016. It has since recovered thanks to supply curbs agreed by OPEC members and some other major producers, such as Russia, a year ago.
In May, the group extended the deal to the end of March 2018.
"OPEC has done something unprecedented by not only working with their own countries, but 24 countries," said the BP (BP) CEO. "It does seem there is cohesion around this... a healthy price above $50 is good for the world."

A recovery in the global economy has also helped.
"There's higher demand than we projected for oil and gasoline globally," Dudley said at an oil conference in Abu Dhabi. "Economic growth around the world is also strong."
Related: India, not China, will lead future demand for energy
Rising tensions in the Middle East have probably added about $5 a barrel to the price of oil, he said.
Rivals Saudi Arabia and Iran are fighting several proxy wars including in Lebanon, Syria and Yemen.

Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen fired a ballistic missile earlier this month aimed at Riyadh's international airport. The missile was intercepted but Saudi Arabia described the attack as an "act of war" by Iran and said it would take "appropriate measures."


The stock has lost 40% of its value this year. GE plunged 8% on Monday, to the lowest level in five and a half years, after the company announced the restructuring and diminished financial targets. The new dividend will be 12 cents a share, down from 24 cents.
GE had been one of the biggest dividend payers in the United States, behind giants like ExxonMobil (XOM), Apple (AAPL) and Microsoft (MSFT).
By cutting the dividend in half, GE will save more than $4 billion per year. That makes it one of the largest dividend cuts in the history of the S&P 500 and the biggest since 2009, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices.
GE made an even bigger dividend cut in 2009, during the Great Recession. But dividend cuts are rare these days. Many companies are increasing them because the U.S. economy is healthy and the stock market is booming.
Related: The incredible shrinking GE is about to get even smaller
The problem for GE is that it's not making enough money to cover its dividend payments. Free cash flow, which measures how much cash is being generated after investing in the business, has deteriorated for six straight years.
Even after the painful dividend cut, about 85% of GE's estimated free cash flow will go toward dividend payments, according to JPMorgan. That's well above rivals like Honeywell (HON) and United Technologies (UTX) and speaks to the seriousness of the cash crunch.
The dividend isn't the only thing getting smaller at GE. The company also unveiled plans to shrink its board of directors from 18 members to a dozen next year. The new board will also include a committee focused on how GE spends its money.
GE has also cut its workforce, which totaled about 295,000 at the end of 2016. GE told investors on Monday that its corporate headcount will be 25% smaller in 2018.
A person familiar with the matter told CNNMoney that about 1,500 jobs were eliminated and the cuts are almost complete. The person said the job cuts focused mostly on corporate functions like GE's global research center and its global growth organization, which promotes international sales.
GE also plans to get rid of $20 billion worth of businesses in the next year or two, including the transportation division, which houses the century-old railroad business that makes locomotives and rail equipment. Among other units on the chopping block, GE reiterated a desire to sell the light bulb business that has symbolized the company for 125 years.
John Flannery, GE's new CEO, said during a presentation that the company is considering "exit options" for Baker Hughes. (BHGE) Baker Hughes is majority-owned by GE and was only formed last year by combining the two companies' oil and gas businesses.
While Flannery said the merger is "going well," he expressed concern over how much the business depends on volatile energy prices.
GE has already gotten rid of its real estate portfolio, its dishwasher and appliance business, and media properties NBC and Universal Studios. More recently, it unloaded its water business and a unit that makes electrical equipment for utilities.
Related: GE is breaking up with the light bulb
All this is part of GE's mission to focus on being a modern industrial company that sells things like jet engines, power plants and MRI machines.
Yet some of GE's core businesses are struggling, especially the power division, which has been hurt as utilities switch to renewable energy like solar.
GE warned it now expects to make just $1 to $1.07 per share next year. That's roughly half of the goal GE had less than a year ago.
Flannery wants to bring more accountability to GE, in part by revamping its pay structure. Under the new plan, about half of senior execs' compensation will come from stock rewards, compared with only 20% now.
"This is our time to reinvent the company," Flannery told employees. "This is our time to show our passion, our fury and our resolve. It's game on."


Related: Trump delivers 'America first' speech at Asia-Pacific economic summit
Brokered on the sidelines of a summit of Pacific nations in Vietnam, the initial accord is "a huge, huge step forward," said Alexander Capri, a senior fellow at National University of Singapore's Business School.
It shows the willingness of countries across Asia and the Americas to move on with broad free trade deals in the face of Trump's "America first" rhetoric, -- of which he delivered a strong dose at the Vietnam summit.
The pursuit of a new-look TPP also highlights the desire of countries like Japan to try to curb China's increasing influence in the region and beyond.
'A large vacuum' in U.S. policy
Trump's withdrawal from TPP left the U.S. with "a large vacuum in its economic diplomacy" in the region, according to Sanchita Basu-Das, a fellow at the ASEAN Studies Centre in Singapore.
Trump has expressed preference for negotiating one-on-one trade agreements with other countries, saying he can ensure a better deal for American workers.
But remaining TPP members like Japan and Vietnam, whom Trump visited on his Asia tour, will be less inclined to do one-on-one trade deals with the U.S. if the new TPP is finalized soon, according to Capri.
"The Trump team basically just wants to pound these guys into submission," he said. "No trade partner of the U.S. wants to do a bilateral with them."
Related: These are the companies behind Trump's $250 billion of China deals
Capri predicts Trump could face pressure at home if U.S. companies start losing business in TPP countries to competitors from places like Canada and Australia.
U.S. could rejoin down the road
The U.S. president made his feelings clear about multilateral trade deals in Vietnam on Friday, saying they "tie our hands, surrender our sovereignty and make meaningful enforcement practically impossible."
But some experts think the U.S. absence from the TPP may only be a temporary one.
"I anticipate that there will be mechanisms available for the U.S. to join at a later stage," said Donald Rothwell, a professor of international law at Australia National University's College of Law.
Related: Trump's trade flashpoints in Asia
It's still not clear, though, when a final deal will be reached on the revised TPP, which is now being called the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Some reports suggested it could happen fast -- in early 2018.
"I'm confident that we will be able to reach an agreement in the not too distant future," Australian Trade Minister Steven Ciobo said Sunday.
The new deal would cut barriers on trade in goods and services between the 11 markets, which make up about 15% of the global economy. It also includes rules on environmental and labor standards.
Importantly, key provisions on e-commerce and cross-border data flows have survived the U.S. pullout and the remaining sticking points appear to be fairly small, according to Capri.
Countering China
Countries like Japan are eager to use the salvaged TPP to counter China's growing sway.
Beijing is increasingly seeking to influence the region, notably through its Belt and Road Initiative that aims to foster greater trade across Asia and Europe through huge investments in things like roads, railways and ports.
"Major Asian powers will continue to seek opportunities to balance against China -- with or without the U.S." tweeted Abraham Denmark, director of the Asia program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center.
And despite Trump's withdrawal from TPP, China won't necessarily find it easy to draw countries fully into its orbit.
Related: China opens up its finance industry to the world
Basu-Das says governments in Southeast Asia are wary, pointing out that Chinese investment often comes with strings attached, like bringing in Chinese workers and materials.
Recent signals from China that it wants to take the lead in globalization "ring hollow," Capri said.
Chinese President Xi Jinping talked up his country as a defender of global trade at Davos in January. But Capri says Beijing's subsidizing of state-owned enterprises and dumping of excess goods in global markets suggest it isn't ready yet to lead by example.


Carriers had to sign contracts in September that locked them into participating next year -- before they knew whether Republicans in Congress would repeal the law or President Trump would upend it by eliminating the individual mandate or cutting funding for a key set of Obamacare subsidies. (Only the final item has come to pass.)
Some 132 insurers will offer policies on the federal exchange next year, down from 167 this year and 237 in 2016. The federal exchange, healthcare.gov, handles enrollment for consumers in 39 states. The remaining states control their own marketplaces.
Insurers are still offering multiple plans in every area, but that array is dwindling too. In 2018, enrollees on the federal exchange will have 25 plans to choose from, on average, down from 30 this year.
The Trump administration and Congressional Republicans have repeatedly pointed to the decrease in insurer participation as a sign that the Affordable Care Act is failing.
Related: Obamacare enrollment soars in first four days
Still, the situation is brighter than it was a few months ago when it looked like tens of thousands of Americans in dozens of counties could have no insurer on their exchange at all. State regulators worked with carriers to alleviate their concerns and convince them to participate, according to a study published this week by researchers at Georgetown's Center on Health Insurance Reforms.
For instance, regulators allowed insurers to raise rates based on the assumption that the funding for the Obamacare subsidies would end. Also, state officials worked with carriers to ensure their networks of doctors and hospitals were adequate enough to meet state standards. For instance, one regulator allowed an insurer to take the unusual step of naming a hospital in a bordering state as a primary site for care.
But many consumers will feel the difference. They may find it harder -- or impossible -- to find a plan that covers their doctors or the prescription drugs they take.
"When there's less competition, it's harder to get a health plan that meets your needs," said Chris Sloan, senior manager at Avalere Health, a consulting firm.
Jane Dingledine, 62, is in this situation. The Coldwater, Ohio, resident could only select policies from Medical Mutual of Ohio, which agreed to cover her county for 2018 after Anthem said earlier this year that it would pull out.
Related: Most Obamacare enrollees could pay less for policies next year
Dingledine will pay only $89 a month for a Medical Mutual bronze plan, rather than the $344 she was paying for her Anthem policy, thanks to more generous premium subsidies. But her deductible is $250 higher, her local doctors aren't in the network and the nearest hospital is nearly an hour drive away.
She'll likely continue to see her doctors, but pay out of pocket, said her husband, Mike, who is on Medicare but helps set up his wife's coverage. That's what she did this year since they also didn't participate in Anthem, which was her only choice for 2017.
"You're cornered," said Mike Dingledine, who has long been opposed to Obamacare. "This is your choice -- take it or leave it."
The lack of competition is one reason why premiums are on the rise. Rates for the benchmark silver plan are jumping 37%, on average, for 2018, though most enrollees will be shielded from the increase by premium subsidies.
Related: 5 changes for Obamacare open enrollment for 2018
The dearth of choices may contribute to fewer people signing up for Obamacare plans for 2018, Sloan said. This is especially if they have to switch insurers and don't like the providers and benefits offered by the new carrier or if they don't qualify for premium subsidies and have to pay much higher rates.
The dwindling number of insurers is one of the biggest concerns about Obamacare's long-term health. The actions state regulators took this year to entice insurer participation may not work in the future.
"There is strong consensus among state regulators and insurers in the [six states that were studied] that the solutions used to prevent bare counties in 2018, varied as they were, are temporary and unsustainable without long-term federal action," the researchers wrote.


More changes could be announced later Monday: The Wall Street Journal reports that Flannery will detail plans to focus on the company's three biggest business lines -- aviation, power and health care.
That means the conglomerate could be looking to exit its other businesses, including lighting and diesel trains.
2. More trouble for May: The British pound was 0.5% lower against the dollar after a turbulent weekend for Prime Minister Theresa May.
May, who leads an already fragile government, is under increased pressure after two ministers left her cabinet. She reportedly also faces a rebellion from other cabinet members over her plans for Brexit.
Another problem: The Sunday Times reported that as many as 40 members of parliament have agreed to sign a letter of no confidence in the prime minister.
The pound was trading just above $1.30, or 13% below the its position ahead of the Brexit referendum in June 2016.
3. Oil in focus: Oil ministers from major energy producers are meeting this week at the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference.
OPEC and its allies agreed large scale production cuts a year ago, in order to get rid of the world's oil glut and support prices. They have extended the agreement until March 2018.
The question now is whether the cuts will be extended even further.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were up.
European markets opened higher, while markets in Asia finishing the session mixed.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed 0.2% lower on Friday, pushing its loss for the week to 0.5%. The index had posted gains in each of the eight previous weeks.
The S&P 500 shed 0.1% and the Nasdaq closed flat.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Company news: Mattel (MAT) was up more than 20% in extended trading following reports that rival Hasbro (HAS) had offered to buy the company.
Shares in British defense contractor Ultra Electronics dropped as much as 23% after the company's CEO stepped down.
French energy firm EDF dropped 6% in Paris after cutting its profit forecast.
Tyson Foods (TSN) is set to release its earnings before the U.S. open, while Famous Dave's (DAVE) will follow after the close.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- GE hosts key meeting Tuesday -- Home Depot, TJX earnings, Japan and Germany report GDP  Wednesday -- Target, Cisco (CSCO), L Brands earnings; U.S. retail sales for October; U.K. unemployment data Thursday -- Best Buy, Walmart, Gap, Viacom (VIA) earnings  Friday -- Abercrombie & Fitch earnings


One strategy that plane makers employ to boost sales is using overseas manufacturing to gain market access with local airlines. Europe's Airbus, for example, opened final assembly lines for its A320 jets in China and the U.S. to produce planes specifically to attract airlines in both countries.
The UAE is home to two of the world's biggest carriers, Emirates and Etihad, as well as several smaller ones.
Related: China and Russia are coming for Boeing and Airbus
The MC-21, the first Russian-made airliner of its size since the fall of the Soviet Union, is backed at the highest levels of the Russian government. President Vladimir Putin has pushed for Rostec and state-owned United Aircraft Corporation (UAC) to increase sales of the plane to both Russian and foreign airlines.
Rostec said it held talks about the potential joint production of the plane with Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahyan, the powerful crown prince of Abu Dhabi.

The UAE has been eager to expand its aerospace industry into manufacturing. Companies based in the country already produce some parts for Boeing and Airbus jets.
A Rostec spokesperson said it was too early to say what joint production would mean in practice. It could entail anything from assembly of completed MC-21 jetliners in the UAE to manufacturing components for jets that will be produced in Russia.
"Specific parameters will be determined during [the] negotiation process," the spokesperson said.
Russia is increasingly open to cross-border partnerships to expand its aerospace industry. UAC has teamed up with China's Comac to design and produce a new long range twin-aisle airliner, but that plane's not expected to be ready for at least another eight to 10 years.
Related: The world's new planes in 2017
The aircraft Rostec and UAC may build in the UAE would be based on the largest version, the MC-21-400, that seats up to 250 passengers and competes directly with the biggest single-aisle jets from Boeing and Airbus.
A smaller version, the MC-21-300, has been carrying out early flight trials since May.
Many MC-21 parts comes from Western suppliers: Its engines, for example, are made by Connecticut-based Pratt & Whitney. But final assembly of the aircraft is completed in the Siberian city of Irkutsk.
Russian aircraft company Sukhoi, which is also a unit of UAC, partnered for a time with Italy's biggest aerospace company to install interiors of its new Superjet regional airliner in Venice for European customers.


Mnuchin said that assessment is based on "hundreds if not thousands" of tests the Treasury has run on the bills.
Mnuchin's comments came after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell walked back his claim that "nobody in the middle class is going to get a tax increase" under the Senate's version of the reform plan.
On Friday, McConnell told the New York Times that he "misspoke."
McConnell to NYT: I 'misspoke' on tax increase for middle class in Senate plan
Mnuchin also defended the tax plan from critics, including Larry Summers, the Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton. Summers called Mnuchin's tax cut estimates "irresponsible."
Mnuchin on Sunday called those comments "unfortunate."
"There are lots and lots of economists that come out and support our claims," he said. "We've been completely transparent. Different models will show different things."
Mnuchin added that a middle-class tax hike is not what Trump wants. He said lawmakers will "fine tune" the plan before it heads to Trump for a signature.
Tapper also asked Mnuchin about Trump's claim that the tax reform bill will bring "the largest tax cuts in the history of this country."
"We've tried to find a way that this is true, but it's not," Tapper said, pointing to research that shows the tax break would rank, at most, as the 3rd largest in American history.
Mnuchin qualified the president's statement, saying, "This will be the largest change since President Reagan."
He also singled out the proposal to slice the corporate tax rate from 35% to 20%.
"If that's not the biggest tax cut to make our businesses competitive, what is?" Mnuchin said.


GE confirmed in a statement on Friday that "employee reductions," some of which have already begun, are part of a previously-announced plan to cut costs by $3 billion.
After GE reported awful results last month, Flannery said the dividend remains a "priority," but he didn't rule out a reduction.
The problem is GE isn't generating enough cash to cover dividend payouts promised to shareholders. It's a stunning development given GE's iconic status and a sprawling business that makes everything from jet engines and light bulbs to MRI machines.
GE is one of America's most widely-held stocks, making a decision to cut the dividend even tougher. Countless shareholders, including retirees, have come to rely on the quarterly dividend payments.
"Retail investors have stuck with GE through many, many years of underperformance simply because they've counted on that dividend," said John Inch, a Deutsche Bank analyst with a "sell" rating on GE.
"If you cut that dividend, all of a sudden that confidence is shaken," Inch said.
GE says it's been paying its dividend for more than a century, "proving its strength and reliability." The first dividend cut occurred in 1938 in the midst of the Great Depression.
The company also cut its dividend in 2009 during the Great Recession. But unlike those times, such moves are rare right now. Many companies are ramping up their dividends because the U.S. economy is healthy and the stock market is booming.
2. Movement on tax reform: The GOP tax plan is marching along.
Senate Republicans unveiled the contents of their tax reform bill on Thursday, a week after their House colleagues released their own legislation. The House legislation also cleared the Ways & Means Committee.
Compass Point Research, an investment and research firm, predicts that the House will consider and may pass the GOP tax plan next week.
It's no surprise that things are moving quickly. Republicans in the House and Senate have vowed to present President Trump with a plan before the end of the year.
For businesses, there are a few key differences between the House and the Senate's version of the bill, including when a corporate tax cut would take effect and how pass-through business income is taxed. The National Federation of Independent Business, which came out against the House's plan, said it was "very encouraged" by the Senate's revisions.
Of course, much work remains: The House and Senate bills' differences have to be reconciled and Republicans hold only a razor-thin lead in the Senate.
3. U.K. unemployment remains low: The U.K. Office for National Statistics will reveal its latest employment figures on Wednesday. Despite Brexit fears, unemployment in Britain is very low.
In the spring, British unemployment hit its lowest point in 42 years. Since then, it has moved even lower, holding steady at around 4.3% in recent months.
But low unemployment doesn't necessarily mean all is well in the U.K. According to the latest data, average weekly earnings fell by 0.4% without bonuses, when adjusting for inflation, compared to the same period last year. And at the start of the year, banks began planning an exit strategy from their London offices -- suggesting that the city's days as a financial hub may be numbered.
4. Retail's bright spots: Retailers will continue revealing their financial results next week.
On deck are some of the industry's strongest performers. Shares of Home Depot (HD), which is set to report on Tuesday, have spiked by more than 20% this year. Best Buy (BBY) and Walmart (WMT), both set to report on Wednesday, have each soared by more than 30% this year. Their success marks a bright spot in the dismal retail landscape.
Some struggling retailers are also set to report next week. Target (TGT), L Brands (LB), Gap (GPS), Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) and TJX (TJX) are more representative of the retail industry -- they have painted a much more pessimistic picture.
5. Will oil continue to rally? Oil prices have been rising for five weeks straight, and they recently hit a two-year high. A few events next week could determine whether that rally continues.
Oil ministers will meet at the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference on Monday through Thursday, and OPEC will release its next monthly oil report on Monday. On Tuesday, the International Energy Agency will reveal its World Energy Outlook. Taken together, these reports will offer clues into projections for both supply and demand for oil.
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- GE hosts key meeting
Tuesday -- Home Depot, TJX earnings
Wednesday -- Target, Cisco (CSCO), L Brands earnings; U.S. retail sales for October; U.K. unemployment
Thursday -- Best Buy, Walmart, Gap, Viacom (VIA) earnings
Friday -- Abercrombie & Fitch earnings


That's because the trio of super-carriers that dominate the region -- Emirates airline, Qatar Airways and Etihad Airways -- have run into struggles after years of rapid growth that could affect purchasing decisions.
Qatar Airways, which has more pending orders for Airbus A350s than any other airline, won't be making the trip at all because the U.A.E. cut diplomatic and transport links with Qatar.
Emirates, which took its 100th double-deck Airbus A380 airliner last week, is expected by some to purchase dozens more jumbo jets. But after slashing 3,000 positions to help its first half profits, there's no certainty.
Plus, the ability to order jetliners is significantly different from a carrier's ability to actually take delivery once they're built years from now. That will depend on the fortunes of a region that's seen a significant slowdown in traffic growth, according to Bernstein Research.
The region's airlines are "managing a slow-moving reckoning," said Richard Aboulafia, vice president of analysis at The Teal Group aerospace consultancy.
Companies like Boeing, Airbus, Embraer and Bombardier may use the opportunity to look beyond the Middle East to Indian carriers and those in north and east Africa that may produce orders.
Global effect
In years past jetliners like the A380 and Boeing 777X have been the prime focus of the show, but a smaller appetite from Middle East airlines means potentially big business for defense companies. This year "in the short term it's military, military, military," said Aboulafia, who expects drone and surveillance aircraft to feature heavily at the show.
The region is a crossroads for defense business. U.S., European, Russian and Chinese companies and governments compete to get their hardware into the region's various militaries.
"You can never have too many sources [of military hardware] because you never want to be cut off," he said. Egypt, for example, is buying Russian-made MiG-29s and French Rafale fighter jets after decades of U.S. aircraft purchases.
Russia's state-owned defense firm plans to bring its ultra-manueverable Sukhoi Su-35. An appearance by the U.S. Air Force's F-22 stealth fighter is also planned.
While much of the Dubai Air Show focuses on moving soldiers or passengers around the region - Dubai also wants to be a leader in future air taxis, and has signed up with Uber's Elevate program as one of its key test cities.
Despite those broader regional concerns, Dubai, a city-state where aviation accounts for 27% of its GDP and which boasts the busiest international airport in the world, has cemented itself on the world's stage.
Standing up Dubai with a strategy of "if you build it they will come...they've more or less passed that with flying colors," said Aboulafia.


A group of companies that make up the global supply chain for banknotes and coins came together last year to form the International Currency Association. Its membership, which costs $35,000 per year for larger companies, includes companies that make the paper for bills, the inks and holograms that are printed onto it, the machines for handling cash, and the machines for destroying it.
Its mission, its website says, is "to provide a powerful and cohesive voice to keep currency a preferred payment choice."
Crane Currency, the main supplier of paper for U.S. banknotes, joined in solidarity with more than two dozen companies from across the globe. "It's not really in our daily business DNA to go this route," said Tod Niedeck, Crane's corporate marketing director. "We would be a little irresponsible to not be part of ICA."
Cash production isn't in trouble, exactly. Despite the increasing use of digital payments, the value of currency held by the public has actually been rising as a percentage of gross domestic product in the U.S. and Europe since the 1980s -- and particularly quickly in the past decade.
According to a 2015 survey by the Federal Reserve, Americans had an average of $59 in cash at any given time, up from $54 three years earlier.
For that reason, the U.K.-based International Currency Association's director general Guillaume Lepecq said that they're operating from a position of strength — just keeping an eye on the competition.
"There's a whole industry of people who are wanting to capture part of the market share of cash, because they make a profitable business out of it," Lepecq said.
Companies like Visa (V) and MasterCard (MA), for example, have large public relations operations dedicated to putting out white papers casting cash as backward and digital payments as the future.
Why is cash still king?
The reasons for the enduring popularity of bills are not well understood, even by people who study the industry.
"If consumers are using alternative forms of payment, why is there still this growing demand for cash?" says Eugenie Foster, executive director of the International Association of Currency Affairs, which includes both central banks and currency producers.
Foster theorizes that the drive toward automation at banks may have created a greater need for cash, because more ATMs and self-storage cash vaults used by businesses and individuals mean more bills sitting in more locations.
Others have postulated that the public is storing more savings in cash following the great recession because of a lack of confidence in the banking system and the security of electronic deposits. In addition, low interest rates have also created little incentive to put cash in banks and tourists in particular tend to carry cash to avoid international credit card fees while traveling abroad.
But one explanation for cash's popularity is also a reason some say it should be made obsolete: Much of the paper money out there is at work in the underground economy.
Harvard economist Kenneth Rogoff published a book last year making the case that $100 bills are now largely used for tax evasion, money laundering and bribery.
"The demand in the legal economy is fading, but governments are continuing to print cash," Rogoff said.
For that reason, some governments have been pulling back. Sweden banned physical currency as a means of paying for public transit years ago. Last year, India abruptly canceled its two highest-denomination notes in an effort to combat corruption. Spain and France have imposed 1,000-euro limits on cash transactions in the name of fighting terrorism.
The ICA strongly objects to these moves, arguing that digital payments are just as likely to be used for illicit purposes.
"Evidence shows that the terrorists essentially used anonymous prepaid cards to move money around," Lepecq said. "So we think that's a totally false argument. We're not very happy with those restrictions."
Related: Americans see jobs aplenty. Good wages? Not so much
Through a new website, cashmatters.org, the association also makes the case for why governments should keep cash in circulation: It's useful to have when the power goes out, for example, like it has in Puerto Rico. Plus, the 7% of Americans who don't have bank accounts depend on cash to get by.
Meanwhile, the global cash industry is scrambling to come up with ways to make using currency cheaper and more seamless.
"If we're not efficient, then yes, the usage of cashless forms of payment become more attractive," said Sim Bielak, the chief marketing officer of Suzohapp. The Illinois-based company makes machines that recycle cash, check out grocery customers and run coin-operated laundries, among other things.
And why don't these companies just go into the business of digital payments themselves?
"The cashless hardware business is very commoditized," said Bielak. "It's a very difficult business to make money."


"There can be no distraction that alters the commitment to repair the power grid as quickly as possible," Rossello said in a statement.
The Whitefish contract is the largest to be awarded since recovery efforts began over a month ago. Several lawmakers on Capitol Hill are calling for reviews of how Whitefish, a small firm with only two employees at the time Hurricane Maria hit, was chosen over bigger, more established utilities by PREPA. On Monday, it was reported that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had opened a preliminary review of the contract, according to a source familiar with the matter.
Related: How Whitefish landed Puerto Rico's $300 million power contract
A number of concerns have also been raised, including whether there was any political influence that resulted in Whitefish winning the deal and if PREPA took the appropriate steps in awarding the deal.
PREPA's Ramos said the state-run utility would work toward canceling the contract and would appoint a trustee to oversee the hiring of any new contractors.
Whitefish has expressed disappointment over the latest step. "The decision will only delay what the people of Puerto Rico want and deserve," the company said in a statement.
Still, about 70% of the island is living without power and now there is even more uncertainty about when all the lights will go back on.
Here are some of the questions that remain:
1. Did PREPA do anything wrong by awarding the contract to Whitefish?
The jury is still out.
There are several ongoing reviews looking into how PREPA went about choosing the utility company over other potential candidates. So far, no wrongdoing has been discovered.
Government agencies usually will make a public request for help on a particular job. Often, they will receive multiple offers and the agency reviews and accepts the best, lowest cost bid.
Related: FBI opens inquiry into Whitefish's Puerto Rico contract
But Puerto Rico's governor told CNN last week that PREPA triggered an "emergency protocol" to start rebuilding its electrical grid on the island immediately after the hurricane hit. The governor did not elaborate on what that protocol entailed.
Both the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Emergency Management Agency have said they did not sign off on the Whitefish contract, according to spokespersons for both agencies.
On Tuesday, FEMA administrator Brock Long told members of a Senate panel the agency would never have signed off on the deal.
After the controversy surrounding the contract emerged, the governor instructed Puerto Rico's Office of Management and Budget to conduct an audit of the Whitefish deal.
The governor's office said it has since escalated the review by requesting a "detailed and in-depth investigation" of PREPA's emergency procurement process by Puerto Rico's comptroller.
Results of the audit were expected last Friday, but have yet to be released.
Without learning the full details of the audit, Rossello called upon PREPA to cancel the Whitefish deal over the weekend. The governor's office has made it clear the request in no way demonstrates any wrongdoing thus far.
2. Has Whitefish already stopped work on the island?
No, not yet. The embattled utility company is still pressing ahead with its work.
Whitefish spokesman Chris Chiames told CNN the firm's work won't stop immediately per the terms of its contract with PREPA.
PREPA's Ramos said earlier this week the contract requires 30 days notice before cancellation, and that the state-owned utility wanted Whitefish to "finish what they started."
Related: Relief groups hit major hurdles getting aid to Puerto Rico
So far, Whitefish said it has completed "significant work" on two major transmissions lines that crossed over mountains and it has done some critical work in some remote parts of Puerto Rico that were only accessible by helicopter and heavy equipment.
Its efforts, the company said, have helped restore power to hospitals, businesses and residents of Manati and soon enough 500,000 people in the city of San Juan.
Whitefish said it plans to continue fixing transmission lines into San Juan. It also plans to bring an additional 150 lineman to the island this week -- bringing the total to 500 workers.
"The original decision by PREPA to have Whitefish Energy come to the Puerto Rico only sped up the repairs, and if it were not for that action, crews would just now be getting to the island to begin the process of rebuilding the system and restoring power," according to a Whitefish statement Sunday.
3. What happens after Whitefish is gone?
With Whitefish on its way out, Puerto Rico's governor said he has turned to governors in New York and Florida for help in the recovery effort as part of the mutual aid network among public utilities.
On Sunday, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo posted on Twitter the state would deploy "additional utility crews and equipment to restore power in Puerto Rico."
New York is deploying additional utility crews and equipment to help restore power in Puerto Rico.
"There was no reason for this to take 36 days," Cuomo told CNN's Fredericka Whitfield on Sunday. "it's just frankly, because they didn't get the attention and I think we treat Puerto Ricans like second-class Americans."
Florida Governor Rick Scott on Monday said he would lead a delegation of Florida utility providers to Puerto Rico later this week.
4. What other steps can Puerto RIco take to get the power up and running?
On Tuesday, PREPA formally requested to tap the mutual aid network that provides help to other utilities during widespread power outages.
PREPA's Ramos sent a letter to the American Public Power Association and the Edison Electric Institute requesting  additional resources for the island.
The state-run utility could have requested aid through this network right after the hurricane hit. But Ramos said he didn't because the closest states to Puerto Rico were already dealing with their own rebuilding efforts after hurricanes Harvey and Irma. He said he believed they would not be able to respond quickly to the island's needs.
The bankrupt utility, which is struggling with nearly $9 billion in debt, also couldn't afford to cover the costs of utilizing the network either, he said.
Carlos Mercader, director of Puerto Rico Governor's office in Washington, told CNN utilizing the network would be a "different situation" than before since the governor himself is asking for help.
One option would be for PREPA to rehire Whitefish subcontractors so they may continue doing the work to restore power and meet the governor's goal to restore nearly a 100% of power by the end of the year.
Related: San Juan's mayor takes on small Montana firm over Puerto Rico power contract
Mercader said the priority now is to transition away from Whitefish, while obtaining more resources to help with restoring power on the island.
Rossello set a goal of having over 1,000 brigades in Puerto Rico by Nov. 8. So far, only 404 crews have arrived. Of those, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has only sent seven, according to Rossello.
Rossello said his announcement on Sunday was intended to reaffirm Puerto Rico's "commitment to transparency in the contracting process... and to achieve the highest degree of efficiency possible in the restoration of the power grid of our island, in the shortest amount of time possible."
--CNN's Rene Marsh and Greg Wallace contributed to this report.

While cereal is still king of the breakfast world, frozen foods are having a moment -- especially frozen sandwiches and pizzas.
The global frozen food industry as a whole is expected to bring in $360 billion by 2024, according to a new report by Grand View Research.
Healthy frozen offerings are doing particularly well, says Darren Seifer, a retail analyst at research firm NPD Group.
"Consumers have always demanded speed. They're also demanding more protein. That's been a huge driver of frozen breakfast sandwiches," Seifer adds.
Kellogg is capitalizing on that trend with its Morningstar Farms brand, which offers meat-free takes on classic breakfast staples such as the sausage, egg and cheese.
Related: Trix cereal is bringing back artificial flavors
This may all seem like great news for Kellogg's new CEO Steven Cahillane, who took over earlier this month. But there's cause for concern.
The company's breakfast division -- which still relies heavily on sugary staples such as Frosted Flakes and Pop-Tarts -- sunk 3% last quarter compared to the same time last year. Kellogg's stock is down nearly 16% overall this year.
Kellogg also suffered a PR blowup earlier this month after a consumer complained that the art on its Corn Pops cereal boxes was racist.
Still, Kellogg's breakfast division isn't exactly dried up. It makes up 22% of the company's $13 billion in annual sales, slightly less than its snack division, which makes Keebler, Cheez-Its and Pringles.
Related: Kellogg isn't giving up on sugary cereal just yet
Kellogg (K) is even rolling out a new breakfast cereal in November: Chocolate Frosted Flakes.
Kellogg hopes the chocolate flavor will make up for the fact that Kashi -- the black sheep of Kellogg's cereal offerings -- continues to slip. Kellogg has badly mismanaged the brand, overexpanding and failing to ward off an increasing number of competitors.
To also attract more health-conscious consumers, Kellogg is investing in the lucrative snack business.
In one of his first big moves as CEO, Cahillane announced plans to purchase America's fastest-growing nutrition bar company, RXBar.
But for now, investors are embracing what Americans have always known: There's nothing quite like a good breakfast sandwich.


Exxon also agreed to pay a $2.5 million civil penalty to the EPA.
"This settlement means cleaner air for communities across Texas and Louisiana, and reinforces the EPA's commitment to enforce the law and hold those who violate it accountable," EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said.
Exxon said in a statement that the agreement will "help improve flare efficiency at these chemical facilities, which are among the largest petrochemical complexes in the world."
One climate change group said the deal amounted to a "slap on the wrist."
"These mild fines are tiny compared to the colossal wealth of fossil fuel elites, and will only embolden Exxon," said Lindsay Meiman of environmental activist organization 350.org.
Exxon has been battling charges in recent months that it downplayed the threat of global warming.
In August, a Harvard study concluded Exxon "misled the public" on climate change for nearly four decades. Last month, San Francisco and Oakland filed lawsuits demanding that Exxon and top oil companies pay billions to cover damages from climate change.
Exxon (XOM) did not directly address climate change criticism, but the company said it "complies with environmental laws, regulations and permits."


California marijuana consumers are going to have to pay a combination of state and local taxes that vary by municipality. Growers and sellers have their own taxes, too.
Consumers will pay a sales tax ranging from 22.25% to 24.25%, which includes the state excise tax of 15%, and additional state and local sales taxes ranging from 7.25% to 9.25%.
Local businesses will have to pay a tax ranging from 1% to 20% of gross receipts, or $1 to $50 per square foot of marijuana plants, according to the Fitch report.
In addition, farmers will be taxed $9.25 per ounce for flower, and $2.75 per ounce for leaves.
The Fitch report says this combination of state and local taxes for consumers, retailers and growers could keep portions of California's cannabis industry off the grid, where it has flourished for some time.
"California's black markets for cannabis were well established long before its voters legalized cannabis in November 2016 and are expected to dominate post-legalization production," said the Fitch report.
Among the eight states where recreational marijuana is legal, only Washington has a higher tax rate at about 50%.
Colorado and Nevada both follow with rates of 36%. Oregon has a tax rate of 20% and Alaska has a rate of up to 20%.
Medical marijuana has been legal in California since 1996, but the retail markets for recreational marijuana are just now ramping up and are scheduled to begin on New Year's Day.
Retail: Corona beer company is investing in Canadian cannabis
Black market farmers already face considerable obstacles to becoming compliant with state law, even without the taxes.
Van Bustic, a specialist in the environmental impact of cannabis cultivation for Berkeley's College of Natural Resources, said that registering with the state and becoming compliant will cost about $100,000. He said that many Humboldt farmers are unlikely to shoulder that cost if they can continue to operate in the dark.
The Fitch report says the black market could prove to be a "formidable competitor" to legal weed, if taxes push prices significantly higher than illegal, tax-free pot.
Other analysts agree that high taxes could actually be a boon to the black market.
"If taxes increase the price of cannabis beyond a certain point, the legal market becomes less competitive than the illicit market and then consumers become less likely to make the transition from the illicit market to the legal market," said John Kagia, analyst for New Frontier Data, which tracks the cannabis industry.
The Fitch report says this dynamic has already prompted Colorado, Washington and Oregon to lower their "initially uncompetitive" tax rates.
"It's almost certain that all of the states with recreational marijuana still struggle with the black market for marijuana because of its prevalence before legalization," said Morgan Scarboro, a policy analyst for the Tax Foundation's Center for State Tax Policy.
She said that high tax rates "will prevent the minimization of the black market" and that state governments "need to be open to evaluating their marijuana tax structures."
Related: Retail weed is spreading to California, Massachusetts, Maine
Colorado, Washington and Oregon have tried various tax structures, with mixed results, according to Kagia.
Oregon started in 2015 with a weight-based sales tax of $35 per ounce but changed that to a percentage sales tax of 20%.
Colorado got rid of a 2.9% sales tax but rose its excise tax from 10% to 15%, effectively raising its tax rate.
Washington started out with a 25% tax rate on producers and another 25% on processors, in addition to a 25% sales tax. Officials changed that to a 37% flat sales tax for cannabis that's in addition to standard state and local sales taxes.
"The only state that we know of that has undertaken a radical tax transformation is Washington," said Kagia, but he added that Washington still has the highest cannabis sales tax in the country.
Of the eight states where recreational marijuana is legal, three, including California, haven't yet started retail markets.
Massachusetts is expected to have a tax rate of 24% when it starts up its retail market in July of 2018, according to the Fitch report.
Maine has not yet established its tax rate.


Consumer confidence, as measured by the Conference Board, climbed in October to 125.9 -- the best level of the recovery from the Great Recession. Confidence hasn't been this high since December 2000.
"Consumer confidence is going straight up along with the stock market," Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank, wrote in a report on Tuesday.
Spending intentions were a bit mixed, with one glaring exception: travel plans. The percentage of Americans plotting vacations spiked by more than 11 percentage points to 63.5%.
To put that in context, in April 2009 just one-third of consumers said they planned to take a vacation. That was during the Great Recession and the U.S. unemployment rate was sitting at nearly 9%.
Almost half of those surveyed this month said they plan to travel in the U.S, while another 14.5% said they would go abroad.
All this travel talk is terrific news for travel companies like Expedia (EXPE) and TripAdvisor (TRIP) as well as hotel chains and cruise operators. Other winners include airlines and car rental services: Just over one-quarter of Americans plan to fly, while almost one-third will drive.
Related: Is now really the time for massive tax cuts?
Of course, not all Americans feel good enough to travel right now.
Those making $25,000 to $34,999 have a confidence score of 105.9, which is down from September and roughly even with after the election. Compare that with the increasingly euphoric confidence levels of 160.9 for those with household income of $125,000 or more.
"The advancing tide is not lifting all the boats," Rupkey said, adding that it's a "tale of two Americas."
Millennials (under 35) also registered the lowest confidence since February and remain less upbeat than those 35-54.
The key for the economy is whether soaring consumer sentiment translates to actual spending this fall. Sometimes consumers say they feel good, but don't open their wallets more. For instance, consumer spending slowed during the third quarter despite strong confidence.
However, Andrew Hunter, U.S. economist at Capital Economics, predicted in a report that confident Americans are likely to accelerate their spending during the final three months of the year.
If anything, Hunter argued that consumer sentiment is "starting to look increasingly overdone."
While extremely high confidence may sound like a good thing, in the past it has signaled the economy and stock market had reached a peak.


Modi's government took advantage of the World Bank announcement to defend its policies.
"I remember in the very first year, the prime minister had said our target should be to take India into the [top] 50, I believe this is doable," Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said at a press conference Tuesday. "There's huge scope for us to now jump from this position of 100."
Sadanand Dhume, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington D.C., said the World Bank's ranking tells only part of the story but the improvement in India's position was "undeniably positive news."
"This is the first time that India has climbed so dramatically in the ease of doing business rankings and it sends a message to international investors that the government is committed to slashing India's notorious red tape and rolling out the red carpet for them," Dhume said.
The World Bank also named India as one of the top 10 countries in reforming its business environment, recognizing its strengthened protections for minority investors and progress in digitization.
"Today's result is a very clear signal from India to the rest of the world, not only is the country open and ready for business, it's now competing as a preferred place to do business," said Annette Dixon, the World Bank's vice president, South Asia Region.
A slowing economy
But the Ease of Doing Business index presents only a partial snapshot of what's happening on the ground.
In the last 12 months, Modi's government carried out two huge reforms which political rivals have described as torpedoes: The first, a cash ban that replaced India's highest denomination notes; the second, a national tax system that replaced more than a dozen state and central taxes.
Following the changes, India's growth slowed to 5.7% in the first half of 2017, its weakest rate in three years. India's central bank has slashed its growth forecast for the current fiscal year to 6.7% from 7.3%.
And researchers estimate that the economy lost two million jobs between January and August this year.
A tale of two cities
The survey is conducted across major cities in 190 countries around the world. In most countries, it focuses on only one city per country. In larger countries, it looks at two.
In India's case, it covers Delhi, the capital, and Mumbai, the leading financial center. That leaves out vast swathes of the country of 1.3 billion people, and some major business locations such as Bangalore and Hyderabad.
Another criticism is that countries get credit for passing laws, even if they haven't been widely implemented yet.
A new law mandating speedier resolution of bankruptcy cases, for example, has "really not been tested in the courts," said Pratik Dattani, managing director at Economic Policy Group. "On paper this is exactly the right direction to travel."
Moving further ahead in the rankings will require changes in business culture, he said.
"Getting from 100 to 90 or 80 or 70, that's much, much harder."


So they are all even outperforming the red hot Nasdaq, which has gained 25% so far this year.
In fact, all five stocks are trading either at or very close to their all-time highs. Apple is now worth a staggering $870 billion. The stock has to go up just 15% more for Apple to top a trillion dollars in market value.
In fact, these five tech titans each sport market caps in excess of half a trillion dollars. Apple, Alphabet, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook are collectively worth nearly $3.3 trillion. That's up from a combined valuation of about $2.2 trillion just two years ago.
The stocks are surging even as legal executives from Facebook and Google as well as Twitter (TWTR) get set to testify in front of Congress about how Russia used ads, posts and videos on these sites to try and influence last year's presidential election.
Related: Facebook estimates 126 million Americans were served Russia-linked content
Wall Street has largely brushed aside concerns about Russia's social media moves and what that might mean for the future of Facebook and Google's YouTube. Both companies continue to dominate the online and mobile advertising world after all.
Investors don't seem too concerned about other company-specific issues facing some of the Fab Five of tech either.
Apple fans, for example, are focusing more on the apparently strong demand for the iPhone X and less on the reportedly lackluster sales for the iPhone 8 as well as general concerns that Apple is way too reliant on the iPhone for its sales and profits.
And Amazon investors continue to brush aside worries that it may be stretching itself too thin as it pushes deeper into brick and mortar retail with Whole Foods and physical Amazon stores and may be looking to do more in the world of health care too.
But if these five keep posting huge profits from their core businesses and big growth from emerging areas, such as the cloud for Amazon and Microsoft and virtual and augmented reality for Facebook, Google and Apple, then the sky may be the limit for them.


That framework called for fewer tax brackets for individuals, an expanded standard deduction and child tax credit, a repeal of the Alternative Minimum Tax and estate tax, and a repeal of most itemized deductions.
It also called on lawmakers to preserve tax breaks for mortgage interest, charitable contributions and retirement savings, although it didn't say those breaks couldn't be altered.
On the business side, the framework proposed lower tax rates on corporations and all other businesses, which are known as pass-throughs. It also proposed a low, one-time tax rate on existing overseas profits to entice companies to bring that money home.
Who gets helped, when, and at what cost
The fight over each detail will come down to a few central questions: Who's helped, who's hurt, and at what cost? The middle class or the rich? Businesses or workers? One industry versus another? Certain states over others?
Based on some of the fireworks so far, it will be interesting to see how the House bill handles:
Real estate tax breaks: Brady said this weekend that his bill would still let people claim a deduction for their property taxes. That was a concession to colleagues from high-tax states who wanted to keep the deduction for state and local taxes, which Republicans have proposed repealing in full.
But the opponents of repeal weren't entirely appeased. Brady told reporters on Monday that there could be further tweaks.
The real estate industry is also worried that the Republican tax framework reduces tax incentives for homeownership. For instance, doubling the standard deduction would drastically reduce the number of filers who itemize. That means the mortgage interest deduction would be taken by far fewer people.
A big player in the housing industry, the National Association of Home Builders, has already come out against the House bill, before it's even been released. The group is displeased that lawmakers haven't adopted its proposed homeownership credit to cover both mortgage interest and property taxes.
The 401(k) tax break: Another big player -- President Trump -- expressed displeasure last week at a provision House Republicans were said to be considering: lowering the cap on how much pretax money workers may contribute to a 401(k).
From CNN: GOP vow Mueller investigation won't derail tax reform
Brady suggested publicly the idea might still be on the table. And on Monday, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy seemed to indicate on Fox Business that House Republicans will consider "Rothifying" 401(k) contributions above a lower cap. That is, your contributions above the new cap would be made after-tax, as they are in a Roth IRA, but your gains and withdrawals would be tax-free. In other words, if lawmakers opt to "Rothify" 401(k)s, you would get no immediate tax break for saving money above the cap.
The corporate tax rate cut: The GOP framework calls for a permanent reduction in the corporate rate to 20% from 35%. But that would be expensive, reducing revenue to the government by up to $2 trillion in the first decade and up to $3 trillion in the second, according to Tax Policy Center estimates.
So it's not clear whether House Republicans might propose something higher than a 20% rate or propose a 20% rate but make it temporary.
The costs: The House and Senate budget resolution allows for a tax bill that reduces overall federal revenue by $1.5 trillion over 10 years. But the tax cuts Republicans want cost far more than that.
So they need to find plenty of so-called offsets to pay for them. They also hope to get a good "score" on how much their bill would help the economy, which can help offset the cost, too, at least on paper.
And they need to show that the bill primarily provides middle-class tax relief.
So legislators must make decisions within those parameters. But Brady has already said he won't release cost estimates of the tax bill, or an analysis of how it would affect filers at different income levels, until next week, when his committee meets to debate the bill.
And what's known as the dynamic score -- measuring the economic growth potential -- won't be provided until after the Ways and Means Committee approves the bill.
For legislators and the public, that's "like learning the price of your plane ticket after you arrive at the airport," Martin Sullivan, chief economist at Tax Analysts, said in a blog post.
Normally, Sullivan noted, "when committees mark up legislation ... everybody has a dog-eared, coffee-stained copy of the Joint Committee on Taxation's revenue estimates in front of them."
Since no one likes a vacuum, outside groups may put out estimates of their own, causing even more fur to fly as lawmakers rush to reshape a tax code that affects 100% of the economy.
--An earlier version of this story incorrectly said that cutting the corporate rate to 20% would cost the government up to $3 trillion in revenue in the first decade. That figure is for the second decade. CNN's Ashley Killough and Lauren Fox contributed to this report.


"It was a lot more resilient than expected," says Alberto Ramos, head of Latin America research at Goldman Sachs. "That doesn't mean the economy is out of the woods though."
On Tuesday, Mexico's statistics agency said the economy grew 1.7% between July and September at an annual rate. A devastating earthquake in September that killed over 300 people likely held back growth, economists say.
No doubt, other major challenges lie ahead for the Mexican economy, including a presidential election next July and the ongoing renegotiation of NAFTA, the three nation trade pact between Canada, the United States and Mexico. But its progress this year defied major threats from Washington.
During and after his campaign, Trump threatened to slap tariffs on products made in Mexico. About 80% of Mexican exports go the U.S., making trade a key ingredient to its economy.

Related: Mexico loses tuna trade battle to the Trump administration
Even today, Trump threatens to pull out of NAFTA. Exiting it would carry consequences for Mexico, Canada and the United States, but many experts say Mexico would get hit hardest.
Still, Mexico's economy is moving forward. The peso is up 7% against the dollar this year, though it lost some gains in recent weeks as NAFTA talks soured.
The stock market is also up 7% so far this year. The economy is on pace to grow about 2%, roughly on par with U.S. growth. Real wages are expected to pick up in the coming months as inflation cools down. Remittances, a key source of income for low-income Mexicans, are on pace for another all-time record.
The election may be Mexico's biggest concern. The front runner, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, is a populist candidate who promises to get tough on trade with Trump. That rhetoric has stoked some fears in the business community. A decline in oil production has also slowed down overall economic growth this year.
But so far, fears over the fate of Mexico's economy haven't become a reality.
"There may be problems down the road, but the initial doom and gloom was a bit overdone," says Neil Shearing, chief emerging markets economist at Capital Economics. "The economy didn't collapse in the way that perhaps others expected."


CEO Kevin Plank said in the earnings release that the biggest problem is lower demand for its shoes and athletic apparel in its home market of the United States.
The Baltimore-based company has been growing internationally, with sales surging in Europe, Latin America and Asia during the quarter.
Related: Under Armour's CEO had to ditch Trump
But those markets are still relatively tiny for Under Armour. Revenue in North America makes up more than three-quarters of its overall sales -- and those sales plunged 12% in the third quarter.
It's a stunning fall from grace for Under Armour, which not that long ago was gaining market share at the expense of Nike and Adidas.
The company signed Golden State Warriors star Steph Curry a few years ago, a move that seemed like a slam dunk success, since Curry has gone on to win multiple NBA MVP awards and two championships.
But several iterations of the Curry shoes have routinely been mocked on social media for not looking cool. Even Curry's teammate Kevin Durant, who endorses Nike (NKE), poked fun at Under Armour earlier this year.
Making matters worse, there have been reports of supply chain issues with the new Curry 4 line of sneakers. And Under Armour confirmed during its conference call with analysts Tuesday that it will delay some products to the fourth quarter.
Related: Air ball! Nobody's buying expensive sneakers
Under Armour also suffered from bad PR earlier this year after Plank agreed to join the White House's now defunct manufacturing council. Plank said in an interview with CNBC that "a pro-business president is something that is a real asset for the country."
Curry told The Mercury News that he agreed with Plank -- but only "if you remove the 'et' from asset." Other professional athletes have been vocal about their disagreements with Trump as well.
As such, Plank -- like many other CEOs -- has distanced himself from Trump lately.
After Trump was reluctant to criticize neo-Nazis at a white supremacist rally, he then bashed Curry for not wanting to visit the White House and attacked athletes who protested the national anthem. Under Armour has come to the defense of its star endorsers.
But that hasn't been enough to rejuvenate Under Armour's flagging sales or stock price.
Meanwhile, Adidas (ADDYY) has thrived in the past year while Under Armour and Nike have both struggled. Even Skechers (SKX) has enjoyed a resurgence lately.
So what can Under Armour do to get back on track? Neil Saunders, managing director of the research firm GlobalData Retail, wrote in a report that the company should continue to focus on expanding globally, which has been successful for Under Armour.
But Saunders added that the company has to do more to court women as consumers, as Nike, Adidas and yoga apparel king Lululemon (LULU) have successfully done.
"Under Armour is not so broken that it cannot be fixed. But the days of glory, when it would post double-digit uplifts in sales, are over. Now is the time to work out, slim down, and become more competitive," Saunders wrote.


Oil output in the region has dropped after OPEC and non-OPEC members agreed to cut supply to boost prices. The agreement runs through March 2018, and some countries have talked about extending it further.
The IMF based its projections on an average oil price of $50 a barrel. U.S. crude futures are currently trading at around $54 a barrel, and Brent crude prices are even higher at $60.
Related: Quest: It's the IMF vs. Donald Trump
Jihad Azour, director for the Middle East and Central Asia at the IMF, said regional governments should not view higher oil prices as a substitute for economic reforms.
"It's important from a policy standpoint to be on the conservative side and to make sure we are not dependent on the oil cycle," he told CNNMoney Emerging Markets editor John Defterios.
He urged the Gulf nations to push ahead with plans to diversify their economies.
"Oil is still an important factor to the macro-economics of situation in the GCC," Azour said. "But the good news is that those countries are progressively reducing the weight and the importance of oil in the function of the economy as well as the financing of the state."
Low oil prices have forced Gulf countries to rethink their economic strategies. Saudi Arabia, the biggest economy in the region, last year launched Vision 2030, a blueprint for what the economy should look like in the next decade.
Related: Saudi Arabia wants foreign help in its massive economic overhaul
The government has cut some subsidies, announced new taxes and lifted a controversial ban on women driving. It also tapped global bond markets three times in less than a year, borrowing billions to balance its books.
The Gulf countries, including the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, also plan to introduce sales taxes next year.
"The key reforms that are currently contemplated [such as] the value added tax and the continuous removal of subsidies are [going] in the right direction," said Azour. "Those are the right types of reforms that allow you to increase your fiscal flexibility with limited impact on economy."
The IMF expects Middle East oil exporting countries beyond the Gulf, including Iraq, Libya, Algeria and Iran, will grow at an average annual rate of just 2.8% over the next five years, half the rate achieved in 2016.


"This presents and represents a simple, clean solution to help us to act in the interests of home buyers in New Zealand," she said. Under the rules, the government will classify housing as "sensitive" and subject buyers to a residency test.
Related: Why did Trump backer Peter Thiel become a New Zealand citizen?
Property prices in the country -- a popular tourist destination known for its impressive scenery -- have surged in recent years, propelled by low interest rates, investment from overseas and zoning restrictions.
A study earlier this year by public policy firm Demographia ranked Auckland, New Zealand's biggest city, as the fourth most unaffordable housing market in the world.
House prices are up about 10% so far this year, according to central bank data. And home ownership rates are sliding. About 60% of New Zealanders own their own homes, down from roughly 75% in 1992.
Clear data on foreign investment in New Zealand's property market is hard to come by, but Land Information New Zealand suggests foreign buyers account for as little as 3% of total transactions. The biggest proportion of foreign buyers are registered in China.
Related: 10 most expensive cities in 2017
The new rules on foreign purchases won't apply to land, or to properties that haven't been built yet. They also don't apply to foreign residents living in the country or Australians.
Ahead of September's election, Labour Party leader Ardern campaigned on a platform of making housing more affordable.
However, some experts questioned whether such policies are effective.
"This is a very much global trend with governments looking at foreign buyers and what they can buy," said Sophie Chick, head of research at real estate firm Savills Australia.
Australia has tried to cool its own red-hot property market with measures including a similar ban on foreign investors buying existing properties.
"Despite that, we've seen strong price growth," Chick said.
She added that many foreign investors prefer to put their money into new properties that haven't been built yet, which aren't included under the planned rules in New Zealand.
Ardern said that she was seeking to introduce legislation for the new restrictions before the end of the year.


Now GE (GE) is planning to shrink itself further because of mounting financial troubles that have crushed the stock and led to fears that it will cut its coveted dividend for only the second time since the Great Depression.
GE recently revealed plans to get rid of businesses worth at least $20 billion in the next year or two. One unit that could be on the chopping block is its struggling railroad business, which GE has owned for more than a century.
Yet another round of downsizing shows just how desperately the company needs the cash.
"GE is in a cash crunch," said John Inch, a Deutsche Bank analyst who covers GE and has a "sell" rating on the stock. "They are not generating enough cash flow this year to pay the dividend. That's a problem."
Given the scale of GE's problems, some analysts are predicting that its new management team could be even more aggressive in trying to unload businesses.
"We would imagine something much bigger once the dust settles," Scott Davis, CEO and lead analyst at Melius Research, wrote in a recent report. He added that GE will likely sell anything that "isn't nailed down."
GE's workforce has also shrunk in recent years -- and analysts expect the company may announce layoffs soon. GE employed about 295,000 people at the end of last year. That's down from about 333,000 at the end of 2015.
Related: GE's nightmare just got worse
GE is scrambling to ease serious concern on Wall Street about the company and its beloved dividend. GE's stock has plunged 35% this year, making the iconic company the worst performer on the Dow by a long shot. (The next closest is Verizon (VZ), down 8%.)
Earlier this month, GE reported dreadful results that new CEO John Flannery called "completely unacceptable." Last week, GE stock tumbled nearly 13%, its worst week since January 2009. And that was during the financial crisis, a time when investors fled GE because they worried about its massive financial arm, known as GE Capital.
GE has since unwound most of GE Capital, selling off at least $150 billion of assets. That included GE Capital's real estate business, most of which was acquired by Blackstone (BX) and Wells Fargo (WFC).
Last year, GE also merged its oil and gas business with Baker Hughes (BHGE). The combined company is majority-owned by GE and trades separately on the New York Stock Exchange.
GE did make one recent takeover splash: In 2015, it completed the acquisition of Alstom's power and grid businesses. It was GE's biggest-ever industrial purchase.
Related: Could GE get booted from the Dow after 110 years?
Still, Flannery believes GE is too complex. While GE has a "number of strong franchises," Flannery said during a recent conference call that other businesses "drain investment and management resources without the prospect for a substantial reward."
Unlike companies that make simple products like clothing, GE's jet engines, locomotives and power plant systems require expensive engineering, factories, equipment and manpower to create. That makes it difficult to be nimble during downturns, such as the one facing GE's power business.
"When markets turn down, you can get caught," said Inch.
Another business getting hit hard is the railroad unit. GE is planning to get out of the railroad business through a potential sale or spinoff, The Wall Street Journal reported last week. GE could also unload part or all of its healthcare IT business, the paper reported.
GE declined to comment on "rumor or speculation."
It's too early to tell whether GE's plans to sell off assets will do enough to ease worries on Wall Street about the company's future.
"This is going to take a very long time to fix," Inch said. "They have a crisis of investor confidence."


2. Qualcomm gets quashed: Shares in Qualcomm (QCOM) were down about 7% premarket following reports that Apple (AAPL) is looking to stop using the company's components in its new iPhones and iPads.
Such are the perils faced by Apple suppliers. Earlier this year, shares in British firm Imagination Technologies (IGNMF) fell by as much as 72% in a single day after investors learned that Apple planned to stop licensing the firm's technology.
3. Big day for earnings: Wall Street will be hearing from Aetna (AET), Kellogg (K), Pfizer (PFE), MasterCard (MA) and Under Armour (UA) before the opening bell. Electronic Arts (EA), Sturm Ruger (RGR) and Papa John's (PZZA) will follow after the U.S. close.
International markets are digesting updates from firms including Airbus (EADSF), BP (BP), WPP (WPPGY), Ryanair (RYAAY), Samsung Electronics (SSNLF) and Sony (SNE).
Shares in BP (up 3.5%) and Ryanair (up nearly 6%) were the biggest movers of the bunch in Europe.
Samsung shares gained nearly 2% and hit a new record high after it reported earnings. The company, which is attempting to get back on track following a massive corruption scandal in South Korea, also reshuffled its management by choosing three new execs to lead key divisions.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Economics: The monthly S&P Case-Shiller Home Price Index will be released at 9 a.m., giving investors insight into the state of the U.S. housing market.
The U.S. Conference Board is releasing its consumer confidence data for October at 10 a.m.
5. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were inching up. European markets were higher in early trading.
Asian markets weren't feeling the love, and most indexes ended the day with small losses.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 0.4% on Monday, the S&P 500 dipped 0.3% and the Nasdaq was little changed.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Tuesday -- Aetna (AET), Pfizer (PFE), MasterCard (MA), Electronic Arts (EA), Sturm Ruger (RGR) and Papa John's (PZZA) report earnings Wednesday -- Facebook (FB), Tesla (TSLA) report earnings; House releases tax reform bill Thursday -- Apple (AAPL), Starbucks (SBUX), Yum! Brands (YUM), Ralph Lauren (RL), CBS (CBS) earnings Friday -- October jobs report; iPhone X hits stores


It's because premium subsidies are soaring too, making many plans on the exchanges more affordable.
The Trump administration, however, is stressing how much premiums will rise, saying this is yet another sign that Obamacare is irreparably broken. Officials are downplaying the fact that the subsidies will cover most, if not all, of the increase for many consumers.
Related: Premiums for popular Obamacare plans to soar 37% for 2018
Obamacare advocates worry that consumers will be scared off by the news that premiums are skyrocketing for next year. They plan to highlight the fact that many people will be able to find lower-premium policies thanks to the subsidies.
Even the Trump administration found that Obamacare plans will be more affordable for many consumers next year. Some 80% of enrollees will be able to find a policy for $75 a month or less -- up from 71% this year and the highest share so far.
"This year, more people than any previous year have access to a plan for $75 or less," said Josh Peck, a former Obama administration official and co-founder of Get America Covered, which is promoting enrollment for 2018. "That's what we want everyone to know."
Here's why this is happening:
Many insurers jacked up the rates of their silver plans in part to make up for President Trump ending federal support for Obamacare's cost-sharing subsidies. These subsidies reduce deductibles and co-pays for lower-income enrollees.
Premiums for the benchmark silver Obamacare plan will soar 37%, on average, for 2018, according to federal data released Monday.
The premium subsidies are pegged to a benchmark silver plan in each market. So if that plan's rate rises, the value of the subsidy does too. More than eight in 10 Obamacare enrollees receive premium subsidies.
Insurers, however, did not hike the price of bronze or gold plans nearly as much. The rate of the lowest-cost bronze plan is rising 17%, on average, while the cheapest gold plan is going up 19%, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.
That means the more generous premium subsidies will cover more of the monthly cost of these plans, so consumers will pay less.
A 40-year-old earning $25,000 will pay 75% less, on average, for the cheapest bronze plan and 21% less for the lowest-cost gold plan, according to a new analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation. A 40-year-old earning $40,000 will see a 28% drop, on average, in the price of the cheapest bronze plan, and an 8% decrease in the least expensive gold plan's premium.
Related: Trump's quest to kill Obamacare hurts the middle class
Bronze plans have lower premiums, but their deductibles are higher -- nearly $5,900, on average, for an individual in 2018, according to a new report from Health Pocket, an online health insurance shopping tool. Meanwhile, gold plans have higher premiums, but their deductibles are only $1,320 on average for a single enrollee next year.
The cheapest gold plan will have lower premiums than the least-expensive silver plan in 459 counties next year once subsidies are factored in, Kaiser found. Silver plans will have an average deductible of just over $4,000 next year.
Many more consumers will be able to enroll in bronze plans and pay nothing each month. For instance, a 48-year-old consumer earning roughly $30,000 can find a zero-premium policy in nearly 1,050 counties next year, up from 132 counties in 2017, according to an analysis by Oliver Wyman consulting group.
Not everyone, however, will be so fortunate. Enrollees who don't qualify for premium subsidies -- those who earn more than $48,000 as an individual or $98,500 for a family of four in 2018 -- may be hit with the full premium hike. They may be better off buying bronze or gold plans or looking for individual coverage outside of the Obamacare exchanges.
Open enrollment begins Wednesday and runs through Dec. 15 in most states.


China is highly sensitive about any buildup of Western military forces in the region and worries that the U.S. missile system -- known as THAAD -- could be used to spy on it. South Korea and the U.S. say it's needed to defend against North Korean nuclear threats.
Related: China can squeeze its neighbors when it wants. Ask South Korea
China is South Korea's biggest trading partner, and investors are hoping Beijing's decision to move on from the THAAD dispute will boost business ties between the two countries.
Hyundai (HYMTF), whose China sales had taken a major hit from the THAAD spat, jumped 3.2% on Tuesday, while Lotte Shopping soared 7.1%. The Lotte conglomerate, whose land was used to house the THAAD batteries, has suffered a series of setbacks in China during the dispute.
Duty-free retailer Hotel Shilla, which targets Chinese tourists in Seoul, gained 2.2%.
Related: China, South Korea end year-long diplomatic feud over missile system
Regina Hahm, an analyst with Mirae Asset Daewoo Securities, said investors had been expecting an improvement in relations between China and South Korea after the two countries announced a foreign currency agreement two weeks ago. However, she cautioned that it will probably take until the first half of next year for Chinese tourist numbers to South Korea to start picking up again.
China is still unhappy about the deployment of THAAD in what it views as its backyard, but the statement from both countries said they would continue to discuss the matter via military channels.

The South Korean government said Tuesday's announcement was just the "first step" in getting relations with China back to normal.
The news comes just days before President Trump's trip to Asia. He's due to visit both South Korea and China, as well as Japan.
Stocks in South Korea have been on fire this year. The benchmark Kospi has soared 25% to a record high thanks to an improving global economy and blockbuster profits at Samsung Electronics (SSNLF), whose stock accounts for a large portion of the index.
-- Lauren Suk contributed to this report.


Powell, a Princeton graduate, was a lawyer in New York before he joined the investment bank Dillon Reed & Co. in 1984. He stayed there until he joined the Treasury Department in 1990. After he left Treasury, he became a partner in 1997 at The Carlyle Group (CG), the private equity and asset management giant. He left Carlyle in 2005.
Powell would not only be the first investment banker to head the Fed, but he'd also be the first individual who is not an economist to take the helm in more than 40 years.
Related: Trump leaning toward banker Jerome Powell to run Fed
Current Chair Janet Yellen was an economics professor before she was named a Fed governor. Ben Bernanke, her predecessor, had a similar career path. Alan Greenspan was the head of an economic consulting firm he founded, while Paul Volcker worked primarily as an economist at the Fed and the Treasury department. He did work at Chase Manhattan bank back in the 1960s, but that was when commercial banks like Chase were not allowed to do investment banking.
And thanks to his investment banking background, Powell will also be far wealthier than his recent predecessors.
Powell's assets are worth between $21 million and $61 million, according to financial disclosures which require officials to give a range in the value of their various holdings.
Yellen and her husband, Nobel-prize winning economist George Akerlof, have assets worth between $5 million and $13 million. Bernanke had assets worth between $1.1 million and $2.3 million, according to public financial disclosure forms.
An investment banker has never had the top job at the Fed, but Fed critics have often complained about the so-called "revolving door" between Wall Street firms and the Federal Reserve. Four of the Fed's current 12 regional bank presidents used to work at Goldman Sachs (GS), which has raised concerns that the Fed won't be tough enough in regulating big banks.
Related: Trump to announce Fed chair pick Thursday, says White House official
Powell has worked with Yellen on a daily basis for years, so it's doubtful there would be a major shift in monetary policy if he gets the top job. But he might part ways slightly with Yellen when it comes to the regulatory reforms put in place at the Fed after the financial crisis.
Powell largely supports Dodd-Frank, the sweeping set of reforms instituted after the financial crisis to make banks healthier. President Trump has at times threatened to get rid of parts or all of Dodd-Frank.
But he has also urged Congress to rewrite one provision of Dodd-Frank called the Volcker Rule, which is meant to prevent banks from making risky bets using taxpayer money. Powell argued in June that it creates an unnecessary burden on small community banks.
"He'd be a little less tough on banks than Yellen," says David Wessel, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. "But not nearly as easy on the banks as the Trump administration wants to be."


Spanish stocks have been volatile in recent weeks since a contested independence referendum in Catalonia plunged the country into its worst political crisis in decades. Now Spain's central government is imposing its will on the restive region.
Madrid suspended Catalonia's broad self-rule after the regional parliament unilaterally declared independence on Friday. Stocks fell as a result.
The state prosecutor said Monday that he is seeking charges of rebellion, sedition and misuse of public funds against Catalan leaders. Civil servants in Catalonia returned to work under the Spanish government's control.
Related: Spanish prosecutor seeks charges for deposed Catalan leaders
Two key pro-independence parties also said they would participate in regional elections that Madrid has scheduled for December 21.
Businesses have been caught in the dispute. Catalonia, Spain's most economically productive region, hosts 7,100 foreign companies, including Volkswagen, Nissan and Cisco. Its capital of Barcelona is a major tourist hub.
Analysts say it's not clear how much economic damage might be caused by Madrid's direct rule, but it could disrupt local government services.
Some executives aren't waiting to see what happens next, and have already moved their headquarters out of Catalonia. Those include major financial firms CaixaBank and Banco Sabadell, real estate company Colonial and energy supplier Gas Natural Fenosa.
Catalonia accounts for nearly a fifth of Spain's economy.


These are still the early stages for electric cars. And there might be too much hoopla -- and also a lot of competition from the likes of traditional rivals Ford (F) and Toyota (TM) as well as upstart Tesla (TSLA).
The Goldman analysts think that even though regulators would love to have fewer gas-guzzling cars on the road, the costs of owning an electric vehicle may be too high for many drivers unless there are more government subsidies and incentives for them.
"While pursuing battery electric vehicles early likely helps in the long-run for tightening emissions regulations, we continue to believe that high battery costs make these vehicles unappealing to the consumer," the Goldman analysts wrote in a report.
Related: GM unveils futuristic self-driving army truck
Goldman Sachs is pretty bearish on Tesla too though -- and that has turned out to be a bad call so far. The investment bank that many refer to as the Vampire Squid, downgraded Tesla to a "sell" in late February -- and Tesla's stock has gained 25% since then.
Still, the Goldman analysts also think GM is getting too much attention for its autonomous vehicles plans. Many investors seem excited by the notion that in the future there will be armies of self-driving cars available for ridesharing.
The Goldman analysts worry that "the market appears to have already rewarded GM for its self-driving car plans and also that "current industry ride-hailing models are generally unprofitable."
The bigger concern though? Prices for autonomous cars, especially ones made for ridesharing, could fall even further due to intense competition.
In addition to the threat from other big car companies, Uber is expected to be a big player in self-driving cars, as are the Alphabet (GOOGL)-owned Waymo as well as Apple (AAPL). The Goldman analysts even warned of a "deflationary environment" in the market.
The Goldman analysts also think GM will face more competition in the truck market from Ford as it revamps its F-series line, and that SUV and crossover prices may fall as the entire auto industry looks to produce more of these larger vehicles.
While price wars may be music to the ears of consumers, they rarely turn out well for investors.


He said he plans to develop a pot-infused, non-alcoholic drink for the Canadian market. He said it will have zero calories, won't cause hangovers, and is the kind of thing you'd have before going to a comedy club. "You may feel giddy," he said.
Constellation CEO Rob Sands, in a statement, called cannabis "an emerging market that is predicted to become a significant consumer category in the near future."
But Constellation stressed it has no plans to sell pot in the United States unless it is legal at all levels. Recreational marijuana is legal in eight states and Washington, D.C., and medical marijuana is legal in 29 states, but it's illegal in the eyes of the federal government.
Constellation has 76 brands, including Modelo and Pacifico beer, Svedka vodka, and Wild Irish Rose wine.

Related: Retail marijuana is spreading to California, Massachusetts, Maine
Canopy is publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol WEED. The company produces several brands of medical cannabis, including Tweed, Spectrum and Bedrocan. Canopy says that its Tweed Farms greenhouse is the largest marijuana greenhouse in the world.
Canopy spokesman Jordan Sinclair told CNNMoney that his company plans to sell recreational marijuana when it becomes legal in Canada "and in any federally legal market opportunities that emerge around the world."
Constellation did not return messages from CNNMoney.


"This data demonstrates just how rapidly Obamacare's exchanges are deteriorating with skyrocketing premiums year after year, more than half of Americans with no more than two insurers to choose from, and the taxpayer burden exploding," said Caitlin Oakley, press secretary for the Department of Health & Human Services.
The report covers the more than three dozen states that use the federal exchange, healthcare.gov.
Open enrollment begins Wednesday and runs through Dec. 15 -- about half the length of prior periods.
The steep rate hike means a 27-year-old will pay nearly $5,000 a year, on average, for the benchmark silver plan, upon which premium subsides are based. That's up from $2,600 when the Obamacare exchanges opened in 2014. This is before subsidies are factored in, however.
Premiums are skyrocketing for a second year in a row. Rates rose 24% this year in the states using healthcare.gov.
Related: Trump's quest to kill Obamacare hurts the middle class
The price of Obamacare plans has increased sharply over the past four years, partly because enrollees were much sicker and costlier than insurers expected. But the exchanges showed signs of stabilizing this year after the most recent price hike.
Premiums are spiking again in part because President Trump stopped reimbursing insurers for another key Obamacare subsidy, which they are still required to provide by law. These cost-sharing subsidies reduce deductibles and co-pays for lower income enrollees.
Insurers raised rates by as much as 38% just because the funding ended, though the amount varied widely by state, according to a recent analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation. Most states directed insurers to raise the silver plan prices since premium assistance is tied to that metal level and the cost-sharing subsidies are only available to those purchasing silver plans.
The big rate increase means premium subsidies will rise 45%, on average, to $6,660 a year. More than eight in 10 enrollees receive premium subsidies, which reduce their cost to less than 10% of their household income.
A 27-year-old making $25,000 a year could receive an annual subsidy of nearly $3,300. That would bring his or her premium down to $1,650 a year if he or she enrolls in the benchmark silver plan.
A family of four earning $60,000 a year could get an annual subsidy of $13,000, bringing their benchmark plan premiums down to just over $4,750.
These more generous subsidies will make bronze plans -- which have lower premiums, but higher deductibles -- more affordable for many enrollees. And the higher level of assistance means that gold plans will actually be cheaper than silver policies in some markets.
That's why it's particularly important for consumers to shop and compare plans this year.
Related: Trump kills key Obamacare subsidy payments: What it means
Also, consumers will have fewer choices on the exchanges.
Some 29% of enrollees will only have one insurer offering policies, up from 20% this year and 6% in 2016. Eight states will have only one insurer, up from five states this year.
Just over 130 insurers will be on the exchanges in 2018, down from more than 230 two years ago. Many large, publicly traded insurers, including Aetna (AET) and Humana (HUM), have exited Obamacare, while Anthem (ANTM) has greatly downsized.
Are you shopping for individual policies either on or off the Obamacare exchanges for 2018? Tell me about it. You could be featured in an upcoming CNNMoney story.


What happens next is unclear, but more volatility appears likely.
2. Mueller moves? Robert Mueller, who was appointed in May to lead the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, may deliver a political bombshell on Monday.
Sources briefed on the matter told CNN that a federal grand jury in Washington has approved the first charges in the investigation led by the former FBI director.
Plans were prepared for anyone charged to be taken into custody as soon as Monday, the sources said.
President Trump and his team deny any wrongdoing.
3. Fed tease: Trump has tweeted that he is preparing to name his pick to lead the U.S. Federal Reserve.
"People are anxiously awaiting my decision as to who the next head of the Fed will be," he said.
There has been speculation for weeks about whether Trump would renominate current Fed chair Janet Yellen to another four-year term. Two sources told CNN on Saturday that the president is likely to instead name Jerome Powell.
Powell, a Republican, has been a governor on the Fed's board since 2012 and was assigned to lead the bank's Wall Street oversight committee in April.
Trump could still change his mind, the sources said.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were lower.
European markets, with the notable exception of Spain's Ibex 35, were down in early trading.
Asian markets ended mixed.
5. Friday market recap: The Dow Jones industrial average gained 0.2% on Friday, while the S&P 500 added 0.8%. The Nasdaq jumped 2.2% on a banner day for tech earnings.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
6. Earnings and economics: Data on U.S. personal income and spending for the month of September will be published at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Mining giant Glencore had some positive news for investors as it recovers from a global commodities price crash. The company said it expects to earn $2.6 billion to $2.8 billion this year, up from its previous estimate of $2.4 billion to $2.7 billion.
Mondelez and Unisys (UIS) will publish quarterly earnings after the closing bell in New York.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
7. Coming this week:
Monday -- Mondelez (MDLZ) reports earnings Tuesday -- Aetna (AET), Kellogg (K), Pfizer (PFE), MasterCard (MA), Under Armour (UA) report earnings Wednesday -- Facebook (FB),n Tesla (TSLA) report earnings; House releases tax reform bill Thursday -- Apple (AAPL), Starbucks (SBUX), Yum! Brands (YUM), Ralph Lauren (RL), CBS (CBS) earnings Friday -- October jobs report; iPhone X hits stores


A Baltimore-based attorney is working with Kushner Companies on the matter, according to a person familiar with the attorney general's inquiry.
A spokesperson for the AG's office declined to comment, citing a policy of not confirming or denying investigations.
The inquiry does not mean charges will be filed.
This spring and summer, media reports exposed allegedly coercive tactics and inadequate maintenance in multifamily housing developments run by Westminster Management or related entities. An affiliate of Kushner Companies, Westminster manages about 17 properties in Maryland, including developments in Baltimore, Middle River and Essex, according to its website.
Kushner Companies has been under the microscope since President Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, entered the political scene — first as Trump's confidant during the 2016 campaign and now as a senior White House adviser.
A Kushner financial disclosure form shows income of $1.6 million from Westminster. A White House spokesman declined to comment.
Kushner, married to Trump's daughter Ivanka, stepped down as CEO of his family's namesake business in January and recused himself from certain policy issues since joining the White House. But those measures haven't fully shielded the company from allegations of conflicts of interest and criticism from political foes of the administration — as well as more scrutiny from the press.
In May, The New York Times and ProPublica detailed "poor upkeep" inside developments run by Westminster, including appliance failures, mold and mouse infestations. The report also documented unsavory debt collection tactics. In addition, The Baltimore Sun reported that Kushner-affiliated businesses were "the most aggressive in Maryland" in seeking civil arrests of tenants who owed the company money.
Kushner Companies defended its methods. Responding to the Sun, the company's chief financial officer said the firm "follows guidelines consistent with industry standards" and state law when it files legal action.
Westminster Management, "only takes legal action against a tenant when absolutely necessary," said Kushner Companies' CFO Jennifer McLean in a statement to the Sun.
Related: Jared Kushner's White House role complicates family business
In August, Democratic lawmakers cited the stories in a letter to Kushner Companies, requesting answers to questions on matters including alleged housing code violations and federal subsidies from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. They were seeking a response by September 8.
"If these reports are accurate, they raise very serious and troubling concerns about whether Kushner Companies and its subsidiaries are complying with HUD's housing quality standards to ensure the safety and health of their own tenants," wrote the lawmakers, who included Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland, the top Democrat on the House oversight committee.
In response, Kushner Companies issued a public statement reiterating that the company exercises its "legal rights under the relevant provisions of the Maryland law."
But Kushner Companies did not provide specific answers or produce documents, according to Cummings, who wrote a letter last week asking oversight committee chairman, Republican Trey Gowdy, for help.
In the letter to Gowdy, Cummings said his staff called Kushner Companies six times and were told "no information would be provided."
In a separate matter, Frosh and the attorney general of the District of Columbia are suing Trump, alleging that his business interests violate the Constitution. The attorneys general are asking a court to block Trump from accepting foreign money.


Hassett -- who floated the $4,000 figure in two reports put out earlier this month -- fired back. He accused Summers of lobbing personal attacks and insisted other reputable economists have backed up his analysis.
Here's a breakdown of the issue.
Hassett says lowering the U.S. corporate tax rate, which is among the highest in the world, will encourage U.S. companies to invest more of their money in their U.S. operations rather than investing it abroad.
As companies buy more machines and other technology for use domestically, productivity will rise. That, in turn, can boost wages, Hassett argues.
Reality check: Will Trump's tax plan really give you a $4,000 pay raise?
Summers, like many economists on both sides of the aisle, agree corporate tax reform will have "some positive impacts."
But Summers -- a Democrat who served as President Bill Clinton's Treasury Secretary and as an economic adviser for President Barack Obama -- says Trump's plan is poorly designed and could harm the middle class.
"The claims that this administration makes -- that the tax cut will pay for itself, that the tax cut will raise incomes [...] that the tax cut isn't skewed toward helping rich people -- those are fake facts, and I think they need to be called out," Summers said.
For one thing, he said, if and when companies do bring earnings back from overseas, it's not clear how they'll use that extra money.
"Maybe the corporations will just keep the money and pay it out in the form of higher dividends or doing more repurchases of shares," Summers said.
Related: Republican tax plan faces big hurdles ahead of 2018
Summers' own analysis suggests Trump's tax plan could boost income by around $1,300 per year -- not $4,000.
He also said Hassett's analysis of the tax plan "was egregiously selective in the use of evidence."
Hassett said it was Summers that used faulty math. He said a review of other countries around the globe found that when they cut corporate taxes, wages went up.
"They don't always do it, but they tend to go up," Hassett said.
He also pointed to an analysis by Boston University economist Larry Kotlikoff, which estimated the Trump tax framework as a whole might raise household incomes by $3,500.
--CNNMoney's Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report.


The news was first reported by Bloomberg.
Today, anyone who itemizes their deductions on their federal tax return may deduct their state and local property taxes, as well as their state and local income taxes or general sales taxes.
In their bid to pay for the trillions in tax cuts they want, as well as simplify the tax code, Republican leaders have proposed repealing most itemized deductions. The state and local tax deduction -- aka SALT -- is the biggest among them. Repealing it fully could bring in more than $1 trillion in revenue over a decade.
Brady's concession on property taxes may help some of the moderate-income people who benefit from the deduction today.
The majority of the SALT deductions claimed by those who make less than $50,000 come from property taxes, according to a report from the Government Finance Officers Association. By contrast more than 70% of the SALT deductions from those making more than $200,000 are due to income.
Related: Millions in middle class will feel it if GOP kills this tax break
But it's not clear from Brady's statement if there would be any limits on who may take the property tax deduction. For instance, if it's available only to people who itemize, then chances are many wouldn't take it. That's because his bill would nearly double the standard deduction. And that would drastically reduce the number of itemizers, since you only itemize if your deductions combined exceed your standard deduction.
Impossible to satisfy all demands
Brady's decision, just a few days before he's due to unveil the House tax reform bill, speaks volumes about the political and policy challenges ahead for lawmakers: how to meet the Republican goals, while garnering enough support to pass a bill.
A group lobbying to keep all of the state and local deduction intact was quick to call foul at Brady's concession, noting that his home state of Texas has no income tax and is heavily dependent on property taxes for revenue.
"[His] partial elimination plan for the state and local tax (SALT) deduction would insert the heavy hand of Washington into state and local finance decisions, dictate winners and losers among states, and unfairly penalize taxpayers in states that rely significantly on income taxes," Americans Against Double Taxation said in a statement.
Leonard Lance, a New Jersey Republican congressman who has been a lead negotiator in the SALT debate, called the announcement a "step in the right direction" but argued there's more work to be done.
"I will need to see legislative text to determine if this proposal is in the best interest of New Jersey," Lance said in a statement. "We already send more than enough money to Washington."
Related: Is now really the time for massive tax cuts?
Separately this weekend, the National Association of Home Builders made clear it wouldn't support the GOP tax plan as is because it doesn't do enough to support homeownership.
"This plan is particularly disappointing, given that the nation's home builders warned that the proposal would severely diminish the effectiveness of the mortgage interest deduction and presented alternative policies that would retain an effective housing tax incentive in the tax code," the NAHB said in a statement.
The group said it believed it had a deal with lawmakers to include a homeownership tax credit that could be taken by anyone -- even if they don't itemize. But "we were told by the House leadership that the credit will be removed from the bill."
But the House bill -- which is supposed to be released Wednesday -- is just the first word, not the last, on any tax legislation.
As the negotiations begin over tax reform, first in the House and then the Senate, there's no telling yet where things end up.
Brady said in his statement he hopes members of Congress will further examine the NAHB proposed credit "before tax reform heads to the president's desk."
— CNN's Kevin Bohn, Lauren Fox and Ashley Killough contributed to this report.


By comparison, Hurricane Katrina cost the country $30.9 billion in lost output, Zandi told CNNMoney.
"This was an unprecedented quarter when it comes to natural disasters," AT&T (T) CFO John Stephens said on an investor call Tuesday. The world's biggest telecom company blamed the hurricanes for a dip in video subscriptions this quarter. (AT&T is buying CNN parent Time Warner.)
Big losses for travel
Nearly every industry in the country has a major footprint in Texas and Florida, areas battered by Harvey and Irma. Many have locations in Puerto Rico as well. But cruise lines and airlines were hit particularly hard, Bank of America economists said in an October research note.
Hurricanes upended insurance companies too. The industry has posted $6.9 billion of losses so far, said John Butters, an analyst at FactSet. Travelers (TRV) alone reported it could suffer $700 million in losses from payout claims.
Related: The U.S. has been hit by two giant hurricanes. Here's the financial toll
Airline earnings were also weaker. United Airlines estimated $210 million in lost sales, while JetBlue (JBLU) said this week that the storms would cost it $90 million in revenue.
On Thursday, Expedia (EXPE) reported $20 million in pre-tax losses due to fewer hotel bookings, while Goodyear Tires (GT) said Friday that it lost $23 million in sales.
Widespread impact
The hits landed in unexpected places too: Budweiser and Bud Light sales were down at retail stores because of the storms, Anheuser-Busch InBev (BUD) reported, and Harley-Davidson (HOG) said the hurricanes cut motorcycle sales between 1.5% and 2%.
Storms somewhat slowed economic growth in the third quarter, since companies produced and sold fewer goods and services. The economy still grew at an impressive 3% from July through September, but it could have been even higher without the hurricanes.
"If not for the hurricanes, the GDP would have been 3.5%," said Zandi.
Related: Economy posts impressive growth despite hurricanes
The economic rebound is already underway from the disasters and the impact should be short-lived, economists agree.
"Most of the negative impact appears to be behind us," said Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics. "There's no reason to believe that it would be anything more than a short-term hit."
Zandi said lost activity from the hurricanes will be made up in the final months of 2017 and into next year.
"If people didn't buy cars or go on vacation because of the storms, they'll spend that money later," he said. "Factories will eventually produce most of the output that they didn't make because of the storms."
Auto sales rose 6.1% in September from the previous year, helped by GM's (GM) 12% spike and Ford's (F) 9% increase.
Related: Chipotle's profit ravaged by hurricanes, hack and high avocado prices
The home improvement and construction industries even got a lift from the hurricanes, as people started rebuilding damaged homes and replacing flooded cars.
Home Depot (HD) and Lowe's (LOW) reported upticks in September. United Rentals (URI), the largest construction rental equipment company in the country, cited hurricane recovery efforts this week to raise its outlook for the rest of the year.


"Expect them to push back as if this was a life-or-death struggle because for many, it is," Chris Krueger, managing director of the Cowen Washington Research Group, wrote in a recent report. "Welcome to the corporate hunger game."
The official path to modernize America's outdated tax system was created when the House narrowly (216-212) passed a budget this week that includes instructions to fast-track a tax reform bill that allows for $1.5 trillion worth of tax cuts over 10 years.
But it won't be an easy path. "The road ahead is bumpy and riddled with potholes," Isaac Boltansky, senior policy analyst at Compass Point Research & Trading, wrote in a recent report.
Of course, Wall Street will be watching the tax battle very closely because hopes for massive tax cuts have helped send the stock market to new heights in recent months. Investors could get nervous if it looks like those tax cuts will be scuttled by GOP infighting.
In any case, "expect some near-term volatility both in Washington and on Wall Street once the legislative text is released," Boltansky said.
2. Jobs report: The Labor Department is scheduled to release October's job numbers on Friday.
The U.S. lost 33,000 jobs in September -- the first monthly decline in employment in seven years -- thanks in large part to Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. But overall, America's job market is in good shape. Unemployment is at a 16-year low, and weekly jobless claims are consistently down.
The only problem is that wages aren't increasing by very much, making it difficult for consumers to keep pace with inflation. We'll see on Friday whether that continues to be the case.
3. Fed meets as Trump mulls new chair: The Federal Reserve meets this week, with a decision on interest rates set to be announced on Wednesday.
Don't expect too much: The Fed is not likely to raise rates this time. But Janet Yellen's term as Fed chair is coming to an end, and President Trump is expected to pick her successor -- or decide to stick with her -- next week. So even without a rate hike, there's a chance we could hear something interesting from Yellen.
4. Apple's fourth quarter results: Apple (AAPL) is set to announce its fourth-quarter earnings on Thursday. In August, Apple said it expects sales for the quarter to come in as high as $52 billion.
Since then, the company has announced and launched three new phones. The iPhone 8 and 8 Plus have been on sale for weeks, and customers were able start ordering the iPhone X online this week. The X will hit stores on Friday.
So far, sales of the 8 and 8 plus have reportedly been lackluster. According to the research firm Consumer Intelligence Research Partners, the 8 and 8 plus accounted for just 16% of total U.S. iPhone sales in the quarter ending on October 1. The iPhone 7 and 7 plus, for comparison's sake, made up 43% of sales in the same time last year.
5. Facebook earnings: Facebook (FB) heads to the earnings stage on Wednesday.
On Wall Street, at least, the social media giant has had a successful 2017. The company's stock has soared more than 50% this year. And though Facebook's growth has been slowing, the company is still expanding.
But the company has also had some very public faux pas, from CEO Mark Zuckerberg's virtual visit to Puerto Rico to revelations that the social media platform hosted Russia-linked ads. Investors might ask Facebook to explain itself.
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- Mondelēz (MDLZ) reports earnings
Tuesday -- Aetna (AET), Kellogg (K), Pfizer (PFE), MasterCard (MA), Under Armour (UA) report earnings
Wednesday -- Facebook, New York Times (NYT), Tesla (TSLA) report earnings; House releases tax reform bill
Thursday -- Apple, Starbucks (SBUX), Yum! Brands (YUM), Ralph Lauren (RL), CBS (CBS) earnings
Friday -- October jobs report; iPhone X hits stores


Trump has yet to make a formal decision, but the White House said he'd announce his choice next week. He could still change his mind, the sources said.
His apparent lean toward Powell is a major development. For weeks there has been speculation about whether Trump would renominate current Fed chair Janet Yellen to another four-year term.
Yellen was nominated by President Obama in 2013, and her current term expires in February 2018.
During his campaign, Trump accused Yellen of making policy decisions aimed at earning political points for Obama. But since Trump was inaugurated, he softened his tone and has even praised Yellen's decision making.
Yet, the pair stand at odds on several issues.
Trump has promised to start peeling back the financial regulations put in place after the financial crisis of 2008.
Yellen is generally not a fan of that idea. She argues they're key to the U.S.'s continued economic recovery, though she has suggested she'd be willing to take a second look at certain Dodd-Frank rules that apply to small banks.
Yellen could not be immediately reached for comment on Saturday.
Trump's pick for Fed chair is one of the most important decisions he'll make as president. The U.S. central bank leader is considered one of the most powerful posts in the world.
On Friday, sources told CNN that the list of candidates Trump was considering was down to about three. The names included Yellen, Powell, and Stanford economist John Taylor
Powell would be an unusual pick. Every Fed chair since 1979 has been an economist, but Powell's background is in investment banking.
Powell is largely supportive of Yellen's approach to slowing raising interest rates as the economy improves.
He's been backed by Mnuchin, who has spearheaded Trump's Fed chair search.


Ricardo Ramos, the CEO of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, recounted to CNN that he was actively looking for contractors for the repair effort. Whitefish was one of seven companies that was competing for the work.
Whitefish CEO Andy Techmanski reached out to Ramos to tell him about his small firm's "special skills": repairing infrastructure in rural, rugged regions, according to Whitefish spokesman Ken Luce.
But Irma ended up skirting by Puerto Rico, inflicting minimal damage. There was no need to immediately strike a deal.
'We took the call and we're here'
Less than two weeks later, it was a different story. Hurricane Maria was a devastating Category 5 storm, leaving millions on the U.S. island without power or communications. Techmanski reached out to Ramos again, offering to help -- this time, hoping to secure a contract, Whitefish spokesman Ken Luce told CNN.
Techmanski ended up having a conversation with Ramos.
"All I can say is, we took the call and we're here," Techmanski told CNN last week. "We called each other."
In an interview with HLN on Friday, Luce described Techmanski as an entrepreneur who jumped on a plane when no one else was "interested in doing business with the utility company because they were in bankruptcy."
Techmanski flew to Puerto Rico on Sept. 26 to meet with PREPA officials and to discuss how they could restore electricity to the crippled island.
Sitting in a dimly lit conference room, Techmanski and the PREPA team used light from their cell phones to begin drawing up plans for rebuilding Puerto Rico's destroyed electrical grids, according to Luce.
"They met at a conference table with no lights to go through the map and determine the best way to work in the mountains," he said.
Related: $300 million Puerto Rico power deal now under government review
The other contender: Power Secure wanted $25 million upfront to do the job.
But Techmanski wasn't asking PREPA for a down payment. Plus, the Whitefish CEO was agreeing to take care of the logistics -- lodging and food for the hundreds of journey linemen needed to restore power, according to Ramos.
After the hurricane hit, the state-owned utility could have requested aid through the American Public Power Association, a network that provides help to other utilities during widespread power outages.
But the closest states to Puerto Rico were already dealing with their own rebuilding efforts after hurricanes Harvey and Irma, Ramos told HLN on Thursday. And he believed they would not be able to respond quickly to the island's needs.
The bankrupt utility, which was wrestling with $9 billion in debt, also couldn't afford to cover the costs of utilizing the network either, he said.
Instead, Ramos chose Whitefish, inking the deal the same day Techmanski flew into Puerto Rico. Whitefish began working on the island less than a week later on Oct. 2.
With the contract signed, Techmanski realized he was going to need help getting resources and equipment to the island quickly. So he reached out to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, who also called Whitefish, Montana his hometown.
Zinke's office acknowledged they received an email from Techmanski, but said no one at the agency took any further action.
On Friday, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters that ZInke was asked directly by President Trump if he had any involvement in the deal -- and Zinke said he didn't.
"This is a contract that was determined by the local authorities in Puerto Rico, not something the federal government played a role in," Sanders said at the briefing.
A few hours later Zinke tweeted his own statement denouncing any ties to Whitefish winning the contract. Adding, all records "will prove no involvement."
"Only in elitist Washington, D.C., would being from a small town be considered a crime," Zinke said.
I had absolutely nothing to do with Whitefish Energy receiving a contract in Puerto Rico. I welcome all investigations into the allegations pic.twitter.com/JQgVFR7Fp6

Concerns are raised
Government agencies usually will make a public request for help on a particular job. Often they will receive multiple offers and the agency reviews and accepts the best, lowest cost bid.
Whitefish spokesman Chris Chiames told CNN: "In emergency kinds of situations, this isn't a typical [request for proposal] process."
Both the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Emergency Management Agency have made clear they did not sign off on the Whitefish contract and referred questions to PREPA, according to spokespersons for both agencies.
FEMA oversees billions of dollars in disaster relief work and multiple audits by the inspector general have shown a pattern of problems in how these funds have been used.
Ramos told CNN that FEMA didn't require prior approval of PREPA's contracts. But it does require a detailed audit of Puerto Rico's emergency spending.
A FEMA spokesperson told CNN Thursday that based on its initial review, the agency has "significant concerns" with how PREPA awarded the contract, including whether the contract prices are "reasonable."
Related: Questions swirl after small Montana firm lands Puerto Rico power contract
The hourly rate for a site supervisor is set at $332 per hour and $227.88 per hour for a "journey lineman" in the contract, according to a contract seen by CNN. The deal also specifies the estimated cost of nightly accommodation would be $332 per worker and nearly $80 per day for food.
On Friday, Whitefish's Luce told HLN that prices included in the contract were all negotiated with PREPA ahead of time. He explained that pricing included transportation for labor, the equipment and cost of paying for workers performing "very high risk jobs" that required "technical experienced" journey linemen.
"They are working off helicopters -- 50-, 60-foot ladders, dangling from wires," said Luce. "These are very dangerous high-risk jobs that these men and women are undertaking to restore power in Puerto Rico."
There's also a clause in the deal that bars PREPA, the FEMA administrator, the government of Puerto Rico and the Comptroller General of the U.S. from auditing the cost and profit elements of its labor rates.
Luce also told CNN on Friday that the clause is "standard contract language," but promised to work with lawmakers in answering questions.
"We've been transparent on everything we're doing on the island and we understand those questions," said Luce.
Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello told CNN that PREPA triggered an "emergency protocol" to start rebuilding the grid in Puerto Rico immediately after the hurricane hit.
"It was discussed with FEMA to make sure that it met with the standards and then of course that process went through," said Rossello.
'We have to move fast'
Already, Whitefish has scaled to just over 300 employees in Puerto Rico -- and it says 700 more are on the way. Such quick growth is typical among utility firms when they are awarded large contracts, the company said.
PREPA's Ramos says he has no regrets over the Whitefish contract, despite all the controversy over the deal.
"If we went back in time, I would do it all over again," Ramos told CNN.
Choosing Whitefish was cost effective, he said. The company had agreed to be paid in installments after the work was completed, inspected and approved by PREPA.
"We have a humanitarian crisis here and we have to move fast," said Ramos, adding Whitefish is "doing a great job."
Since the deal was announced, several government reviews have been called for to determine whether the appropriate process was followed by PREPA.
Related: San Juan's mayor takes on small Montana firm that won power contract
Both the Department of Homeland Security's inspector general and a separate House committee are reviewing the agreement. Another Senate committee has also asked the Government Accountability Office to investigate. That decision is pending.
On Friday, two top Democrats also asked the inspector general to examine FEMA and other agencies' role in awarding the contract and to look into whether it was an appropriate use of taxpayer dollars.
Even Rossello has asked Puerto Rico's Office of Management and Budget to audit the Whitefish contract to ensure it's in compliance with the appropriate laws.
Those results were expected to be released on Friday.
"If there is no wrongdoing, if it has been done correctly then we will push forward," Rossello told CNN. "If there is wrongdoing in this process or any process there will be hell to pay."
--HLN's Carol Costello and CNN's Julia Jones, Rene Marsh, Tristan Smith, Bill Weir, Patrick Gillespie, and Jeremy Diamond contributed to this report.


Trump says he wants to push through both tax reform, which would modernize the outdated tax code, and to provide tax cuts to individuals and businesses.
Given how healthy the economy is, some economists are mystified over Trump's urgent push for tax cuts that are likely to be paid for by adding to America's mountain of debt.
Related: Economy posts impressive growth despite hurricanes
"No other president in modern economic history has tried to do this," said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank. "It just seems completely unnecessary. With unemployment at 4.2%, why on earth would we try to stimulate the economy?"
Normally, presidents ask Congress for deficit-financed tax cuts when the economy is weak. That's what President Obama did in 2009 during the Great Recession, and President George W. Bush did the same after the 2001 downturn.
"This is kind of an odd time to get fiscal stimulus. It's not like we're in a recession, or coming out of one," said Gus Faucher, chief economist at PNC.
Here's the problem: There will be another recession, eventually. And spending heavily to slash the corporate tax rate to 20% from 35% today could leave Congress with fewer options to tackle the next downturn. The current economic expansion is already the second-longest ever.
Related: Will Trump's tax plan really give you a $4,000 pay raise?
The Tax Policy Center estimates that Trump's tax overhaul would slash federal revenue by $2.4 trillion over 10 years, and by $3.2 trillion over the second decade. And the national debt is already 77% of GDP, and slated to keep growing.
"The risk is we don't have the money for a rainy day. It's borderline irresponsible," said Rupkey.
It's true that the U.S. economy is not perfect. Businesses remain reluctant to spend, and Americans aren't getting the raises they deserve. Wage growth has been sluggish, although that improved in September.
It's also true that tax reform is an admirable goal, no matter how fast the economy is growing. Tax reform, which is aimed at making the sprawling and outdated system more efficient, is different and much less costly than tax cuts.
"Tax reform that is paid for is much better for the economy than a plan that adds to the debt," Maya MacGuineas, president of the nonpartisan Committee for Responsible Federal Budget, wrote recently.
Some experts believe that efforts to reform the tax code will fail once details of the bill are finally unveiled on November 1, leaving the GOP to push simple tax cuts instead.
"We continue to expect deficit-increasing tax cuts, not...deficit-neutral tax reform," Barclays economist Michael Gapen wrote in a recent report.
Given that the U.S. economy is "at full employment," Gapen believes that tax cuts will provide a "temporary boost" to GDP of just 0.5 percentage points. That would leave 2018 growth near 2.8%.
The White House was asked on Friday by reporters about the need for tax cuts given solid GDP growth.
Related: How Trump's tax plan could backfire on Wall Street
Kevin Hassett, chair of Trump's Council of Economic Advisers, argued that the U.S. economy has accelerated because businesses are excited about tax and regulatory reform.
Hassett also predicted that lowering the corporate tax rate and allowing businesses to immediately write off investments could increase GDP by 3% to 5%, as well as boost wages.
Without tax cuts and tax relief, the U.S. will be stuck with "depressed wage growth," the White House said in a statement on Friday.
Rupkey concedes that tax reform could boost wages, but he's skeptical that wage growth will accelerate by a meaningful amount.
Some economists fear that stimulus at this point in the economic cycle could be too much of a good thing.
"The worry is that by adding fuel to what's already, believe it or not, a pretty fiery economy in the U.S., you risk driving inflation and overheating growth," said Guy LeBas, chief fixed income strategist at Janney Capital.
Such an outcome could spur the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates so rapidly that it derails the stock market and burdens businesses and consumers with higher borrowing costs.
"Deficit-financed tax cuts are the wrong way to go at this point," said Faucher.
--CNNMoney's Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report


At the end of trading on Thursday, Gates occupied the top spot in the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, with a net worth of $88 billion. Bezos had $83.5 billion, and his big day on Friday was more than enough to close the gap.
But Gates also got a boost as Microsoft (MSFT) stock rose 7%. Gates owned 103 million shares as of September, according to FactSet. Microsoft stock climbed about $6 a share, so Gates added almost $600 million to his personal wealth.
Bezos briefly dethroned Gates once before, on July 27, when his net worth topped $90 billion because of a temporary surge in Amazon stock.
Related: The city Amazon picks for HQ2 will never be the same
Amazon has been on a tear this year. It acquired Whole Foods and plans to establish a second headquarters somewhere in North America. More than 200 cities and regions have submitted bids to become the home for HQ2.
--CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed to this report.


In April, the WTO said Mexico had the right to impose tariffs on up to $163 million of U.S. exports, arguing that the U.S. labeling requirements for "dolphin safe" unfairly discriminated against Mexican tuna.
The WTO said $163 million was an amount equal to what Mexico had lost as a result of not having the U.S. label.
But in a separate proceeding this week, the WTO said that the U.S. labeling is now in compliance with its standards after a unit of the U.S. Commerce Department tweaked its tuna-labeling laws last year.
In other words, the ruling from Thursday means the U.S. labeling doesn't discriminate against Mexican tuna.
This week's ruling all but dismisses the retaliation decision in April, though it hasn't been officially thrown out. Mexico actually never decided to impose tariffs on U.S. exports.
Related: NAFTA Round 4 ends on a gloomy note
"I am pleased that WTO panels have finally agreed with the overwhelming evidence that U.S. dolphin-safe labeling requirements are accurate and fair," U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said in a statement.
Mexico's economy ministry said it would appeal the WTO's ruling this week.
The ruling comes at a critical time for trade relations between the U.S., Mexico and Canada. Leaders from all three countries are renegotiating NAFTA, the free trade pact.
Negotiators ended the latest round of talks last week with a gloomy tone, with Mexico and Canada openly criticizing U.S. proposals. Lighthizer fired back at the same press conference, lambasting Canada and Mexico for what he called an unwillingness to compromise.
President Trump routinely threatens to pull out of NAFTA, and he's blamed it for the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs lost to Mexico. NAFTA became law in 1994.
As for tuna, Mexican tuna exports to the United States have averaged about $15 million a year over the last five years, according to USTR. That makes up almost 3% of all tuna imports to the United States.


Related: 2017 just set the all-time record for store closings
Penney has lost $242 million in the first six months of this fiscal year. And while it did manage to post a narrow $1 million profit last year, that came after a string of five straight losing years in which it lost a total of $3.5 billion.
The chain also closed 127 stores during the second quarter, more than 10% of its locations.
Of course JCPenney is hardly the only brick-and-mortar retailer that's struggling. Store closing announcements have more than tripled this year, according to Fung Global Retail & Technology, a retail research firm. The total of 6,700 tops the previous record set in 2008, the first year of the Great Recession.


In exchange for bribes and kickbacks from Insys, doctors wrote large numbers of prescriptions for the patients, most of whom were not diagnosed with cancer, according to the U.S. attorney's office in Boston, which brought the case. The drug first debuted in 2012.
"In the midst of a nationwide opioid epidemic that has reached crisis proportions, Kapoor and his company stand accused of bribing doctors to overprescribe a potent opioid and committing fraud on insurance companies solely for profit," said Acting United States Attorney William D. Weinreb. "Today's arrest and charges reflect our ongoing efforts to attack the opioid crisis from all angles. We must hold the industry and its leadership accountable - just as we would the cartels or a street-level drug dealer."

The arrest and charges against Kapoor came the same day that President Donald Trump declared the opioid epidemic a national public health emergency.
Related: Missouri AG files suit against 3 opioid manufacturers
The law firm representing Kapoor did not respond to requests for comment late Thursday. Kapoor was released on a $1 million cash bail and with a GPS monitor to restrict his movements. He is due to enter a plea in court in Boston next month. A spokesman for Insys declined to comment early Friday.
Kapoor owns or controls 60% of the company's stock, worth more than $240 million based on Thursday's closing price. The stock fell 22% in trading Thursday before Nasdaq halted trading to request additional information from the company late in the day. Trading had not resumed by midday Friday.
Kapoor faces charges conspiracy to violate the federal anti-kickback laws as well as with RICO violations that are often used to bring charges against mobsters.


Related: Misery in Puerto Rico: No power, no job, 'enormous' lines
"We have this historic opportunity: Instead of going with incremental changes, we can go and push the envelope to really transform the infrastructure," Economic Secretary Manuel Laboy told CNNMoney on Thursday in New York. "That is the silver lining opportunity that we have."
The first sign of that type of sweeping rebuild came Wednesday, when Tesla CEO Elon Musk announced that a children's hospital in San Juan, the capital, is being powered by Tesla solar panels and power packs.
Musk wrote in an Instagram post that the project is the "first of many solar + battery Tesla projects going live in Puerto Rico."
Laboy, the economic secretary, said Tesla has "five to 10" projects in the works in Puerto Rico, including schools and community centers. Tesla (TSLA) declined to provide specifics.
AT&T (T) and a project owned by Google's parent company, Alphabet, teamed up to provide cell phone coverage to parts of the island cut off from communication. Project Loon won approval from the U.S. government to fly up to 30 giant balloons over Puerto Rico, beaming down LTE service. (AT&T is buyingTime Warner (TWX), the parent company of CNN.)
Puerto Rico is even pitching itself as a site for Amazon's second headquarters. Laboy declined to provide specifics but said he sent Amazon (AMZN) a lucrative package of incentives to consider.
Related: Puerto Rico power deal now under review
He sees the island's recovery as a selling point with Amazon, in addition to Puerto Rico's educated and bilingual workforce.
"The opportunity to transform the infrastructure ... for me, that is a very powerful message," Laboy said.
Of course, Puerto Rico has to get the lights back on before it can carry out big plans. And that hasn't been easy, nor without controversy.
The utility company, PREPA, found itself under fire after it gave a $300 million contract to an infrastructure repair company, Whitefish Energy. The company only has two official employees, though it's hired hundreds of subcontractors to help restore the power grid.
Investigations are under way into the the contract's procurement. Critics say the contract is bloated and didn't go through proper bidding.
Beyond the physical damage, Puerto Rico must overcome vast other challenges to rebuild an innovative infrastructure system.
Unemployment is high, and some the island's young, educated class has been leaving for the mainland United States for years. Some fear the hurricane's destruction could expedite the exodus. The island's government also filed for bankruptcy last spring.
But Laboy says those challenges shouldn't prevent Puerto Rico from thinking big.
"We need to be bold and we need to transform the system," he added. "That is going to be the key for the recovery, and the sustainable economic growth that we are aspiring to have in Puerto Rico."


Lawmakers in the regional capital of Barcelona had been threatening to break with Spain after a contested independence referendum on October 1 was marred by violence.
Related: Catalan lawmakers vote to split from Spain
The declaration drew an immediate response in Madrid, where the national Senate voted to to seize control of the autonomous region.
The Spanish government is now expected to remove Catalan President Carles Puigdemont from office, and impose direct rule from Madrid.
Spanish stocks and the euro both recovered some lost ground following the response from the central government.

Businesses have been caught in the middle of the dispute. Catalonia is Spain's most economically productive region, hosting 7,100 foreign companies including Volkswagen, Nissan and Cisco.
Analysts say it's not clear how much economic damage the imposition of home rule might cause, but it would like disrupt many of the local government services and processes on which businesses rely.
Related: These banks and businesses are leaving Catalonia
Some executives aren't waiting to see what happens next, and have proactively moved their headquarters out of Catalonia.
Companies that have relocated include major financial firms CaixaBank and Banco Sabadell, as well as real estate company Colonial and energy supplier Gas Natural Fenosa.
Catalonia accounts for nearly a fifth of Spain's economy.


All told, Exxon said Hurricane Harvey expenses and disruptions slashed its profits by about $160 million.
Exxon and the industry as a whole are still trying to get back on their feet following the oil price crash of the past few years. Cheap oil forced Exxon and its rivals to lay off workers and scrap expensive drilling projects.
Related: Oil giant Shell bets on electric cars
Yet oil companies have benefited in recent months from steadier prices and lower expenses. It also helps that Exxon pumped 2% more oil and gas than last year.
Another sign of improvement: For the fourth quarter in a row, Exxon generated enough money through its business and asset sales to cover the cost of its dividends and investments.
Chevron, the No. 2 U.S. oil company, is also on the upswing. Chevron (CVX) logged a 54% jump in third-quarter profits on Friday as oil and gas production increased.
"Cash flow is at a positive inflection point, with oil and gas production increasing and capital spending falling," John Watson's, who is stepping down as Chevron's CEO in February, said in a statement.
On top of efforts to rebound from the oil crash, the industry has grappled with trouble on the climate change front. A Harvard study published in August concluded that Exxon "misled the public" on climate change for nearly four decades. Last month, San Francisco and Oakland filed lawsuits demanding that Exxon, Chevron and other oil companies pay billions to cover climate change costs.


Related: Venezuela's children are dying
Making matters worse: More bills come due next week. On November 2, Venezuela owes $1.1 billion. It will have only a three-day grace period before a default occurs. Venezuela's bonds are owned by an array of investors, from Wall Street strategists to ordinary Americans with 401(k)s.
The government has slowly drained its savings to pay down debt. In 2011, its central bank had $30 billion. In 2015, $20 billion. This year: $10 billion. By comparison, Venezuela's neighbor Colombia has four times as much in reserves: $46 billion.
Leaders from across the Western Hemisphere met in Toronto on Thursday to condemn Venezuela's authoritarian regime, which has allowed the country's vast resources -- it has more crude oil than any other nation -- to go to waste.
"The government of Venezuela is choosing the path of dictatorship," Canada's Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland told her counterparts in Toronto. Its regime "must face consequences that go beyond harsh words and condemnations."
Related: Venezuela is blaming Trump for missed debt payments
Freeland didn't specify what consequences President Nicolas Maduro and his administration could face. She said she hopes Cuba, an ally of Venezuela's, will join the international condemnation of Maduro's power grab.
The Western leaders haven't collectively slapped sanctions on Venezuela, but its leaders say that option is on the table.
One of Maduro's biggest critics was also in Toronto: Former Attorney General Luisa Ortega, who fled the country after Maduro's newly installed legislature banished her from her post.
"In Venezuela it is impossible to raise our voices because people are persecuted and imprisoned," Ortega said Thursday at a separate event at the University of Toronto.
The so-called Lima Group -- named after its first meeting in Lima, Peru, in August -- consists of foreign ministers from Canada and several Latin American nations, including Brazil, Mexico, Colombia and Argentina.
That type of unity is rare in Latin America, a region averse to nations' meddling in each others' affairs after a string of coups and dictatorships in the 20th century, some backed by the CIA.
The United States, which didn't send a representative to Thursday's meeting, has slapped several rounds of sanctions on Maduro's government and its leaders.
Maduro's surrogates have blamed those sanctions for the country's widespread problems and its prolonged delays on debt payments.
Related: Venezuela President tells people to eat rabbits amid food shortages
Excuses aside, experts say Venezuela is likely to default on its debt. It's just anyone's guess when that exactly will happen. The government has come close to defaulting before, only to find cash at the last moment. What's different now is that its cash pile has dwindled significantly.
The consequences of a default would be dire, though the full domino effect may not take place immediately.
Foreign investors would have the right to seize Venezuela's only valuable asset -- oil -- outside the country. That would strangle the government's cash flow, severely restricting its ability to import food and other essentials. Maduro's grip on power would be loosened, experts say.
"A default -- that would trigger the fall of the government," says Edward Glossop, an economist who covers Latin America for Capital Economics, a research firm. "If they were to default ... we're going to get a very painful political transition."


But the attack in Las Vegas earlier this month, which left 58 people dead and almost 500 injured, got much of the attention on the conference call.
Wynn said his company has invested more in security since the shootings. He expects the rest of the industry is doing the same.
"We're sort of operating as a group. Some of us are talking to one another, like the Sands and MGM," he said.
Wynn said people "in every executive suite up and down The Strip and in Reno and everywhere else and in hotels around the country" are searching for ways to prevent another massacre.
"We've had programs of training our employees for two years -- room service, housekeeping, audio visual people that go to fix a TV or touch screen," Wynn said.
"They've all been trained for two years. They inspect the rooms. They look at the people. We profile everybody," he added.
Wynn said that the Las Vegas gunman, Stephen Paddock, had been a gambler at Wynn-owned casinos since 2006 but that there was nothing remarkable about him. He was a typical slots and video poker player who "didn't owe a dime in Las Vegas," Wynn said.
"He didn't meet the profile of a problem gambler or anything like that. He was a very controlled person," Wynn said.
Related: Las Vegas is America's tourism capital
Casino workers who knew Paddock "were stunned, mystified, that the person they knew could have been a person that tried to assassinate hundreds and thousands of people," Wynn said.
Other Las Vegas companies have also said business is getting back to normal.
Las Vegas Sands (LVS), which also operates in Macau, reported solid results and a healthy forecast. And Boyd Gaming (BYD), which owns several casinos in downtown Las Vegas, echoed Wynn's comments about strong tourism.
Boyd CEO Keith Smith said his company does not "anticipate any material impact" on visitors to Vegas in the near future.
Caesars Entertainment (CZR) and Mandalay owner MGM (MGM) wlll release their latest earnings in early November.


Growth in the third quarter "demonstrates that the hurricane ended up having little lasting impact on the economy," says Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics, a research firm.
In fact, the United States enjoyed back-to-back quarters of 3% growth for the first time in three years. Growth from April through June was 3.1%.
President Trump has promised to get it to 3% for an entire year. Economic growth has hung around 2% for years, partly because of slow wage growth and weak spending by businesses.
Related: The job market is strong. Here's the asterisk.
The economy has grown for eight straight years, one of the longest stretches in history. Unemployment is down to 4.2%, its lowest since 2001. The United States has added jobs in 83 of the past 84 months.
"It's still the slowest recovery by a long way," says Dan North, chief economist at Euler Hermes North America, an insurance firm. "But we don't see anything to suggest that we would get a recession in the next year."
North and other economists expected a bigger toll from the hurricanes. Ports, schools and businesses were temporarily closed, and some employees couldn't get to work even if their businesses stayed open.
Hurricane recovery efforts are expected to provide a boost to economic growth toward the end of the year.
Nearly all corners of the U.S. economy contributed to growth in the third quarter. Exports, imports and business spending on long-term projects were all up. Consumer spending, which makes up the majority of economic activity, rose a healthy 3.3%.
North expects the U.S. economy to stay on track unless an unexpected shock happens, "like an incident with North Korea."


Stockton will likely become the first city in the nation to test out a version of universal basic income, an economic system that would regularly provide all residents enough money to cover basic expenses, with no conditions or restrictions.
Stockton hopes to launch its program next year and enroll several hundred of the city's residents for at least a couple of years, depending on the availability of funding.
The concept of universal basic income — or UBI — has been around for decades. Martin Luther King advocated for it in 1967 to create a minimum standard of living. Up until recently, it has mostly been a subject of discussion among academics. But universal basic income has started to gain traction as poverty has grown and fears of automation killing jobs have mounted.
Large-scale trials began this year in Finland and Canada to test whether the program improves outcomes like health and employment.
Related: Mark Zuckerberg supports universal basic income. What is that?
In the U.S., the movement's epicenter is Silicon Valley, where inequality is stark and labor-saving technologies like self-driving cars seem just around the corner. Tech leaders, from Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg to Tesla's Elon Musk, have endorsed the idea as insurance against a jobless future.
Now, some of them are putting serious money behind it. YCombinator, the tech incubator known for minting high-profile startups, is hosting academics who'll research the idea using a control group and a random selection of approximately 3,000 participants in Oakland, California starting next year.
Meanwhile, a recently launched non-profit called the Economic Security Project has committed $1 million to the Stockton effort, with funding from donors that include Facebook co-founder Chris Hughes.
"There was not significant money in the space before" these groups got involved, says longtime advocate Jim Pugh, a robotics PhD who runs a tech and analytics firm that serves progressive causes. "It was definitely a significant uptick."
Rather than a research paper, Stockton is planning a media campaign featuring program participants talking about their experiences. "Alongside the data, we need stories," says Natalie Foster, a co-founder of the Economic Security Project.
Backers hope larger cities and states will eventually adopt universal basic income programs, much like they've passed higher minimum wages and paid family leave laws while federal action has stalled. The hope is that, pressure would build to take the program nationwide.
There are some wrinkles in this plan, however.
In its purest form, every American would receive a basic income, which some estimates peg at about $10,000 per year. In the aggregate, that would add trillions to the budget annually.
Policymakers could lighten the burden by scrapping the rest of the U.S.'s targeted anti-poverty programs, like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (known as food stamps) and Medicaid
Related: Global unemployment to hit 200 million as wages stagnate
That approach has attracted support from libertarians, who see a single-payment safety net as less bureaucratic and more market-friendly than the current alphabet soup of government programs. Conservative political scientist Charles Murray, known for his "bell curve" theory about the relationship between intelligence and income, is among UBI's leading proponents.
But many on the left see the idea as a Trojan horse for eliminating benefits that currently lift millions of people out of poverty.
"The risk is high that under any UBI that could conceivably gain traction politically, tens of millions of poor people would likely end up worse off," wrote Robert Greenstein, the president of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, in a blog post last month.
Left-leaning supporters insist that universal basic income should be an add-on to the existing safety net, not a replacement. But that assurance hasn't firmed up support across the aisle.
Joe Biden, former Obama Council of Economic Advisors chair Jason Furman, and Center for American Progress president Neera Tanden have all opposed the idea for another reason: They say giving people enough money to live on will drive them out of the workforce, and that having a job is essential for emotional health and social status.
Basic income proponents disagree.
"That seems to rest on a thin theory of how one develops a work ethic — that it takes either hunger or suffering or poverty or fear," says political scientist and Economic Security Project co-founder Dorian Warren. A recent review of decades of research on basic income-like programs in the U.S. and Canada found that, in most cases, participants reduce their work hours only slightly.
Within a couple of years, the Stockton experiment may shed more light on that question. Tubbs thinks that participants might use the extra income to take a break from work in order to advance their careers through education, or invest in their kids.
"My constituents in Stockton are incredibly resourceful, intelligent and hardworking," he says. "And oftentimes all they need is an opportunity."


CEO Yasuyuki Yoshinaga told reporters that the practice stretched back 30 years, but that the company didn't realize until recently that it was breaking government rules.
The issues at Subaru came to light after Nissan (NSANF) reported similar problems last month, prompting the Japanese government to request that other automakers inspect their production lines.
Subaru expects the planned recall to cost it more than ¥5 billion ($44 million).
Related: What's wrong with Japan Inc?
Yoshinaga didn't specify whether any countries outside Japan would be affected by the recall. Only about 15% of Subaru vehicles are sold in Japan. The U.S. is its biggest market.
Subaru shares fell as much as 3.3% in Tokyo on Friday after reports about the scandal appeared in the Japanese media. The stock closed down 2.6%.
The Subaru problems closely follow the crisis at Nissan.
Last week, Nissan said it would halt production of cars for the Japanese market after discovering that inspections were not carried out properly at several factories. It had already announced a recall of 1.2 million vehicles over the issue.
Related: Nissan halts production of cars sold in Japan
Bloomberg reported Friday that the practice of letting uncertified workers carry out inspections at Nissan could stretch back as far as 1979. The company declined to comment on the report, saying it was awaiting the result of an external investigation.
Nissan CEO Hiroto Saikawa said last week that one of the reasons it was difficult to fix the inspections problem was because it had become engrained and part of the company culture.
Subaru's admission adds to an ugly month for corporate Japan.
Earlier in October, Kobe Steel (KBSTY), a century-old industrial giant, admitted to faking quality data on aluminum and copper products shipped to big customers including Toyota (TM) and Boeing (BA).
Other recent scandals include Takata's deadly airbags, Mitsubishi Motors' fudged fuel-efficiency tests and Toshiba (TOSBF)'s damaging debacles over its accounting and its nuclear power business.


She turned to Insure Georgia, a program funded in large part by federal money to help consumers enroll in Obamacare. A trained navigator showed her how to compare policies on the website, look at drug formularies and examine differences in prices and provider networks.
Related: Here's what you'll pay for Obamacare in 2018
"I could have done it without her, maybe, but it would have taken me forever," Trawick said.
This fall, it will be different.
Open enrollment for ACA plans, which begins Nov. 1, has been shortened to 45 days. At the same time, funding for navigator programs and other support for consumers has been cut dramatically in Georgia — by 86% — and across the country.
The number of navigators for Insure Georgia, the nonprofit agency that has received the bulk of federal funding for enrollment efforts in past years, will drop to "about 20," from 42 last year, said Fred Ammons, chief executive officer.
Ammons said he is concerned that with all the past year's rhetoric among Republicans in Washington about repealing and replacing Obamacare, some people may not even understand that the program is still available.
That could be a problem in Georgia, which, after seeing increased enrollment in the first three years of the marketplaces, experienced a 16% drop in sign-ups for 2017 coverage. In some rural counties the decline was as much as 36%. Georgia ranks third in uninsured residents, behind only Texas and Florida.
'Isn't Obamacare Dead?'
ACA supporters are concerned that residents in the rural portions of Georgia — which make up about 17% of the population — could be most at risk. In recent decades, those rural areas have fallen behind other parts of the state in income, educational achievement and in access to health care.
With enrollment assistance resources so strapped, it will be hard to reach out to rural consumers.
"We had a booth at the PRIDE festival in Atlanta last Sunday, and someone said, 'Why are y'all even here? Isn't Obamacare dead?'" Ammons said. "And if they think that in Atlanta, you can only imagine what they think in south Georgia."
Related: Trump's quest to kill Obamacare hurts the middle class
Health economist William Custer, who teaches at Georgia State University in Atlanta, echoed those fears about increases in the number of uninsured in rural Georgia.
The effects of less insurance will be felt hard in those areas, he explained. Nearly half of the state's counties, most of them in rural areas, do not have an OB-GYN. Seven hospitals in rural Georgia have closed within the past four years. Several have closed their labor and delivery units.
If people in rural Georgia lose insurance rather than gain it, efforts made in recent years by state leaders to stanch financial bleeding at rural hospitals could be jeopardized, Custer said.
"This is really the big worry. The problem in Georgia is that we have very different geographics, very different demographics and very different health care. These changes this year really seem to be pushing us even more to two Georgias," Custer said.
'Let Obamacare Fail'
Much of the cutbacks and confusion, health care advocates said, follows President Trump's disparagement of the law. He campaigned on a promise to "repeal and replace the disaster that is Obamacare" and announced in July that he would "let Obamacare fail."
Even though Congress could not pass a replacement bill, the Trump administration's changes in timing and funding for enrollment will have an effect, the advocates charge.
"The most damaging has been the rhetoric and confusion," said Laura Colbert, executive director of Georgians for a Healthy Future, an advocacy group. "Overall, this could be a bellwether for future years."
Related: Trump administration is making it even harder to sign up for Obamacare
Ammons, who is from rural Georgia, said he lies awake at night wondering how to reach people who need health insurance.
"I don't know what I can do to help these uninsured people," he said, adding that "for a brief moment, I thought 'We can't even do this.'"
That was the night he learned, in an email, that Insure Georgia's funding had been cut from $2.3 million to $328,000.
Ammons said he realized that he would have to lay off full-time employees. He said he also figured out that he would have to cut back on navigators that Insure Georgia typically hired short-term for open enrollment.
Next, he cut every non-personnel line item he could, which meant terminating leases and closing offices. The group found donated space in Vidalia, in central Georgia, and in Brunswick, a port city near Savannah. But that leaves the southwestern portion of the state, an especially poor area of Georgia, without a nearby office.
Ammons said that other nonprofit groups have donated money that will allow Insure Georgia representatives to travel to 500 community enrollment events across the state. While Insure Georgia held more than 1,500 community events last year in all of Georgia's 159 counties, his goal is more modest this year.
"We want to at least be in every county with a Walmart," he said.
Kaiser Health News is a national health policy news service that is part of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.


Big Oil, which has been under pressure from low crude prices, has largely missed out on this year's market rally. ExxonMobil (XOM) shares have fallen by about 8% in 2017, while Chevron (CVX) has inched up by less than 1%.
A Harvard study published in August found that Exxon "misled the public" on climate change for nearly 40 years. The same month, a number of Exxon's refineries went offline because of Hurricane Harvey.
In September, San Francisco and Oakland filed lawsuits demanding that Exxon, Chevron and other companies pay billions to protect the coastal cities from rising sea levels. The following week, Chevron announced that its CEO would step down next year.
Other companies reporting results Friday morning include Goodyear Tire (GT) and Merck (MRK).
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Stock market movers: Shares in Amazon (AMZN) and Microsoft (MSFT) are shooting higher premarket after the firms reported better-than-expected profits.
Mattel (MAT), Baidu (BIDU) and Expedia (EXPE) shares are expected to slump.
Mattel (MAT) announced it's suspending its quarterly dividend in order to free up cash. Its global sales have dropped 13%.
Aetna (AET) shares spiked 12% late on Thursday after the Wall Street Journal reported that it's in talks to be purchased by CVS Health (CVS). Investors will be keeping an eye on any further developments. Both companies declined to comment.
4. Things fall apart: Swiss chemicals giant Clariant (CLZNY) and its U.S. rival Hunstman (HUN) have decided to abandon their $20 billion merger following a shareholder revolt.
The companies said in a joint statement that they would not join forces because of doubts that Clariant would get the backing of enough investors to push the deal through.
The deal's termination marks a major win for top Clariant shareholder White Tale Holdings -- a partnership between hedge funds Corvex and 40 North -- that had opposed the merger.
5. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were mixed.
European markets posted gains in early trading. Japan's Nikkei posted a 1.2% increase to lead most Asian markets higher.
The Dow Jones industrial average added 0.3% on Thursday, while S&P 500 gained 0.1% and the Nasdaq dipped 0.1%.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday -- ExxonMobil, Chevron and Merck earnings; GDP Q3 estimate released


The deal was undermined by White Tale Holdings, an activist investor who vocally opposed the merger and bought up Clariant shares in an effort to derail it.
White Tale, a partnership between hedge funds Corvex and 40 North, now claims to be the Swiss chemical giant's biggest shareholder.
Related: The battle for the future of Tide
"The proposed transaction has no strategic merit," White Tale wrote in a letter published last month. "It both significantly destroys existing Clariant shareholder value and prevents Clariant from pursuing multiple alternative and immediate opportunities to unlock value for its shareholders."
Its opposition to the deal is now being supported by other shareholders as well, Clariant and Huntsman (HUN) said.
Clariant announced on Friday that White Tale had increased its stake in the company to more than 20%. The investor's stake was at 15% last month when it launched its attack on the merger.


Spain's prime minister is promising direct rule over Catalonia and has declared its government to be in "systematic rebellion and disobedience." Rebellion is the same word used by Lincoln in 1863 to describe the 11 southern states that seceded from the U.S. over slavery.
The ensuing Civil War took the lives of hundreds of thousands of soldiers on both sides. It was a war Lincoln described as "one of the most terrible."
I don't want to stretch the analogy too far. What struck me at Lincoln's cottage was the language being used in the 19th Century conflict in America and today's dispute in Europe.
It is naïve to believe bloodshed over secession can't happen in the modern European Union world. There already has been violence during the recent referendum. At each twist and turn of this dispute, the rhetoric has become more heated and the anger levels have risen.
It is not beyond the realm of possibility for the Catalonia dispute to degenerate into fighting and loss of life. It may not be on the same scale of the American Civil War, but it could wind up destroying the bonds of the European Union.
Sign up for the weekly Quest newsletter in your inbox
Scandal-ridden Japan Inc. is in trouble
The results are in: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe claimed victory in the latest snap election.
Despite the success of some of Abe's economic programs, Japan is still grappling with an aging population and massive debt. And major Japanese companies are anything but winners on the global stage.
The Kobe Steel false data scandal is just the latest hit to the country's once stellar corporate reputation.
Takata. Mitsubishi. Toshiba. Even Nissan has suspended production of cars for the Japanese market due to vehicle inspection issues.
-- Paul R. La Monica
Earnings are sizzling. But are stocks too hot?
Caterpillar. McDonald's. 3M. GM. These are just a few of the big brands generating even bigger profits. Even Twitter is talking about finally making money.
That earnings bonanza has lifted stocks to uncharted territory. But is Wall Street celebrating a bit too hard?
Some market pros worry stocks are too pricey. By most measures, S&P 500 stocks have rarely been as expensive as now. There's also the risk that the GOP tax overhaul or the Federal Reserve cause a rapid spike in rates that derails the rally in stocks.
-- Matt Egan
Silicon Valley's Russia problem keeps growing
To what extent did American tech companies give Russia a platform to disrupt the 2016 U.S. election?
It's a big question that's only getting bigger.
Twitter has yanked all advertising bought by Russia Today and Sputnik after determining that both news organizations meddled in the election on Russia's behalf. Earlier in the week, Twitter said it would start labeling all political ads.
Across the pond, the U.K. is asking Facebook for more info on Russian-linked ads related to the Brexit vote.
The kicker: It's not just Facebook, Twitter and Google that will have to answer for their policies. Internet services companies had a role to play, too.
-- Julia Horowitz
Canada, Mexico prepare for NAFTA's end
Mexico and Canada are developing backup plans in case President Trump decides to withdraw the United States from NAFTA, the three-nation trade agreement.
Mexican and Canadian officials met in Colombia with this week with counterparts from three Latin American nations. They're also both still in talks with former nations of TPP -- the trade deal Trump axed in January.
Mexico is also considering a trade deal with China.
After the latest round of NAFTA negotiations ended on a gloomy note, both Canadian and Mexican leaders are acknowledging that they must prepare for life without NAFTA.
-- Patrick Gillespie
Quick Takes
Trump's tax plan would help foreign investors, but maybe not U.S. middle class
At 'Davos in the Desert,' Saudis unveil $500 billion mega-city to span 3 nations
More U.S. stores have closed this year than during the 2008 financial meltdown
ECB taps the brakes on massive stimulus; Britain prepares for rare rate hike
Employers are shooting themselves in the foot by making it harder to hire
What's next
Health of U.S. economy: Is the U.S. still moving toward President Trump's goal of 3% growth? U.S. GDP for the third quarter publishes Friday. The hurricanes likely had some impact on spending and growth for the quarter.
Earnings, earnings, earnings: Lots of major brands report earnings Friday and next week. On Friday, energy giants Exxon and Chevron report. Next week is a full menu for Wall Street: Under Armour, Facebook, Apple and Starbucks report, along with a litany of other firms. So far, this earnings season is going very well.
Europe's comeback: The Eurozone reports its GDP on Monday. It could be the latest signs of a long-anticipated bounce back after years of economic stagnation in the region.
Who will be the next Fed Chair: President Trump is leaving everyone is suspense a little longer. A White House source told CNN that a decision is expected before Trump's big trip to Asia at the end of next week. But the person cautioned that there's "no guarantees."
Speaking of the Fed: Leaders of America's central bank meet Tuesday and Wednesday in Washington. They're not expected to raise rates, but a December rate hike is expected by Wall Street. The Bank of England's committee also meets to decide the path ahead for its monetary policy.
Trump tax reform: Republicans in the House of Representatives are expected to introduce a bill to overhaul the U.S. tax system for companies and individuals.
Mexico's GDP: The numbers will post next Tuesday.


Related: Hasbro hurt by Toys 'R' Us bankruptcy
Mattel offered a few reasons for its dismal report: Primarily, Toys 'R' Us' financial woes has made it hard for Mattel to perform.
It's no surprise. The retailer was once responsible for nearly 10% of Mattel's sales.
And Mattel's not the only one feeling the impact of the Toys 'R' Us bankruptcy. Hasbro (HAS) rattled investors when it warned this week that sales for the holiday fourth quarter could be lower than expected, citing Toys R Us as one reason. The news sent Hasbro stock tumbling by about 10%.
Related: Toys 'R' Us files for bankruptcy
But Hasbro has a lifeline in the form of its Star Wars, Marvel and Disney Princess toys, and it reported sales and profits for the third quarter that topped forecasts.
Mattel toys, on the other hand, have been performing poorly for the past few quarters.
This past quarter, its signature toys sold poorly again.
American Girl sales were down 30% worldwide compared to this time last year. Fisher Price sales fell by 15%, and Barbie sales were down by 6%.
The company said it wants to cut at least $650 million in costs over the next two years to help put it back on track.
-- CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed reporting to this story.


Both companies declined to comment on market "rumors."
If the merger is approved and goes through, it would reshape the health care industry. CVS Health controls a massive drugstore chain and pharmacy benefits management system, while Aetna is one of the nation's largest insurers.
Related: Here's what you'll pay for Obamacare in 2018
But mergers involving health insurance companies have run into roadblocks in the recent past. In 2015, Aetna and Humana announced a $34 billion merger, while Anthem agreed to acquire Cigna for $54 billion. Both deals were called off in February after they were targeted by the Justice Department over antitrust concerns and blocked by federal judges.


OGE helps evaluate whether appointees have resolved potential conflicts between their government roles and their financial holdings. Although OGE doesn't have authority to investigate, it can refer matters to inspectors general and the Department of Justice.
At issue is whether Ross should have disclosed $2 billion of assets Forbes said he transferred to a trust. The Democrats want to know when Ross moved the money and whether he controls the trust. Those details will help determine whether Ross possibly violated disclosure rules and conflict laws.
In a statement, the Commerce Department said, "It is unfortunate the inaccuracies in the Forbes story have created the confusion expressed in this letter. The secretary remains committed to the highest ethical standards, and continues to work closely with Commerce ethics officials in service of the department's mission."
Ross may have violated disclosure rules if he intentionally failed to disclose reportable assets or any income from them, said Virginia Canter, executive branch ethics counsel at Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics. (CREW, which policies potential ethics problems in government, is suing President Trump alleging his business interests violate the Constitution.)
Canter pointed out that OGE's financial disclosure requires appointees to list income received above $200 within the reporting period, which in this case includes all of 2015 through December 19, 2016. Even if Ross transferred the assets before the election, he needed to report any income from those assets in that time period if it exceeded $200.
"At the risk of stating the obvious, $2 billion is not a rounding error," Senator Blumenthal said.


There will be 'hell to pay'
The contract has raised a few eyebrows given that the firm is based in the same hometown as Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and it employed just two people at the time Hurricane Maria made landfall.
Such concerns prompted a separate House committee on Thursday to also open a review of the multimillion dollar contract.
Rep. Rob Bishop, chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources, wrote a letter to Richard Ramos, the head of the PREPA, requesting further information on the contract.
In addition, Sen. Maria Cantwell, a ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, has asked the Government Accountability Office to review the matter. A GAO spokesman said the agency has received the letter and is reviewing the request."
Related: Questions swirl after small Montana firm lands Puerto Rico power contract
A White House spokesman told CNN the decision to give the contract to Whitefish was made exclusively by PREPA. "The White House is not aware of any federal involvement in the selection," White House spokesman Raj Shah said.
In a letter to the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security, Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello requested that the government oversight agency complete its review of the Whitefish contract by October 30.
Rossello also noted that he recently asked Puerto Rico's Office of Management and Budget to audit the Whitefish contract in order to ensure it's in compliance with all of the appropriate laws. The results of that audit are due Friday, Rossello told CNN.
"If there is no wrongdoing, if it has been done correctly then we will push forward," Rossello told CNN. "If there is wrongdoing in this process or any process there will be hell to pay."
A Twitter battle ensues
Since the company announced the deal last week it has been swept up in controversy.
On Wednesday, a public feud erupted between Whitefish and San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz on Twitter. Whitefish later issued an apology to Yulin Cruz after criticizing her and threatening to pull workers from the city she represents.
In an earlier interview with Yahoo News, the mayor had called the multimillion dollar contract awarded to Whitefish "alarming" and pressed for the contract to be canceled immediately.
"The contract should be voided right away and a proper process which is clear, transparent, legal, moral and ethical should take place," Yulin Cruz said of the two-year old electrical utility in the interview Tuesday.
Related: San Juan's mayor takes on small Montana firm over Puerto Rico power contract
In response, Whitefish spokesman Chris Chiames posted a statement on Twitter calling Yulin Cruz's comments "misplaced."
"We find her comments to be very disappointing and demoralizing to the hundreds of people on our team that have left their homes and families and have come here to help the people of Puerto Rico," Whitefish tweeted Wednesday.
By the afternoon, the situation grew heated.
Yulin Cruz tweeted back: "If @WhitefishEnergy feels that asking for transparency is "misplaced", what are they afraid we will find."
"We've got 44 linemen rebuilding power lines in your city & 40 more men just arrived. Do you want us to send them back or keep working?," the utility company replied.
Related: Questions swirl after small Montana firm lands Puerto Rico contract
"Threats received by @WhitefishEnergy. The implication is if I do not "play nice" they will not do their job. Nasty!," the mayor tweeted back. She said Whitefish's response implied it would not treat San Juan with the "diligence it deserves."
Whitefish later said it is committed to restoring power in Puerto Rico and then apologized to the mayor.
"Mayor Cruz and everyone in Puerto Rico... we would like to apologize for our comments earlier today, which did not represent who we are and how important this work is to help Puerto Rico's recovery," the company posted on Twitter late Wednesday night.
Yulin Cruz does not have authority over PREPA and the contracts it issues. She has long been a critic of Rossello, who backed the Whitefish contract, and has criticized President Trump's handling of relief efforts on the island.
Hometown connections in question
PREPA's Ramos told reporters during a press conference last week the cash-strapped island chose Whitefish because it didn't require a big deposit upfront. The other contender, Power Security, wanted a $25 million down payment for the work, Ramos said.
"In that moment, we were not in a position to offer that collateral," said Ramos. "The other company did not ask for a guarantee of payment."
In an interview with CNN on Thursday, Ramos said he had no regrets about picking Whitefish out of the seven companies he spoke with about working on the recovery efforts.
"If we went back in time, I would do it all over again," Ramos said, adding the company is "doing a great job."
But some on Capitol Hill are concerned that Whitefish may have stood out for another reason.
The tiny utility company is based in Whitefish, Montana, which also happens to be Zinke's hometown.
Both Zinke and Whitefish CEO Andy Techmanski acknowledge knowing one another. Zinke's office described Whitefish as a "small town" with a population of roughly 6,000 people. One of the secretary's sons "joined a friend who worked a summer job at one their [Whitefish's] construction sites."
Related: FEMA just got another $6.7 billion to help with hurricane relief
Whitefish spokesman Ken Luce confirmed an Oct. 1 report by NBC Montana, which quoted Techmanski as saying he reached out to Zinke after winning the contract to help get resources to the island more quickly,
But Luce told CNN that the company did not make any requests to the administration before the contract was signed on Sept. 26.
"The secretary had absolutely nothing to do with Whitefish getting the contract," he said.
Techmanski, who has described the firm as specializing in "difficult and mountainous terrain projects," has downplayed any ties to the administration.
"All I can say is, we took the call and we're here," Techmanski told CNN Friday, referring to a call from director Ramos. "We called each other."
PREPA, which is $9 billion in debt, could have requested aid after Maria through the American Public Power Association, a network that provides help to other utilities during widespread power outages. That's what Texas and Florida did after Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
Ramos told CNN on Thursday that the closest states to Puerto Rico were already dealing with their own aftermath of earlier hurricanes and he believed they would not be able to respond quickly to the island's needs. The bankrupt utility also couldn't afford to cover the costs of utilizing the network either, he added.
Related: Misery in Puerto Rico: No power, no job, 'enormous lines'
Whitefish does have another tie to the administration.
HBC Investments, which was founded by a big Republican donor named Joe Colonnetta, backs the firm. Colonnetta and his wife donated more than $20,000 to Donald Trump's presidential campaign and more than $30,000 to the Republican National Committee last year alone, according to a filing from the Federal Election Commission.
A representative for Colonnetta was not immediately available to comment on the donations.
Luce said the investment firm learned of Whitefish last summer through an unnamed mutual acquaintance in the energy industry.
"Techmanski is the type of entrepreneur HBC likes -- a family guy with a good business plan," Luce said, noting that the Whitefish CEO had previously managed contracts of up to $250 million.
Additional reporting by Julia Jones, Martin Savidge and Paul Murphy.


"hey @KelloggsUS why is literally the only brown corn pop on the whole cereal box the janitor? This is teaching kids racism," tweeted Ahmed.
hey @KelloggsUS why is literally the only brown corn pop on the whole cereal box the janitor? this is teaching kids racism. pic.twitter.com/Nh7M7IFawW

Kellogg's reply came about five hours after Ahmed's original tweet that morning, presumably during breakfast. Ahmed replied that he appreciated the "rapid response."
Since then, many of his tweets have either been pitching his upcoming comic book "Abbott," which he describes as a supernatural crime thriller set in his home town of Detroit, or complaining about getting "hate retweeted" by racists.
Ahmed has published several science fiction novels, including "Throne of the Crescent Moon" in 2012, which was nominated for Hugo and Nebula Awards.
Kellogg's and Ahmed's publishers Penguin Random House and Boom! Studios did not immediately return messages from CNNMoney. Ahmed did not immediately respond to a message on Twitter.
Related: Dove 'missed the mark' with racially insensitive ad
A string of companies have come under scrutiny for racially insensitive advertising, like a Dove ad earlier this month which prompted the company to admit it "missed the mark."
But Cheerios received attention of a different kind when it featured a mixed race couple and child in a commercial in 2013, which won praise from some consumers, but backlash from racists.


Investors were dealt a fresh reminder of the market's addiction to ultra-low rates this week as the 10-year Treasury yield jumped to 2.44%, the highest since March. The closely watched Treasury rate, which moves opposite the price, is up dramatically from 2.27% on October 16.
The selloff in bonds has been driven in part by expectations for faster growth and concerns that President Trump's choice to lead the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates more aggressively than Janet Yellen would. Some also worry that Trump's proposed tax overhaul could overheat the economy.
The sudden move in rates led star bond investor Jeff Gundlach to warn on Twitter that "obituaries need to be written" for the 30-year bull market in bonds if the momentum doesn't reverse soon. "The moment of truth has arrived," the billionaire said.
Mike LaBella, portfolio manager at QS Investors, believes rates are still low enough to keep the party going in the stock market.
"But if rates climb at this accelerated pace, that could potentially hinder this recovery. Well above 3% or closer to 4% would definitely be alarming," LaBella said.
Related: How Trump's tax plan could backfire on Wall Street
Of course, it's way too early to say the great bull market in bonds is done. And steadily rising interest rates aren't a bad thing. If anything, investors alarmed by how long rates have remained extremely low would welcome a return to normalcy. As would those who own shares of banks, which have struggled to make money in the low-rate environment.
That's why Wall Street has largely applauded the Federal Reserve's efforts to gradually raise interest rates.
"The economy can absorb slowly rising interest rates," said Art Hogan, chief equity strategist at Wunderlich Securities. But he conceded that the recent spike is "not gradual" and has forced investors to "sit up and take notice."
It's no secret that ultra-low rates helped fuel the bull market in stocks. Bond returns are so low that investors are willing to accept more risk in stocks, even stocks that are very, very expensive by historical standards.
After getting accustomed to low rates for nearly a decade, investors may be caught off guard by a sudden spike in rates.
The Treasury Department's Office of Financial Research published a heat map this week identifying weaknesses in the U.S. financial system. Just one of the map's six categories flashed red, signaling high vulnerability: market risk. Within that category, the report indicated that the biggest risk is that the market is unprepared for higher rates.
Related: Caution: U.S. stocks have rarely been this expensive
Trump's effort to overhaul the tax system could push rates higher. If it gets through Congress, tax reform could spook the bond market by adding to the federal deficit or overstimulating a healthy economy.
And the bond market could sell off if the European Central Bank and the Fed unwind their emergency bond-buying programs more aggressively than investors have been anticipating.
Yet Guy LeBas, chief fixed income strategist at Janney Capital, thinks it's "silly" to predict the end of the bond bull market because Treasury rates remain very low, hovering just above their five-year average.
And bond bulls believe demand will stay high because the population of the world's major economies is getting older, and those people want safe, steady income.
"That's a trend that isn't ending anytime soon," LeBas said.
If that's true, rising rates may pose a risk to the stock market, but perhaps not an imminent one.


Related: NAACP warns black passengers about traveling with American Airlines
He repeated an earlier statement that he hoped to meet with leaders of the NAACP about its complaints.
"Organizations like the NAACP can help us. So we welcome the opportunity to work with them," he said. "Indeed, we are excited about it and enthusiastic to sit down and listen and learn together."
Parker's statement Thursday goes beyond his initial response Wednesday, in which he said he was disappointed with the advisory and vowed, "We do not and will not tolerate discrimination of any kind."
The civil rights group's statement earlier this week cited four examples of black passengers who were forced to give up their seats or were removed from flights.
The group said the incidents "suggest a corporate culture of racial insensitivity and possible racial bias," and advised travelers to exercise caution.
"Booking and boarding flights on American Airlines could subject them [to] disrespectful, discriminatory or unsafe conditions," the advisory said.
But Parker's statement Thursday was encouraging, said Hilary Shelton, the NAACP's Washington bureau director and senior vice president for advocacy and policy. He said it recognized the need to address problems.
"I'm delighted to see that American Airlines is at least saying the right things now," Shelton told CNNMoney. "Our hope is that they are able to follow through with something much more comprehensive."
The NAACP has called for boycotts of companies and places in the past, but this was only the second time it has issued a travel advisory, Shelton said.
Over the summer, it issued an advisory for travel to Missouri, citing several instances of discrimination as reason for black visitors to use "extreme caution."
The decision to issue a warning about American Airlines came after the NAACP fielded roughly two dozen complaints over the past two years, Shelton said.
The decision was also driven by higher-profile incidents. Civil rights activist Tamika Mallory said she was removed from a New York-bound flight after her seat was changed without her consent.
Shelton stressed that the American Airlines advisory was not a boycott. He likened it to a warning from the State Department when it deems a country dangerous to visit.
"They have to make a decision," he said of black fliers who are thinking of booking on American. "Is that the airline you want to get on? But they'll have the information, the experiences that have occurred, and hopefully very soon, how American Airlines is going to respond to this, so they can make that informed decision."
Shelton said the NAACP has received complaints about other airlines, but none as consistently as American.
"There is a pattern that has come up -- a pattern and a practice that is deeply concerning," he said.
He added that his office in Washington has received two dozen complaints about American since the advisory was posted, including some from employees who have raised concerns about their experiences inside the company.
-- CNNMoney's Rob McLean contributed to this report.


It's also a sign that A-B InBev's push to brand Budweiser beer as "America" on bottles and cans during what the company called its "American Summer" may have failed to catch on with suds-loving consumers.
A-B InBev said that market share for Budweiser and the lower calorie Bud Light fell in the U.S. during the quarter.
Beer snobs in the U.S. are increasingly choosing fancier and pricier craft brews over established brands like Bud.
AB-In Bev has recognized this and has been on a microbrew shopping spree over the past few years, scooping up popular brands like Goose Island, 10 Barrel Brewing and Blue Point.
The company also has a significant minority stake in Craft Brew Alliance (BREW), the publicly traded firm that owns the Kona, Redhook and Widmer Brothers brands of beer.
Related: Corona time! Beer owner's sales soar
But AB-In Bev's growth in the craft segment isn't enough to offset the declines in its top brands just yet.
Still, it wasn't all bad news for the company. A-B InBev said that other established brands, namely Michelob Ultra, Busch and Stella Artois, were growing in the U.S. and helping to pick up the slack for the weaker Bud and Bud Light sales.
Overall revenues were up globally in the quarter thanks to growth in China, South Korea, Brazil, Argentina and Chile. AB-In Bev is also cutting costs thanks to its more than $100 billion merger with SABMiller last year.
And even though BUD stock was down Thursday on the weak U.S. sales, the brewer's shares are still up 13% this year -- better than nearly all its rivals. Boston Beer (SAM), the owner of Sam Adams. is up just 5% while Molson Coors (TAP) is down 17%.
But the American-listed shares of Heineken (HEINY) are up nearly 30% in 2017 while Constellation Brands (STZ), which sells Corona in the U.S., is up almost 40%.


Many insurers hiked the price of their silver policies for 2018 to offset President Trump's elimination of the funding for Obamacare's cost-sharing subsidies. These payments, made directly to insurers, reduce deductibles and co-pays for lower-income enrollees.
Trump had threatened to eliminate the funding all year, finally doing so earlier this month. Those who earn too much to qualify for premium subsidies will be hit the hardest.
Related: Trump's quest to kill Obamacare hurts the middle class
But in a strange twist, those eligible for premium assistance could actually find themselves able to buy gold plans -- which have lower deductibles -- for less than or the same price as the silver policies. That's because they'll likely receive more generous subsidies, which will make the gold plans more affordable.
Here's why: Most state regulators directed insurers to compensate for the loss of the cost-sharing subsidy funding by hiking only the prices of their silver plans, knowing the premium subsidy would shield eligible enrollees from the increase.
"People will see much better deals in those states," said David Anderson, research associate at Duke's Margolis Center for Health Policy.
Gold plan premiums are rising by 16% on average, while the prices for bronze plans, which have lower rates but higher deductibles, are increasing by an average of 18%, according to Avalere.
Related: Actually, Trump is raising health insurance premiums
This makes it even more crucial for consumers to shop for 2018 coverage during open enrollment, which runs through Dec. 15. Those who don't may find themselves missing out on more affordable coverage or, even worse, stuck with much costlier plans or no coverage at all. Premium subsidies are based on the second lowest cost silver plan, but this benchmark policy can change year to year.
The window shopping tool is one of several features the Trump administration is keeping for the open enrollment season. However, it is making many other changes that critics say will sabotage Obamacare.
First, what's staying the same:
Call centers will be staffed: Roughly the same number of call center representatives will be available to answer enrollment questions. Last year, staffing peaked at 11,000 people, according to the administration. New this year will be a call-back feature so consumers can opt to get a return call, rather than wait on hold.
Waiting rooms could be deployed if needed: As in prior years, consumers may be put in virtual "waiting rooms" when healthcare.gov traffic is high. Users will see a message asking them to stay on the page, which will refresh when they can continue with enrollment.
And here's what's new:
A big change for auto re-enrollment: The Trump administration will once again automatically re-enroll consumers who don't actively select a plan by Dec. 15. However, unlike in prior years, participants won't be able to switch to another policy after that date. That's because open enrollment ends on Dec. 15, whereas it continued at least through the end of January in previous years.
This is a big deal because some policies will be far costlier next year. Consumers may get stuck if they don't shop around.
Enrolling outside of healthcare.gov: Consumers will now be able to enroll directly through certain third-party websites, rather than having to go to healthcare.gov to complete their applications.
Also, the federal exchange will make it easier for consumers to connect with agents and brokers for assistance with applications through a new "Help on Demand" service.
The Trump administration says this will provide Americans with more ways to enroll. Critics, however, worry that applicants may be steered to certain insurers' products and may not be told of less-expensive options.
The open enrollment features released Wednesday follow many other changes Trump officials are instituting that experts say will likely dampen sign-ups. These include cutting the enrollment period in half, cutting funding to non-profit groups that help consumers pick plans and slashing the advertising budget by 90% -- not to mention, Trump's repeated declarations that Obamacare is dead.
Related: Trump administration is making it even harder to sign up for Obamacare
The administration said Wednesday that it will target the uninsured, as well as young and healthy enrollees who plan to sign up again, in its marketing campaigns. It will use YouTube videos, social media, mobile and search advertising, emails, texts and autodial messages to reach out to consumers.
What the administration is not doing is television, radio and direct mail advertising. TV, in particular, is the most effective way to drive people to enroll, said Lori Lodes, a former Obama administration official who co-founded the Get America Covered campaign to try to boost enrollment.
Trump officials seem to be interested in making sure consumers get help while enrolling, Lodes said. However, the Trump administration isn't looking to boost the number of Americans signing up for Obamacare.
"They are only focused on the consumer experience, which is great, but they also need to be focused on making sure people get enrolled," she said.
The cuts to the advertising budget could reduce Obamacare enrollment by at least 1.1 million, estimates Joshua Peck, co-founder of the Get America Covered campaign and former chief marketing officer for healthcare.gov.


Customers weren't necessarily digging the move: sales at restaurants that were open at the same time last year fell more than 2% after the change. But it made good business sense, since Buffalo Wild Wings was able to find some important savings.
That's why the company says the boneless wings are here to stay, at least for now.
"The recent Tuesday promotion shift from traditional to boneless wings at company-owned restaurants will continue to improve cost of sales while traditional wing prices remain elevated," CEO Sally Smith said in a prepared statement on Tuesday.
Overall, the company's profit continued its downward slide. Earnings fell 20% from the same quarter in 2016, mostly because customers still have a strong taste for chicken wings with bones in them.
Investors were expecting that. Actually, Wall Street analysts' forecasts were far too pessimistic. The restaurant chain's profit smashed expectations. Investors also cheered Buffalo Wild Wings raising its financial outlook for the rest of the year.
Shares of Buffalo Wild Wings (BWLD) surged 18% on Wednesday.
Related: Chipotle's profit ravaged by hurricanes, hack and high avocado prices
Still, it has been a rocky year for the company. Its stock is down 23% this year due to slumping sales and profit and an activist investor campaign from a group that wanted to reshape the chain. Smith announced over the summer that she would step down after 21 years as CEO.
Like many other retailers and restaurants, Wild Wings weathered the impact from Hurricanes Harvey and Irma during the quarter. It was forced to close 71 restaurants because of the storms, costing the company nearly $3 million in sales.
One particularly good sign: Declining NFL ratings aren't hitting Wild Wings so far. The company said on an conference call with investors that it doesn't expect the viewership drop to hurt sales.


The Trump administration announced in September that it would end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, also called DACA.
The Obama-era policy allows young adults who arrived in the United States as children to apply to defer deportation and legally reside in the country for two years. After that, they could apply for renewal.
Others in the campaign announced Thursday include the American Hotel and Lodging Association, the National Retail Foundation and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
"If Congress fails to act, our economy could lose $215 billion from the national GDP and $24.6 billion in Social Security and Medicare tax contributions," the companies wrote in an ad published in Politico on Thursday. "They are part of why we will continue to have a global competitive advantage."
Related: DACA and Dreamers explained
DACA allows its roughly 690,000 recipients -- the Dreamers -- to obtain valid driver's licenses, enroll in college and legally secure jobs. They also pay income taxes.
The administration set a six-month deadline for Congress to preserve its protections before recipients start losing their status and face deportation.
Many of the companies and organizations that signed on to the new campaign have previously come out in support of DACA. Hundreds of business leaders signed a letter last month defending the program.
--CNNMoney's Seth Fiegerman and CNN's Tal Kopan contributed to this story.


However, the central bank also said the purchases would continue at that pace deep into 2018. The bank indicated the program would run at its reduced level until at least September -- but longer if needed.
The program -- a form of quantitative easing -- has helped support the economy by keeping borrowing costs low for households and businesses. That, in turn, has increased spending and helped spur economic growth.
Investors reacted to the bank's announcement by pushing the euro lower. Stock markets remained in positive territory.
"The announcement has been well signaled by the central bank ... with the aim of causing as little disturbance as possible for the markets," said Mihir Kapadia, CEO of financial services firm Sun Global Investments.
A range of quantitative easing programs were put into action after the global financial crisis.
The Federal Reserve purchased $4.5 trillion in investments over the years to support the U.S. economy. Central banks in the U.K. and Japan deployed similar measures of their own.
European economies have stabilized since the stimulus program was launched. The average annual growth rate in the eurozone hit 2.3% in the latest quarter, and formerly troubled Spain and Portugal are now growing at around 3%.
Related: Europeans really want to work at Google
Draghi said in a news conference that he was pleased by "unabated growth momentum" in Europe, but noted that it was the result of the central bank's "ample" support.
He said that continuing the bond-buying program -- without a definitive end date -- would help keep the economy on track.
The ECB boss has other issues to worry about: inflation remains below the central bank's 2% target at 1.5%.
Unemployment is also stubbornly high. The jobless rate in Greece is above 20% and Spanish unemployment sits just above 17%.


McDonald, who earns too much to qualify for the federal subsidies that would lower his premiums, could very well have to shell out even more for policies next year. Rates in Utah will soar an average of 39% for 2018, in part because carriers are looking to shield themselves from the uncertainty emanating from Washington D.C.
Like their peers in many states around the nation, Utah's insurers are steeply hiking rates for next year in part because they anticipated President Trump would stop funding a key set of Obamacare subsidies that help lower-income enrollees afford health care. Trump lived up to his vow earlier this month when he announced that he would end the cost-sharing payments.
Related: Actually, Trump is raising health insurance premiums
Whom will this move hurt the most?
The middle class, who aren't protected from the rate hikes like those of more modest means.
Nearly seven million people who buy individual policies don't qualify for premium subsidies. These include the roughly 1.6 million Obamacare enrollees who earn more than $47,500 as an individual or $97,200 as a family of four this year, and the 5.1 million who buy individual coverage outside of the Obamacare exchange.
These middle class folks will bear the full brunt of the premium increases, unlike the 8.7 million enrollees who receive federal assistance to keep their premiums to less than 10% of their annual income.
They were the Americans that Trump and congressional Republicans promised to help by repealing and replacing Obamacare.
Instead, they will be hit the hardest.
Related: Trump kills key Obamacare subsidy payments: What it means
After seeing her premiums rise 33% this year, Chicago resident Heather Tamburo is frustrated that her premiums will likely soar again. The stay-at-home mom and her husband, a self-employed photographer, are already paying $1,200 a month to cover themselves and their daughter.
The couple makes too much to qualify for subsidies and expect their rates to rise again for 2018. The average premium for the lowest-cost silver plan in Illinois will rise 35%, while the cheapest bronze plan will go up 20% on average. The Tamburos have already been told that Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois won't offer their same bronze plan next year.
"Next year, we'll have to switch to doctors we've never seen and to a plan we've never heard of and will have to pay more," said Tamburo, 53, who preferred the policy she had on the individual market prior to Obamacare because it had smaller annual rate increases.
For Laurie Ryan, the answer may be to leave the country.
Ryan and her husband, Randall, have bought insurance on the individual market since they started their music and voice over production studio in Austin, Texas, more than two decades ago. When the Obamacare exchanges first opened in 2014, their rates went down. But now they pay $816 a month, about $150 to $200 more than they did before Obamacare, for a plan with a $13,000 deductible. Her insurer, Sendero Health Plans, requested a premium hike of 26%, on average, for next year.
The ever-climbing cost of health insurance has pushed the Ryans to consider moving to Panama or Mexico. They've already done the research on the former -- they could get coverage for $5,000 a year in premiums, with a $5,000 deductible. They are visiting Mexico in December to talk to other Americans who have moved there.
"Spending $10,000 a year for health insurance that isn't that great ... we just can't sustain that until we qualify for Medicare," said Ryan, 52, noting they are in very good health.


Related: South Korea does a sudden U-turn on nuclear power
Investors are showing optimism about South Korean companies, too. The benchmark Kospi index has soared to record highs recently and is up more than 22% since the start of the year. That beats the Nasdaq and the Dow over the same period.
The South Korean index has been helped by heavyweight stock Samsung Electronics, which has shrugged off last year's Galaxy Note 7 debacle and the corruption conviction of its de facto leader to post a gain of more than 45% in 2017.
Trump and Kim's bellicose threats have weighed on markets from time to time this year, only for them to bounce back. Analysts say that brinkmanship over North Korea is nothing new for investors, who have seen repeated flare-ups on the Korean peninsula.
But the situation has had real consequences. The deployment of a U.S. missile defense system in South Korea angered China, the country's biggest trading partner, resulting in a sharp drop in Chinese tourists and difficulties for South Korean firms operating inside China.
Related: China can squeeze its neighbors when it wants. Ask South Korea
The boycott by Chinese tourists is hurting South Korea, but other industries like electronics are more than making up for it.
The country's economy expanded 1.4% in the third quarter, compared with the previous three months of the year. That comfortably beat economists' forecasts and was propelled by a 6.1% jump in exports.
The main problem looming over the economy is the high level of household debt, according to the Capital Economics analysts. But they expect a planned 16% increase in the minimum wage next year to prop up spending by consumers.


For instance, companies that already pay low corporate tax rates, like Pepsi (PEP), may not cash in as much as those that pay Uncle Sam a much higher rate, like Under Armour (UA). Companies pay different rates because of loopholes, tax reduction strategies and how much money they make overseas.
Much will depend on the details, most of which are still being hammered out in Congress and the White House. And there's no guarantee tax reform will happen at all.
But there's such intense interest in the negotiations that you can buy and sell a basket of stocks, the EventShares U.S. Tax Reform Fund (TAXR), that could win big if the GOP tax framework becomes reality.
"If a vote passes, we think it has a multi-year, even decade-long, impact," said Ben Phillips, a former Goldman Sachs exec who is now chief investment officer of EventShares.
Rather than simply holding low-tax stocks, this actively managed ETF includes nearly three dozen companies that Phillips believes could reap bigger rewards from tax reform than Wall Street realizes.
Related: How Trump's tax plan could backfire on Wall Street
Here are a handful of the stocks this ETF is betting will win if tax reform happens:
Ford: Trump's plan calls for slashing the corporate tax rate from 35% to 20%. That means Ford (F) could afford to sell its cars overseas at lower prices, undercutting competitors. Phillips pointed out that Ford makes more cars inside the United States than any other automaker.
Chipotle: The Mexican food chain is grappling with slower sales and rising expenses in the wake of its food safety problems. Chipotle (CMG) is also among the highest tax payers in the S&P 500, with an effective rate north of 40% in 2016, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices.
Denny's: It's another struggling fast food giant with a hefty tax bill. Phillips argues that Denny's (DENN) stock, which is flat this year, doesn't yet reflect the potential benefits of an overhaul.
CarMax: The GOP tax plan would allow companies to immediately write off, or expense, the cost of new investments. That would be critical for companies like CarMax (KMX), a used-car retailers, that spend a lot of money each year on things like opening new stores.
Southwest Airlines: Like other airlines, Southwest (LUV) spends billions each year to upgrade its fleet and buy new jets. Southwest pays a lot in taxes each year, too. Its effective tax rate was nearly 37% last year.
AK Steel: Phillips believes this company stands to benefit in two ways. Not only does AK Steel (AKS) have heavy capital spending that could be written off under the GOP plan, but its exports to Europe and Canada could grow faster thanks to a tax break.
Phillips 66: The fund has very few energy companies. One is Phillips 66 (PSX), which is known as Warren Buffett's favorite oil company because Berkshire Hathaway (BRKA) is its biggest shareholder. Tax cuts could make Phillips 66 and other oil refiners more competitive.
W.W. Grainger: It's been a terrible year for W.W. Grainger. (GWW) The distributor of repair and maintenance tools has lost 17% of its value. But W.W. Grainger could win big from corporate tax cuts. The company paid an effective tax rate of nearly 38% last year, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices.


Since the recession, wage growth has been stubbornly weak, an asterisk in the job market recovery. There was a glimmer of hope in September, when wages rose 2.9% from the year before, the strongest in eight years.
It's too early to know whether that was temporary, a statistical blip because of the hurricanes, or the beginning of long-repressed wage inflation.
Related: Romans' Numeral: Is it too late to buy stocks?
Another asterisk: Geography. Unemployment is still high in some places, like Alaska, New Mexico, and Washington, D.C.
And then there's this: A record 6 million jobs are open in the United States, and at the same time 6 million people are looking for work.
So why can't those unemployed people fill those jobs? Employers say they can't find workers who have the right training. It's been a problem for years.
Other factors that could be holding down wage growth are automation, which is eliminating some jobs, and competition from overseas.
But until wage growth improves, it's holding the economy back from an even stronger recovery.


Related: Big Mac attack! McDonald's is still red hot
The new name "sounds like a furniture store. Are you sure the food is edible?" asked LEON0221 on Weibo (WB), China's equivalent of Twitter (TWTR).
Another Weibo user, Magellandechuan, said the name made McDonald's sound like one of China's stuffy state-owned companies and was "not fitting for a foreign brand." Others complained it was "rustic" or backward.
Not everyone was unhappy, though. One user suggested objectors needed a lesson in McDonald's history, recommending they watch "The Founder," the Hollywood biopic about McDonald's Ray Kroc, to understand the significance of Golden Arches.
Related: What's in your fast-food meat?
In any case, McDonald's' fans in China shouldn't ditch their Big Macs and Chicken McNuggets just yet. A company spokeswoman in Shanghai told CNNMoney that the name change only applies to the chain's business registration and that restaurants' branding will stay the same.
The tweak to the business name comes after McDonald's U.S. parent firm earlier this year sold most of its business in China and Hong Kong to a Chinese consortium for more than $2 billion.

China isn't the only market where McDonald's uses the Golden Arches name. In the Philippines, the restaurant chain is registered as "Golden Arches Development Corporation."
It's common for big Western brands to pick a Chinese name in a bid to broaden their appeal with consumers in the country. Coca-Cola (CCE) is known as Ke kou ke le, which translates as "tasty and fun." Search engine Google (GOOG) goes by Gu ge, or "harvesting song."
Related: McDonald's vows to reboot Szechuan sauce for spurned 'Rick and Morty' fans
Selecting a Chinese name can also be a pitfall for companies. Online rentals platform Airbnb's choice, Aibiying, means "welcome each other with love." That sounds pleasant enough, but some Chinese people complain it sounds odd and is hard to pronounce.
McDonald's has been in China since 1990 and has about 2,500 outlets in the country. It plans to open another 2,000 over the next five years.


Google parent Alphabet (GOOGL), Amazon (AMZN), Baidu (BIDU), Columbia Sportswear (COLM), Expedia (EXPE), Gilead Sciences (GILD), Intel (INTC), Mattel (MAT), Microsoft (MSFT) and Wynn Resorts (WYNN) will release quarterly results after the close.
2. Stock market movers: Shares in Buffalo Wild Wings (BWLD) were moving dramatically higher ahead of the open after the company reported better-than-expected earnings.
Shares in the hospital management firm Universal Health Services (UHS) were 5% lower in premarket trade after the company's earnings missed expectations.
In Europe, Barclays (BCS) and Deutsche Bank (DB) were hit after the firms released disappointing results. Shares in the British bank were off by 5%, while its German rival shed 3%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Eyes on the ECB: The European Central Bank is set to announce its latest monetary policy plans at 7:45 a.m. ET, which will be followed by a press conference by central bank chief Mario Draghi.
Investors expect Draghi to outline his plans for winding down the ECB's stimulus program.
The bank is currently buying €60 billion ($71 billion) worth of government bonds and other assets each month, an effort designed to help support economic growth across the region.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were little changed after a retreat from record levels on Wednesday.
European markets were mixed in early trading.
Most Asian markets ended the day with gains. South Korea's KOSPI was the region's biggest loser with a dip of 0.5%.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Thursday -- Tech giants including Alphabet (GOOG), Amazon (AMZN), Baidu.com (BIDU), Intel (INTC) and Microsoft (MSFT) report earnings. Friday -- ExxonMobil (XOM) and Chevron (CVX) report earnings; U.S. GDP Q3 estimate released


"There will be NO change to your 401(k). This has always been a great and popular middle class tax break that works, and it stays!" Trump tweeted.
But Kevin Brady, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, hasn't exactly echoed the president's adamant stance.
On Monday afternoon he told reporters that Trump's tweet doesn't change what his committee is planning to do. And on Wednesday morning, when asked whether the prospect of a 401(k) change is dead given the president's tweet, he didn't answer directly.
"We are continuing discussions with the president, all focused on saving more and saving sooner," Brady said at a Christian Science Monitor breakfast.
Today, you may contribute up to $18,000 to a traditional 401(k) if your employer offers one. That money is not taxed when you make the contribution. Instead it grows tax-deferred. But once you start taking funds out in retirement, your withdrawals are taxed as regular income.
Related: How do you pay for tax cuts? Republicans can't agree
There were reports over the weekend that tax writers were considering lowering the $18,000 cap to as low as $2,400. And the retirement plan industry has been further concerned that lawmakers would "Rothify" any contributions above the lower cap.
That is, your contributions would be made after-tax, as they are in a Roth IRA, but your gains and withdrawals would be tax-free. In other words, if lawmakers opt to "Rothify" 401(k)s, you would get no immediate tax break for saving money above the cap.
When it was pointed out to President Trump on Wednesday afternoon that Brady's comments suggest a change to the 401(k) still might be on the table, Trump said, "Well, maybe it is, and maybe we'll use it as negotiating. But trust me, that's one of the great things. You know, there are certain elements of deals you don't want to negotiate with. 401(k)s -- and Kevin knows it, and I think Kevin Brady is fantastic -- but he knows how important 401(k)s are."
Of course, none of this back and forth indicates what will happen in the end. Even if Brady proposes a change in his bill, there's no saying it will survive the negotiations that will ensue this fall.
-- CNN's Ashley Killough contributed to this report


Walgreens helped vault this year's tally to a new high when it said Wednesday that it plans to close about 600 locations.
Related: Toys 'R' Us files for bankruptcy
The drug store chain recently struck a deal to purchase 1,932 Rite Aid stores, and a Walgreens (WBA) spokesperson said most of the shuttered stores will be Rite Aid locations within close proximity to existing stores.
Other chains that have announced big batches of store closings this year include Kmart, Sears, JCPenney, Ann Taylor, Gap, Banana Republic, Gymboree, Teavana, Michael Kors, Bebe, Perfumania, The Limited, and Staples.
At the heart of retail's woes is the rise of both online shopping and fast fashion. As e-commerce giants have gobbled up market share from some brick-and-mortar brands, cheaper outlets like H&M and Forever 21 have also threatened clothing brands' business models.
Related: 200 Gap and Banana Republic stores closing
By and large, analysts expect this year's final total to be dismal. As many as 8,600 brick-and-mortar stores are expected to close this year, Credit Suisse said in an April research report.
If that projection is correct, that means America will lose more than 147 million square feet of retail space.
At least 300 retailers have filed for bankruptcy so far this year, according to figures released by BankruptcyData.com in June.
--CNNMoney's Chris Isidore contributed to this report.


Now GE faces a question that would have been inconceivable not long ago -- whether it should lose its blue-chip status after 110 uninterrupted years as a Dow component.
CNBC, Reuters and MarketWatch have all asked whether GE's days in the Dow could, or should, be numbered. (Marketwatch is owned by News Corp.'s (NWSA) Dow Jones, but the committee that selects Dow stocks is run by S&P Global (SPGI), the same company that picks the stocks for the S&P 500.)
GE was one of the first components when the Dow debuted in 1897. Back then, the average included just a dozen companies. GE was removed and added back several times. It returned to the Dow in 1907 and has been there ever since.
Related: GE's nightmare just got worse
Here's why GE could be in real danger of getting booted again.
Unlike the S&P 500 and most other major market barometers, the Dow is weighted by stock price, not market value. And even though GE isn't the smallest company in the average -- not even close -- it has the lowest stock price, about $21.40 a share.
The folks running the Dow like to have no more than a 10-to-1 ratio between the stock with the highest price and the stock with the lowest. Boeing (BA) trades at about $258 a share -- nearly 12 times the price of GE. Goldman Sachs (GS) and 3M (MMM) also trade at more than 10 times higher.
Still, the people who manage the Dow are reluctant to make big changes willy-nilly.
Technically, a new company was added to the Dow just this summer. And it's even named Dow. DowDuPont (DWDP) joined after Dow Chemical merged with DuPont, an existing Dow component.
But the last time the Dow made a real major move was more than two years ago, when Apple (AAPL) was added and AT&T (T) was removed. (AT&T is buying CNN parent company Time Warner (TWX).)
Related: What's wrong with GE? An American icon is in 'crisis'
The most recent change before that was in September 2013, when Alcoa (AA), Bank of America (BAC) and Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) were removed and replaced by Goldman Sachs, Nike (NKE) and Visa (V).
By way of comparison, stocks are added to and dropped from the S&P 500 much more often -- usually because a company has been bought or has become too small.
David Blitzer, managing director and chairman of the index committee for S&P Dow Jones Indices, had no comment about the speculation surrounding GE being removed from the Dow. GE was not immediately available for comment.
But it's worth noting that while GE's ever-shrinking stock price may not be bringing good things to life for investors, GE is not the smallest company in the Dow by market value.
GE has a market value of about $185 billion, higher than Merck (MRK), Disney (DIS), IBM (IBM), Nike and 10 other Dow components. The smallest Dow company -- insurance firm Travelers (TRV) -- is worth just $36 billion.
Related: GE vice chair Beth Comstock is stepping down
But GE's problems may remind people of other erstwhile titans of American commerce who were once in the Dow -- companies like Sears (SHLD), Eastman Kodak (KODK), the defunct Bethlehem Steel and Woolworth, which now is known as Foot Locker (FL).
So could GE really be kicked out of the Dow? It's possible. But don't bank on it just yet.
It's true that the Dow is not meant to be a representation of just the largest companies. If that were the case, Amazon (AMZN), Facebook (FB) and Google owner Alphabet (GOOGL) would be in.
And yes, GE is a shell of its former self. But what's left is a large industrial company with $125 billion in annual sales. So to paraphrase Mark Twain -- who was still alive when GE joined the Dow -- the rumors of its demise may be greatly exaggerated.


A digital version of the Wish Book is interactive and accessible to the public, but the glossy limited edition copy will only be available to Sears' "best customers," the company said.
Related: Sears is breaking up with Whirlpool after a century
The new Wish Book is also slimmer, coming in at 120 pages. Some of the book's earlier predecessors were hundreds of pages long.
Sears' catalogs helped define it as an American retail giant in the early 20th century, when buying mail order was in vogue.
But the rise of e-commerce has not been kind to Sears.
In the past ten years, it has closed nearly 60% of its U.S. stores. Sales have fallen sharply as the retailer cuts costs and sells assets, such as its Craftsman brand, to try to stay afloat. Its stock has fallen nearly 50% year to date.
Sears Canada, which spun off from Sears Holdings in 2012, recently filed for bankruptcy and announced it was closing all of its stores.
The department store has -- more ominously -- admitted to having existential concerns about its ability to survive in the modern retail landscape.
Sears said the 2017 Wish Book will feature a huge range of products. "From drains to drills to dresses...from tools to TVs to tablets, we've got your back," the company said.
Sears ended its 100 year relationship with Whirlpool (WHR) on Tuesday. The retailer did not immediately return request for comment on whether Whirlpool appliances would be featured in the catalog.


"It won't be a big shock," he told Fox Business on Wednesday.
Trump neither fully endorsed Yellen nor dismissed her chances of getting renominated.
He hinted that the stock market's rise to record highs -- one of his favorite talking points -- was partially due to the Fed's monetary policy under Yellen's watch. The Dow recently crossed 23,000 points for the first time in history. Trump also credited himself for the stock market's success.
Related: Trump keeps teasing imminent Fed Chair decision
"We're obviously doing very well together, you look at the markets," Trump told Fox Business, speaking of himself and Yellen.
But Trump admitted he wants to put his own stamp on the Fed and its leadership. After all, Yellen was nominated by President Obama in 2013.
"In one way I have to say, you like to make your own mark ... which is maybe one of things that she's got a little bit against her," Trump added.
Trump's comments on the nomination have changed day to day. In a separate interview with Fox, he hinted that Fed Governor Jerome Powell and Stanford economist John Taylor are frontrunners. Former Fed Governor Kevin Warsh is also a candidate.
At a meeting on Capitol Hill on Tuesday, Trump did a "show of hands" poll for the next Fed chair in a closed-door meeting with Republicans. Some lawmakers told CNN that Taylor was apparently the most liked in the casual vote, but no official tally was made.
Trump also asked Fox anchor Lou Dobbs in the interview on Wednesday who he would choose to be Fed Chair.
"I personally believe that Janet Yellen might be worth keeping," Dobbs replied.


The crown prince
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the driving force behind sweeping economic changes in Saudi Arabia, made a rare appearance at the conference, addressing a huge audience of investors on Tuesday.
The young crown prince had a message: We are open for business.
He also delivered a warning to ultraconservatives, vowing to to destroy "extremist ideologies" and return to "a more moderate Islam."
"We want to lead normal lives, lives where our religion and our traditions translate into tolerance, so that we coexist with the world and become part of the development of the world," he said.
Related: Saudi Arabia is investing billions in fun
It's a development that was welcomed by investors.
Colony Capital chief executive Tom Barrack, who lived in the kingdom in the 1970s, said that these reforms may succeed where others failed.
"His approach is definitively the right one," Barrack said of the crown prince.
"What you've seen here in the last few days is a real commitment of tolerance," he added. "We are going to create an environment for the West that will be transparent, secure, stable and understandable."
A new mega-city
The crown prince also unveiled NEOM, a $500 billion mega-city that will span three countries. The city will be powered entirely by regenerative energy, while also making use of automated driving technology and passenger drones. Wireless hi-speed internet will be free.
Should it become reality, the development could become a major driver of tourism, an industry that is key to the crown prince's ambitious Vision 2030 program. The goal is to diversify the country's revenue and reduce what he once called an "addiction" to oil.
It would also build stronger ties with neighbors Jordan and Egypt, whose territory would be included in the project.
One major caveat: Saudi has previously announced several economic cities that have failed to attract the right investment, with many office spaces reduced to empty caverns in the desert.
Massive investment
Much of the change in Saudi Arabia is being funded by the country's Public Investment Fund (PIF).
The sovereign fund has contributed $45 billion to Softbank's Vision Fund, which is the world's largest technology investor. PIF has also poured $20 billion into a Blackstone infrastructure fund.
Some fund managers and business titans attending the conference have privately expressed worries over the kingdom's ability to deliver on all of the projects built into Vision 2030.
But the pace of new initiatives has only accelerated. On Wednesday, PIF said it plans to increase its assets under management to $400 billion by 2020. It wants to create 20,000 direct jobs and 256,000 jobs in construction.
"I'm sure they need and should be looking at domestic investments as well," said Joshua Friedman, co-CEO of Canyon Partners, "As they interact with the most sophisticated investors globally ... I'm sure they'll bring that sophistication to bear on their own markets."
Related: The man leading Saudi Arabia's overhaul just got more powerful
The world's biggest IPO
One of the biggest remaining questions surrounds a partial sell-off of the kingdom's crown jewel, Saudi Aramco. Officials have said they expect the IPO to value the giant sate oil company at around $2 trillion. If the market agrees, selling just 5% would raise $100 billion.
The debut has been scheduled for 2018, but there are doubts over its realization. Aramco has disputed recent media reports suggesting uncertainty.
CEO Amin Nasser told CNNMoney in an interview that an IPO is on track for 2018, but he refused to define whether it will have an international listing.
"We looked at the different venues, which are New York, London, Hong Kong, Tokyo," he said. "We are taking time for the shareholders [the ruling family] to look at all the data ... and then the decision where to list ... will come in due course."
Economic regulation, foreign ownership laws, and strict Islamic laws have often deterred investors in the past.
This time, investors are listening.


This is the largest contract awarded to any company for relief efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria.
Related: Questions swirl after small Montana firm lands Puerto Rico contract
Whitefish only had two employees the day the hurricane hit. Already, the company has scaled up to 300 employees in Puerto Rico -- and it says 700 more are on the way. Such quick growth is typical among utility firms when they are awarded large contracts, the firm told CNN.
"It seems like what the Puerto Rican people are going to be paying for, or the American people are going to be paying for, is an intermediary that doesn't know what is at stake here and that really has to subcontract everything," Yulin Cruz said of Whitefish in the interview. "What we need is somebody that can get the job done and that has the expertise to get the job done."
In a statement Wednesday, Whitefish spokesman Chris Chiames said Yulin Cruz's comments were "misplaced."
"We are making progress and doing work when others are not even here," Whitefish's statement said. "We find her comments to be very disappointing and demoralizing to the hundreds of people on our team that have left their homes and families and have come here to help the people of Puerto Rico."
By Wednesday afternoon, the situation got heated on social media.
After Whitefish posted its statement on Twitter, Yulin Cruz tweeted: "If @WhitefishEnergy feels that asking for transparency is "misplaced", what are they afraid we will find."
"We've got 44 linemen rebuilding power lines in your city & 40 more men just arrived. Do you want us to send them back or keep working?," the utility company replied to the mayor on Twitter.
We've got 44 linemen rebuilding power lines in your city & 40 more men just arrived. Do you want us to send them back or keep working?
"Threats received by @WhitefishEnergy. The implication is if I do not "play nice" they will not do their job. Nasty!," the mayor tweeted back. She said Whitefish's response implied it would not treat San Juan with the "diligence it deserves."
Whitefish then tweeted that it did not want to leave the island without helping and it was committed to restoring power in Puerto Rico.
Related: Puerto Rico's cash crisis: 35% of banks still closed
Yulin Cruz has long been a critic of Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello, who backed the Whitefish contract. She has also criticized President Trump's handling of relief efforts on the island, repeatedly noting that U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico are facing a "life and death situation" since the hurricane made landfall.
She does not have authority over PREPA and the contracts it issues.
The Whitefish contract has also been raising a few eyebrows among Democrats. On Tuesday, both a House and a Senate committee called for reviews of the Whitefish contract.
PREPA's executive director, Ricardo Ramos, told reporters last week during a press conference the cash-strapped island chose Whitefish because it didn't require a big deposit upfront. The other unnamed contender wanted a $25 million down payment for the work, Ramos said.
"In that moment, we were not in a position to offer that collateral," said Ramos. "The other company did not ask for a guarantee of payment."
But some on Capitol Hill are concerned that Whitefish may have stood out for another reason.
The tiny utility company is based in Whitefish, Montana, which also happens to be the hometown of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke.
Both Zinke and Whitefish CEO Andy Techmanski acknowledge knowing one another. Zinke's office described Whitefish as a "small town" with a population of roughly 6,000 people. One of the secretary's sons "joined a friend who worked a summer job at one their [Whitefish's] construction sites."
Related: Who owns Puerto Rico's mountain of debt? You do
Whitefish spokesman Ken Luce confirmed an Oct. 1 report by NBC Montana, which quoted Techmanski as saying he reached out to Zinke after winning the contract to help get resources to the island more quickly,
But Luce told CNN that the company did not make any requests to the administration except for one after the contract was signed on Sept. 26.
"The secretary had absolutely nothing to do with Whitefish getting the contract," he said.
Techmanski, who has described the firm as specializing in "difficult and mountainous terrain projects," has downplayed any ties to the administration.
Related: Can Elon Musk fix Puerto Rico's broken power grid?
"All I can say is, we took the call and we're here," Techmanski told CNN Friday, referring to a call from director Ramos. "We called each other."
Still, PREPA, a state-owned utility, chose to hire Whitefish rather than initiate agreements with other utilities to help recover from the natural disaster more quickly.
The bankrupt utility, which is $9 billion in debt, could have requested aid after Maria through the American Public Power Association, a network that provides help to other utilities during widespread power outages. That's what Texas and Florida did after Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
--CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie contributed to this report.


But before anyone reworks their budget to make way for all that new cash, here are a few things to keep in mind:
Some economists have serious doubts
Most economists can agree that "well-designed tax changes can improve living standards over time," said Donald Marron, a former acting director of the Congressional Budget Office who now is director of economic policy initiatives at the Urban Institute.
But they part company on just how big the benefit to wages could be. In fact, it's among the most unresolved issues in economics today.
Jason Furman, who ran the Council of Economic Advisers under President Obama and is Hassett's immediate predecessor, characterized the claim that average working households might see $4,000 to $9,000 more in income every year as "wild" in a recent Wall Street Journal opinion piece.
Even an economist whose research Hassett cited in his study pushed back against the $4,000 claim as being far too high. "Cutting corporate taxes will help wages but exaggeration only serves to undercut the reasonableness of the core argument," Harvard finance professor Mihir Desai tweeted.
A lot of mainstream economists would agree. "If you just go by weight of opinion by people who think about this for a living, [the boost to income] will probably be much lower than $4,000," Marron said.
Some, however, aren't shocked by Hassett's estimate. Using a comprehensive model he developed with colleagues over several years, Boston University economics professor Laurence Kotlikoff estimated the entire tax reform framework negotiated by the White House and Republican leaders could potentially generate enough growth to boost average working household incomes by $3,500 a year.
Related: White House explains why it believes corporate tax cuts mean bigger paychecks
That said, Kotlikoff noted that there's always some uncertainty with any model. "I don't think what [Hassett] suggested is out of the range of possibility. Nor do I think zero is out of the range of possibility."
More income per household doesn't mean per paycheck
Hassett's report measures the potential wage gains by household. And his $4,000 estimate applies to both households that bring in the mean (or average) income in the country ($83,143 in 2016 per Census data) as well as the median income ($59,039).
Related: Cutting U.S. corporate taxes could mean a windfall for foreign investors
But that's not the same as saying every worker would see a $4,000 raise, since the Census Bureau reports that there is more than one earner on average in households at those income levels.
Other tax changes may undercut the potential benefits
The $4,000 estimate is based on the prospect of lowering the corporate rate to 20% and letting businesses fully and immediately write off many capital investments.
If lawmakers can't get the rate that low (e.g., because of deficit concerns), or if they make the rate cut temporary or in some other way inhibit the incentive to invest, that could curtail potential wage gains.
"If there were lots of other changes that we haven't modeled that worked in the other direction, then these numbers could change," Hassett noted in a press briefing.
A boost to income won't happen right away
In a briefing with reporters, Hassett allowed that "it's hard to come up with a model that jumps to $4,000 in the first year."
And he noted in his second report that estimates vary as to when wages might grow, with some models suggesting it could take three to five years, and others estimating it could take at least twice that long.
In fact, no one knows quite how long it might take for a corporate rate cut to start affecting wages.
Kotlikoff, for instance, estimates that average household income under the GOP tax reform framework might rise by $3,500 within six to eight years.
Updated: This article has been updated to incorporate information from a second paper by Kevin Hassett released on Friday.


Coke (KO) said that sales in North America were up 3% from a year ago. That may not sound like a great accomplishment but it's actually solid growth for a company of Coke's size. Plus, the U.S. beverage market is pretty saturated.
Coke also said that its market share was up and that's a testament to both Coke's sales gains and a drop reported by its key rival. Pepsi (PEP) said earlier this month that its soft drink sales in North America actually fell slightly.
Pepsi CFO Hugh Johnston told CNNMoney after its latest earnings report that the main reason for the slide was because the company focused more marketing efforts on newer, low-calorie products and less on core brands like Pepsi and Mountain Dew.
Interestingly, Coke said that sales volume for its Mountain Dew rival, Sprite, were up in the third quarter.
Related: Coca-Cola replaces Coke Zero with new sugarless drink
And another Coke competitor -- Dr Pepper Snapple (DPS) -- posted weak sales on Wednesday, blaming the impact of recent hurricanes and earthquakes in Mexico for the sluggish performance.
But Coke CEO James Quincey, who succeeded long-time chief executive Muhtar Kent earlier this year, said he was pleased with his company's results, particularly since they come while the company is "making substantial structural and cultural changes."
Along those lines, Coke is making a bigger push beyond its core cola drinks. Coke is now partnering on coffee drinks from Dunkin' Brands (DNKN) and McDonald's (MCD) that are sold in supermarkets -- a clear challenge to Starbucks (SBUX).
Coke also announced earlier this month that it was buying the popular Mexican-based maker of sparkling water, Topo Chico. That move led to a big drop in the stock of LaCroix owner National Beverage (FIZZ).
And National Beverage's CEO Nick Caporella put out a bizarre press release last week to defend the company's recent performance. The release concluded with this strange proclamation.
"If you have the opinion that I, Nick A. Caporella, am angrily exercised while extremely fortunate to be guiding FIZZ, your opinion is quite accurate!" National Beverage's iconic brands are the genuine essence . . . of America. "Patriotism" -- If Only We Could Bottle It! WE SPARKLE . . . AMERICA SMILES!"
Related: America loves fast food, soda and booze
Coke, of course, doesn't self-promote in such a fashion. It doesn't have to, given how iconic the company is in the U.S.
But Coke is also a global giant -- and its sales in emerging markets are gaining steam too. The company said Wednesday that another reason for its solid overall sales was due to a jump in revenue in China, India and South Korea.
Coke shares fell slightly Wednesday despite the better than expected results. But the stock is still up 11% this year and is outperforming Pepsi and Dr Pepper Snapple.


"This bold and innovative multilateral approach is needed because terrorism poses a threat to all of our nations," said Mnuchin. "It is critical that we come together to combat this."
The deal builds on a prior agreement reached during President Trump's visit to Riyadh in May. That pact created a center to coordinate the efforts of all seven countries to undermine the financing of terrorist groups.
The White House has prioritized using such economic tools to combat rogue regimes like North Korea and terrorist organizations, like ISIS. The administration has been working to tamp down on terror attacks by cutting off their access to an expansive network of fundraisers, recruiters and operators.
Mnuchin said ISIS has raised hundreds of millions of dollars through the theft of oil, kidnapping and extortion, and targeted sanctions by the U.S. have helped to reduce the flow of capital to the terrorist organization.
"We are focused on maximizing the use of our expansive economic authorities, intelligence, and other sources of financial information to target and interrupt the financing of those who execute and facilitate these deadly attacks and other destabilizing activities," said Mnuchin.
Related: Did China just break its promise not to buy North Korea coal?
The group of countries designated eight key ISIS and al Qaeda leaders operating in Yemen, including Abu Sulayman al-Adani, a top ISIS leader in Yemen and Khalid al-Marfadi, who has been in charge of the movements of ISIS fighters.
Some of the men designated have acted as arms dealers helping to smuggle weapons to secret locations and storage depots in the country, while another has acted as a military and chief financial officer for ISIS.
They also designated a supermarket and four of its stores, which are run by one of the ISIS weapons dealers on the U.S. list.
Speaking with reporters on a conference call, a senior administration official said the U.S. had proposed a lengthier list of individuals and entities supporting the terrorist groups in the country, but other countries asked for certain names to be removed for various reasons.
"It is absolutely the case we had additional targets we wanted to go after but some of the countries didn't want [to]," said the senior administration official.
Related: U.S. slaps sanctions on 8 North Korean banks
The senior administration official acknowledged that the enforcement of such sanctions by each country is voluntary, but noted there is "political will" by each of the countries to shut off the terror financing spigot.
"It is not a trivial matter," said the senior administration official. "We have shut down their ability to travel, to actually do that [kind of] fundraising."


The government, which announced its intervention on Tuesday, has repeatedly faced calls to shore up the banking system.
Analysts hailed the cash injection as a "significant" and "much needed" move that should help revive the country's flagging economy.
Investors agreed. Shares in State Bank of India, the country's largest lender, gained over 26% Wednesday on the Bombay Stock Exchange.
Punjab National Bank gained 46% and Bank of India advanced by 33%.
Related: India's airports will be at breaking point by 2022
Yet some analysts questioned whether the government bailout is big enough to fully repair the damage caused by bad loans.
Indian banks need a much larger infusion of $65 billion to comply with new international regulations that will come into force in 2019, according to Fitch Ratings. The fresh government funds should be enough to tide the state-run banks over for a couple of years, but analysts say more uncertainty awaits.
"I think they probably will need even larger-scale [infusions] beyond the next two years," said Shilan Shah, India economist at Capital Economics.
The current bailout also doesn't guarantee that public sector banks will be in a position to give their customers new loans, analysts say.
"The measures will not immediately spur new lending," Shailesh Kumar, an analyst at the Eurasia Group, wrote in a research note.
That's because private banks have largely filled the gap in lending left by public lenders. Other sources of uncertainty, including a disruptive national tax overhaul, continue to have a cooling effect on private investment, he said.
Related: India's economy in 'downward spiral.' What did Modi get wrong?
The government's continued involvement in the sector -- its 21 banks hold roughly two-thirds of industry assets -- could also be part of the problem.
"There has to be a willingness on the part of the government to actually sell off its stake," Shah said. "I don't think there's the will at the moment to reduce its stake to below 51% or 50% so that the private sector can become majority shareholders."


"Today's growth figures show that, despite the Brexit headwinds, U.K. growth is good enough to give the [central bank] the green light for a rate rise," said Ian Stewart, chief economist at Deloitte.
The central bank's key interest rate is currently set at a record low of 0.25%. It had been as high as 5.75% in mid-2007.
Britain's economy has been under pressure in the aftermath of last summer's Brexit referendum.
Unemployment has continued to fall, but a sharp drop in the value of the pound has hurt consumers by making imported goods more expensive. Wages have also been squeezed and the housing market has slowed.
Uncertainty about the terms of a divorce deal with the European Union has forced businesses to put investments on hold.
"The U.K. growth rate would probably be nearer 2.5% this year if it weren't for Brexit," said Kallum Pickering, a senior U.K. economist at Berenberg Bank.
Related: Time is now the key factor in Brexit talks
The new GDP data showed strength in the services sector, including computer programming and retail. However, there were signs of further decline in construction.
" These numbers do not change the big picture for the U.K.," said John Hawksworth, chief economist at PwC.
Related: The CNNMoney Brexit jobs tracker
The central bank is expected to raise interest rates by 0.25 percentage points next Thursday, part of a bid to control inflation. The move would benefit savers, who have for years seen paltry returns on their deposits.
But it would also make borrowing more expensive for consumers who are facing tighter household budgets.
"While any interest rate hikes would be limited and gradual, even small increases could cause problems for many consumers given high borrowing levels," said Howard Archer, an economic adviser to EY .


"The only silver lining is today's promotion of key officials that favor greater reform, which offers a modicum of hope that policy could shift in a more liberal direction in future," he added.
Chinese stocks were higher on Wednesday.
2. U.K. GDP: Britain's economy expanded by 0.4% in the three months ended September compared to the previous quarter.
That's better than economists expected, and a notch faster than the 0.3% rate posted in both the first and second quarters.
The pound gained 0.3% against the dollar following the release.
3. Ransomware attack: The U.S. government has issued a warning about a new ransomware attack that has spread through Russia and Ukraine and into other countries.
Cybersecurity experts said the ransomware -- which posed as an Adobe update before locking down computers and demanding money for people to get their files back -- targeted Russian media companies and Ukrainian transportation systems.
It has also been detected in countries including the U.S., Germany and Japan.
4. Market overview: U.S. stock futures were lower.
European markets opened mostly higher, following the upward trend set in Asia.
The Dow Jones industrial average added 0.7% on Tuesday to close at yet another record high.
The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq gained 0.2%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Earnings and economics: Scores of companies are reporting their quarterly results on Wednesday.
Alaska Air (ALK), Anthem (ANTM), Boeing (BA), Brinks (BCO), Coca-Cola (KO), Dr Pepper Snapple (DPS), GrubHub (GRUB), Lear (LEA), NASDAQ (NDAQ), Nielsen (NLSN), Norfolk Southern (NSC), Sirius XM Radio (SIRI), trivago (TRVG), Visa (V), Walgreens Boot Alliance (WBA) and Wyndham Worldwide (WYN) will report before the open.
AFLAC (AFL), Ethan Allen (ETH), Fidelity National (FNF), Las Vegas Sands (LVS), Nutrisystem (NTRI) and O'Reilly Auto (ORLY) will follow after the close.
The U.S. Census Bureau plans to release its September report on new home sales at 10 a.m. ET.
The weekly U.S. crude inventories report will follow at 10:30 a.m.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Wednesday -- Coca-Cola, Walgreens, Boeing and Visa earnings; ECNY luncheon with Wilbur Ross Thursday -- Mattel, Twitter, Alphabet, Microsoft, Intel, Comcast, Ford, Southwest, American Airlines, Hershey, Xerox and Amazon earnings, ECB interest rate decision Friday -- ExxonMobil, Chevron and Merck earnings; GDP Q3 estimates


It said the incidents "suggest a corporate culture of racial insensitivity and possible racial bias" and advised travelers to exercise caution.
"Booking and boarding flights on American Airlines could subject them [to] disrespectful, discriminatory or unsafe conditions," the advisory said.
Related: Get ready for a more militant NAACP
American Airlines (AAL) CEO Doug Parker said in a memo to staff that the company was "disappointed" to hear about the NAACP warning.
"We fly over borders, walls and stereotypes to connect people from different races, religions, nationalities, economic backgrounds and sexual orientations," Parker wrote in the memo, which the company released to reporters. "We do not and will not tolerate discrimination of any kind."
He said the airline has reached out to the NAACP to meet with them. NAACP President Derrick Johnson had called for a meeting with the airline's leadership.
Related: NAACP issues its first statewide travel advisory, for Missouri
The NAACP warning referenced four examples, including one involving a black woman who was removed from a New York-bound flight after she complained that her seat was changed without her consent.
Though the woman was not identified by the NAACP, she spoke to CNNMoney about the incident.
That woman, Tamika Mallory, said she had gotten into a heated exchange earlier this month with a gate attendant at the Miami airport who she described as "very disrespectful" and "very dismissive." Mallory said she told the attendant that she would file a report about the incident.
Mallory, a civil rights activist and the co-chair of the Women's March on Washington, said the pilot of the aircraft, a white man, witnessed the end of the encounter and pulled her aside.
"The first words to come out the pilot's mouth to me are, 'Respect is a two-way street,'" she said, adding that he asked her whether she could behave herself on the flight.
Mallory said she told him there would be no issue and boarded the plane. She said she sat quietly for 10 minutes before being asked to get up and leave.
As she left, Mallory said, she saw the pilot again.
"He looks at me and points and says, 'Yeah, her. Off.'"
Mallory said she told an NAACP board member about the incident and tweeted details from her encounter with the pilot.
Only reason this pilot got involved was to assert his white male power over who he thought was just some uppity black girl. That's it.

Since then, she said many people have told her their own stories about similar incidents.
"Some of them are actually friends of mine," Mallory said. She added they "have felt that there is a level of aggression in terms of how people, particularly black women, are being handled on these flights."
The NAACP listed the four examples but it did not provide the names of the passengers or say when the events are alleged to have taken place.
In one other case, the NAACP said a black woman and her baby were removed from a flight from Atlanta to New York after she asked for their stroller to be retrieved from checked baggage before she left the plane.
Another allegation described an incident involving a black woman who had booked first-class tickets for herself and a white companion. At the ticket counter, the black woman was moved to coach, while her traveling partner was allowed to stay in first class, the NAACP said.
And on a different occasion, on a flight from Washington, D.C., to Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina, a black man was forced to give up his seat after he "responded to disrespectful and discriminatory comments directed toward him by two unruly white passengers," according to the NAACP.
American Airlines did not comment on the specific allegations.
Mallory said a meeting with American "is being worked on." She added that she hopes the company can be a potential leader in addressing these issues.
"I think that the company has continuously put out statements about their commitment to diversity, and their commitment to treating all of their passengers the same," she said.
"And I think that a statement is good. But if your personnel is not carrying out that vision, then there's a problem. And there has to be accountability mechanisms in place to ensure that if we see a pattern, that we've got to address it."
The NAACP is asking people who have concerns about their travel with American or other airlines to report their experiences to the organization.
Johnson said the NAACP's "growing list of incidents ... involves behavior that cannot be dismissed as normal or random."
In August, the organization issued a travel advisory for Missouri, citing several discriminatory incidents in the state as reasons for individual visitors to travel with "extreme caution."
It said at the time that the Missouri advisory was the first ever issued by the organization, at the state or national level.


"They shake the credibility of Japan's manufacturing, which is valued for its high quality and safety," Transportation Minister Keiichi Ishii told reporters Friday after the latest revelations from Kobe Steel (KBSTY) and Nissan (NSANF).
Other recent scandals include Takata's deadly airbags, Mitsubishi Motors' fudged fuel-efficiency tests and Toshiba (TOSBF)'s damaging debacles over its accounting and its nuclear power business.
'A sad reflection'
The problems suggest poor oversight by senior managers at Japanese businesses, experts say. That contrasts starkly with Japan Inc's reputation for quality that's widely credited with driving its success since the 1970s.
"Clearly, it is a sad reflection on aspects of the quality culture of Japan," said Professor Thomas Clarke, director of the Center for Corporate Governance at University of Technology Sydney's Business School.
Clarke attributes the failings in large part to the loyalty required from managers wishing to make their way up Japan's corporate ladder.
Related: Europe to planemakers: Stop buying Kobe Steel products
Long-term service at a company is rewarded with higher pay and tax benefits. That makes workers "reluctant to blow the whistle for fear of losing their job or being demoted," said Marcel Thielient, a Japan expert at research firm Capital Economics.
That appears to be what happened at Kobe Steel, where employees fabricated data on the strength and durability on copper and aluminum products going back at least a decade.
Cutting corners
Some experts say Japanese firms are too willing to sacrifice standards in order to grow market share and profits. That's a particular challenge in their domestic economy, which has struggled for decades with sputtering growth and falling prices.
"Corners can get cut and negative news is buried in the vain hope it might go away," said Professor Jeffrey Kingston, director of Asian Studies at Temple University Japan.
Related: How things got ugly for some of Japan's biggest brands
Japanese manufacturers are facing more competitive pressure than ever before. Aggressive rivals have emerged from China, South Korea and Taiwan -- neighboring economies that once lagged Japan but are now export powerhouses for high-end products like electronics and autos.
"Globalization of supply chains has put pressure on suppliers to do more for less," Kingston said. That's left some Japanese companies struggling to compete.
Last year, electronics giant Sharp was bought by Taiwan's Foxconn, a humbling comedown for one of Japan's most well-known brands. Foxconn also bid for Toshiba's microchip unit this year.

Anything for a quiet life
Japan knows it has a problem. In the past couple of years, the stock exchange has been prodding companies to improve oversight by bringing in external board members. But the cascade of scandals hasn't stopped.
A recent study by academics at the Tokyo Institute for Technology tried to get to the root of the problem.
The researchers looked into the so-called "quiet life hypothesis." They argue that Japanese managers often avoid making tough decisions like investing in new areas or cutting costs -- in other words, anything that's goes to make their life more difficult.
Related: Japan's economy faces huge challenges
The study also pointed to another issue. Japanese companies in similar industries often have unspoken agreements not to compete, which they seal by buying stock in one another. This naturally makes managers at these firms more complacent, the researchers found.
If Japanese companies are unable to shake off these problems soon, the country is set to suffer further.
"Japan will lose out as other Asian economies, including China, progressively raise their standards of quality and reliability," Clarke warned.
-- Yoko Wakatsuki contributed to this report.


This trend means that otherwise qualified workers are missing out on good jobs. It also costs companies more in salaries and comes as America has 6.1 million job openings -- a number that's near a record high.
"By raising the bar academically, employers are often hurting their own economics and slamming the door on the opportunity to give a good-paying job to an increasing number of Americans," says Fuller.
Related: This is the biggest mystery in the U.S. economy
Businesses routinely say they are having trouble finding skilled or available workers, according to surveys conducted by the Federal Reserve. The manufacturing sector in particular has reported severe labor shortages.
But factory bosses have raised the bar for job applicants. For example, 67% of the job postings in 2015 for supervisors of production workers required a college degree. But only 16% of the existing supervisors actually had a college education.
Fuller argues that this trend is a key undercurrent in the broader debate about wage inequality. Workers without college degrees increasingly have fewer job options even though they may have the skills for a better-paying gig.
Related: Job training saved her life
In total, the bar has been raised on 6.2 million jobs that didn't previously require a college degree, according to the study, which was done in partnership with consulting giant Accenture, Grads of Life -- a nonprofit that connects employers to Opportunity Youth -- and Burning Glass Technologies, a Boston-based data firm.
Researchers focused on "middle skill" jobs -- those that require more than a high diploma but less than a 4-year college degree.
They found that employers increasingly demanded a college degree because the job skills for a particular position rapidly changed and companies preferred to not pay for job training.
But hiring college grads for jobs that non-college grads can do carries a litany of hidden costs, according to the study.
For one, the majority of employers paid as much as 30% more to hire an applicant with a college education instead of an applicant without a 4-year degree. Companies also suffered from high turnover rates and long periods of time with unfilled jobs.
Related: Holiday hiring is getting more difficult for retailers
And people searching for work -- particularly supervisors, clerks, inspectors and secretaries -- have suffered too. The majority of the 600 businesses surveyed admitted that demanding a 4-year degree excludes some applicants.
Some firms create online job application sites that automatically weed out applications without a college degree.
"Even workers who have relevant experience are excluded," said Fuller, who examined 26 million job postings, in the study.
Fuller recommends companies partner with local community colleges or job training centers to better prepare young workers or give middle-aged workers new, relevant skills.
He also suggested in the report that employers remove automatic filters in their online job applications and use a more customized vetting process that includes people who have not graduated from college.


The deal surpassed a six-month contract worth $240 million to Fluor Corp. from the Army Corps of Engineers to help bring power back to the island and a $35.1 million contract to Weston Solutions to provide two generators for temporary power to the city of San Juan.
The arrangement has raised a few eyebrows among Democrats given that Whitefish only had two employees the day Hurricane Maria hit. Already, Whitefish has scaled up to 300 employees in Puerto Rico -- and it says 700 more are on the way. Such quick growth is typical among utility firms when they are awarded large contracts.
On Tuesday, both a House and a Senate committee called for a review into the Whitefish contract.
Related: San Juan's mayor takes on small Montana firm over power contract
"Today I am calling on the Government Accountability Office to investigate the circumstances surrounding the multi-million dollar contract awarded to Whitefish Energy -- a brand new company with two employees," said Democratic Senator Maria Cantwell, the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, on Tuesday.
"The size and unknown details of this contract raises numerous questions," said Parish Braden, a spokesman for the House Committee on Natural Resources, which is also reviewing Whitefish's role in Puerto Rico.
Others have questioned why PREPA did not choose a larger, more established utility.
"Congress needs to understand why the Whitefish contract was awarded and whether other, more cost-effective options were available," said Democratic Rep. Raúl Grijalva from Arizona, in a statement Tuesday.
PREPA's executive director, Ricardo Ramos, told reporters last week during a press conference the cash-strapped island chose Whitefish because it didn't require a big deposit upfront. The other unnamed contender wanted a $25 million down payment for the work, Ramos said.
"In that moment, we were not in a position to offer that collateral," said Ramos. "The other company did not ask for a guarantee of payment."
But some on Capitol Hill are concerned that Whitefish may have stood out for another reason.
The tiny utility company is based in Whitefish, Montana, which also happens to be the hometown of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke.
Both Zinke and Whitefish CEO Andy Techmanski acknowledge knowing one another. Zinke's office described Whitefish as a "small town" with a population of roughly 6,000 people. One of the secretary's sons "joined a friend who worked a summer job at one their [Whitefish's] construction sites."
Related: Relief group hits major hurdles getting aid to Puerto Rico
Whitefish spokesman Ken Luce confirmed an Oct. 1 report by NBC Montana, which quoted Techmanski as saying he reached out to Zinke after winning the contract to help get resources to the island more quickly,
But Luce told CNN that the company did not make any requests to the administration except for one after the contract was signed on Sept. 26.
"The secretary had absolutely nothing to do with Whitefish getting the contract," he said.
Zinke's office acknowledged they received an email from Techmanski, but said no one at the agency took any further action. On Tuesday, the spokeswoman for the Department of Interior told CNN Zinke played no role in securing the work for Whitefish in Puerto Rico.
Techmanski, who has described the firm as specializing in "difficult and mountainous terrain projects," has downplayed any ties to the administration.
"All I can say is, we took the call and we're here," Techmanski told CNN Friday, referring to a call from director Ramos. "We called each other."
Still, PREPA, a state-owned utility, chose to hire Whitefish rather than initiate agreements with other utilities to help recover from the natural disaster more quickly.
The bankrupt utility, which is $9 billion in debt, could have requested aid after Maria through the American Public Power Association, a network that provides help to other utilities during widespread power outages. That's what Texas and Florida did after Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
Related: Workers are dangling from helicopters to fix Puerto Rico's power lines
A PREPA representative did not respond to an email from CNN asking why the utility didn't activate the mutual-aid network.
On Monday, Rep. Nydia Velázquez -- a New York Democrat -- sent a letter to the head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency raising questions on the handling of such contracts to restore power and water to the crippled island.
"Due to the island's current state of affairs, there is a legitimate and unquestionable need to expedite the process of restoring power and water for the residents in Puerto Rico," Velázquez wrote in the letter. "However, such an accelerated procurement process should not be without sufficient safeguards and proper oversight mechanisms."


Though Chipotle found some cost savings in preparing lettuce and peppers in its restaurants, some of those cost reductions were offset by higher avocado and beef prices.
Its new queso dip, which Chipotle hoped would bring disgruntled customers back, has received largely negative reviews -- on social media, customers found Chipotle's version of queso to be a "crime against cheese." Chipotle said it's early days (it launched nationwide in September), but early queso signs are only somewhat positive for sales.
Adding to the disappointment, Chipotle (CMG) said it would open 15 fewer stores than the company planned this quarter. To lure in new customers, Chipotle said it is considering changing the design of its restaurants.
Investors weren't having it. Shares dipped by more than 15% on Wednesday.
Related: Chipotle's recovery hopes melt with 'gritty' queso
It's been a rocky few months for the fast food retailer.
The hack, acknowledged by the company on April 25, allowed cyber thieves to steal credit card information from customers at several locations across major U.S. cities.
Related: Chipotle stock drops 6% on new illness report
Plus, two recent incidents -- the closure of a location where rodents were sighted and a norovirus outbreak in a different restaurant -- spooked investors who remember Chipotle's 2015 troubles with E. Coli.
And it's not like other fast food sellers are struggling. Shares of McDonald's, already one of the hottest stocks in the Dow this year, rose on Tuesday after the fast food giant impressed Wall Street with total revenue that topped forecasts.


The Craftsman products will appear in Lowe's stores starting in late 2018, the companies announced. It's not the first time another retailer has sold Craftsman products. Nearly 10% of sales went through other chains, as of January, including Ace Hardware. But this is a major step away from Sears being the primary outlet for Craftsman sales.
Related: Sears sells Craftsman brand to Stanley Black & Decker
The competition from Lowe's will only add to the growing difficulty Sears will have attracting customers into its shrinking number of stores. This summer it announced it would start selling its Kenmore-branded appliances on Amazon (AMZN). And it also disclosed this week that it will no longer sell Whirlpool (WHR) appliances sold under the Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid and Jenn-Air brands.
Part of the delay in getting Craftsman tools into Lowe's is the fact that Stanley Black & Decker is shifting Craftsman production back from overseas plants to U.S. facilities. It has announced plans for a new U.S. factory to build Craftsman products at a location yet to be announced.
Related: How Sears changed America
"Craftsman is still an incredibly strong brand, albeit one that is largely manufactured overseas and basically situated within one major retailer," said Stanley Black & Decker CEO James Loree back in January when the sale was announced. "We believe this is an excellent opportunity to invest in, re-Americanize and revitalize this legendary brand, ramp-up product innovation and broaden its distribution."
At the time, Loree said it makes sense to produce the product closer to U.S. markets.
"We already manufacture many products cost effectively in this country and, in some cases, we've been able to bring manufacturing back to the U.S. at a lower cost than producing overseas," he said in January. And while he didn't mention President Trump by name, he did say that given the possibility of border taxes in the future, "the reality is that it's going to be advisable to have more manufacturing in the U.S."


Goldman Sachs crunched the numbers on virtually every way to value stocks and found that S&P 500 stocks have rarely been as expensive as now.
The most popular way to value the stock market is based on projected earnings over the next year. By that measure, known as forward price-to-earnings, the S&P 500 is trading at a lofty multiple of 18.5. That's miles ahead of the long-term average of 12.8.
More telling, over the last four decades, stocks have been more expensive only 11% of the time, Goldman Sachs analysts said in a recent report.

Related: Meet the market bears predicting stock market doom
Digging deeper, the report found that the median stock in the S&P 500 has a forward price-to-earnings ratio of 18.7. That's higher than 98% of the time.
A variety of other measures confirm that the stock market is trading in truly rarefied territory, Goldman found. For example, the median S&P 500 stock has never been more expensive based on enterprise value to sales. Enterprise value is roughly what a company would be worth if it were acquired.
Ditto for another another measure based on how fast profits are growing. And other metrics cited by Goldman are either at all-time highs or very close.
In other words, there have been few times in history where the stock market looked this expensive. By some measures, it never has.
"Objectively, the stock market is overvalued. That's a fact," said Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group.
There's only one measure Goldman Sachs listed that makes the market look a bit inexpensive: a gauge of a company's financial strength called free cash flow yield. The S&P 500 is trading at about average levels by that measure.
But Goldman notes that metric has been kept low because companies aren't spending a lot on factories and equipment.
Related: Stocks soar. Why? Corporate America is still great
Of course, there are plenty of reasons why the market is on fire. The U.S. economy looks solid, with unemployment at just 4.2%. Virtually all major economies around the world are finally growing at the same time. Inflation is unusually low, allowing the Federal Reserve to keep interest rates very low, for now at least.
And Wall Street is getting excited about the tax overhaul proposed by President Trump and Republican leaders in Congress.
"The speed the market is moving with is surprising. But the fundamentals support higher stock prices," said Terry Sandven, chief equity strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management.
Given that bond prices are also very expensive, Sandven said investors have few good alternatives to stocks. Consider that one-third of the S&P 500 pays a higher dividend rate than the 10-year Treasury yield of 2.4%.
Market bulls argue that expensive valuations might not matter right now.
Sandven said that while valuation metrics would "suggest caution," history shows that "stocks can be over or undervalued for long periods."
Even market bears acknowledge that valuations don't matter, until they do.
"Valuations are never a timing mechanism. Markets were expensive in 1996," said Boockvar, referring to the period before the dot-com bubble popped.
Related: Trump is too obsessed with Wall Street
Even though valuations are poor timing tools, they can help give investors a sense of how much money they can expect to make in the long run. (Think: Buy low, sell high.)
"Elevated valuations suggest low long-term returns," Goldman Sachs wrote.
Sandven agrees, saying investors should expect annual stock returns in the mid-single-digit range. That would be disappointing compared with the double-digit gains of recent years. The S&P 500 is already up 15% this year.
In other words, if you're jumping into the stock market, don't bank on these incredible returns to continue.


That comment comes days after the renegotiation of NAFTA -- the pact between the United States, Canada and Mexico -- took a sharp turn south last week. Talks are expected to continue into 2018.
Trump administration officials introduced two major proposals -- one about auto manufacturing and a sunset clause for NAFTA -- that were swiftly rebuked by Mexican and Canadian negotiators.
There has been no progress on those divisive issues and President Trump routinely threatens to pull out of NAFTA.
Related: Canada's Freeland on NAFTA: 'It's easy to take us for granted.'
Canada is now talking tough.
"Canada is kind of like the girl next door. It's easy to take us for granted," Chrystia Freeland, Canada's minister of foreign affairs, told CNN on Sunday. "These [NAFTA] negotiations are really important not just for Canadians, but for Americans."
Still, it's important to note that Canada sent Francois-Philippe Champagne, its minister of international trade, to Colombia this week -- not Freeland. Champagne's office denied that the talks in Colombia were a warning shot directly at Trump.
But the meeting in Colombia is a little odd. Canada already has free trade agreements with Mexico, Chile, Peru and Colombia. Those four nations make up the Pacific Alliance, a group that promotes free trade in Latin America.
Related: If Trump kills NAFTA, farmers, bars and factories lose jobs
Nonetheless, experts say now is as good a time as ever for Canada to talk up the benefits of free trade with other nations considering what's going on with NAFTA.
"Having seen the talks sour in the latest stage of negotiations, we've now seen a reaction from Canada about talking up the importance of free trade, integration, globalism," says Neil Shearing, chief emerging markets economist at Capital Economics.
But Shearing added "there's a growing sense that this may not happen" and that "the U.S. might end up walking away" from NAFTA.
For its part, Mexico is looking elsewhere too. It's renegotiating a free trade agreement with the European Union, shoring up trade ties with Argentina and Brazil, and warming up to the idea of a deal with China.
Related: Mexico and Canada slam U.S. proposals for NAFTA
Talk aside, it will be difficult for either Mexico or Canada to shift its trade away from the United States. About 80% of Mexico's exports go north of the border, and the United States is Canada's top trading partner. Supply chains run across North America.
Business between Canada and Latin America is quite small too. For example, Canada and Colombia traded about $1 billion in goods in the year ending in June, according to Panjiva, a global trade research firm.
Trade between the U.S. and Canada last year totaled $627 billion.
Some doubt Trump would even care if Canada were trying to fire back at his threat to pull out of NAFTA.
"I can't see President Trump giving two hoots what Canada is up to in South America," says Chris Rogers, a research analyst at Panjiva.


The drop in total revenues was mostly due to McDonald's plan to sell more company-owned stores to franchises. It's a strategy that hits revenue in the short-term but should lead to a more lucrative stream of royalty payments down the road.
And it seems the market was more impressed by the solid jump in same-store sales at Mickey D's, which measure how well locations open at least a year are doing. They jumped 6% globally and 4.1% in the U.S. Both figures were better than expected.
So you can forgive investors if they are humming the long-running Justin Timberlake "I'm lovin' it" jingle. Ba da ba ba ba! McDonald's stock is now up 36% this year and more than 70% since Steve Easterbrook was named CEO in late January 2015.
Since he took over, the company has also embraced technology, with new kiosks and mobile payments helping to streamline the ordering process. McDonald's also launched a delivery partnership with ridesharing giant Uber through its UberEats service.
It's all part of a strategy to make McDonald's into, as Easterbrook calls it, a "modern and progressive burger company."
Easterbrook has revamped the company's menu too. Under his watch, McDonald's has launched fancier signature sandwiches like the hipster delight kale and Sriracha sauce burger and more premium coffee beverages.
Related: McDonald's vows to reboot Szechuan Sauce for spurned 'Rick and Morty' fans
But McDonald's has doubled down on cheaper fare lately as well, with a $1 soda promotion and McPick 2 menu -- that offers 2 items for $5 -- helping to fuel the most recent sales growth in the U.S. The company announced on the earnings call that the chain also plans to offer $2 and $3 value menus.
So McDonald's has remained an affordable place to get a quick, inexpensive Happy Meal but it's also been enticing more consumers who might otherwise prefer fast casual fare from Chipotle (CMG) and Panera or upscale burgers from Shake Shack (SHAK).
And McDonald's isn't the only fast food company that's thriving. Shares of Burger King and Popeyes owner Restaurant Brands (QSR) are up more than 40% this year, while KFC and Taco Bell parent Yum! Brands (YUM) has gained nearly 20%.
At the same time, Chipotle continues to struggle after an E. coli outbreak in 2015 damaged its once stellar reputation. Shake Shack's stock has cooled off too after a splashy initial public offering more than two years ago.


Amazon did not respond to a request for comment. The company says bids have come from 54 states, provinces, districts and territories in North America.
Related: Cities woo Amazon as home for second headquarters
Atlanta did not make details of its bid public. But Mayor Kasim Reed told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution last week that it will be "the most aggressive economic attraction package that the state of Georgia has ever put forward." Reed didn't immediately respond to a request for comment from CNNMoney.
Cities are trying hard to woo Amazon (AMZN). Tucson, Arizona, sent a giant cactus to CEO Jeff Bezos, and the Atlanta suburb of Stonecrest offered to de-annex land and rename it Amazon, Georgia. New York City lit up the Empire State Building in Amazon orange.


The Dow is now up more than 18% this year, while the Nasdaq has gained more than 22.5%. And CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index, a measure of seven indicators of market sentiment, is showing signs of Extreme Greed as stocks skyrocket.
The solid results also come on the heels of healthy earnings from big banks JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Citigroup (C) and Bank of America (BAC) earlier this month.
Related: IBM gets a boost from low taxes and cloud computing
And in the world of tech and telecom, IBM (IBM), Adobe (ADBE) and T-Mobile (TMUS) all wowed Wall Street with their latest financials.
What's this all mean? Despite some stinker quarterly earnings reports so far -- most notably from GE (GESLX), Whirlpool (WHR) and Hasbro (HAS) -- most American companies are still doing quite well. The bad results are the exceptions, not the rule.
Consumers are continuing to spend on new cars and phones and take out loans for mortgages. And the solid earnings aren't just an American story.
Even though there are some concerns about how inward Washington has turned under President Trump, the healthy gains in sales from China reported by Caterpillar and GM are reminding investors that America can thrive thanks to globalism.
And investors are once again starting to show signs of optimism about the Trump domestic agenda, namely the prospects for tax reform and fewer regulations on banks and health care companies.
The Federal Reserve may keep the party going as well.
Trump is expected to soon name a Fed chair, and the candidate getting the most attention -- Fed governor Jerome Powell -- would likely continue the Fed's path of gradual rate hikes set into place by current Fed chair Janet Yellen.


Rubio complained about the experience to Stephanie Korey, her friend and former co-worker at Warby Parker. They saw an untapped market, and set to work creating an affordable, durable hard-shell suitcase with wheels and a built-in battery pack for charging electronics.
Their luggage ranges from $225 for a small carry-on to $295 for a large suitcase. Away is also a lifestyle brand that includes a magazine.
Related: Robinhood co-founders want everyone in the stock market
Korey and Rubio, who both have consumer marketing experience from stints at companies like Warby Parker and Casper, bring different strengths to the company. But they know their roles.
Korey, the CEO, has an MBA and is more logic-minded. Rubio, whose title is creative director, manages branding and design.
When they teamed up, they planned their company structure on Post-It notes. The pair laid out notes with all the different functions and departments that their company would need. They divided up the tasks and found they each had an equal amount.
The two also share an entrepreneurial spirit.
Rubio's first business experience came from a lemonade stand, where she made her mark as something of a corporate raider.
"The kid down the street opened a lemonade stand about a week later, and I remember going to my dad and asking him for $20 so I could buy him out," Rubio said, calling it her first merger and acquisition. "I bought him out and made him work for me."
Korey had an enterprising business of her own: She set up shop in her parents' supply closet and sold them things they'd already bought.
"My first business from a gross margin perspective was quite ingenious," she said. "I sold them their own light bulbs and their own paper clips that they had already paid for, so it was great -- 100% gross margin."
Related: Bumble founder created the app after experiencing online harassment
The two plan to debut additional products for travelers soon -- a priority for Rubio, who is constantly on the road.
"My relationship with travel is probably my least complicated relationship. I just love it and it loves me back," she said. "This is so sad, but lately I've been feeling most at home on a plane with no Wi-Fi."
Rubio said going through airport security, putting her stuff in bins and boarding is the biggest constant in her life right now.
But she credits her frequent travel with making her a better entrepreneur by forcing her to adapt to change and push beyond what's comfortable. She said her experiences have also helped her create a company that makes travel easier for others.
"Our customers just really feel like this luggage kind of enables and empowers them to have better trips," she said.


Unicredit said it "promptly removed the two columns in the table" when the error was discovered. But the information had already been e-mailed to investors and analysts.
The bank's board was then called in to review the full results, which were published before the Milan stock market opened on Tuesday.
Related: Italy gets Google to pay $335 million in tax arrears
Esther Castro, an analyst at Banco Sabadell, was one of those who received the email. She said investors would have been surprised by the early release, but not too angry with the bank.
"It is very rare," she said. "We all work in this industry, with a lot of stress, many things happen every minute ... so we perfectly understand that a mistake is a mistake. It is not the end of the world."
She said the results were fairly positive and showed the bank had made good progress in reducing costs.
"At the end of the day, this is what the investors want to hear," she added. Shares were trading 1.6% higher on Tuesday.
Related: Italy is pouring billions into its troubled banks
Unicredit is not the first company to suffer the embarrassment of a premature earnings release.
Google published its quarterly earnings a few hours early in 2012. That release was peppered by placeholder language like "PENDING LARRY QUOTE."
In 2015, Twitter's (TWTR) results came out earlier than expected after someone on leaked them -- on Twitter.
Microsoft (MSFT) also had its earnings leaked early in 2011.
In 2010, a reporter correctly guessed the address of the website on which Disney (DIS) results were going to be published.


"We try to work only with the dreamers," the young crown prince told investors gathered in Riyadh. "This place is not for conventional people or companies."
Plans call for the city to be powered entirely by regenerative energy, while also making use of automated driving technology and passenger drones. Wireless hi-speed internet will be free.
"All services and processes in NEOM will be 100% fully automated, with the goal of becoming the most efficient destination in the world," the Saudi Arabia Public Investment Fund said in a statement.
Related: Saudi crown prince promises 'a more moderate Islam'
The city, which will be independent of the kingdom's "existing governmental framework," will be built across 26,500 square kilometers (10,231 square miles) near the Red Sea. According to the fund's statement, its land mass "will extend across the Egyptian and Jordanian borders."
"NEOM will be constructed from the ground-up, on greenfield sites, allowing it a unique opportunity to be distinguished from all other places that have been developed and constructed over hundreds of years," the fund said in a statement.
The project will be backed by $500 billion from the Saudi government and its investment fund, as well as local and international investors.
It has caught the attention of foreign investors including SoftBank (SFTBF) founder Masayoshi Son and Blackstone CEO Stephen Schwarzman, who joined the crown price on a panel dedicated to the project.
Related: Women driving could rev up Saudi economy
"NEOM is a fantastic opportunity," Son said on Tuesday. "In the beginning, I didn't understand. But when I visited the location, I said 'Wow.' "
Son said his Softbank Vision Fund, which counts Saudi Arabia as its biggest investor, would put money toward the new project.
The crown prince said there no set timeline for the development.
"This is a challenge," he said. "We know this takes time ... we are under pressure to deliver something new and to give innovative ideas."
Saudi Arabia has made a string of big announcements recently that are aimed at diversifying its economy away from oil.
The country said in September that it would pump almost $3 billion into its entertainment industry.
Related: Saudi Arabia is investing billions in fun
In August, it launched a tourism project that consists of 100 miles of sandy coastline and a lagoon with 50 islands. The project even caught the eye of billionaire Richard Branson.
A year and a half into the efforts, officials have made progress on some parts of the broader plan -- known as Vision 2030 -- but also flip-flopped on others.
The government has cut some subsidies, announced new taxes and lifted a controversial ban on women driving. It also tapped global bond markets three times in less than a year, borrowing billions to balance its books.


The Upton Machine Company, which became Whirlpool, sold its first order of washers to Sears, Roebuck & Company in 1916.
In a memo to employees, Sears said the breakup was because of a dispute over product pricing.
"Whirlpool has sought to use its dominant position in the marketplace to make demands that would have prohibited us from offering Whirlpool products to our members at a reasonable price," said the memo, which was provided to CNNMoney.
Whirlpool issued a statement saying that it will no longer supply Sears with its branded products, without giving a reason.
Related: Sears to sell Kenmore appliances on Amazon
Sears Holdings (SHLD), which includes the Sears and Kmart chains, warned in March that it had "substantial doubt" about its ability to stay in business. It has been steadily closing stores in an effort to stem years of losses.
It has also fueded publicly with some suppliers, who have been reluctant to sell their inventory to Sears because they worry Sears won't be able to pay them.
Appliances are a big part of Sears' business. Its wide variety of brands is one advantage it still has to attract customers. For years, it was the only retailer selling Kenmore products, and ads bragged that Sears was the only place where customers could shop for all the major appliance brands.
Related: How Sears changed America
Earlier this year, Sears announced it would start selling Kenmore-branded products on Amazon, the first time it allowed them to be sold anywhere outside of a Sears store. Though the deal could lift sales of Kenmore products, it could further diminish Sears' ability to bring in customers.
The breakup is also bad news for Whirlpool, which on Monday reported disappointing earnings and trimmed its profit outlook for this year.
Whirlpool attributed the poor earnings to higher costs for raw materials. It did not mention splitting up with Sears. In its statement the company said that Sears accounted for only 3% of its sales worldwide, and that most of those sales are the Kenmore-branded appliances that it will continue to make.
Whirlpool (WHR) shares were down 10% in early trading Tuesday.
Sears shares fell 3%, though most of that drop happened after a separate announcement that rival Lowe's will start selling Craftsman branded tools, which had been a Sears brand.


The chain has been struggling to win back customers following E. coli and norovirus outbreaks, as well as a recent rodent sighting in one of its restaurants in Dallas.
2. Stock streak ends: The Dow Jones industrial average snapped its impressive six-day run of records on Monday. The index closed 0.2% lower.
The S&P 500 shed 0.4% and the Nasdaq declined 0.6%.
3. Trump and the Fed: President Trump says he will announce his choice for Federal Reserve chair "very soon." Trump must decide whether to stick with current Fed boss Janet Yellen, or put his own stamp on the central bank. Stanford University economist John Taylor and Fed Governor Jerome Powell are both in the running.
4. U.K. treasury chief questioned: U.K. Chancellor Philip Hammond is set to be questioned in parliament at 6:30 a.m. ET.
Brexit and the country's upcoming budget are bound to be on the agenda.
Britain and the European Union have made little progress in Brexit negotiations, and businesses are getting nervous.
5. Global markets overview: U.S. stock futures were pointing higher.
European markets opened mixed, following a trend set in Asia.
Japan's Nikkei hit another record high as investors cheered Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's election victory.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
6. Stock market movers: Whirlpool Corp (WHR) was down sharply in extended trading after the company cut its earnings guidance.
7. Company news: 3M (MMM), Caterpillar (CAT), Eli Lilly (LLY), Fiat Chrysler (FCAU), General Motors (GM), Infosys (INFY), JetBlue Airways (JBLU), Lockheed Martin (LMT), Sherwin-Williams (SHW) and TD Ameritrade (AMTD) plan to release earnings before the open.
AT&T (T), Express Scripts (ESRX), iRobot (IRBT), Regal Entertainment (RGC) and Texas Instruments (TXN) will follow after the close.
Unicredit (UNCFF), Italy's biggest bank by assets, was forced to release its preliminary earnings two weeks ahead of schedule after some of the data leaked early. The bank's stock was trading 0.4% lower in Milan.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
8. Coming this week:
Tuesday -- AT&T, GM, Chipotle, Lockheed Martin, Caterpillar and McDonald's earnings  Wednesday -- Coca-Cola, Walgreens, Boeing and Visa earnings; ECNY luncheon with Wilbur Ross Thursday -- Mattel, Twitter, Alphabet, Microsoft, Intel, Comcast, Ford, Southwest, American Airlines, Hershey, Xerox and Amazon earnings Friday -- ExxonMobil, Chevron and Merck earnings; GDP Q3 estimates


Related: Judge rejects Martin Shkreli's request to release his bail
Since the financial crisis eight years ago, the world's largest banks have paid billions in fines to settle charges of various misdeeds. But very few individual bankers have been held responsible for their roles in those illegal schemes.
An HSBC spokesman had no comment when asked about the conviction.


The organization, which is currently in the process of obtaining non-profit status, then distributes the supplies. That way, it avoids the government inspections at the port and "all the bureaucracy that has become a bottleneck," Seda said.
Nevertheless, the ad hoc group's capacity to bring relief is limited; it has stopped collecting donations until it finds a way to transport the next load.
Seda's group is one of dozens of organizations that are running into enormous logistical hurdles while trying to help Puerto Rico.
Disaster management experts say that the citizen response has been extraordinary, as Puerto Rico's diaspora of nearly 5.4 million watch in frustration while relief workers struggle to move supplies like food, water and medicine to those in need throughout the island.
Related: Doctors in Puerto Rico: 'Reality here is post-apocalyptic'
Transporting goods from church basements and high school auditoriums to an island more than 1,000 miles off the U.S. coastline, with already crumbling infrastructure and little to no cell service, has proven to be a major challenge.
Puerto Rican leaders say they haven't gotten enough help from the federal and state governments, which have assets like planes and personnel that could be used to deliver aid. Transportation companies have made in-kind donations and big names like Broadway star Lin-Manuel Miranda have funded charter flights. But the need is far from satisfied.
Meanwhile, volunteers say, the slow speed of road clearing and power restoration have made it more difficult to reach remote communities. There are currently 13,600 active duty and National Guard troops on the island, but many say that's not enough.
"It shouldn't be up to the handful of Puerto Rican millionaires in this country to be the U.S. Air Force and FEMA," said Ohio state Rep. Dan Ramos, who represents the heavily Puerto Rican town of Lorain.
Organizers of the New York Puerto Rican Day Parade received semi trucks full of food, water and clothing from other parade organizations in places like Hartford and Cleveland. But they sat in warehouses, until leaders could arrange transportation.
"It has been a yeoman's task to figure this out," said Lorraine Cortes Vasquez, who chairs the New York parade's board of directors. Finally, she said, the National Guard took their first shipment, and JetBlue took some of their supplies as well.
Experts typically recommend that people who want to help during disasters send money, which can then be used to buy and transport supplies from points closer to people who need them. But once goods have been collected, nobody wants to waste them.
Miami nightlife impresario Michael Capponi runs the Global Empowerment Mission, which started after the 2010 earthquake in Haiti. After Maria, the group coordinated some 50 flights chartered by celebrities like Will Smith and reality TV personality Bethenny Frankel. They've procured a 100,000 square foot warehouse to store and sort 15 million pounds of donations, some of which had to be retrieved from small-scale drives all over the country.
Related: Misery in Puerto Rico: No power, no job, 'enormous' lines
Capponi acknowledged that it would be "100 percent more efficient" to raise money than collect physical goods. Later on, money can also be used to buy goods in the disaster zone, which puts money back into the local economy.
"The problem is," Capponi said, "we can't let all that stuff sit in the U.S." So, he continues to send trucks to pick it up.
Still, some groups are bypassing the messy process of taking physical donations entirely.
PRxPR, a group formed by Puerto Rican business leaders, has raised $530,000 to date. It has been parceling out small grants to individuals and organizations on the island for urgent priorities like generators and water filters, if they can be found in stores. But distributing those goods to the people who need them remains difficult.
"You get a private cargo plane landing in the Aguadilla airport, and when that plane lands, is that there's not enough personnel to help unload the plane," said PRxPR co-founder Carmen Baez of the groups flying aid in. "There's not enough personnel to guard the merchandise, to load the trucks, to drive the trucks to where they're needed."
This was a particular problem at the Port of San Juan, where pallets of aid sat uncollected for days, in large part because drivers couldn't make the journey to pick up supplies.
Puerto Rican groups with local ties had an easier time. Puerto Rican Agenda, a 22-year-old community organization in Chicago, flew aid into Puerto Rico using two planes donated by United. Omar Torres-Kortright, a member of the group, says local politicians like San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz helped make sure transportation was available at the airport and paperwork didn't hold anything up.
Related: Caribbean tourism faces long road to recovery
"As long as our shipments are directed to municipal leaders like her, we do cut through the red tape," said Torres-Kortright. "The mayor of San Juan goes directly to the airport with her trucks, says 'That's my plane, it's my stuff,' and distributes it."
The groups that have mobilized in the wake of Maria know their efforts won't be enough — so they're pushing for policy measures, like forgiveness of the island's enormous debt, and an exemption from the Jones Act, which only permits shipping to the island from other U.S. ports to be carried out by U.S. vessels.
Javier Ferrer, who runs Houston's Puerto Rican and Cuban Festival, says that a Norwegian company offered to send a ship from New Orleans to San Juan with 53 containers of aid a few days after the storm. But by the time the White House announced a 10-day break in enforcement of the Jones Act, it would have been too late to get the ship loaded and out to the island.
"That law needs to be lifted -- not temporarily, but permanently," Ferrer said.
The Hispanic Federation, which has raised more than $14 million for Puerto Rico and is still chartering planes to send aid, is ramping up calls for a more robust effort from Washington.
"It's been tremendously frustrating, to say the least, to see the lack of adequate response from our federal government," said Hispanic Federation president Jose Calderon. "There's only so much that the diaspora can do."


Many expected the Canadian plane maker to find ways to operate should the crippling tariff be imposed. Few expected Airbus (EADSF) to swoop in so decisively.
Related: Boeing v. Bombardier: Tariff is now 300%
The aerospace business is typically marked by incremental moves, but the European and Canadian alliance may significantly alter an industry that has world leaders acting as champions and sales representatives. Both the Canadian and U.K. prime ministers have encouraged the U.S. to drop its challenge to Bombardier, threatening future Boeing deals in both countries.
Since news broke last Monday about the Bombardier-Airbus partnership, many in Boeing (BA) have expressed confusion about the benefit to its rival. Others are downright dismissive about whether the deal will survive at all. But in either case, Boeing is trying to figure out what the biggest change in the jetliner business in 30 years means for its future.
Related: This plane may vastly improve flying in the U.S., if it doesn't first start a trade war
"This looks like a questionable deal between two heavily state-subsidized competitors to skirt the recent findings of the U.S. government." Phil Musser, Boeing's Vice President of Communications said in a statement last Monday.
On Wednesday, Boeing's Chief Executive will likely weigh in on the deal when the company releases its third quarter earnings.
But Boeing's leadership was betting on China taking over the C Series, not Airbus, according to two people familiar with the company's thinking. Indeed, talks between Bombardier and China preceded the Airbus announcement, according to one senior industry official close to the deal.
"Monday probably was not as predictable as some would've thought," said Congressman Rick Larsen, who represents more than 20,000 Boeing employees in his Seattle-area district.
Related: How Boeing got on Trump's good side
As the news of the partnership between arch rivals Airbus and Bombardier spread, the leadership of Boeing's commercial airplane unit were sitting down to dinner, mingling with executives from Australian airline Qantas, which was taking delivery of its first 787-9 Dreamliner.
Darling of the Dow, Boeing has been fueled by booming sales of jets like the Dreamliner, delighting Wall Street with copious amounts of cash. And the tight political bond it has formed with the Trump White House had preliminarily delivered major victories, such as the recommended tariffs on the Canadian planes.
Boeing won the crushing tariffs on the C Series by alleging the planes were sold to Delta Air Lines (DAL) for "absurdly low prices."
The tariff rulings are expected to be finalized or rejected in February 2018, when the International Trade Commission will determine if Boeing was harmed by Bombardier. The Canadian plane maker has denied its deal with Delta harmed Boeing in any way.
Related: Delta has no intention of paying 300% Bombardier tariff
Those tariffs, and the threat of a quadrupling of the jet's price tag to U.S. airlines - a veritable death blow - forced Bombardier into the arms of its biggest rival. Airbus now plans to expand its Alabama factory to build C Series jets.
"That's a direct consequence of the tariff discussion," said the senior leader close to the deal. "If you try to kill someone, don't miss."
Airbus has secured the future for its single-aisle jets in a move that literally costs it nothing up front. The deal is expected to close in the second half of 2018.
"I have no doubt that our partnership with Bombardier will boost sales and the value of this programme tremendously," Airbus Chief Executive Officer Tom Enders said when the partnership was announced.
The China factor
With the deal, Airbus also snatched the C Series from their future rival, the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, or Comac. Bombardier and Comac were once partners. Though the union later fell apart, the flirtation was enough to concern both Boeing and Airbus.
China has always lurked in the background both as a future competitor and the largest single marketplace for jetliners.
The Airbus-Bombardier deal is also an acknowledgment that Europe and Canada can't fight the Communist nation's ambitions separately, especially as their respective trade ties with the U.S. and the U.K. are increasingly strained by Trump and Brexit.
Related: China and Russia are coming for Boeing and Airbus
But even China knows that its Western competitors cannot be humbled without a seasoned partner of its own. China and Russia have teamed up to build long-range twin-aisle jets for the world's airlines. And that union is aimed squarely at Boeing and Airbus.
For its part, Boeing is counting on the Commerce Department's tariffs sticking, no matter the outcome of the partnership between Airbus and Bombardier.
Related: Will Airbus and Bombardier's partnership push Boeing closer to Brazil?
"Any duties finally levied against the C Series...will have to be paid on any imported C-Series airplane or part, or it will be not permitted into the country," said J. Michael Luttig, Boeing's General Counsel. In Boeing's view the C Series doesn't get a pass just because they're assembled in Alabama.
As the week drew to a close, Boeing was still trying to figure out where it goes from here.
A senior industry executive predicted another similar shakeup: A Boeing alliance with Brazil's Embraer.
By "the rules of the game theory" in a duopoly, the executive said of the Nobel Prize-winning research that helps predict corporate behavior. "You mirror the movements of your opponent."


But chief financial officer Deborah Thomas warned that sales would be up only 4% to 7% from a year ago in the fourth quarter because of the Toys 'R' Us turmoil and weakness in some international markets. Wall Street was expecting growth of 11.5%.
The bankruptcy of Toys 'R' Us is yet another sign of the rise of Amazon (AMZN) as well, as more consumers opt to buy their holiday toys on their smartphones instead of fighting crowds at the mall on Black Friday and throughout December.
Hasbro's bad news hit rival Mattel too. Mattel's (MAT) shares fell 4% Monday.
Even the mighty Lego has been hurting lately. The maker of interlocking toy bricks posted a surprise drop in sales last month and reported layoffs too.
Shares of smaller toy companies Jakks Pacific (JAKK) and Canada's Spin Master, which makes the popular Hatchimals line of toys, were lower as well. Jakks Pacific said last month it expected a loss this year due to the Toys 'R' Us bankruptcy.
Hasbro's stock fell last month after the Toys 'R' Us filing, but the poor Hasbro outlook Monday still took Wall Street by surprise.
Related: Hasbro and Mattel hit by Toys 'R' Us bankruptcy
The company has been doing well this year, thanks to hit toys tied to Disney franchises such as Star Wars as well as its own popular brands such as the Monopoly board game, Nerf, My Little Pony and Transformers.
And Hasbro's stock is still up more than 15% this year, despite Monday's plunge.
Mattel, on the other hand, has continued to struggle. It recently lost the rights to the lucrative Disney Princess line of toys to Hasbro and sales of its iconic doll Barbie have slumped.
The company brought in a new CEO earlier this year from Google, Margo Georgiadis, in order to focus more on high-tech toys.
But Mattel has continued to slide. Shares are now down nearly 45% this year and are trading at multi-year lows.
So for now, it looks like toy stocks are a worse gift for investors than a lump of coal in your stocking or under the Christmas tree.


Peanuts can cause anaphylactic shock, a life-threatening reaction, in people who are allergic to them, particularly children. Viaskin is an electrostatic patch that works by administering the allergen directly on the skin, according to the company.
AR101 is also designed to work like a vaccine, with patients taking the drug at a doctor's office every two weeks over a 20-week period to overcome their allergies to peanuts.
Dr. Charles Duncan, a research analyst at investment bank PiperJaffray, said in a published report last week that Aimmune is undervalued, based on his confidence in AR101. Results for late-stage testing regarding that drug are expected to be released in the first quarter of 2018.
Meanwhile, DBV Technologies, which is based in the Parisian suburb of Montrouge, said it's still working to develop the drug and submit it to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for potential approval.
Viaskin Peanut "shows significant therapeutic promise in the peanut-allergic population, where there is a high unmet medical need and no approved treatments," Dr. Pierre-Henri Benhamou, CEO of DBV Technologies, said in a statement.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
The FDA will most likely require another late-stage clinical trial for Viaskin Peanut, according to Dr. Liana Moussatos, an analyst for WebBush. She said that Aimmune's drug is right behind it, in terms of testing, and the two drugs would be direct competitors if they both end up on the market.
David Schilansky, chief operating officer for DBV Technologies, told CNNMoney that the clinical trail results for Viaskin Peanut are still strong, having only barely missed the endpoint, and his company plans to submit those results to the FDA.
"We feel that we have a robust set of data," he said. "We intend to go and discuss with the FDA about the way forward."
DBV is also working on Viaskin products for milk and egg allergies.


Target will ramp up its digital options in another way: Next month, the company is introducing a mobile wallet function for REDcard holders, who can pay for store purchases by scanning their phones.
Related: Target is hiring more than 100,000 holiday workers
As it gears up for the holidays, Target (TGT) is competing with rivals Walmart (WMT) and Amazon (AMZN).
Last month, Target said it would hire more than 100,000 temporary workers, a sharp increase over last year. Amazon said this month that it would hire 120,000 temporary workers, while Walmart said instead that it would give existing employees more hours.
--CNNMoney's Chris Isidore contributed to this story.


In other words, any quirky item you would think of buying on Etsy because it's not super commercial is now on Amazon too.
"Every item on Amazon Handmade has a story behind it -- and after hearing from customers and artisans, we are thrilled to make gift shopping an experience they will look forward to," said Amazon Handmade head of marketing Katie Harnetiaux in a statement.
It's worth noting though that Amazon has had a Handmade site since October 2015. And Etsy's stock plunged two years ago as well when Amazon first introduced it.
What appears to be new here is the gift aspect of Amazon's handmade site -- conveniently just in time for the holidays.
Will the new online store hurt Etsy? The company was not immediately available for comment. But for what it's worth, Etsy's stock is having a solid year, up nearly 35%.
Still, shares of Etsy are currently trading only slightly above their initial offering price of $16 a share from 2015. The company is profitable but analysts are forecasting little in the way of earnings growth for 2018 and a slowdown in sales growth too.
Related: Are prescription drugs the next target for Amazon?
Amazon, on the other hand, has been busy disrupting the world of commerce, media and other aspects of retail and technology.
The stock is up more than 30% this year and is not far from an all-time high. Amazon is worth $470 billion. And Bezos is now the second-richest person on the planet according to Forbes -- worth nearly $82 billion, trailing only Microsoft (MSFT) co-founder Bill Gates.
And Amazon has created a furor throughout North America lately with its plans to build a new second headquarters to go along with its current home in Seattle.
Cities have been bidding for the Amazon "HQ2" in a fashion reminiscent of what used to be done to try and get the rights to host the Olympics.
Even New York City, home to Etsy -- which is based in Brooklyn -- has submitted a plan to be the home of Amazon's HQ2.
Amazon will report its latest quarterly results after the closing bell on Thursday and Wall Street will be very interested to see how the company's new brick and mortar stores are doing, which includes the recent acquisition of organic grocer Whole Foods.
There have also been rumors that Amazon may be looking to start selling prescription medications online, news that sent shares of drugstore chains Walgreen (WBA) and CVS (CVS) lower as well as pharmacy benefits manager Express Scripts (ESRX).
And there has also been chatter that Amazon may want to start its own delivery service. Those reports caused the stocks of FedEx (FDX) and UPS (UPS) to fall. But Amazon told CNNMoney it's not looking to change its relationship with those companies right now.
Nonetheless, it seems that there are few consumer-related industries out there that are immune to potential threats from Amazon.


The country's reform plan, spearheaded by its ambitious young crown prince, includes increasing foreign investment and selling a stake in its giant state oil company.
A year and a half into the efforts, officials have made progress on some parts of the plan -- known as Vision 2030 -- but also flip-flopped on others.
The government has cut some subsidies, announced new taxes and lifted a controversial ban on women driving. It also tapped global bond markets three times in less than a year, borrowing billions to balance its books.
The crash in world oil prices in 2014 and 2015 had left a huge hole in the kingdom's budget. It reported deficits of $100 billion in 2015 and $71 billion last year.
Related: Women driving could rev up Saudi economy
The man behind the push to modernize the conservative kingdom, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, is expected to give a rare public speech on Tuesday.
"There's no doubt that [he] understands the challenge," said Robin Niblett, director of think tank Chatham House. "You need the energy of a new generation" to confront "a social structure that is reliant upon government handouts, low tax, non-work," he added.
Some targets already slipping
But Saudi Arabia has backpedaled on a number of targets.
In April, it rolled back wage and benefit cuts imposed on top ministers and other public workers. It's also revising part of the broader strategy that sets specific targets for government bodies to meet by 2020.
The Saudi government gave few details about the changes and didn't state whether new targets would be introduced.
"I don't care particularly if some of the targets and the time lines slip. They were always ambitious," Niblett said.
Questions over $100 billion IPO
One of the most high-profile parts of the plan -- the planned IPO of the biggest oil company in the world, Saudi Aramco -- is drawing a lot of the attention.
Saudi officials have said they expect the IPO to value Aramco at around $2 trillion. If the market agrees, selling just 5% would raise $100 billion -- four times as much as  Alibaba (BABA)'s IPO in 2014, which is the largest to date.
Aramco has disputed recent media reports suggesting uncertainty over its mammoth stock market listing and where it might happen. It insisted earlier this month that its IPO plan is still "on track" for next year.
FT report on Saudi Aramco IPO is entirely speculative. All listing venues under review for optimal decision,IPO process is on track for 2018

The money the government aims to raise from the listing are seen as crucial for funding its broader plans to revamp the national economy, which include measures like increasing the role of women and the development of an entertainment industry.
Saudi Arabia wants to increase the participation rate of women in its workforce from 22% to 30% by 2030.
Related: Saudi Arabia is investing billions in fun
There have been some high-profile examples of progress: three top jobs in finance, including the head of the stock exchange, were recently filled by women. But at 33%, the unemployment rate for women is far higher than the national average of about 13%.

Painful transition
Pushing through major changes is tough in an economy that's already struggling.
The International Monetary Fund estimates that Saudi economic growth will be "close to zero" this year. But it also warned the government shouldn't wait too long to tackle key reforms.
"Without growth support coming in, it's difficult to progress," said Monica Malek, chief economist at Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank.
Saudi officials insist their country is prepared for the challenges.
"No pain, no gain is very much at play here," Energy Minister Khalid Al Falih told CNNMoney in May. "The Saudi population is ready for the long haul."
-- John Defterios contributed to this report.


Of course, being his own boss helped make that possible. For many parents, working from home is not an option. But Branson, it seems, is encouraging other companies to allow their employees this flexibility.
Between 2005 and 2015, the number of workers who telecommuted increased 115%, according to a report from Global Workplace Analytics and FlexJobs. That translates to 3.9 million workers, or almost 3% of the total U.S. workforce, who worked from home at least half the time in 2015.
New technologies have made it easier for people to work remotely.
Branson adds that having as much flexibility as possible where you work can also make all the difference for working parents.
Related: Gretchen Carlons speaks: 'The floodgates have opened'
"I lived in a houseboat when my kids were young," he recalls. "I was building Virgin. They were fooling around. I changed a nappy and I'd be on the phone. So I suspect I'll see more of my kids and family than almost any father."
Branson details numerous experiences with his children throughout his nearly 50-year career in his new book, cheekily titled Finding My Virginity.
Now a grandfather of four, Branson notes "the most important, in the end in life, is your family and friends." And that, according to Branson, means you pick up the phone when your child calls from college with her test scores -- even if you are on a panel presenting in front of thousands of people in California.
"I knew how excited she would be with her results, and so I was definitely going to take the phone call. But she also managed to have 10,000 people clap for her as well," Branson recalls with a smile.
Branson says his children have not only inherited his appetite for travel, but also his appetite for risk. In October 2008, Branson and his kids set out to break the world record for the fastest crossing of the Atlantic Ocean in a sailboat.
"None of us realized quite how dangerous the trip was," Branson writes in his book. A hurricane had formed behind them. Seeing the worried look on his children's faces, Branson and the team abandoned the mission and headed for Bermuda instead.
None of this sits well with his wife of 40 years, Joan. Before Branson takes off for another death-defying feat, Joan often tells him: "If you die, it's your fault and I won't be coming to your funeral," he recalls.
Related: Oath CEO Tim Armstrong: I want women to fill 50% of leadership positions
"She makes me sign a bit of paper every time saying, the island is hers if I don't come back," Branson jokes. (Necker Island, that is. Branson's private Island in the British Virgin Islands.) "She's no fool."
Branson has not lost his appetite for adventure -- nor have his two children. His only condition, is that he insists on tagging along with them on any of their extreme adventures. "Poor Joan now has to watch all three of us heading off on big adventures," he says.
One very personal adventure he plans to share with Holly and Sam will be a trip to space on Virgin Galactic's VSS Unity. "They may not come on the very first flight, but maybe they definitely will be coming very soon," he says.
As for when that may be?
For the first time since the deadly 2014 crash of Virgin Galactic's SpaceShipTwo during a test flight, Branson is putting a timeframe on when he expects the first of the company's official flights to reach space: 16 weeks. "Maybe six months from now, I should be in space," Branson estimates. "And then, by the end of next year, hopefully, we'll have our license to start taking people up."
The National Transportation Safety Board ruled pilot error was responsible for the 2014 crash.
"Paying customers will start flying in VSS Unity when commercial service kicks off at Spaceport America in New Mexico," a representative for Virgin told CNNMoney.
Branson has been developing Virgin Galactic for the last 10 years. Reaching space would mark the apex of his Virgin empire.
"I think that almost every single Virgin company is culminating in Virgin Galactic, and it will hopefully, it'll be the one Virgin company that I think everybody who works with Virgin will be most proud of," he tells Harlow.


Of the estimated $200 billion a year in corporate tax savings from that rate cut, about 35% (or $70 billion) would go to individuals and businesses from outside the United States, according to Rosenthal.
"In the short run, a surprisingly large portion of this relief would end up in the pockets of foreign investors," he writes.
Rosenthal says the approximately $70 billion going to foreign investors would be three times greater than the annual benefit that middle-income households would enjoy from the entire Trump tax reform framework, as estimated in a preliminary analysis by the Tax Policy Center.
Related: Ryan says House GOP will propose new top tax rate for rich
White House chief economist Kevin Hassett has dismissed the Tax Policy Center findings. He argues it's too early to make such estimates because tax writers in Congress haven't filled in many details of the Republican reform plan.
Who really benefits when corporate taxes are cut? No consensus
As the tax reform debate progresses, the question of who really benefits the most will be central: The middle class or the rich? Businesses or workers?
The answer will revolve in part around one of the most unresolved issues in economics: Who bears the greatest burden of corporate taxes, and therefore who stands to gain the most when those taxes are cut?
Economists once believed that shareholders bear all the burden of corporate taxes. But now that American companies compete globally, most experts agree workers share some of the burden. That's because it's easier now for companies to shift jobs overseas and pay American workers less.
There is no consensus over just how much of the corporate tax burden workers bear. The estimates range from 20% to 70% and up.
The Trump administration contends that workers bear a lot of the burden, so will benefit a lot when rates are cut. Hassett estimates that cutting the corporate rate to 20% could mean a jump in average household income of between $4,000 and $9,000 a year, although many outside economists say that estimate is based on a very select reading of the evidence and literature.
Rosenthal assumes, like many experts, that shareholders will enjoy most if not all of the benefits of a corporate rate cut during the first several years.
He told CNNMoney he objects to a windfall for foreigners in part because, as proposed, a big corporate rate cut will cause deficits to grow, forcing the government to borrow more.
"We plan to deficit-finance this large relief for foreign investors," Rosenthal said. "But future generations of U.S. taxpayers would eventually repay the shortfall through new taxes or spending cuts."


The reforms, coupled with major action by the country's central bank, have helped push down the value of the yen.
The Nikkei and yen often move in opposite directions because the index is heavy on exporters that benefit from a cheaper currency.
2. Chaos in Catalonia: The euro dropped against most major currencies as Catalonia spiraled deeper into political crisis. Spain's benchmark stock index opened 0.7% lower.
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy announced on Saturday that he plans to dissolve the Catalan parliament and remove the region's elected leaders.
Catalan leaders insist they will reject any attempt by Madrid to impose direct rule.
3. Europe's populist threat: Billionaire tycoon Andrej Babis won a general election in the Czech Republic by a significant margin on Saturday.
His success is the latest example of electoral gains by populist forces opposed to further European Union integration. Populists have also performed well in recent German and Austrian elections.
The blue chip PX index in Prague opened 0.4% lower and the Czech koruna was down against most major currencies.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were flat.
European markets opened mostly down, while Asian stocks ended the session mixed.
The Dow Jones industrial average rallied 2% last week and closed at a new record on Friday.
The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq also ended the week at all-time highs.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Stock market movers: General Electric (GE) shares were lower premarket after it reported earnings last week that revealed its troubles are deeper than investors initially thought.
6. Earnings and economics: Halliburton (HAL), Hasbro (HAS), Kimberly-Clark (KMB) and Philips (PHG) will release earnings before the open, while Knoll (KNL), Logitech Intl SA (LOGI) and Whirlpool (WHR) will follow after the close.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
7. Coming this week:
Monday -- Hasbro  Tuesday -- AT&T, GM, Chipotle, Lockheed Martin, Caterpillar and McDonald's earnings  Wednesday -- Coca-Cola, Walgreens, Boeing and Visa earnings; ECNY luncheon with Wilbur Ross Thursday -- Mattel, Twitter, Alphabet, Microsoft, Intel, Comcast, Ford, Southwest, American Airlines, Hershey, Xerox and Amazon earnings; ECB rate decision Friday -- ExxonMobil, Chevron and Merck earnings; U.S. Q3 GDP


President Donald Trump has repeatedly threatened to tear up the agreement, calling it the "worst trade deal" ever signed. He has blamed the pact for benefiting Mexico and Canada at the expense of American jobs and has vowed to eliminate the trade deficit with Mexico.
Related: If Trump kills NAFTA, farmers, bars and factories lose jobs
Freeland wants to remind Americans that when it comes to trading goods with Canada, it's the U.S. that has the deficit -- $12.1 billion for 2016, to be exact. (Note: if you look at both goods and services, the U.S. had a $12.5 billion trade surplus last year.)
But Canada doesn't take that as a sign that there's something wrong with the countries' partnership.
"It is certainly the case that this U.S. administration has a strong view about trade deficits as a sign that a trading relationship is fundamentally not working," she said. "Canada doesn't necessarily take that view."
Negotiations to revamp NAFTA were extended into 2018 after talks hit roadblocks on several key issues, including an American proposal to rewrite how companies resolve disputes. Canada and Mexico both reject the Trump administration's suggestion that NAFTA should include a sunset clause that would force all three countries to renew the agreement in five years.
Related: Trump's NAFTA agenda has 'poison pill proposals,' says U.S. Chamber of Commerce
As the fourth round of negotiations wound down last week, U.S. trade representative Robert Lighthizer publicly complained about the "resistance" of his counterparts to accept some of the U.S. proposals to amend the 1994 trade agreement.
Freeland and Mexico Economy Secretary Ildefonso Guajardo have said they are willing to modernize the agreement but will not agree to any clauses that will hurt their respective countries or collaboration among the three nations.
About 14 million American jobs depend on trade with Mexico and Canada, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a business organization that opposes Trump's trade agenda.
The next round of talks will be in Mexico City starting November 17.
--CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie contributed to this report.


Amazon (AMZN) is so hot right now that major cities in the U.S. and Canada are falling over themselves just to get the e-commerce giant to build its second headquarters there. Like city officials, investors are in awe of Amazon's ability to disrupt entire industries.
Mere rumors of Amazon moving into new businesses send shudders through Wall Street. Just look at the selloff in pharmacy stocks sparked by talk of Amazon taking on prescription drugs. Ditto for shipping. That's on top of the pain inflicted on grocery chains by Amazon's shocking Whole Foods takeover.
Amazon's success has left expectations very high. The online retail giant is trading at a very lofty 139 times projected earnings. That makes Amazon vastly more expensive than tech darlings like Apple (AAPL) and Facebook (FB). It's even pricier than Netflix (NFLX).
Boeing (BA) has flown to even greater heights than Amazon this year, soaring 67% to the top of the Dow. It's benefiting from a boom in defense stocks caused by President Trump's push to boost military spending and because of concerns about North Korea. Boeing is also enjoying solid orders for its new 737 MAX and 787 Dreamliner commercial jets.
Caterpillar (CAT) is digging out of a big hole caused by the commodities crash. The machinery maker's stock has more than doubled since early 2016 thanks to stabilizing oil and metals prices as well as accelerating global growth. Deep cost cuts, including layoffs, by new CEO Jim Umpleby have also stabilized the business.
McDonald's (MCD) is another Dow comeback story. Wall Street has devoured McDonald's stock since Steve Easterbrook took over, promising to turn it into a "modern and progressive burger company." The image change and menu additions like the Signature Crafted sandwich line have successfully lured customers back to the burger chain.
Visa (V) continues to cash in on the shift away from paper currency towards electronic payments. Visa card usage has grown substantially in recent quarters, including overseas. It also helps that Visa is the network used by popular rewards credit cards like the Chase Sapphire Reserve card.
2. GDP estimate: The Bureau of Economic Analysis will release an advance estimate of third-quarter GDP gains on Friday. Last quarter -- the first full quarter under President Trump -- the economy grew by 3.1%. That squares with the administration's goal of 3% growth, a lower target than the 4% Trump promised on the campaign trail.
Overall, the U.S. economy has been doing well. Last quarter's gains marked the fastest quarterly growth in two years, and the September jobs report revealed that average hourly wages have gone up by 2.9% over the past 12 months. Unemployment hit a more than 16-year low of 4.2%, and this month the stock market surged past 23,000 for the first time. More good news could come on Friday.
3. ExxonMobil and Chevron report earnings: The country's two biggest oil companies are both revealing their third-quarter earnings on Friday.
While many companies have soared on Wall Street this year, Big Oil has been struggling. Exxon (XOM) shares have fallen by more than 8% in 2017, and Chevron (CVX) has inched up by less than 1% over the course of the year.
It's been a rocky few months for the pair. A Harvard study published in August found that Exxon "misled the public" on climate change for nearly 40 years. And that month, a number of Exxon's refineries -- including its Baytown refinery, the second largest in the country -- went offline because of Harvey.
In September, San Francisco and Oakland filed lawsuits demanding that Exxon, Chevron and other companies pay billions to protect the coastal cities from rising sea levels. The following week, Chevron announced that the company's CEO will step down next year.
We'll see if they address the tumult on Friday.
4. Earnings, earnings, earnings:
Major companies across several sectors are reporting earnings next week. Toy rivals Hasbro (HAS) and Mattel (MAT) are reporting on Monday and Thursday, respectively. Tech giants Twitter (TWTR), Alphabet (GOOG), Microsoft (MSFT) and Intel (INTC) are all reporting on Thursday.
The communications industry is well represented by  AT&T (T), reporting Tuesday, and Comcast (CCV), reporting Thursday. In the autos sphere, GM (GM) reports its earnings on Tuesday and Ford (F) is on Thursday. Airlines are also reporting: Southwest (LUV)'s earnings are out Thursday, as are American Airline (AAL)'s.
Hungry for more? Hershey (HSY)'s results come in Thursday, Coca-Cola (CCE)'s on Wednesday and Chipotle (CMG)'s on Tuesday.
Plus, there's Walgreens (WBA) on Wednesday, Xerox (XRX) on Thursday and Merck (MKGAF) on Friday. Phew.
5. Coming this week:
Monday -- Hasbro
Tuesday -- AT&T, GM, Chipotle, Lockheed Martin, Caterpillar and McDonald's earnings
Wednesday -- Coca-Cola, Walgreens, Boeing and Visa earnings; ECNY luncheon with Wilbur Ross
Thursday -- Mattel, Twitter, Alphabet, Microsoft, Intel, Comcast, Ford, Southwest, American Airlines, Hershey, Xerox and Amazon earnings
Friday -- ExxonMobil, Chevron and Merck earnings; GDP Q3 estimates


A Starbucks customer in Walnut Creek, California, engaged in a racially charged exchange with two Korean customers on Sunday in a video that has gone viral. The video on Facebook showed the woman seemingly irate that the Korean customers were speaking in their native tongue. 
Sean Lee, a business student at University of California at Berkeley, was tutoring a community college student, Annie, when the woman allegedly interrupted them for speaking Korean. Two Starbucks baristas defended the Korean speakers and appeared to politely ask the woman to exit. The woman, whose identity remains unidentified, refused to leave. Her refusal resulted in a call to the local police department, who then escorted her out. 
At one point in the video, a voice can be heard telling the woman, "This is not the first time that you've bothered other customers."
"I was tutoring an international Korean student today at a Starbucks in Walnut Creek. As she was heading to get her coffee, this lady screamed at her, 'don't you dare say that again,'" Lee said Sunday on Facebook. "She was berating my student for talking in Korean, and proceeded to demand that all immigrants speak English. We eventually called the cops and she was kicked out of the store.
"It's all too easy to forget that racism and anti-immigrant sentiments are a real thing in this country, even in the Bay Area that so often touts 'diversity,'" Lee added. 

Part of the incident wasn't caught on video, but Annie pulled out her phone to record the remainder of the exchange. The footage shows the woman repeatedly demanding for the Starbucks workers to silence the Korean speakers, but the employees are depicted defending Annie and Lee.
"I hate it," the woman said to a Starbucks barista, who responded with "I'm sorry, but they're allowed to speak their language."
"You know what? President Obama said that everyone in America should speak English," the woman, who was seated with her laptop, said before covering her face with a binder after realizing she was being filmed. "I don't want to hear the language. You can sit and be quiet, fine, but I don't want to hear your language. I don't want to hear it."
"I'm asking you to leave and if you don't want to leave, I'm calling the police. That's up to you," a Starbucks barista said.
The woman responded, saying: "That's fine."
The pair continued to speak Korean from the time the recording concluded until the police arrived at the scene. Lee claimed that the woman was angered even more by their actions.
"As the video shows, our partners [employees] take great pride in making sure our stores are welcoming environments, where our customers enjoy a culture of warmth, belonging and everyone is welcome," a spokesperson for Starbucks said in a statement to The Daily Meal. "We want everyone who visits our stores to enjoy their visit."
The video has generated more than 795,000 views after appearing on Facebook. It has also received more than 1,400 likes and 290 shares.  
A woman was escorted out of a Starbucks after telling Korean customers to stop speaking in their native tongue, pictured December 10, 2017.  Photo: Facebook


With the price of a bitcoin reaching record highs of more than $10,000, more and more ordinary people consider investing in the cryptocurrency. The recent price surge, however, comes with tremendous risks. Investors should be prepared for the possibility that they could lose their entire investment.
Bitcoin was launched in 2008 by an anonymous author under the name of Satoshi Nakamoto as a means of transacting among participants without the need for intermediaries. Since the beginning of this year, the price of bitcoin has increased by 1300% as more and more consumers flock to it hoping to profit off its increasing popularity and the associated increase in value.
Cryptocurrencies are not currencies at all. As the Financial Times explains, bitcoin is a string of computer codes which means that new bitcoins can be created – up to an agreed limit – by computers that gain the right to do so by solving complex puzzles. Transactions are recorded in a database called a blockchain.
Bitcoin, like other assets like gold, doesn’t yield income. You have to sell it to realize any value. And, like gold and other currencies, it can be transferred peer-to-peer.
Part of the nervousness about bitcoin is that, along with other cryptocurrencies, it challenges the traditional role of banks and central banks. In the classical world, banks act as intermediaries by providing loans out of the deposits they took and from funding from the central bank. The central bank uses the rate at which it provides this funding as a lever to ensure price stability. The introduction of cryptocurrencies threatens this model because banks are no longer necessary to intermediate funds and there is no central bank to ensure that prices are stable.
The more immediate fears about bitcoin center on the recent dramatic rise in its value. There’s nervousness in the market that a flash crash might be imminent after the cryptocurrency tumble by more than $1,300 in minutes on the bitcoin exchange Bitfinex. It did recover to levels above $10,800.
The flash crash echoes long-standing warnings that the bitcoin party is set to end in tears. Most recently Jamie Dimon, CEO of JPMorgan, one of the world’s largest investment banks declared that he would fire any employee trading bitcoin for being stupid.
In a highly unusual alliance, his words were echoed by economics Nobel Laureate Joseph Stiglitz, who has gone even further arguing that bitcoin ought to be outlawed.
All of these are clear warning signs that the professionals do not trust the lofty promises of crypto enthusiasts.
There is no doubt that Bitcoin – and in particular blockchain, the technology behind it – has the potential to revolutionize the financial services industry.
A blockchain functions as a transparent and incorruptible digital ledger of economic transactions, recorded in chronological order, that operates on a peer-to-peer network.
Fundamentally, the technology allows the exchange of value to occur in an environment of peers with conflicting interests without the need for trusted intermediaries. That, in effect, wipes out the need for banks or financial services companies which fulfill this role.
The use of the technology is not limited to financial transactions. Virtually anything of value can be traded on a blockchain.
But no matter how useful the underlying blockchain technology is, or how widely it can be applied, there are real and substantial risks involved in bitcoin.
The first, and most significant risk is that compared to any currency, share, or gold, bitcoin is extremely volatile. The volatility of bitcoin to US dollar is almost six times the volatility of the Rand to US dollar. While this is great in good times, it is potentially devastating for investors in bad times.
When professional investors decide on which assets to hold, they look at both the return and the volatility of the asset. Only investors with a healthy appetite for risk are willing to invest in risky, volatile assets. Usually these are finance professionals, for example in large investment banks or hedge funds.
Investors with a lower risk appetite, such as asset managers or pension funds, prefer assets with a somewhat lower return, but which are less volatile.
The rule of thumb is that the sophistication of an investor increases with the volatility of the asset she invests in. But with bitcoin this rule of thumb doesn’t hold true. More and more private investors have been flocking to bitcoin ‘exchanges’ that have sprung up all over the internet and that are aggressively advertised on social media.
There is a huge risk that bitcoin is already overvalued.
The practical use cases for bitcoin are limited. It doesn’t enable enough transactions to take place per second to be used as a replacement for a modern payment system. And it doesn’t offer any functionality other than pseudonymous transactions – transactions where the true identity of the counterparties is hidden.
Bitcoin is favoured by pyramid schemes, including the infamous MMM pyramid scheme in Nigeria. In a recent article, the Financial Times called bitcoin itself a pyramid scheme, much to the dismay of crypto enthusiasts. (A pyramid scheme is usually an illegal operation in which participants pay to join and profit mainly from payments made by subsequent participants. If no new people come in, it collapses.)
The third, and possibly biggest risk is regulatory. In September 2017, the Chinese government outlawed bitcoin exchanges in mainland China, sending the price of bitcoin tumbling.
Despite the claim that bitcoin is a “global currency”, the reality is that 58% of all bitcoin mining happens in China. If at any point the Chinese government should decide to make Bitcoin mining illegal the price is likely to plunge into oblivion.
Other countries have also voiced concern. The Russian Central Bank recently issued a warning to investors on the risks of investing in cryptocurrencies, citing concerns about a bubble. This suggests that there might be a concerted crackdown.
Cryptocurrencies are banned in India as their use is a violation of foreign exchange rules. The Australian Reserve Bank has taken a different approach. It monitors the cryptocurrency market in a bid to understand the underlying technology.
The South African Reserve Bank has expressed its openness to blockchain technologies. But it has also highlighted potential risks to consumers.
There are real risks that many consumers investing in cryptocurrency don’t fully understand. Advertisements promise that bitcoin can make you rich fast. And social media is alive with stories about friends of neighbors or distant cousins who have made a lot of money through bitcoin.
Without a doubt, these cases are real, and those who invested early can reap large benefits. But this is true in every bubble – from the dotcom bubble to the tulip mania. It’s also true in every pyramid scheme.
As always, investors should be extremely wary of any scheme that promises quick returns.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.

Logo Photo: The Conversation


When malicious software takes over computers around the world, encrypts their data and demands a ransom to decode the information, regular activities of governments, companies and hospitals slam to a halt. Sometimes security researchers release a fix that allows computer owners to decrypt their machines without paying, but many people are forced to pony up to free their data.
In 2016, the FBI estimated that the ransomware industry took in US$1 billion – and that’s only the cases officials know about. All that money isn’t paid in cash. Before digital currencies existed, extortionists asked victims to send money by more formal transfer companies like Western Union or make deposits to bank accounts. Those were easily traced. Today, ransomware attacks demand payment in bitcoin and its ilk, systems praised by supporters for their transaction speed and protection of users’ anonymity.
In researching cybercrime and cybersecurity for more than a decade, I have found that obtaining cybercrime proceeds is often the biggest challenge that cybercriminals face. In this regard, diffusion of cryptocurrencies is a major development that enables cybercriminals to achieve their goals. In fact, the escalation of ransomware attacks and the increasing prominence of cryptocurrencies may be connected. Some companies have invested in bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies specifically so they can pay extortionists if it ever becomes necessary. That helps contribute to the rapid growth in use and value of e-currencies. And as digital currencies become more common, ransomware attackers will have an easier time hiding their illicit transactions among the growing crowd of legitimate transfers.
The extortionists behind most ransomware attacks demand payments in bitcoin, the most popular cryptocurrency. The WannaCry attackers demanded between $300 and $600 per computer; the Petya ransomware wanted $300 in bitcoins before providing a code that would let victims decrypt their data. Not many people actually pay, though: WannaCry victims paid only about $241,000 in bitcoins to the extortionists. If everyone infected had paid, the criminals would have received at least $60 million. It translated to a payout rate of 0.4 percent. Even fewer paid the Petya perpetrators: They got just 66 payments, totaling barely over 4 bitcoins, or about $18,200.
Other attacks are more successful: In June, a ransomware attack hit more than 150 servers owned by South Korean web hosting firm Nayana. More than 3,400 of the company’s customers were affected – mostly small businesses running their websites on Nayana’s equipment. Nayana itself stepped up, taking loans to cover a payment of more than $1 million in bitcoins to the attackers, saying it had to save its clients’ sites.
The attackers don’t always need to make much money to be effective. Many cybersecurity researchers believe that Petya attacks were carried out with political motives rather than for financial gains. But ransomware has a much higher payout rate than other common cybercrimes. One study found that for every 12.5 million spam emails sent promoting a fake online pharmacy, the scammers got only one response. That’s a success rate of about 0.000008 percent. They make a lot of money – up to $3.5 million a year – only by sending out enormous numbers of messages.
One reason cybercrime success rates are low is that victims don’t trust the extortionists to actually unlock their data once they get paid. In 2016, about a quarter of the organizations that paid ransoms were not able to recover their data.
The WannaCry attackers were particularly bad: Their system was labor-intensive, requiring the criminals to manually connect payments with encrypted files before letting victims decode them. In fact, a flaw in the WannaCry attack software made it almost impossible to decrypt a paying victim’s data.
More sophisticated methods do exist, including those that incorporate what are called “smart contracts,” another aspect of some cryptocurrency systems that runs a particular program as part of completing a transaction. In those ransomware attacks, making payment automatically releases the information a victim needs to decrypt and recover hijacked files.
The fear of ransomware is growing. In mid-2016, a study found that one-third of British firms had bought bitcoins just in case they needed to pay off ransomware attackers. More than 35 percent of large firms, those with more than 2,000 employees, reported being willing to pay as much as $65,000 to unlock critical files. Even Cornell University was reported to be stockpiling bitcoins in case of a future ransomware attack.
At the same time, bitcoin and other similar systems are becoming much more popular. In 2016, the total value of all cryptocurrencies was 0.025 percent of the world’s GDP. By August 2017, that number had increased more than eight-fold, to 0.21 percent of global GDP – about $162 billion. The World Economic Forum projects cryptocurrencies will hold 10 percent of global GDP by 2027.
These cycles are self-reinforcing: The more transactions there are involving cryptocurrencies, the harder it will be to trace where the money is going. As a result, cybercriminals will use cryptocurrencies more often – forcing their victims (and even potential targets) to invest in cryptocurrencies, too.
Nir Kshetri, Professor of Management, University of North Carolina – Greensboro.
This article was originally published in  The Conversation. Read the  original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Celebrity chef Mario Batali was expected to part ways with his businesses after being accused of sexual harassment and misconduct. Four women came forward and accused the television host of inappropriate touching in a report released Monday by Eater.
Batali, 57, is co-owner of Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group, a culinary empire that owns 26 restaurants, both in America and abroad. The famed chef has a net worth estimated between $25 and $30 million, according to Yahoo. Eater estimated in 2012 that his Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group was worth roughly $250 million. Batali himself has published 13 cookbooks and owns his own line of cookware while co-hosting ABC’s "The Chew."
The chef addressed the allegations in a statement released to Eater.
"I apologize to the people I have mistreated and hurt," he told Eater. "Although the identities of most of the individuals mentioned in these stories have not been revealed to me, much of the behavior described does, in fact, match up with ways I have acted. That behavior was wrong and there are no excuses. I take full responsibility and am deeply sorry for any pain, humiliation or discomfort I have caused to my peers, employees, customers, friends and family."
Sometimes it really feels like #snacktime!! Making a snack is a great way to get your creative culinary juices flowing! I make all my #batalisnacks with one secret ingredient and whatever else I have on hand. Always experiment! What would you make with #pears? @idyllfarmschevre
A post shared by Mario Batali (@mariobatali) on Dec 6, 2017 at 12:54pm PST
Amid the allegations, Batali was expected to take a  hiatus from "The Chew," which he has hosted since 2011. According to reports, his company has also opened an investigation into the incidents in question. However, he remains an owner of his individual restaurants. Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group said in a statement to Eater that it has had sexual harassment training and policies in place for over 10 years.
"We take these allegations very seriously. We pride ourselves on being a workplace for our employees where they can grow and deliver great service with equal opportunity and free from any discrimination. We have strong policies and practices in place that address sexual harassment. We train employees in these policies and we enforce them, up to and including termination," the statement read. "Mr. Batali and we have agreed that he will step away from the company’s operations, including the restaurants, and has already done so."
Mario Batali was a sous chef at the Four Seasons Biltmore Photo: Getty Images


Chef and businessman Mario Batali announced he was stepping away from his restaurant business and ABC show following allegations of sexual misconduct uncovered in a report by Eater New York. Batali, 57, is married to Susi Cahn. The two live in New York City and have two sons together.
Cahn and Batali were married in 1994. Cahn’s parents were the co-founders of the Coach handbag company in New York City. Cahn’s parents sold the company in 1985 to work on a farm they owned in  Gallatinville, New York, called Coach Farm. There they made goat cheese and other cheese products. Batali and Cahn met while she worked for her parents, according to the New Yorker. She helped them sell cheese and grow vegetables and met Batali while he worked at the Italian restaurant Rocco.
A 2002 New Yorker profile of Battali described his wife this way:
“Cahn, who is so many things that Batali isn’t—petite, dark-haired, East Coast, Jewish to his lapsed Catholic, early-to-bed to his out-until-early, reserved and deliberate to his outgoing and impulsive—illustrates the kind of person Batali probably gets on with best,” the profile read.
Cahn attended the University of Michigan — and the two own a second home in Michigan. 
Batali’s accusers claim that he groped them inappropriately and that the behavior has taken place over the span of 20 years. The four women who accused him of sexual misconduct chose to remain anonymous.
Batali did not deny the allegations in a statement he provided to Eater New York.
“I apologize to the people I have mistreated and hurt. Although the identities of most of the individuals mentioned in these stories have not been revealed to me, much of the behavior described does, in fact, match up with ways I have acted. That behavior was wrong and there are no excuses. I take full responsibility and am deeply sorry for any pain, humiliation or discomfort I have caused to my peers, employees, customers, friends and family,” said Batali in a statement.
Batali said he would step away from his businesses for an unspecified amount of time.
“I have work to do to try to regain the trust of those I have hurt and disappointed. For this reason, I am going to step away from day-to-day operations of my businesses. We built these restaurants so that our guests could have fun and indulge, but I took that too far in my own behavior. I won’t make that mistake again. I want any place I am associated with to feel comfortable and safe for the people who work or dine there,” continued Batali’s statement.
Batali owns several restaurants in addition to founding the Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group— a restaurant management and services company.
The first formal complaint filed against Batali came in October of this year, according to the company, when an employee reported Batali for inappropriate behavior.
Mario Batali and Susi Cahn attend 'God's Pocket' screening at IFC Center on May 4, 2014 in New York City. Batali is stepping away from his businesses after allegations of sexual misconduct.  Photo: Astrid Stawiarz/GETTY


The news that bitcoin had broken the $10,000 barrier reflects the way that mainstream investors have been flocking to cryptocurrencies over the past year. But amid the excitement, regulators are fretting about criminals who are increasingly using cryptocurrencies to escape detection from law enforcement.
Why is digital currency so appealing to miscreants? Cryptocurrencies are a recent phenomenon and – as with all new technology – it takes time for regulators to catch up. Bitcoin was the first to gain an international reputation as a digital currency that could be used to settle transactions after it was anonymously created in early 2009.
Cryptocurrencies are decentralised, meaning that they are issued without a central administering authority. They are cryptography-based, distributed open source and function on a peer-to-peer basis.
Significantly, the underlying protocols on which most cryptocurrencies are based do not require or provide user identification and verification. Also the historical transaction records generated on the blockchain (the technology behind bitcoin, which serves as a public ledger of all cryptocurrency transactions) are not necessarily associated with an individual’s identity.

Cryptocurrencies are also – by definition – convertible virtual currencies, as they can be exchanged for fiat money such as pounds, dollars and euros and this facilitates their use for settling commercial transactions.
Bitcoin is now an acceptable form of payment in exchange for goods and services by household names such as Microsoft, Expedia and Subway. At the same time, blockchain technology is being adopted by more businesses.
Private transactions enabled by the use of bitcoin are key to understanding the growth of cryptocurrencies among consumers. However, this advantage is keeping regulators and law enforcers awake at night.
The infamous Silk Road case drives this point home. Bitcoin was used to purchase drugs through the dark web – transactions that weren’t spotted by the authorities.
But hard-to-track criminal activity isn’t the only threat from the use of cryptocurrencies – there’s also the possibility of their use to finance terrorism, given that the formal banking sector is now adept at spotting suspicious movement and mobilisation of monies through the banking system
The fact that they can be converted into pounds, dollars and euros does make regulation of cryptocurrency more feasible. It can be done at the point of their conversion through virtual currency exchanges – which, as financial institutions, can be regulated.
International financial regulation and a growing number of national measures across the globe, such as “Know Your Customer” (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML) directed at financial institutions, have been strengthened. And, when implemented effectively, it’s now easier to track down individuals engaging in illegal transactions.
But the global nature of this payment mechanism is the biggest challenge.
Payments can be easily affected cross-border because conversion of the likes of bitcoin through currency exchanges can be transacted in different parts of the world – including in jurisdictions with lax financial regulatory regimes and weak KYC/AML measures. This means that, while jurisdictions with stronger regulatory powers may clamp down on criminal activities, such efforts can be easily wiped out because perpetrators are likely to migrate to countries with lax regimes.
Nonetheless, positive steps are being taken to regulate financial technology (fintech) products such as cryptocurrencies. Emerging challenges within this sector has led to the arrival of regtech – which, among other things, is regulatory technology adopted to address fintech risk issues.
Regtech covers artificial intelligence, big data and machine learning – technology that enables detailed data analysis on platforms such as blockchain. Again, regtech is only likely to be adopted effectively in jurisdictions with advanced regulatory regimes, so the extent of its effectiveness in policing the global cryptocurrency phenomenon appears limited.
Another challenge is the investigation and prosecution of illegal activities perpetrated with payments using cryptocurrencies, with semi-anonymity of the blockchain making it difficult to monitor transactions and identify suspicious behaviour, such as  drug sales. Law enforcement agencies find it incredibly difficult to trace illicit proceeds that are laundered using cryptocurrencies and – once again – are scuppered by different legal systems around the world.
Different jurisdictions have their own approaches to regulating cyber-related transactions, which makes international cooperation deeply challenging. In some countries, such as North Korea and China, regulation of web-based transactions is significant for national security policy. Legal mechanisms are in place to allow extensive government intrusion into the sender and recipient details of every single transmission.
Other countries, such as the US and the UK, cautiously approach online regulation to balance security concerns against constitutionally protected freedoms and to preserve privacy and data protection laws.
It means that a worldwide effort is needed to regulate this global payment mechanism. Governments, financial regulators, financial intelligence units and law enforcement agencies must all agree to a unified approach in tackling cryptocurrencies. Without this, effective regulation of bitcoin and similar currencies is unattainable.
A starting point could be instituting minimum regulation, such as currently exists in some international financial standards including the Basle Committee’s Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision and the IOSCO principles of securities regulation.
Countries across the world are encouraged to implement these provisions, which indicates that they embrace investor-friendly policies. A similar standard applied to cryptocurrencies would be a sensible way forward, given the patchwork approach to regulating cyber-related transactions around the globe.
Iwa Salami, Senior Lecturer in Financial Law and Regulation, University of East London.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Spirit Airlines allegedly kicked out a Houston woman from a plane during a flight Saturday for breastfeeding her son despite warnings from flight attendants against doing so. Mei Rui, who was traveling to New York from Houston with her elderly parents and 2-year-old son, detailed her ordeal in a Facebook post Sunday. 
"If this happened to your family, what would you do? This would NEVER happen to my family, I assure you! (Chuckle)” she wrote. “He is (buckled) in his seatbelt. What else do you want me to do?"
"I am terribly sorry for the trouble and inconvenience this has caused to all other passengers on the plane. We tried everything I could to stop my poor baby from crying and disturbing the other passengers, but he was jolted awake a 5th time because of the 3 hour delay that resulted in unboarding/reboardjng, lots of loud announcements. He completely lost it, but crying is not a criminal offense, especially since if you let me do my job as his mother, nobody on the airplane would have even noticed his presence! (As another passenger said, he was completely quiet for the first 2 hours of the delay)," she wrote.
Mei was traveling to New York to take part in a recording for a clinical study dealing with cancer.
Mei shared a video she recorded inside the plane before being evicted, showing her son in his seat and screaming. She said she started breastfeeding her baby before the doors were closed, but the flight attendants instructed her to stop.
"I said as soon as the plane's door closes, I will put him in his seat," Mei said. Later another flight attendant came to get the family off the plane even though the baby was in his seat.
"He was making very loud noises, but that's not criminal," Mei said, adding the crew had made up their minds to get them off the plane. 
"It was humiliating to be chased off a plane in front of hundreds of people," Mei went on to say. "We had never been through anything close to this."
In a statement to CBS-affiliated television station KHOU 11, Spirit Airlines said: "Our records indicate a passenger was removed from Flight 712 after refusing to comply with crew instructions several times during taxi to runway and safety briefing. To protect the safety of our guests and crew, FAA regulations and airline policies require all passengers to stay seated and buckled during takeoff and landing. We apologize for any inconvenience to our guests. As a courtesy, we’ve issued a full refund to the passenger in question."
International Business Times has reached out to the airline for further comments.


In the last year, the price of Bitcoin has increased from less than US$800 to more than US$12,000. This huge spike in value has many asking if it is a bubble or if the high price today is here to stay.
Finance defines a bubble as a situation where the price of an asset diverges systematically from its fundamentals. Investment mogul Jack Bogle says there is nothing to support Bitcoin, and the head of JP MorganChase, Jamie Dimon has called it a fraud “worse than tulip bulbs”.
Like any asset, Bitcoin has some fundamental value, even if only a hope value, or a value arising from scarcity. So there are reasons to hold it. But our research does show that it is experiencing a bubble right now.
Together with Shaen Corbet at Dublin City University, we took as the fundamentals of Bitcoin elements of the technology that underpins it (and other cryptocurrencies). We looked at measures, which represent the key theoretical and computational components of how cyrptocurrencies are priced.
New Bitcoin is created by a process of mining units called blocks. Bitcoin is built on blockchain technology – a digital ledger of transactions – which enables the currency to be traded independently from any central banking system, without risk of fake or duplicate Bitcoins being used. Instead of having a bank verify pending transactions (a “block”), miners check them and, if approved, the block is cryptographically added to the ever-expanding ledger.
So the first measure we examined relates to mining difficulty. It calculates how difficult it is to find a new block relative to the past. As per the Bitcoin Protocol, the number of Bitcoin is capped at 21m (there are currently 16.7m in circulation). This means that as more people mine for Bitcoin and more blocks are created, each block is, all things being equal, worth less than the previous block.
The second measure we looked at relates to the “hash rate”. This is the speed at which a computer operates when mining. To successfully mine Bitcoin, you must come up with a 64-digit hexadecimal number (called a “hash”), which is less than or equal to the target hash. The faster you can do this, the better chance you have of finding the next block and receiving payment.
The third measurement was “block size”. This relates to how large the chain is at any given time, with larger chains taking longer to mine than shorter ones.
And lastly we looked at the volume of transactions conducted. Any asset, in particular any currency, which is more widely used will be more valuable than one which is used less frequently.
In our study, we examined data from Bitcoin’s early days – from July 2010 to November 2017. The price of one Bitcoin did not rise above US$1 until April 16, 2011, then to US$10 on June 3, 2011 and US$100 on April 2, 2013. Since then the price rise has clearly been exceptional.
We then applied an accepted method that is used to detect and date stamp bubbles after they burst. In essence, this involves identifying the existence of an explosive component in a series. As the series, here the price of bitcoin, “explodes”, it runs the risk, like any explosion, of flying apart.
A possibly counter-intuitive result of this approach is that if a fundamental driver and the price of an asset both show an explosive component, we might not conclude a bubble is present. A bubble is when something deviates from its fundamental value. If the fundamental value is itself growing explosively then the price would also.
Think of dividends on a stock. If, somehow, these were to grow at an explosive rate we might expect to see the price do the same. While unsustainable, this is not technically a bubble. To overcome this, we then date stamp a bubble as being present when the price shows an explosive component and the underlying fundamentals do not.
Here are the results of the analysis:
The Bitcoin Bubbles. Photo: Authors own calculations
The orange lines denote when the price is showing explosive behaviour. We also see a period where the hash rate was growing explosively – the blue columns in late 2013 and early 2014. This is also an indication of a price bubble, which went on to burst.
So there are clear points where bubbles are visible – including now. The price of Bitcoin at present shows explosive behaviour in the absence of anything similar in its fundamentals. We see the price moving upwards in a manner that is not related to the technical underpinnings. It is a clear bubble.
A weakness of these tests and indeed all bubble identification tests is that they take place after the bubble has burst. Even this test, which can be redone as swiftly as new data arrives, is such. Bubbles by their nature grow in a compound manner – so even a day or two delay in addressing the situation can make a bubble significantly worse.
What is not yet available is an accurate advanced warning bubble indicator. In its absence, this approach may be the best. Unfortunately, we cannot use this approach to determine the extent of the bubble. There is no well-accepted model that suggests a “fair” value for Bitcoin. But whatever that level is, it is almost certain that, at present, it is well below where we are now.
Larisa Yarovaya, Lecturer in Accounting and Finance at Anglia Ruskin University, and Brian Lucey, Professor of International Finance and Commodities at Trinity College Dublin.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Bitcoin is in decline. Not its price, which has increased 900% this yearand (at the time of writing) stands at over US$12,000 per unit, but its actual use as a currency. And this makes its rapid appreciation all the more puzzling.
A few years ago, enthusiasts triumphantly shared announcements from businesses that had started accepting Bitcoin. Over the last couple of years, such announcements have become scarce. Instead, businesses that once accepted the currency have begun to drop it.
The BBC contacted ten businesses in London that once advertised accepting Bitcoin. Four no longer accepted it, and two that did said they hardly ever received payments in Bitcoin. The same is even true online. The Wall Street Journal, citing a report by Morgan Stanley, recently reported that Bitcoin is now accepted by just three of the top 500 global online merchants, down from five last year.
If growing adoption as a currency can’t justify Bitcoin’s rapid appreciation, what can? Many enthusiasts have started to promote the idea of Bitcoin as a store of value. In economics, this is usually defined along the lines of “an item that people can use to transfer purchasing power from the present to the future”. In simple terms, it’s somewhere safe to invest your wealth that won’t lose its worth over time.
Apples can be used to barter services from a neighbour while they’re still fresh, but their purchasing power will disappear as they rot. The purchasing power can be retained into the future by exchanging the apples for money, gold, government bonds or some other store of value.
Some items have attributes that make them better stores of value than others, whether we are talking about physical items or digital objects. Gold is a good store of value because it’s durable. Electronic bond certificates are also durable as long as banks’ systems don’t fail, and have the added benefit of being easier to secure than physical valuables. Money, both physical currency and digital bank money, has the advantage of being very liquid, so it’s easy to convert into a purchase when needed.
Bitcoin does share many of these attributes of a good store of value. It also offers potentially high levels of financial privacy, somewhat similarly to the offshore banking system. This is an important attribute of a store of value for some people, although it also creates a lack of accountability and the potential for tax evasion.
But the most important attribute of a store of value is that it’s valuable. Gold is valuable because it has many industrial and decorative uses. Its price can fluctuate because of speculation on financial markets, but it can never fall to zero. There will always be someone willing to accept gold because it’s a useful commodity.
Similarly, US government bonds are ultimately valuable because they entitle the owner to a relatively secure flow of interest payments. Dollars and euros are valuable because they are widely accepted as a means of payment, and will continue to be so in the foreseeable future. In contrast, the future acceptability of the Venezuelan bolivar is in doubt, so people are desperately trying to exchange it to better stores of value.
Is Bitcoin valuable? It has no industrial or decorative uses, and it doesn’t entitle the holder to receive interest. It was intended to be valuable as a currency that is accepted the world over, but that doesn’t seem to be happening. The only major value that Bitcoin has now is its exchange value. Many people are willing to pay a lot of money today to get hold of some Bitcoin.
But what they are getting for their money is simply the hope that another buyer down the line will pay even more money for the coins. Once the music stops, there is no fundamental value to prevent the coins’ price from falling close to zero, save for their tenuous position as the currency of choice in the online drug trade and grey-area gambling.
The idea that Bitcoin is valuable because it’s a store of value is upside down. In reality, something becomes a store of value because it’s valuable. In the 1990s, people started to trade Beanie Babies on eBay. Prices of these limited-edition plush toys rose to thousands of dollars, and by 1997 they made up 6.6% of the entire site’s transaction volume.
Some people invested their life savings into Beanie Babies, fully expecting their value to be preserved and more. But eventually people came to their senses and the market bombed. Beanie Babies are useful as toys and collectables, but that doesn’t justify thousand-dollar valuations.
My advice to individuals and institutions tempted by the headlines is to keep their savings away from Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies and “initial coin offerings” (ICOs). I know serious blockchain developers won’t mind me saying this, because they see speculative bubbles and bursts as a distraction. For Bitcoin to truly function as a store of value, it first has to gain acceptance as a currency.
Vili Lehdonvirta, Associate Professor and Senior Research Fellow, Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Democratic Sens. Elizabeth Warren (MA) and Sherrod Brown (OH) on Friday slammed President Donald Trump’s top financial regulator Mick Mulvaney after evidence surfaced that as a Congressman he raked in campaign contributions from payday lenders just days before he pressured government officials to back off predatory lending regulations.
Warren — a potential 2020 Democratic presidential candidate — suggested the $55,000 worth of campaign donations from payday lenders was a reward from the financial industry to Mulvaney for defending their interests. Brown said Mulvaney, who is now the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has a clear conflict of interest that disqualifies him from permanently serving in that role. The two lawmakers serve on the powerful Senate Banking Committee that oversees the CFPB.
The statements from the two senior banking committee lawmakers were prompted by a  Friday morning IBT report that published 268 pages of correspondence between then-Congressman Mulvaney and the agency he now runs. The documents show Mulvaney twice wrote or signed letters pressuring financial regulators to help payday lenders. One of the letters, which was signed by Mulvaney and 11 House colleagues on Sept. 29, 2016, came after Mulvaney had received $18,400 in campaign donations from payday lenders and their trade associations over the previous three weeks.
In November, Trump appointed Mulvaney acting director of the CFPB, despite objections by Democrats who argued the law creating the CFPB mandated the agency’s deputy director, Leandra English, be automatically promoted to acting director in the event the position became vacant. English has since  challenged Mulvaney’s appointment in court.
“Mr. Mulvaney spent his years in Congress trying to gut consumer protections and undermine the CFPB — and he racked up big donations from payday lenders and banks for his efforts,” Warren told IBT in an emailed statement. “His illegal appointment to lead the consumer agency is a slap in the face for working families who’ve been cheated.”
The revelations about Mulvaney’s letters followed an earlier IBT report documenting how Mulvaney’s former top aide is now lobbying for Santander, a megabank that, until Mulvaney took over, had faced a potential CFPB enforcement action.
Brown, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee, said that taken together, he believes Mulvaney needs to be removed.
“Mick Mulvaney has sided with the payday industry over and over, and called the CFPB a ‘sick, sad joke’ before he was put in charge of it,” Brown said in a statement. “His conflicts of interest with Santander, payday lenders, and other bad actors, as well as his full time job at OMB [Office of Management and Budget] should disqualify him as acting CFPB Director, even if he had been lawfully appointed. The White House needs to swiftly nominate a CFPB Director who will close payday industry loopholes and protect consumers.”
A spokesman for the CFPB did not address the senators’ concerns directly.
“We look forward to working with Senator Warren, Senator Brown and their 533 elected colleagues in Congress to find the most efficient, effective, and accountable ways to serve all American consumers,” John Czwartacki, a senior advisor at the CFPB, told IBT in an email.
The statements from the two potential 2020 presidential candidates follow a  letter sent by 44 members of the Senate Democratic Caucus to President Trump on Monday. The letter, which was signed by Warren and Brown, urged the president to “nominate a CFPB Director who will bring to the job both bipartisan support and a track record of being tough on big banks and other financial firms that rip off consumers.” The letter did not mention Mulvaney by name.
Mulvaney has raised campaign funds from other a variety of financial institutions he is now in charge of regulating. In addition to payday lenders, the Dodd-Frank act gave the CFPB supervisory authority over  “nonbank mortgage originators and servicers, payday lenders, and private student lenders of all sizes,” as well as “banks, thrifts and credit unions with assets over $10 billion,” according to the Bureau website.
The CFPB maintains a list of those institutions with assets over $10 billion on its website. An IBT review of their campaign donations showed they gave Mulvaney $164,850 over the course of his congressional career, with most of that money coming after Mulvaney joined the House Financial Services Committee in  December 2012. Mulvaney has also received at least $60,000 from trade groups representing banks subject to CFPB authority. In total, Mulvaney has raised $4.6 million from donors over the course of his congressional career,  according to the Center for Responsive Politics, and $567,000 of it came from donors in the commercial, banking, credit and securities/investment industries. 


The foundation of billionaire industrialist Charles Koch is ramping up its ideological higher education donations, smashing last year’s record amount given to colleges and universities. The foundation, along with smaller contributions from two other Koch family foundations, gave over $51 million to higher education institutions in 2016, according to  tax records analyzed by International Business Times. Koch donations typically come in the form of multi-year gifts, which support free-market centers, courses, professorships, graduate scholarships and lecture series, all with the aim of producing bright, young conservatives to recruit into their political network and like-minded professors to create scholarship that dovetails with the Kochs’ ideology and business interests.
Koch and his brother David are well known for running a giant oil, chemical and materials conglomerate, Koch Industries, and for leading a vast, conservative political network that rivals either of the two major political parties in size and funding. Lesser known, but crucial to their long-term strategy to bend America toward their small-government ideology, is their considerable funding of higher education.
The political activities of the Koch brothers have led to increased scrutiny into the family’s university grants in recent years, and students and faculty at several academic institutions have protested proposed donation agreements. In many cases, despite the opposition, universities and their economics departments, eager for an influx of cash, approve the agreements and begin taking yearly installments of hundreds of thousands — and sometimes millions — of dollars.
Controversial Centers See First Gift Installments
Several new free-market centers received their first installments from the Charles Koch Foundation (CKF) in 2016, including the controversial Center for the Study of Free Enterprise at Western Carolina University (WCU). The foundation made a  $1.8 million commitment in September 2016, and the first payment was made before the end of the year; Western Carolina took in $411,000 from CKF in 2016, according to the foundation’s most recent tax form. CKF had been funding the WCU College of Business since 2009, with annual amounts ranging from $12,000 to $16,000, but the new agreement marks a huge increase in support.
In October 2015, the WCU Faculty Senate released a  statement on the proposed center explaining its concerns including “potential constraints on academic freedom” and “reputational costs” that could result from association with Koch. In the past, CKF has engineered its university gifts to maximize its control over the use of its funding, most notably at  Florida State University, where it originally had influence over hiring decisions and the curriculum. The WCU Faculty Senate voted 21-3 against approving the center, with four abstaining.
Nevertheless, the WCU Board of Trustees  voted unanimously in favor of the free-enterprise center. In January 2016, a Smoky Mountain News  investigation found that Ed Lopez, the professor who proposed the center and would be its director, sent a detailed  letter to CKF that revealed his desire to recruit fellow conservative economics professors and to create a “pipeline of students” through the free-enterprise center. Faculty were concerned that the center would function as a de facto advocacy organization for the conservative economic philosophies of the billionaire brothers.
Lopez, a BB&T Distinguished Professor of Capitalism, earned his economics Master’s and PhD, as well as a postdoctoral fellowship, from George Mason University — by far the biggest recipient of money from Koch family foundations — and he has lectured at two CKF events. Lopez is also on the executive committee of the  Association of Private Enterprise Education, which hosts annual meetings of Koch-backed academics, CKF representatives and wealthy donors.
The University of Kentucky also received the first in a series of big payments from CKF in 2016, this time for a new John H. Schnatter Institute for the Study of Free Enterprise in the college of business, funded with $6 million from the family foundation of Papa John’s CEO Schnatter and $4 million from CKF. In October 2016, the university’s board of trustees  officially approved the donations and the formation of the institute days after the faculty’s University Senate  voted against endorsing the terms of the gift agreement. Faculty were especially concerned about the stipulation that the Koch and Schnatter foundations would review the program annually and could revoke their yearly installments with 30 days notice if they didn’t like the results. Such an arrangement, which is typical of CKF agreements, would incentivize a program to shape its output to please donors in order to keep the funds flowing, possibly risking academic freedom.
Ernest Yanarella, professor and chair of political science at UK, said the 30-day notice is “one of the many  strings attached to the [agreement] that give the Koch and Schnatter foundations control over the institute and its programs and direction.” The agreement “closes off investigation of the negative facets of capitalism,” he said.
In 2016, the university received $473,000 from CKF to begin the five-year Koch/Schnatter deal, up from the $28,000 it received from CKF in 2015 and $120,000 in 2014. The money will allow UK’s Gatton College of Business and Economics to hire new tenured and tenure-track faculty, research associates and administrative staff, and to fund Ph.D. fellowships.
Like Lopez at WCU, the Schnatter Institute’s founding director,  John Garen, holds a BB&T-funded professorship of capitalism. Garen was a visiting scholar at GMU’s Koch-funded Mercatus Center in 2010 and is on the board of scholars of the Bluegrass Institute for Public Policy Solutions, which has  received funding from CKF and from other nonprofits to which Koch family foundations contribute. Also like Lopez, Garen sits on the executive committee of the Association of Private Enterprise Education.
The dean of the College of Business, David Blackwell, who pushed for the center, is now one of  two final candidates to become university provost, something students and faculty planned to protest outside a hearing Friday.
Faculty opposition to Koch donations has recently welled up at other campuses including  Wake Forest University,  Syracuse University and the  University of Utah.
“Student and faculty  resistance to the Koch network's academic programs is growing rapidly, while administrators continue to bulldoze faculty governance, mistaking money with strings attached for support of their institutional missions,” said Ralph Wilson, senior researcher at the activist group  UnKoch My Campus.
Many Schools Get Six- And Seven-Figure Gifts
More than 240 colleges and universities, almost all in the U.S., got donations from Koch family foundations in 2016, up from 218 the previous year.
George Mason University, as usual, took in the most money at more than $19.3 million. This total includes one installment of a total  $10 million donation to  rename the law school after the late, conservative Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia and fund new law professors, and $5.9 million went to GMU’s Institute for Humane Studies. $85,000 to IHS came from the Charles Koch Institute, a nonprofit that gives out gifts to institutions and provides  work grants, student internships and  journalism fellowships with its web of  conservative partners. The other Koch family nonprofit, the Frank and Mary Koch Foundation, gave several five-figure gifts to schools based in Kansas, where Charles Koch resides and where Koch Industries is headquartered.
The Arlington, Virginia campus of George Mason University houses the law school, Mercatus Center and the Institute for Humane Studies, all funded in part by Koch family foundations. Photo: Ron Cogswell/Flickr
Five other schools received over $1 million from the Koch foundations last year: Texas Tech University ($3.4 million), Catholic University of America ($2.2 million), Utah State University ($2 million), Purdue University ($1.1 million) and Florida State University ($1 million). Fifty-seven U.S. colleges and universities received $100,000 or more from Koch foundations in 2016. See a table showing all university donations from Koch foundations here.
Vast Increase In Funding
The $51.3 million towards higher education in 2016, a more than 50 percent increase from the the previous record,  $33 million, in 2015. One year before that, the Koch foundations donated $24.8 million to colleges and universities, so, two years later, Koch higher ed contributions have more than doubled.
The academic gifts follow a general trend of CKF ramping up its overall donations. In 2016, the foundation gave $77 million in total, a 75 percent increase from the previous year. In 2017, CKF  expects to dole out around $120 million.
In addition to higher ed donations, CKF funds many of the conservative think tanks and advocacy groups that make up the Koch political network, as well as conservative publications. In 2016, CKF gave nearly $2.6 million to the libertarian Cato Institute, which Charles Koch co-founded; close to $950,000 to the foundation of the right-wing news outlet The Daily Caller; $612,000 to the Texas Public Policy Foundation; roughly $550,000 to the conservative bill mill the American Legislative Exchange Council; and $207,000 to the Heritage Foundation, among other institutions.
‘A Radically Different Social Philosophy’
In her most recent book,  Dark Money, New Yorker staff writer Jane Mayer describes a 1976 New York City conference that Charles Koch organized for wealthy libertarians to plot a strategy to take over American politics. In order to broaden their radical conservative movement, Charles Koch advocated a focus on “attracting youth” because “this is the group that is open to a radically different social philosophy.” Koch’s political lieutenant at the time, former John Birch Society member George Pearson, said at the gathering that traditional university gifts would not be sufficient, but funding private institutes on campuses would make it easier for donors to exert more control over hiring decisions and the ideological bent of these centers.
The “Structure of Social Change,” a plan devised by Koch and one of his closest lifelong associates, Richard Fink, begins with funding higher education. Next, academic output — or “intellectual raw materials” — moves on to right-wing think tanks funded by Koch and his network, which repackage the scholarship into more relatable policy proposals. Koch-funded political advocacy groups then rally people around these policies and pressure lawmakers to adopt them.
The strategy appears to be working. Not only are libertarian-minded academics raising their profiles with the help of Koch grants and providing “raw materials” for conservative think tanks to convert into policy proposals but some are rising directly into the halls of government. IBT recently identified a host of  Koch-backed academics who have secured posts within the Donald Trump administration this year.
Meanwhile, business is booming for the wealthy brothers.  Charles and  David Koch are currently worth a combined $99.2 billion.


Consumer Financial Protection Bureau chief Mick Mulvaney repeatedly pressed the agency to back off lending regulations as financial industry donors were bankrolling his congressional bids, according to government documents obtained by International Business Times. Some of the letters signed by Mulvaney that pressured the agency came within weeks of him raking in campaign contributions from payday lending industry donors who were urging the CFPB to stand down.
In response to an IBT open records request, the CFPB released 268 pages of correspondence between the agency and Mulvaney during the Republican’s six years in Congress representing South Carolina —which is  home to one of the largest payday lenders in America. President Donald Trump recently  appointed Mulvaney to run the CFPB, which Mulvaney had previously criticized.
IBT has published the full trove of Mulvaney’s congressional correspondence with the CFPB and made the documents word-searchable. Click here to see the documents.
During his congressional campaigns, Mulvaney vacuumed in more than $567,000 from donors in the commercial banking, credit and securities/investment industries, according to  data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics. That includes more than $55,000 from donors in the payday and title loan industry, according to  data from the National Institute on Money in State Politics.
“Severely Restrict Access To Credit”
The letters reviewed by IBT show that much of Mulvaney’s criticism of the CFPB revolved around the agency’s attempts to regulate the payday lending industry, which provides short term, high-interest loans.
One such CFPB effort came in June 2016, when the agency proposed a  rule that it said would require payday and title lenders to “reasonably determine that the consumer has the ability to repay the loan.” The CFPB also said that for certain loans “with an annual percentage rate greater than 36 percent,” lenders would be barred from withdrawing “payment from a consumer’s account after two consecutive payment attempts have failed.”
Three months after the agency proposed the rule, Mulvaney and eleven other lawmakers wrote a letter to the agency asserting that the rule “has the potential to severely restrict access to credit that millions of Americans rely on” and arguing that “in an effort to keep unscrupulous actors out or the industry the CFPB will simultaneously be harming the very consumers it is trying to protect.”
In the three weeks leading up to the letter, Mulvaney received $18,500 in campaign contributions from payday lenders’ political action committees and executives — including  $4,000 from Advance America’s PAC,  $2,700 from the Advance America’s CEO J.P. O’Shaughnessy,  $2,700 from  LoanMax owner Rod Aycox and  $2,000 from the  Amscot CEO Ian MacKechnie.
Just days after Mulvaney and his cosigners sent their letter to the CFPB, O’Shaughnessy and MacKechnie echoed the lawmakers criticism in their  own  letters that they sent to the agency.
“You Will Override And Invalidate State Laws”
Mulvaney in 2016 also co-authored a separate letter to the CFPB with fellow Republican Rep. Randy Neugebauer. The missive complained that the agency’s proposal for federal regulations of payday lenders were stricter than many states’ laws. Defending states that were “declining to enact an authorizing law to govern the industry,” the lawmakers slammed the agency for creating a federal minimum.
“By setting a federal legal floor, you will override and invalidate state laws that are less restrictive than your federal legal floor,” they wrote.
In another 2016  letter spearheaded by Mulvaney, he and his fellow South Carolina Republican lawmakers criticized CFPB efforts to regulate payday lenders, saying it “will preempt existing laws in our state and will ultimately result in our constituents being forced to tum to risky, unregulated forms of credit.”
In August 2013, Mulvaney also signed a  letter with other lawmakers pushing the CFPB to create an “advisory board made up of non-bank lenders, including payday lenders.” Less than two months after the letter was sent to the CFPB, Mulvaney received $17,500 from donors in the payday and title lending industry — including  $5,000 from the lobbying group for the payday lending industry.
“A Significantly Higher Compliance Burden”
Mulvaney’s criticism of the CFPB was not limited to its regulations of payday lenders;  it also extended to the agency’s oversight of mortgages.
In 2014, the CFPB proposed a  rule to require more financial institutions to report more data about the home loans they issue. “This information has helped to promote access to fair credit in the housing market,” wrote the agency in justifying the new reporting requirements.
The next year, Mulvaney added his name to a  letter criticizing the move.
“The final rule requires covered banks and credit unions to collect 48 unique data fields on each mortgage loan they make,” he and other Republican lawmakers wrote. “This is more than double the number of data fields covered lenders are currently required to collect and goes well beyond the number of fields required by Section 1094 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which triggered the new rulemaking. This large number of data fields represents a significantly higher compliance burden.”
Friday afternoon, Democratic Sens. Elizabeth Warren (MA) and Sherrod Brown (OH), members of the Senate Banking Committee which oversees the CFPB, criticized Mulvaney for conflicts of interests.


The new tax bill, passed by the Senate early Saturday, is not just about taxes. It has significant consequences for the American health care system – especially for the most vulnerable of our citizens.
If the proposed tax bill comes to fruition, it will reduce the affordability of health care for many Americans. Without access to care, our sickest and most vulnerable – especially the the poor and elderly – will suffer an increasing chance of poorer health outcomes.
What’s more, the bill’s long-term outcomes will be bad for our economy, resulting in lost productivity, lost wages and increased health care costs. If Americans become less healthy and have less access to health care, then everyone loses.
This bill puts much of the health system reforms under the Obama administration in jeopardy. For example, the Senate tax plan includes a repeal of an important part of the Affordable Care Act, the individual mandate. This provision requires that most Americans buy health insurance, or pay a penalty.
Many health care experts see the mandate as the only way to bring healthy people into the insurance marketplaces. Gutting the mandate would result in 13 million more uninsured Americans over the next 10 years.
Additionally, the Senate bill is expected to trigger a US$25 billion annual cut to Medicare, including cuts to cancer care for older Americans covered by Medicare. The House plan also eliminates medical expense deductions, implying that catastrophic expenses will not be as deductible under the new tax proposal.
Many economists believe that the American population has a right to be healthy and productive. This has major implications for the income generated for society. A healthier population has a greater investment in human capital and is more productive in the workforce, yielding greater output and income.
By the same token, a less healthy workforce will work less and be less valuable in the labor market. Health care costs will also increase due to uncompensated care, as more of the population cannot afford basic health care services to prevent disease – let alone chronic or critical care.
Lack of access to care also lowers the productivity of lower income citizens. If health insurance is less affordable and available, then those already at risk for illness will become even more vulnerable. This segment of the population will be likelier to fall ill and lose work time.
Is the right to health only relevant for those with influence or affluence in the U.S.? If so, then we all will pay for the poorer health of our society in the long term. Hospitals and other providers will pass along bad debt and costs associated with charity care for uninsured people. Insurance companies will charge higher premiums to cover the expenses they incur for treating patients who skip preventive care and instead go to the doctor only when they are sick.
As the most vulnerable Americans rack up increasing medical expenses and decline in productivity due to sickness, everyone in the U.S. will have to pay the price.
Diane Dewar, University at Albany, State University of New York.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Pfizer Inc. has announced the launch of a "generic Viagra," which will come at half the price of the current erectile dysfunction drug available in the market.
Come Dec. 11, the cheaper version of the drug will be available for $32.50 per pill in the U.S. as compared to the existing $65 price tag.
The price reduction is being seen as the first step by Pfizer Inc. to stay competitively relevant once its patent-protected monopoly to sell the drug comes to an end, Fortune reported.
Though the pharmaceutical giant's patent protecting Viagra from generic competition ends only in 2020, it has signed a settlement with Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, which allows the latter to sell its competitive product from Dec. 11, 2017, paying Pfizer a royalty for a license to produce its generic version.
Jim Sage, the president of U.S. brands for Pfizer Essential Health, said: “We believe the story for Viagra isn't done. It's just going to be a new chapter.”
Erik Gordon, a pharmaceutical analyst at the University of Michigan’s business school, said the move is "unprecedented."
“This is the most comprehensive pricing and marketing response I’ve seen to a generic. It’s unprecedented.”
“Patients are paying fortunes. When generic Viagra comes out, they will be very happy,” Dr. Nachum Katlowitz, a urologist at New York's Staten Island University Hospital said.
However, the company has plans for discount programs for customers who prefer to stick to the original product.  
According to reports, Pfizer will also offer two new discount programs for its customers starting January next year. The company will launch Pfizer Direct — an online home delivery program targeting uninsured men, and for those who are insured, Pfizer will give a month’s prescription — typically 10 pills — depending on the type of plan they choose.
Dr. Matthias Hofer, a urologist at the Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago, said that his patients who currently use Viagra would prefer using the same instead of going for a cheaper version, especially if the company is willing to offer good deals and discounts.
“They will be ecstatic if they can save money and get the brand product from Pfizer,” Hofer said.
Meanwhile, Teva Pharmaceuticals can officially start selling their version of generic Viagra next week based on the patent litigation settlement with Pfizer. According to the settlement terms, Teva would be allowed to launch a generic version of Viagra in the U.S. on or before Dec. 11. However, Teva has not yet revealed the estimated pricing for its product which could be seen as a potential competitor to the cheaper version of Pfizer's Viagra.
 


Lawmakers on the congressional committee that will finalize the Republican tax bill will likely be hearing from their former employees, if they haven’t already. Former staffers of six of the nine U.S. representatives appointed to the committee have lobbied the House on tax issues this year, according to federal records reviewed by International Business Times — and some of them represent corporations and industries that could benefit significantly from the bill.
House Speaker Paul Ryan has named  nine Republicans to the House-Senate conference committee that will iron out the details of the bill before it goes back to both chambers for another vote.  Three of the nine come from California and Illinois, whose populations could face tax increases because the federal legislation reduces the deductibility of state and local taxes.
The prospect of sweeping tax reform has generated a lobbying blitz in Washington. More than  6,200 lobbyists tried to influence members of Congress on tax issues this year, according to a report by Public Citizen. That K Street army descended on Capitol Hill as the public was left largely in the dark: There were no public hearings on the Senate version of the bill — which in any case was changed at the last minute by Texas Sen. John Cornyn’s lengthy amendment late on Friday night.
At least 12 former staffers of GOP conference members have lobbied the House on tax policy in 2017, according to federal lobbying records. As structured right now, the tax bill appears to be a jackpot for the commercial real estate industry, big tech companies, private aviation management firms and fossil fuel giants. Those four interests hired lobbyists who served as aides to the lawmakers who will iron out the final legislation. They are:
Real Estate
Rep.  Diane Black (TN-6), chair of the House Budget Committee, has two former staffers lobbying the House on tax issues. One is  Annie Palisi, Black’s former chief of staff and 2010  campaign manager who joined Heather Podesta’s Invariant LLC in December 2016. Palisi lobbied the House on tax matters on behalf of the  National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. The New York Times reported Tuesday that tax loopholes may make the real estate industry — which enriched President Donald Trump and his son-in-law and close adviser Jared Kushner — the biggest winner in both the House and Senate tax bills.
Real estate investment trusts (REITs) are companies that own, finance and operate real estate. Investors can buy in to bundles of real estate assets, including buildings and mortgages, put together by REITs. These trusts don’t pay corporate taxes but pass their income along to shareholders, who pay income tax on their share. Both tax bills allow investors in REITs and other pass-through entities to pay a much lower tax rate on these earnings than is required for regular income. In addition, those who borrow money to invest in a REIT will be able to deduct the interest they pay on those loans at the top individual tax rate.
The REIT provisions in the tax bill are “going to create giant new tax shelters,” Steven Rosenthal of the Tax Policy Center  told the Times. The Trump Organization and Kushner Companies have major deals with REITs.
Big Tech
Cornerstone Government Affairs VP  Chris Sarley left the office of Rep.  John Shimkus (IL-15) this April after nine years there, mostly as policy director. He immediately began  lobbying the House on “comprehensive tax reform” for Microsoft in the second quarter of 2017 and continued to do so during the  third quarter.
Microsoft, along with other big tech companies,  stands to gain from the House tax bill’s one-time reduction in the tax rate on repatriated funds. The company as  $128 billion held by foreign subsidiaries, and it could bring that money back to the U.S. at a rate of 12 percent for cash and 5 percent for non-cash returns. Among tech companies, only Apple will be able to gain more from this provision.
Private Jets
Natasha Hammond, Ryan’s assistant for policy from October to November of 2015 who now works at Squire Patton Boggs,  lobbied the House in the third quarter on federal excise tax issues on behalf of private jet management company NetJets. Ryan is not on the conference committee but is a  co-sponsor of the House’s tax bill.
The Senate’s tax bill clarifies a gray area around taxes on jets: whether or not such companies, which manage and rent out owners’ private jets, should pay  a 7.5 percent excise tax on its management fees to owners, who would likely see their fees increase as a result. The House bill does not address this, but companies such as NetJets surely want the final bill to include this clarification, which officially exempts companies from this tax. As of now, the tax is on hold, but the Internal Revenue Service could change sides on the issue and begin imposing it.
Ohio-based NetJets has sued the IRS over this issue three times, winning verdicts in  2011 and 2017, and Democratic Sen. Sherrod Brown and Republican Sen. Rob Portman co-sponsored  a bill with language similar to that in the current Senate tax bill.
Fossil Energy Companies
Energy companies are lobbying on various aspects of the bill including master limited partnerships (MLPs),  financial vehicles typically owned by a parent company or its subsidiaries that exempt energy investments from corporate taxes. (REITs avoid taxes in a similar way.) A provision in the Senate bill added by Sen. Cornyn also reduces the income taxes on profits that individual investors earn from MLPs.
Many oil and gas companies that operate MLPs are based in Texas — represented by the primary sponsor of the House tax bill, Rep.  Kevin Brady (TX-8), who is chair of the conference committee and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Aindriu Colgan, Brady’s legislative director from 2014 to 2016 and his legislative assistant before that, represented Houston-based Phillips 66 as he lobbied the House this year. The company  reported hiring Colgan’s firm, The Ferguson Group, to lobby on tax reform issues including MLPs and the border adjustment tax. Phillips 66 backs  Phillip 66 Partners, an MLP oil and gas pipeline operator.
Texas-based MLPs  give generously to lawmakers from their state who will likely legislate in their interest. Brady was the  second-highest recipient of 2016 campaign cash from Dallas-based Energy Transfer Equity, an MLP that operates another MLP, Energy Transfer Partners.
NextEra Energy, which also controls an  MLP, has lobbied members of the conference committee but did not mention MLPs specifically in these reports.
Health Care
Health care policy has also been a source of debate on the tax bill. The Senate version repeals the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that everyone obtain health insurance — known as the “individual mandate” — which experts say would gut the historic 2010 policy. Another issue of interest to health care companies is  a small excise tax on the wholesale price of medical devices imposed by the Affordable Care Act, something the medical device industry opposes.
Katie Allen, a former senior legislative assistant to Black, represented trade group America’s Health Insurance Plans (AHIP) on a host of tax issues during the third quarter of 2017, including the  individual mandate. On Nov. 14, AHIP and medical and hospital groups sent a  letter to House and Senate leaders, urging them not to repeal the individual mandate, saying, “Eliminating the individual mandate by itself likely will result in a significant increase in premiums, which would in turn substantially increase the number of uninsured Americans.” The House bill left the mandate intact, but the Senate bill eliminated it.
Lori Harju, who  left her post as Brady’s senior adviser on the House Ways and Means Committee in December 2016, was back in the House offices weeks later, in the first quarter of 2017, representing medical device company  Baxter Healthcare Corporation on device tax, corporate tax rates and other tax-related issues.
More Industries Hire Former House Staffers
Harju, also Brady’s former deputy legislative director for five years, represented the Credit Union National Association on the preservation of credit union tax status, an “untouchable tax break” that credit unions were able to keep. This year, the Credit Union National Association’s political action committee has donated  $9,000 to Brady’s campaign, and the  securities and investment industry is his most generous industry, according to data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics.
As a lobbyist and vice president with the Alpine Group,  Barry Brown, Brady’s legislative director from 1997 to 2000, represented Nike on issues including the corporate tax rate and the tax on repatriation of foreign earnings, and the U.S. Tire Manufacturers Association on import taxes.
In addition to former aide Sarley, two other former Shimkus staffers have lobbied the House on tax policy in 2017.  Greta Joynes, who worked for Shimkus for nearly 14 years, left her post in March for a job with Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck and was  lobbying Shimkus in the second quarter on real estate-related tax reform on behalf of the American Tower Corporation.  Maureen Tracy, who was a legislative staffer and then director for Shimkus from 2002 to 2007, is now senior director for government affairs at Illinois-based Verex Imaging Corporation. She’s lobbied her former boss during  all  three  quarters of this year.
Two former staffers of Rep.  Greg Walden (OR-2) have lobbied the House on tax issues this year.  Blair Larkins, an assistant to Walden from 2005 to 2010 who is now director of legislative affairs at the Bockorny Group,  lobbied the House on behalf of the conservative business advocacy group the Job Creators Network. Former Walden legislative assistant  Daniel Fernandez, also of the Bockorny Group and formerly a VP at the American Bankers Association,  lobbied the House on tax reform for Majestic Steel USA. Another former staffer,  Lauren Flynn of K&L Gates LLP,  registered in October to lobby Congress for the Coalition for Energy Efficient Jobs and Investment on tax issues.
Reps.  Peter Roskam (IL-6) and Rob Bishop (UT-1) also have former staffers lobbying the House on tax issues for the University of Illinois and Vista Outdoor, respectively. Another of Ryan’s former staffers has also been visiting congressional offices to talk tax reform. His former House floor director  Ann Bradbury, now VP at The Duberstein Group, lobbied the House for several companies including  Amgen,  Dow Chemical and  Duke Energy Business Services.


Boeing has lost an order from Canada for 18 Super Hornet fighter jets, a deal that was worth up to $6.4 billion. The Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) will likely purchase 28-30 used fighter planes from the Australian military, according to reports Tuesday.
The Canadian government announced in 2016 it would purchase 18 planes from Boeing. The new F/A-18 fighter jets would have been a temporary measure for Canada, to allow the country to meet its commitments to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD). RCAF currently operates an ageing fleet of CF-18 fighters, which is due for replacement sometime in the next decade.
The U.S. plane manufacturer filed a complaint against its Canadian rival Bombardier in April 2016, accusing it of using Canadian government subsidies to win a Delta Air Lines contract for 75 aircraft. Boeing alleged that Bombardier was selling the planes at “absurdly low” prices, and the Department of Commerce imposed a preliminary 300 percent import duty on Bombardier’s CS 100 planes. The Canadian company says Boeing, which did not offer any of its own aircraft to Delta, could not have been harmed by its actions, which it maintains were in line with international rules.
A formation of U.S. Navy F-18E Super Hornets flies over northern Iraq, Sept. 23, 2014. Photo: Reuters/Shawn Nickel/U.S. Air Force/Handout
The final ruling in the case is expected next year, but the relationship between Boeing and Canada has nosedived since. In August 2017, Canadian officials travelled to Australia to inspect the F/A-18 aircraft the country is planning to buy instead. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said at the time the country would not engage in business with Boeing till such time its dispute with Bombardier continued, a sentiment he repeated to President Donald Trump in October.
Since the Australian fighter jets are almost as old as the current Canadian fleet, RCAF will reportedly need to buy some additional planes to use them for spare parts. That could explain why 28-30 of the older planes would be bought instead of 18 new ones. An official announcement is expected in the coming days.
In September, Boeing International president Marc Allen, talking to the Globe and Mail, invoked Boeing’s $4 billion worth of annual business and 17,000 jobs in Canada, and said: “If Canada kicks Boeing out, I think that will be deeply unfortunate for us both. It would be a deeply unfortunate outcome. It has to be a two-way street, there has to be this mutually beneficial relationship for it to be one that grows, one that both sides are happy and excited about.”
But the company’s thinly-veiled threat may be futile, especially in a larger political climate where Canada and Mexico are frustrated by Trump’s attempts to renegotiate long-standing trade deals.
At a conference in Boston in November, Bombardier CEO Alain Bellemare said: “Boeing is underestimating what they are tackling. It's not just the company but countries. Unfortunately, I think they're taking advantage of a [political] context that’s favorable to them.”
Shares of Boeing fell 0.86 percent during Tuesday trade on the New York Stock Exchange.


There is a particular mood you might find yourself in one evening. You will be tired from a long day at work and starving, but unwilling to put too much thought into your dinner. Pizza sounds good, but not expensive, fancy pizza. Pizza Hut delivery will be your savior, but if you are committing to eating unhealthily, you might as well go all the way. Thanks to a new Pizza Hut initiative being tested in Phoenix soon, you can kill two birds with one stone.
CNN reports Pizza Hut will begin testing beer and wine deliveries alongside pizza orders in “certain cities,” with Phoenix being the initial guinea pig. When you order a greasy Pizza Hut pie, you will be able to order six packs of Anheuser-Busch beers for $10.99 apiece. That encompasses beers like Budweiser and Shock Top, with this test also including Arizona craft beer Kilt Lifter. For reference, $11 is roughly as much as a cheap six pack costs in New York City.
Phoenix residents will also be able to get wine included in their Pizza Hut order in January, but the details are more murky on that front. CNN was not able to get confirmation on which wines will be available and whether they will be sold in full bottles or smaller servings. If you feel like drinking with your pizza but want to be a little more fancy, this option will be available. Pizza Hut did not specify which other cities would get this service, or when.
As CNN points out, Pizza Hut would be the first pizza chain of that caliber to offer booze as a delivery option, as Papa John’s and Domino’s only offer family-friendly beverages on their delivery menus. Of course, individual stores will need to acquire liquor licenses, but a Pizza Hut representative told CNN plenty of locations already have one, so that should not be too big a hurdle in the process.
Delivery drivers will also need to be 21 or older, which may give an edge to older job applicants if this plan evolves to other cities or even becomes standard practice at Pizza Hut. Lastly, you will need to show ID upon delivery, so rowdy teens cannot order a bunch of beer and expect to get it with no trouble. Drivers will card you at your door.
This is part of a larger trend of huge restaurant chains attempting to drive up profits by appealing to adult vices. Taco Bell (which operates under the same parent company as Pizza Hut)  has plans to open a bunch of “Cantina” locations over the next few years that serve alcohol, with the idea being that plenty of customers are already drunk when they get to Taco Bell, so the restaurant should give them more of what they want. Jack in the Box also made waves a few years ago with the late-night-only  “Munchies Menu,” a wink-and-nod acknowledgement that people will eat too much fast food after smoking too much weed.


The controversial Keystone pipeline spilled more than  200,000 gallons of oil in South Dakota last month, prompting new pressure to slow pipeline development in the United States. Only weeks later, Republican lawmakers slipped a provision into a massive tax bill that could instead give the pipeline operator, TransCanada, a huge new tax cut.
The company is one of a handful of energy giants that set up  master limited partnerships (MLPs) -- financial vehicles often used to shield energy investments from taxes. The investors in those vehicles — who are often the  parent company or its subsidiaries — could receive a huge boost thanks to an eleventh-hour amendment added to the GOP tax bill by Texas Sen. John Cornyn. MLPs themselves are already exempted from corporate taxes, but Cornyn’s last-minute provision would cut income taxes on the money earned by the MLP partners.
The tax changes stand to enrich fossil fuel behemoths and their partners — many of whom recently delivered big campaign donations to Donald Trump and to groups backing Republican Party lawmakers.
“These MLP financial vehicles already operate at a tremendous tax advantage over other publicly-traded businesses, because they are the only public companies that are allowed to escape paying corporate income tax,”  Edward Kleinbard wrote in The Hill Monday. Kleinbard is a University of Southern California law professor who served as the chief of staff for Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation. “But that existing subsidy was insufficient for Sen. Cornyn, and now existing investors in such vehicles have been awarded a further windfall by becoming eligible for the new discounted pass-through tax rates sold as tax relief for Main Street business.”
Invented in the early 1980s, MLPs used tradable partnerships to shield businesses from corporate taxes, while simultaneously providing access to capital markets. Income passes through the MLP to partners, who then pay personal income taxes on the money they made. Worried about lost corporate tax revenue, Congress limited the MLP structure to certain industries as part of tax reform in 1986, including real estate, finance and energy. Today, oil and gas pipelines are commonly associated with MLPs.
“Most people think of MLPs as energy pipeline companies with an advantageous tax structure, which is an extreme simplification, but not untrue,”  Alerian, an MLP research firm, explains on its website.
The energy industry, and specifically oil and gas interests, have benefited most from the structure. According to  recent estimates by investment management giant Vanguard, the energy industry accounts for more than $400 billion in MLPs -- roughly 85 percent of MLPs’ total value. Eighty percent of that $400 billion is represented by “midstream” oil and gas interests — typically pipeline transport companies.
Over the last year, amid rising concern about climate change, the political battle over pipelines has intensified across the United States. Following the Keystone spill in South Dakota in November, the pipeline’s operator TransCanada won a key regulatory ruling in Nebraska — but now confronts the  prospect of litigation. Likewise, Energy Transfer Partners’ Dakota Access Pipeline is now dealing with a court-ordered  environmental review, pipeline projects in  Florida,  New Jersey,  Virginia and  Michigan also face mounting protests, and local resistance forced the cancellation of a  planned pipeline through New England.
Despite that opposition, Congressional Republicans pushed various initiatives to boost the pipeline industry in recent years. In  2015, for instance, top Republicans tried to pass a bill to speed pipeline approvals — as they accepted campaign cash from one firm that stood to benefit from the legislation. A few months ago, House lawmakers once again passed  legislation to expedite pipeline approvals.
The new tax bill — which has been defined by partisan battles over property taxes, mortgage interest deductions and corporate tax rates — had not been viewed as a central part of the larger pipeline policy debate. However, Republicans included provisions that would open up Alaska’s Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling and also inserted the MLP language that would largely benefit fossil fuel firms.
The House version of the bill capped taxes on “pass-through” income (the money “passing through” partnerships like MLPs) at 25 percent — far less than the top marginal tax rate (39.6 percent) that partners would typically pay on income. The Senate bill keeps the top rate for pass-through income, but Cornyn’s amendment inserts a 23 percent deduction on “qualifying” pass-through income, which includes income from energy sector MLPs.
“It’s definitely a personal tax rate wrapped in a corporate provision, because for partners it is a personal tax advantage,” Ryan Alexander, president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, told IBT.
A buried section of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline , July 21, 2002 in Fairbanks, Alaska. The 800 mile pipeline carries crude oil from Prudhoe Bay to the ice free port of Valdez, Alaska.  Photo: Barry Williams/Getty Images
Pipeline giants and their trade associations lobbied lawmakers on tax issues in the lead up to the votes on tax reform.
For example, the Master Limited Partnership Association, the trade group representing MLPs, spent $390,000 on lobbying in the first three quarters of 2017. Energy Transfer Partners, operators of the Dakota Access Pipeline, spent $750,000 and recently  hired a former top Treasury official to lobby on tax issues. Enterprise Products Partners, the MLP with the largest market capitalization, spent $240,000 lobbying on “partnership and individual tax issues involving Publicly Traded Partnerships” and “final qualifying income regulations.”
Some of the biggest master limited partnerships — whose investors could benefit from the changes — are linked to several of the Republican Party’s biggest donors, according to data compiled by the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics. That includes:
 —Energy Transfer Partners: CEO Kelcy Warren delivered more than  $1.5 million to conservative super PACs in the 2016 election, and was a top contributor to President Trump’s  campaign. The company’s employees and political action committees have given more than $1 million to GOP lawmakers and party groups since 2016. The company operates more than  71,000 miles of pipelines.
 —Western Refining: CEO Paul Foster in May gave  $1 million to the Congressional Leadership Fund, whose  website describes it as “exclusively dedicated to protecting and strengthening the Republican Majority in the House of Representatives.” Foster also gave more than $367,000 to the National Republican Senatorial Committee in 2016. Western Refining and its master limited partnerships were  recently acquired by Andeavor.
 —TransCanada:  Donors from the Keystone operator gave more than $204,000 to Republican lawmakers in the election preceding the tax change for MLPs. By contrast, the company contributed a total of just $22,025 to all federal lawmakers between 2008 and 2014.
 —Dominion: The company and its political action committees have given more than  $1 million to Republican congressional candidates since 2016. Dominion oversees an  MLP, and its mid-Atlantic pipeline project has  sparked opposition.
Many of the fossil fuel firms operating MLPs are based in Texas and have supported Texas Republican lawmakers such as Cornyn and Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady.  Donors from Valero and Energy Transfer were among Cornyn’s top donors in 2016. That year, Brady was Congress’s second biggest recipient of donations from  Energy Transfer.
“The MLP rules have helped these companies avoid corporate-level taxation for decades,” Doug Koplow, founder of Earth Track, an organization that tracks energy subsidies, told International Business Times. “Under the tax bill the tax burden on the partners of the MLPs is going to be reduced as well.”


 A group of lawyers sued the state of California Tuesday because of the number of students the state's public schools failed to teach reading.
The advocacy law firm Public Counsel is representing students and teachers from poor performing schools in the suit. The firm said the state hasn’t taken any steps in addressing the number of students in California who are illiterate.
“When it comes to literacy and the delivery of basic education, California is dragging down the nation,” said Public Counsel lawyer Mark Rosenbaum to the Associated Press.
California lags behind the rest of the U.S. in reading for the fourth and eighth grades, according to the Los Angeles Times.
In 2015 statewide tests showed that less than half of students from third grade to fifth could read at a proficient level.
The state superintendent and state board of education president asked for a report on how to improve literacy in the state five years ago, and the suit contends that none of the suggestions in the report have been implemented.
Plaintiffs for the suit include teachers and students from three schools that are amongst California’s lowest-performing institutions.
The schools were La Salle Avenue Elementary School in Los Angeles; Children of Promise Preparatory Academy, an Inglewood, California charter school and Van Buren Elementary School, in Stockton, California. The suit said that the problem cuts across charter and traditional schools. 
The lawsuit said that only 8 of 179 students tested at La Salle Elementary last year met literacy standards.
David Moch, a former teacher at La Salle told the Los Angeles Times that he would have to use kindergarten teaching tools on kids as old as fifth graders. He is one of the plaintiffs.
“We need citizens that can read. We need citizens that can vote,”  said Moch. “Once you get behind, if there's no intervention, there's no catching up. The level of the work is getting more intense and multiplied at every level.”


Things have changed since then-presidential candidate Donald Trump tweeted that the Koch brothers “cannot influence Trump!” in July 2015. Or in November of that year when he tweeted that Charles Koch was “looking for a new puppet” after Scott Walker’s and Jeb Bush’s campaigns failed. Or in February 2016, when Trump repeated his puppet claims in the context of Marco Rubio.
From choosing Koch favorite Mike Pence as his running mate in mid-2016 to filling his administration with Koch associates, Trump appears to have fully embraced the agenda of billionaire industrialist brothers Charles and David Koch, who run a private oil, chemical and manufacturing conglomerate, with the help of many of their allies by his side.
While the Kochs and their network continue to urge Congress to make big tax cuts, slash regulations, repeal Obamacare and crack down on unions, academics from Koch-funded college and university programs have, under Trump, earned posts in the budget office’s regulatory department, the Department of Labor, the EPA, and the renewable energy office in the Department of Energy, among other agencies, while others are special assistants advising the president on health care policy or energy issues.
A  new report from the progressive consumer advocate Public Citizen identifies 44 Trump administration officials who have close ties to the Koch brothers and their network of political groups. Many come from Koch Industries, Koch-funded political organizations and independent think tanks financed by the Kochs like the Cato Institute and the Texas Public Policy Foundation. Still others, including additional officials identified by International Business Times, are academics who have either taught or studied at heavily Koch-backed programs at the public George Mason University (GMU) in Virginia.
Since the 1970s, the Kochs have considered higher education the foundation of their “Structure of Social Change,” an effort to convert Americans to libertarianism and push through steep tax cuts and deregulation. Richard Fink, the Kochs’ close lifelong associate, said that higher education can provide the “intellectual raw materials” that think tanks can then repackage into policy ideas. Then, finally, advocacy groups can turn these ideas into distinct proposals that the public can understand and then rally those people to push for policy change.
Decades later, Koch family foundations, especially the Charles Koch Foundation, have given hundreds of millions of dollars to colleges and universities to further their libertarian ideology. “The [Koch] network is fully integrated, so it’s not just work at the universities with the students, but it’s also building state-based capabilities and election capabilities and integrating this talent pipeline,” Kevin Gentry, then vice president of the Charles Koch Foundation,  told a crowd of wealthy Koch network donors at a private 2014 gathering.
No academic institution has enjoyed more donations from the Koch family than GMU, where the Koch brothers have founded and funded multiple free-market centers with the hope of indoctrinating many young minds and raising the profile of libertarian professors. Some of these minds are now working the Trump administration, and still more occupy other roles in the conservative political ranks of Washington, D.C.
“When you see a Mercatus scholar working in the White House, [Charles] Koch’s interests are being directly represented,” Samantha Parsons, a campaign strategist with activist group UnKoch My Campus, which researches and organizes around the Kochs’ higher education donations, told IBT. “Trump’s appointments demonstrate the Koch network’s highly effective manipulation of universities to achieve policy outcomes, even under an administration they claim no allegiance to.”
Koch-sponsored Academics In The Trump Administration
On Oct. 26, Trump  announced that  William Beach ,  vice president of policy research at the Mercatus Center, would begin a four-year term as the commissioner of labor statistics at the Department of Labor. From 1991 to 1995, Beach was president of the Institute for Humane Studies, another free-market think tank at GMU that the Kochs have  heavily funded for decades.
At Mercatus, Beach published papers claiming that  deregulation fuels economic growth, and earlier, as a fellow and head of data analysis at the conservative and partially Koch-funded Heritage Foundation, Beach co-authored a 2011 report on how to “  fix the debt and cut spending ” by slashing Medicare, Social Security and K-12 education funds while cutting taxes. In 1998, Beach  argued in favor of private investment retirement accounts instead of social security for union workers and instead. Previously chief economist for the Republicans in the Senate Budget Committee, Beach will oversee the  Bureau of Labor Statistics, an “independent statistical agency” within the Labor Department that “[measures] labor market activity, working conditions, and price changes in the economy.”
John Graham, the dean of the School of Public and Environmental Affairs at Indiana University, was recently named to the EPA’s  Science Advisory Board. At Indiana, he has supported  funding from the Charles Koch Foundation and recently had a  doctoral student who earned both Mercatus and IHS fellowships. Earlier in his career, Graham founded the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis, which received funding from the Charles Koch Foundation along with other fossil fuel interests and tobacco companies. Graham collaborated with numerous  Mercatus scholars on a regulation “hit list” while he was  Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) at the Office of Management and Budget under George W. Bush.
When Bush nominated Graham for OIRA, the nominee faced a deluge of opposition. Fifty-three academics signed  a letter in 2001 opposing his nomination, writing that “Professor Graham has shown his willingness to over-ride health, safety, environmental, civil rights, and other social goals in applying crude cost-benefit tools...Graham's work has, overall, demonstrated a remarkable congruency with the interests of regulated industries.”
Neomi Rao was named “  regulatory czar,” the administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs within the Office of Management and Budget in July, where she is helping the Trump administration with its deregulatory agenda. At GMU, Rao was a law professor and the founder of the law school’s Center for the Study of the Administrative State, which is benefiting from the recent $10 million Charles Koch Foundation donation, according to the March 2016  grant agreement. “It’s going to be a game-changing donation and gift for the George Mason law school,” she  told the Washington Post at the time.
Rao will scrutinize regulations the Trump administration proposes while being responsible for implementing Trump’s executive orders directing agencies to repeal two regulations for each significant one they issue, which Rao  called “‘an important step’ in broadly reducing regulatory burden.” Rao has argued that independent government agencies like the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which issues regulations and enforces existing ones, should answer to the president.
A “deep critic of congressional overdelegation,” according to the Wall Street Journal,
Rao issued a  directive in September with the goal of a “net reduction in total incremental regulatory costs” in fiscal 2018. Also that month, Rao  halted the requirement for certain private employers to report data on pay and work hours of various races, genders and ethnic groups to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Women’s advocate Nita Chaudhary called the move “a thinly-veiled attempt to give corporations license to discriminate against their employees.”
Brian Blase was  named a special assistant to the president on health care policy in February by National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn. He comes from the Mercatus Center, where he was a  senior research fellow focusing on health care policy. In 2013, Blase earned his PhD in economics from GMU. His  Mercatus paper supporting the repeal and replacement of the Affordable Care Act encourages cutting Medicaid by providing fixed grant amounts to the states and killing state and federal mandates on having health insurance.
As of May,  Daniel Simmons, an opponent of renewable energy, has been the controversial Acting Assistant Secretary in the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy in the Energy Department. Most recently, Simmons was vice president of policy at the Koch-funded Institute for Energy Research but before that, he was a research fellow at Mercatus.
In a 2013 Heartland Institute podcast, Simmons  said, “The most simple of all points is that no matter what the renewable guys say, what they will admit is that their type of power — the wind and solar — is more expensive and will increase the price of electricity...And in an economy that is struggling, it is critical that we do everything we can to keep prices low.”
Here are more Koch higher education alumni now in the White House administration.
If OMB Director Mick Mulvaney doesn’t last at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, first in line for the job is  GMU law professor and  Mercatus senior research fellow  Todd Zywicki , whose research the Treasury  recently cited in its effort to discredit a CFPB rule on forced arbitration. Todd Zywicki sits on the  board of the Institute for Humane Studies, according to its website.
Other ex-Mercatus scholars hold powerful roles in Washington as well.  Keith Hall, a former Mercatus research fellow, has been director of the Congressional Budget Office since 2015. The Mercatus Center comes up increasingly more often in congressional deliberations, appearing in the congressional record or committee reports  43 times in the 2015-16 session and already  23 times this year.
The Arlington, Virginia campus of George Mason University houses the law school, Mercatus Center and the Institute for Humane Studies, all funded in part by Koch family foundations. Photo: Ron Cogswell/Flickr
‘Koch U’
Since 2005, Koch foundations have lavished GMU with  over $100 million in donations, including a recent  $10 million donation, along with $20 million from an undisclosed donor, to rename the law school after the late conservative Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. Fink, the man who helped Charles Koch devise his social change plan, brought his free-market program from Rutgers University to GMU in 1980, and it began to receive funding from Koch family foundations. Charles Koch is a  Mercatus board member, as is Fink and Bryan Hooks, president of the Charles Koch Foundation and the Charles Koch Institute. Koch also sits on  the board of the Institute for Humane Studies, and as of 2015, he was chairman. Two Charles Koch Foundation leaders are also directors, and Fink was until recently on the board.
The Kochs’ extensive sponsorship of GMU has led journalist Dave Levinthal to call the school “  Koch U ” in a review of the family’s 2013 higher education donations. But the Kochs’ higher education donations are by no means limited to GMU; in 2015, Koch foundations combined to dole out  $33 million to hundreds of colleges and universities.
Filling The Void
In the Public Citizen  report, author Alan Zibel writes that Trump has betrayed the populist promises of his campaign. “In an administration that lacks a clear policy agenda or expertise, Koch aides have been happy to fill the void with specific ideas to enrich corporate interests and harm the public as a whole.”
Both chambers of Congress have passed their versions of the GOP tax cut plan, something for which the Koch political network has extensively lobbied and campaigned in recent months. Nonpartisan analysis points toward  a massive windfall for the country’s richest families and for corporations while in fact raising taxes on the lowest earners. In order to pay for these major cuts at the top of the income ladder, Republicans in the House took away numerous tax deductions, including one on student loans, and added a tax on tuition waivers and on university endowments, which education leaders say will make higher education — especially graduate school —  even more expensive.
Universities are already cash-strapped, and tuition is already exorbitant, leading to a mounting student debt crisis. With even less of a financial support system for aspiring students and university programs, educational institutions will have even more reason to rely on their rich donors to stay afloat.


At a halfway house in southeast Pennsylvania last May, a former prison inmate on his way to reentering society died of a heroin and fentanyl overdose, the eighth person to die of a drug overdose there since the start of 2016, and the fifth in the first five months of 2017 alone, the Reading Eagle found in a November report that documented egregious mismanagement.
“Nobody’s going to get any kind of help in there,” Dawn Zdanowicz, who was released from the facility in November, told International Business Times. Her roomate was among those eight to fatally overdose. “If you’re going to run a dual diagnosis center, you have to have the training that goes with that.”
What took place there was a microcosm of not only the nation’s opioid crisis, but shifts within the criminal justice system that are pushing private prison companies toward business opportunities in the market for halfway houses, which treat many of the nation's addicts on their way out of prison.
The Pennsylvania facility, known as the Alcohol & Drug Addiction Parole and Probation Treatment center, or simply ADAPPT, was acquired in April by politically-connected GEO Group Inc., better known for its private prison management. The previous manager, now a GEO subsidiary, is Community Education Centers, a private contractor known for its halfway houses. (GEO declined to comment on Zdanowicz’s criticism of ADAPPT.)
The April CEC acquisition followed GEO’s 2010 purchase of Cornell Companies, another private prison and rehabilitation firm that owns facilities focued on drug treatment and counseling. In 2011, GEO purchased BI Inc., a maker of electronic monitoring equipment and operator of non-residential day-reporting centers, which test newly released inmates for drug use and, in some cases, treat or offer counseling for substance abuse problems. GEO’s buys have helped the private prison giant build up its new health care and rehabilitation brand, GEO Care, and have increasingly put it in a position to treat the victims of the nation’s opioid epidemic, which affects a disproportionate number of prison inmates.
Activists call for more treatment, less jail time, for drug addicts. New York City, Aug. 10, 2017. Photo: Drew Angerer/Getty Images
GEO’s Growing Post-Prison ‘Continuum’
In addition to the acquisitions, over the past couple of years, GEO Group has boosted spending on its “GEO Continuum of Care,” a division that’s overseen by GEO Care, and that handles criminal reentry, “offender rehabilitation programs” and “evidence-based treatment.” Along with “faith-based services,” “cognitive behavioral treatment programs” and academic and job training programs, the Continuum of Care division includes substance abuse treatment, education and counseling, according to its website. GEO spent $5 million launching the Continuum of Care division in 2015, according to an  annual report from that year. Last year, investment in the division doubled to $10 million, according to GEO’s 2016  annual report. Both BI and CEC — along with Cornell’s behavioral health and youth and family services division, Abraxas, which includes substance abuse treatment centers — were integrated into the GEO Care brand.
GEO has been active on the federal lobbying front since at least 2002. In the second quarter of 2015, the firm began lobbying Congress on “the promotion of the benefits in the use of public-private partnerships for the delivery of secure residential care, community reentry and supervision [and] offender rehabilitation,” federal lobbying forms show. It has continued to promote such partnerships.
In the first and second quarters of this year, GEO lobbied Congress for the first time on “public-private partnerships in… the provision of evidence-based rehabilitation, both in-custody and post-release, through the ‘GEO Continuum of Care.’” Prior to 2015, GEO’s lobbying activity mainly concerned immigration enforcement policy. Pablo Paez, GEO Group’s vice president of corporate relations, declined to answer questions from IBT about its lobbying efforts.
When questioned about the company’s move toward drug addiction treatment for inmates as part of the expansion of this division and its parent brand, Paez said that outside of the GEO Care subsidiary, the company is “not focused on acquiring or developing drug treatment centers.” But for America’s prisoners, a disproportionate number of whom have substance abuse problems, GEO’s facilities, with its “GEO Care” brand and “Continuum of Care” division, are serving the essentially same purpose.  
Indeed, GEO is not buying up voluntary-admission sober centers, but has been aggressively acquiring halfway houses, or residential reentry centers, which are the more structured of the two, and are generally managed by the government or for-profit and nonprofit contractors. The firm’s main competitor, CoreCivic, formerly known as Corrections Corporation of America, has been active in this business as well.
GEO’s latest quarterly SEC  filing states that the company offers “counseling, education and/or treatment to inmates with alcohol and drug abuse problems at most of the domestic facilities we manage.” An IBT review of the nearly 200 facilities listed on GEO’s  locations webpage found that at least 125 offered substance abuse programming, while 27 focused predominantly on such programming. Among GEO’s 54 residential reentry centers, 42 offered such programming, and 21 focused predominantly on substance abuse.
Those estimates are conservative, as many of the listings have little information, often nothing but an address, a phone number and a fax number. For a majority of the locations, there is minimal information about them online. An employee at one location refused to describe its treatment offerings to a reporter. Paez also declined to respond to questions about how many GEO facilities offered common prescription substance abuse treatments, such as Suboxone or methadone, and how many were primarily focused on drug addiction programming.
Of GEO Group’s 600-plus  job openings as of Nov. 30, 93 posts, or roughly one in seven, advertised drug and alcohol or substance abuse counselors, outpatient substance abuse managers, “therapeutic counselor[s],” therapists, substance abuse supervisors, substance abuse specialists, social workers and case managers dealing with addicts and drug and alcohol or substance abuse counselor assistants, among other similar posts.
The company’s acquisition of CEC — a reentry program giant with deep ties to the administration of former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie and a reputation for facilities rife with drug use, as documented by a multi-part New York Times  investigation in 2012 and 2013 — “makes so much sense,” said Kathy O’Leary, of the activist coalition New Jersey Prison Divest. Large companies that manage reentry and rehab, she said, “try to do economies of scale, but it’s a more intimate experience than that.”
“If you look at these programs that are successful, these faith-based nonprofits, they really have a more individualized approach,” said O’Leary. Pointing to the Times’ series, she said the privatized reentry centers “have created environments where drugs are more available than they are on the streets.”
CEC did not comment on the allegations laid out in a June 2012 Times  story on the Albert M. “Bo” Robinson Assessment and Treatment Center in Trenton, now listed among GEO’s locations, that described sexual assault accusations, violence, “lax security” and “rampant” drug use.
“You see horror stories with private centers, but you see horror stories with government centers as well,” said Len Gilroy, director of government reform at the libertarian Reason Foundation. He said the use of performance-based contracts, in which the contracting companies don’t get paid unless they do a high-quality job, are keeping such problems at bay. “Government contracting always has to have proper due diligence… Governments are learning how to do this better and better.”
Still, like New Jersey Prison Divest’s O’Leary, Donald Cohen, executive director of In the Public Interest, a policy research center focused on privatization, argued that the existence of obligation to shareholders was a problematic element regardless.
“They’re only making money if they’re controlling people,” he said. “The incentive is to control as much as possible and spend as little as possible.”
President Donald Trump declared the opioid crisis a "national public health emergency" Oct. 26,2017. Photo: Alex Wong/GettyImages
Providing ‘GEO Care’ For Those Who Need It Most
Many  have  advocated for the treatment of drug addiction within U.S. prisons as a means of stemming the crisis. According to a June  report from the Bureau of Justice Statistics, 58 percent of state prisoners and 63 percent of sentenced jail inmates fit the definition of drug-dependent or substance abusers, compared to 5 percent of the general population. Roughly a quarter of those state prisoners and sentenced jail inmates reported having used heroin or opiates, and between one in five and one in eight said they’d used the substances regularly, the bureau found. (The numbers varied depending on the year during which they were surveyed, but tended to be larger in more recent years.)
An earlier  study, from the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse, described 85 percent of inmates as “substance-involved” and two-thirds of them as meeting the 4th-edition Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of  Mental Disorders’ criteria for addiction.
Once they’re no longer behind bars, inmates with histories of drug abuse are at greater risk of relapse; according to a 2016 Surgeon General  report, which estimated that “half of the United States prison population has an active substance use disorder,” about 15 percent of former prisoners’ deaths between 1999 and 2009 “were related to opioids.” Their tolerance for the drugs fell during incarceration, the report noted, rendering them more susceptible to overdose upon relapse.
And in rural areas ravaged by the epidemic, treatment can be scarce. Because of this, several women in  Martinsburg, Virginia, started a volunteer organization with the sole purpose of driving addicts to the nearest detox or rehab facility, often several hours away.
“We know, when a lot of them come out of prison or jails, they need help with treatment and reentry,” Tina Stride, who helped found and is one of several women running the Hope Dealers Project in Martinsburg, told IBT. She added that, because of the lack of available treatment centers in her community, if a for-profit prison company is offering that service to inmates on their way to release, so be it, as long as the company is properly evaluated. “We know there’s a scarcity of these [rehab] facilities — the scarcity is huge… This is why we even came to be: because we were tired of our town dying.”
The night before Stride and several other women running the Hope Dealer Project spoke with IBT by phone, Stride said, there were 11 overdoses in their small city in the West Virginia panhandle.
Beverly Sharp, who has worked in various managerial, training and human resources positions within the Bureau of Prisons over three decades, said the staggering demand for treatment between incarceration and full release is putting the whole justice system at risk. Sharp, who is working to form a reentry nonprofit in West Virginia, said she welcomed any viable option for prisoner addicts seeking a return to normal life, including the private one.
“When you’re returning people to the same people and places they were around before they were incarcerated,” they’re in obvious danger of not only renewed criminal behavior, but relapse, she said. “If we don’t change how we’re doing things… eventually, we’re going to have more people in society that are ex-offenders than those that aren’t.”
But given the track record of for-profit prisons, including a February University of Wisconsin-Madison study that found private prisons to be more expensive because they keep inmates behind bars for longer and don’t reduce recidivism, many critics are uncomfortable with the idea of such companies handling inmates’ addiction treatment.
“When you have private companies taking control, they say ‘cheaper, better, faster,’” said Cohen, of In the Public Interest. “There’s money that’s being taken from that system — executive salaries, shareholder returns, lobbying expenditures, campaign expenditures, maybe. That money should be in the system.”
While America may need more facilities for drug abuse treatment, especially post-incarceration, Cohen said, “we don’t need more private ones.”
Others, meanwhile, see privatization as one more efficient way to satisfy widespread and growing demand for treatment for those who need it most — individuals stuck in the criminal justice system. Sharp said she’d visited a GEO facility that had impressed her, and that the federal government was “not doing a good job.” Gilroy, of the Reason Foundation, for his part, pointed out that the use of private contracts was nothing new for the U.S. government.
“Historically, we have not and I don’t think we should have a problem with putting companies to work in service of the public,” said Gilroy. “If they’re making a profit, well, fantastic.”
Adapting To An Evolving Market
Recovering drug attics and prisoners gradually working to reenter society weren’t always a major focus for private prisons, which housed  62 percent of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detention beds in 2016 and  close to a fifth of federal inmates in 2014.
But while the number of “holds” by ICE of undocumented immigrants in the U.S., a population fueling growth in the use of private prisons, ticked up to  nearly 14,000 in the first few months of Donald Trump’s presidency, that figure is roughly half ICE’s 2011 peak, according to the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC), a Syracuse University data organization. Federal criminal prosecutions have taken a dip as well under the new administration, falling 12 percent from a year earlier and 31 percent compared to five years earlier, TRAC  found.
ICE detainees are seen at the Adelanto immigration detention center, which is run by the Geo Group Inc., in Adelanto, California, April 13, 2017. Photo: Reuters
The general prison population has also declined in the past couple of years, with that of private prisons falling especially steeply — by 8 percent, compared to a 5 percent drop in the number of inmates overall — according to an April  report from the Pew Research Center.
Dealing a blow to firms like GEO — and, to a lesser extent, its rival CoreCivic — that have turned toward halfway houses, however, the Bureau of Prisons cut contracts with at least 16 of its 180 contracted reentry centers this year, Reuters reported in October, noting that four in five inmates reside in such centers on their way to societal reintegration. But under Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the flow of inmates with substance abuse issues into prisons and out to society by way of halfway houses, especially private ones, is bound to increase.
Last week, Sessions  pledged $12 million to local law enforcement as part of his Justice Department’s effort to reverse the “deadly tide” of addiction and overdose deaths. In announcing the move, he cited his mandate to “prevent new addictions from starting” and “go after” those who “exploit the vulnerable and profit off addiction.”

In May, Sessions issued a memorandum rescinding the previous administration’s policy of urging prosecutors to avoid mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenders. Less than two weeks after his February confirmation, he’d already  canceled the Barack Obama administration’s rollback of private contracting for prisons.
The move reaffirmed the commitment of GEO’s most valuable customer: the federal government. Between 2007 and 2016, the portion of GEO’s tens of millions — and, in more recent years, billions — of dollars in revenues derived from “various agencies of the U.S. Federal Government” grew from just over a quarter to nearly half, according to some of its  most  recent  annual  filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although Sessions’ decision surely provided GEO with some windfall from the federal government for prison contracts, the shift toward private contracts for residential reentry centers started during the previous administration. In a Nov. 30, 2016  memorandum to the acting director of the Bureau of Prisons, then-Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates wrote that despite “serious reservations” about privatization of U.S. prisons, the federal government “lacks the capacity to own and operate its own” residential reentry centers, because the bureau had relied on a mix of for-profit and non-profit providers to do so since the early 1980s.
“Instead, we must direct our efforts in the short term towards ensuring that the private market for federal halfway houses operates efficiently, transparently and fairly, with a focus on both the public’s safety and the needs of those leaving prison,” Yates wrote. She noted that the centers were required by the agency “to recruit and retain skilled staff members, including employment-placement specialists, case managers, and substance abuse treatment specialists, and to provide extensive training to [reentry center] employees.”
The federal government could’ve managed its own halfway houses or more frequently contracted with nonprofits — if such things were fiscally viable, said Sharp, the former Bureau of Prisons manager.
“With nonprofits, there’s just no funding,” she said, pointing out that Trump’s late October  declaration of the opioid crisis as a “Nationwide Public Health Emergency”  fell short of his pledge to declare a “national emergency,” which, unlike the former category, would quickly free up federal funds. Private sector actors, she added, are often better equipped to cut costs than the federal government. “When you have places like GEO opening the centers, they have to follow the same rules and regulations, but they don’t always have as much red tape to go through.”
But that’s exactly what worries opponents of for-profit prisons and halfway houses. Either way, the situation is dire, as Stride, of the Hope Dealer Project, told IBT.
“We just need help, but I don’t want someone just coming in and using them as pawns to make a profit,” she said of former inmates struggling with addiction. “We pray that they are good. We don’t want to be picky.”


Suburban Express, a shuttle bus company that picks up students from the Chicago area and takes them to the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign campus, is under fire for an advertisement targeting the school system's Chinese students and passengers.
The University of Illinois’ Office of the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs deemed the company’s weekend email ad “racist and bigoted” and Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan opened a civil rights investigation into the transportation company’s practices and services after Suburban Express offered what many saw as a sarcastic and offensive “apology” for the ad. One alderman even bluntly responding, "This is not an apology."
One of the shuttle bus company's weekend apologies. Suburban Express: Photo: Screenshot: Suburban Express   
Suburban Express’ ad listed 11 reasons why students should choose the shuttle during holiday season travels, with one of them declaring, “Passengers like you. You won’t feel like you’re in China when you’re on our buses.”
The bus company makes several stops in Greater Chicago area suburbs and takes them to six university campuses in the Midwest, including U of I’s Urbana-Champaign campus. The Saturday morning email was immediately met with criticism, which prompted the bus company to offer an apology of sorts -- followed by a second statement that piled on even more criticism.
In a follow-up email entitled, “Apology,” the second message referencing the University of Illinois’ international student population was ridiculed as potentially more offensive than the initial ad itself.
“We made a remark based on the fact that our competitor mostly handles Chinese international students,” the second email read, NBC Chicago first reported. “The remark is being interpreted as a slap in the face of all non-caucasians for some reason, and that it [sic] not how it was intended.”
“We must concede that we disagree with the way the University of Illinois is being run. U of I is a state school that is funded by taxpayers and is built on land granted by the people of the State of Illinois. As such, we believe that the mission of the University of Illinois should be providing high-quality, affordable education to the citizens of Illinois,” the message on the company website continued.
Suburban Express’ website had previously been criticized for a “Page of Shame,” a now-deleted tab showing the names, addresses and contact information for so-called “bad customers” of the bus service.
University of Illinois school system administrators issued a statement in response, saying the bus company has “a long history of taking advantage of students, staff and faculty…[the email] once again demonstrated the company’s disregard and disdain towards the values of inclusivity that define our university.”
“The message specifically insulted members of our Chinese, Asian and Asian American communities who are a vital and valued part of every aspect of both the University of Illinois and our local cities. These types of racist and bigoted statements attacking any members of our community deserve nothing but condemnation from all of us,” reads the statement from the school’s Office of the Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs.
Administrators said that despite the “offensive, bigoted, insulting” opinions from Suburban Express, they “cannot prevent a private company from operating in our community.”
According to NBC News and the Chicago Tribune, around 11,000 of the school’s 45,000 current Fall 2017 students are international, with about 6,000 of the total undergraduate and graduate student population hailing from China.
Ald. Ameya Pawar (47th), chairman of the City Council’s Asian-American Caucus and an influential alderman, weighed in on the controversy, saying he wants the Aviation Committee to hold hearings on the incident to potentially evict Suburban Express from O'Hare International Airport.
“O’Hare is one of the busiest airports on the planet. It is the gateway to Chicago. Sort of the welcome mat. Do we want companies like Suburban Express serving that gateway — a company that blatantly makes racist and xenophobic statements?” Pawar told the Chicago Sun-Times.
But the bus company has continued to dig a hole , even referring back to a 2013 incident involving a subcontracted bus company employee and a “non-English speaking customer, the Champaign News Gazette reported. The statement additionally blamed the company’s bad publicity within the university network on a “student agitator" looking to drive international students' business away.
“We agreed that the comment was inappropriate and we promptly apologized,” the company added. “Nevertheless, a student agitator made it his full-time job to tell the world that Suburban Express is racist based on the comment which we agreed was inappropriate, and for which we apologized.”
“In any event, we did not intend to offend half the planet,” the bus company’s message concluded.


House Speaker Paul Ryan is reportedly planning to name lawmakers for the committee that will shape the final tax bill, and his expected picks include top Republicans from some states that could be hit particularly hard by the bill. If they end up on the panel, they could face pressure from constituents to change the legislation. 
The Hill reported Monday afternoon that Ryan is expected to pick GOP Reps. Kevin Brady (TX), Devin Nunes (CA), Peter Roskam (IL), Diane Black (TN), Kristi Noem (SD), Rob Bishop (UT), Don Young (AK), Greg Walden (OR) and John Shimkus (IL). Last month, all of them voted for the House version of the tax bill — but the legislation now moves to a conference committee that will be under intense scrutiny.
Three of the nine — Nunes, Roskam and Shimkus — come from California and Illinois, which are among the states that could see the biggest share of their populations face a tax increase. That’s because their tax systems rely on income taxes, which could lose their federal tax deductibility under the congressional bill.
Illinois' income tax rate recently moved up to  16th in the nation. California has the highest personal income tax rates in the country, and taxpayers there filed $40 billion worth of federal deductions, according to the  Sacramento Bee. 
In addition, California could get hit hard by changes to the mortgage interest deduction: Capital and Main reports that the House-passed version of the bill creates a $500,000 cap on the amount of mortgage interest that can be deducted — a “revision would disproportionately hit residents of states with high real estate values, like California, where finding a home under $500,000 in most urban markets is very difficult.”
A Center on Budget and Policy Priorities analysis released before the Senate vote found that 17 percent of Illinois residents and 23 percent of California residents could see their taxes increase under the Republican tax plan, depending on how the final bill is reconciled.
Pressure on the California Republicans could be the most intense: The Los Angeles Times notes that California GOP House members represent some of the key districts Democrats are targeting in the 2018 election. The newspaper noted that in Nunes' district, 30 percent of all tax filers utilized existing deductions for state and local taxes. 


This report is being co-published with MapLight.
Since Donald Trump won the presidency, concerns about whether Russia played a hidden role in the 2016 election have simmered, and lawmakers have warned about the prospect of stealth foreign influence over American politics. But data compiled by International Business Times and MapLight show that foreign influence is hardly confined to the shadows. It’s a big, open, bipartisan business, with foreign government lobbyists delivering millions of dollars of campaign cash to elected officials in Washington.
In all, during the last election, those lobbyists gave more than $4.5 million to federal lawmakers and candidates. Foreign lobbyists and their firms’ political action committees were also responsible for packaging a total of $5.9 million in donations for candidates and party committees, through an influence-enhancing tactic known as “bundling.”
Because the donations come from foreign governments’ U.S.-based lobbyists, they effectively circumvent American laws designed to bar direct foreign donations. Under federal law, foreign nationals are  prohibited from donating to any federal, state, or local campaigns, or political parties. But foreign governments frequently hire U.S. citizens to represent their interests, and those people face no such contribution ban.
“I worry about foreign influence on our political system,” Larry Noble, general counsel at the nonpartisan Campaign Legal Center, told IBT/MapLight. “One of the things that recent events are highlighting is the porous nature of a lot of our laws and a lack of enforcement.”
Noble, a former Federal Election Commission lawyer, said that donations by foreign lobbyists don’t often come from the lobbying firms or their PACs, but from individual members of the firm.
“When that happens, how do you know whether any of that money is being directed by lobbyists of the foreign national, or if it's coming out of money they got from the foreign national for that purpose? There are lots of ways for people to get illegal money to campaigns,” Noble said. “It’s not an easy thing to prove.”
Top foreign lobbying firms have been ensnared by special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into alleged Russian influence on American elections. For instance: Mercury Public Affairs, a bipartisan lobbying firm, has been  subpoenaed about its work with one-time Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort on behalf of a Ukrainian political party allied with Russian president Vladimir Putin. Democratic lobbyist Tony Podesta — who is the brother of Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta — resigned from his lobbying firm after Mueller’s indictment of Manafort  alluded to the firm’s work for the same Ukrainian interests. Lobbying records show Podesta’s firm was also hired to represent Sberbank, Russia’s largest bank.
The Podesta Group secured a $120,000-per-quarter contract to represent 7-year-old South Sudan, where the United Nations says 80 percent of the people earn less than $1 per day. Soldiers of the Sudan People Liberation Army (SPLA), October 16, 2016. Photo: ALBERT GONZALEZ FARRAN/AFP/GettyImages
Podesta — whose firm represented at least a dozen foreign clients during the 2016 cycle — was a major fundraiser for Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, the top 2016 recipient of money from foreign government lobbyists. Podesta said in an email that he has never been instructed by a foreign lobbying client to make donations to a U.S. campaign, and that he saw no ethical problem with foreign agents making political contributions.
Other top recipients include lawmakers in positions to shape foreign policy issues, including arms deals, tariffs and international tax policy. They include Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer, D-N.Y.; Sen.  Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., who serves on an appropriations subcommittee that oversees the State Department; Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., who  chairs a Senate foreign relations subcommittee; and House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis.

The data compiled by IBT/MapLight represents campaign contributions from all donors registered under the Justice Department’s Foreign Registration Act (FARA). The figures, though, may represent only a portion of the total cash, since an  unknown number of foreign agents never bother to register.
A Lucrative Business
Though there are potential criminal penalties for violating the registration law, the department possesses  limited enforcement measures. The Justice Department’s inspector general  found last year that 62 percent of foreign lobbyists fail to register on time, and reported that the agency “lacks a comprehensive FARA enforcement strategy.” The Manafort case spotlighted the registration gap: Among the federal charges against him was one for failing to disclose his work for the Ukrainian government.
Passed by Congress in 1938, FARA  imposes registration requirements on “foreign principals,” which are defined as a foreign government or political party, any foreign national, and any “ partnership, association, corporation, organization, or other combination of persons organized under the laws of or having its principal place of business in a foreign country.”
Financed by the vast riches of dictators, multinational corporations and government treasuries, the business of representing foreign interests is a particularly lucrative subset of the Washington influence-peddling industry. FARA filings reviewed by IBT/MapLight show that an all-star cast of political power brokers has gone from serving the U.S. government to lobbying for foreign ones. They include 1996 Republican presidential candidate and former Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan.; former House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo.; former Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss.; and former Mississippi Republican Gov. Haley Barbour — as well as an army of former Capitol Hill staffers from both parties.
Tax havens like Bermuda have hired lobbyists to shape U.S. tax policy.  Photo: Drew Angerer/Getty Images
Clients range from political parties, like the Democratic Party of Albania, to corporations, such as Azerbaijan's state-owned oil company and a Polish government-sponsored consortium of defense contractors.
Contracts reviewed by IBT/MapLight show that politically connected lobbyists can make huge sums from foreign government clients — no matter how small, repressive, or impoverished the countries may be. Consider:
Saudi and Turkish Influence
Few foreign governments wield as much influence in Washington as Saudi Arabia. The Gulf monarchy employed about 20 lobbying firms during 2016 cycle. Employees of four of those firms — the Podesta Group, BGR Government Affairs, Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, and the Glover Park Group — gave more than $580,000 to federal candidates.
Saudi lobbyists  have  worked to maintain U.S. logistical  support for the kingdom’s war in Yemen, which has caused thousands of civilian deaths and  famine. Brownstein, for instance, recently circulated  talking points about Saudi Arabia's “humanitarian efforts in Yemen.”
While an increasing number of senators have criticized the Saudi offensive in Yemen — and  have called for the U.S. to stop arming the Saudi military — the Pentagon has continued to supply weapons to the kingdom.
Lobbyists for the Saudis have questioned Iran’s compliance with the nuclear pact it brokered with the Obama administration, a deal that Trump recently  moved to scrap. Schumer, the Senate minority leader, received at least $21,400 in donations linked to lobbying firms representing the Saudis from 2015-16, and was  one of four Democratic votes against the 2015 deal.
The Turkish government has engaged four firms that were among 2016’s top foreign lobbyist donors: Capitol Counsel, Mercury, Glover Park Group, and the Daschle Group. The firms made at least $285,000 in political donations during the 2016 elections. Turkey’s lobbying efforts have revolved around Fethullah Gulen, a U.S.-based cleric blamed by the government for a failed coup attempt last summer against its president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
Mueller  has been investigating allegations that include Turkey’s hiring of Gen. Michael Flynn, Trump’s former national security adviser, as part of a plot to kidnap Gulen and return him to Turkey. Flynn may have violated the law by failing to register under FARA or disclose his client’s link to Turkey, according to the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. He  pleaded guilty last week to lying to the FBI about his conversations with Russia’s ambassador to the U.S. Other lobbyists hired by Turkey  have  sought to persuade state politicians in Texas and Michigan to investigate a network of charter schools affiliated with Gulen.
Ashleigh McEvoy and Laura Curlin provided research for this report. Josh Keefe contributed reporting.
Click   here to download the data.
Methodology: Contributions data consists of contributions to federal candidate campaign committees from Jan. 1, 2015, to Dec. 31, 2016, based on data from the FEC as of July 31, 2017. Contributions were matched with short-form registration records for active or recently terminated (since Jan.1, 2015) lobbyists from the U.S. Department of Justice as of July 14, 2017, by lobbyist name. Identifying contributions by contributor name may not capture all relevant contributions and may include false positives. Contribution bundling data is based on FEC filings as of Oct. 31, 2017.


With all the ventures Elon Musk has, the fact that he also needs money to run them is commonsense. His newest enterprise, a tunneling and infrastructure business, is called the Boring Company, and as of now, the only business it has (that is, a source of actual revenue) is selling hats.
This is no joke. Musk announced in October that the company was starting the sale of the hats, at $20 a piece (including shipping and taxes). And on Sunday, the billionaire entrepreneur announced on Twitter that the sale of the hats was being capped at a total of 50,000 pieces, and also that the company had already sold most of them.

The math behind the numbers is easy, as was pointed out by some of his Twitter followers.

However, as of Nov. 21, only just over 15,000 or so hats had been sold, so maybe there was a sudden spurt in sales in the last 10 days that would explain how the company is “almost” at the 50,000-mark already.

Musk clearly has a sense of humor, but maybe there is some truth to his reply to someone who asked if this was how the company was being funded.

But then, Musk also posted another tweet, with a clip from the 1987 parody film “Spaceballs,” calling it a documentary which taught him about the power of merchandise.

Still, Musk is selling the hats, and in his own way, promoting them too. He even let on that he could be the delivery man (unlikely).


Like everything else with the Boring Company, the prized autograph of the delivery man will be boring too. Musk also gave some other details about this special delivery.


And responding to another Twitter user who questioned his obsession with the hats, Musk had self-deprecating answers ready.


If you want to buy a Boring Company hat, you can order one from this page.
But the company is looking at actual business too. Musk announced Nov. 29 it would bid to build an express service that connects downtown Chicago with the O’Hare International Airport.


If someone asked you to picture a philanthropist, chances are a billionaire like Bill Gates or John D. Rockefeller Sr. would come to mind. But not all philanthropists are billionaires, or even millionaires for that matter. People who make modest gifts of time or money can make a big difference in their communities.
We are professors who teach and do research about philanthropy, the practice of expressing generosity by giving away money and in some cases time. We see our job as motivating and preparing college and graduate students to become future leaders of nonprofit organizations or donors with good ideas about how to make a difference – starting right now.
One approach, known as “experiential philanthropy,” teaches about charitable giving through hands-on experiences. Students get real money, typically about US$10,000 per class, to give away to local nonprofits. One of us (David) has determined that these courses are being taught on more than 80 different campuses.
Northern Kentucky University pioneered this approach in 1999. Since then, students there have collectively awarded more than $1.5 million to local charities as part of their coursework.
A wealthy donor, Geoffrey P. Raynor, is building on that model through the Philanthropy Lab. So far, this national initiative has spread to more than 20 universities, including many attended by the nation’s richest students, such as Princeton and the University of Chicago.
These courses are for all students, however. Undergraduates majoring in everything from chemistry to philosophy and business to history enroll. While some of them are or want to become rich, others do not come from wealth or aspire to become upper-class. All of them sign up because they want to learn how to use their money and time to make change on the issues they care most about.
Giving away money – particularly when it’s not yours – can be fun. But does it actually teach students anything about philanthropy or how to become philanthropists?
To find out, one of us (Lindsey) led a study published in Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly that surveyed more than 600 Northern Kentucky University students who had taken an experiential philanthropy course there from 2009 to 2013.
The research team found that students were more interested in donating to and volunteering at local nonprofits after taking the course. They were also more likely to know more about issues affecting their community and what nonprofits were doing about them.
Our findings suggest that by studying – and actually engaging in – philanthropy, students learn more about what philanthropy is, why they should do it and how they can make a difference.
While the logic behind these programs may be clear, the question of where the money students give away comes from is not because it’s not something covered in a traditional university budget.
So far, foundations like the Learning by Giving Foundation, founded by philanthropist Doris Buffett – Warren Buffett’s sister – and the Once Upon a Time Foundation, funded by the same person as the Philanthropy Lab, are a leading source of financial support.

The federal government has also pitched in to support a program called Pay it Forward, which engages college students in hands-on philanthropy, grant-making and volunteer service. However, Congress abolished that funding in 2011. Its courses are being taught today only in Ohio, where local foundations foot the bill, at campuses like Denison University, The Ohio State University-Newark, Central Ohio Technical College and the University of Cincinnati.
Cutting these programs means that young people will be less likely to be able to take philanthropy courses in college. This is troubling, because one of us (Jodi) found that after having opportunities to be actively engaged in giving with a group of peers, young people can better understand philanthropy’s impact.
That’s because after learning through these hands-on philanthropic experiences, students often want to donate their own money to nonprofits.
Many other kinds of courses about philanthropy and nonprofits are taught at U.S. and foreign universities. But experiential philanthropy is different because students gain practical knowledge and skills. Whether a class gives away $200 or $2,000, they become equipped for future leadership in the charitable world.
Education is, to a degree, about investing in the potential of students. And philanthropic education gets students to think about their responsibilities to invest in the communities in which they live. It helps them see the power they have to make a difference.
Jodi Benenson, University of Nebraska Omaha; David Campbell, Binghamton University, State University of New York, and Lindsey McDougle, Rutgers University Newark.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


In early November, a self-driving shuttle and a delivery truck collided in Las Vegas. The event, in which no one was injured and no property was seriously damaged, attracted media and public attention in part because one of the vehicles was driving itself – and because that shuttle had been operating for only less than an hour before the crash.
It’s not the first collision involving a self-driving vehicle. Other crashes have involved Ubers in Arizona, a Tesla in “autopilot” mode in Florida and several others in California. But in nearly every case, it was human error, not the self-driving car, that caused the problem.
In Las Vegas, the self-driving shuttle noticed a truck up ahead was backing up, and stopped and waited for it to get out of the shuttle’s way. But the human truck driver didn’t see the shuttle, and kept backing up. As the truck got closer, the shuttle didn’t move – forward or back – so the truck grazed the shuttle’s front bumper.
As a researcher working on autonomous systems for the past decade, I find that this event raises a number of questions: Why didn’t the shuttle honk, or back up to avoid the approaching truck? Was stopping and not moving the safest procedure? If self-driving cars are to make the roads safer, the bigger question is: What should these vehicles do to reduce mishaps? In my lab, we are developing self-driving cars and shuttles. We’d like to solve the underlying safety challenge: Even when autonomous vehicles are doing everything they’re supposed to, the drivers of nearby cars and trucks are still flawed, error-prone humans.
There are two main causes for crashes involving autonomous vehicles. The first source of problems is when the sensors don’t detect what’s happening around the vehicle. Each sensor has its quirks: GPS works only with a clear view of the sky; cameras work with enough light; lidar can’t work in fog; and radar is not particularly accurate. There may not be another sensor with different capabilities to take over. It’s not clear what the ideal set of sensors is for an autonomous vehicle – and, with both cost and computing power as limiting factors, the solution can’t be just adding more and more.
The second major problem happens when the vehicle encounters a situation that the people who wrote its software didn’t plan for – like having a truck driver not see the shuttle and back up into it. Just like human drivers, self-driving systems have to make hundreds of decisions every second, adjusting for new information coming in from the environment. When a self-driving car experiences something it’s not programmed to handle, it typically stops or pulls over to the roadside and waits for the situation to change. The shuttle in Las Vegas was presumably waiting for the truck to get out of the way before proceeding – but the truck kept getting closer. The shuttle may not have been programmed to honk or back up in situations like that – or may not have had room to back up.
The challenge for designers and programmers is combining the information from all the sensors to create an accurate representation – a computerized model – of the space around the vehicle. Then the software can interpret the representation to help the vehicle navigate and interact with whatever might be happening nearby. If the system’s perception isn’t good enough, the vehicle can’t make a good decision. The main cause of the fatal Tesla crash was that the car’s sensors couldn’t tell the difference between the bright sky and a large white truck crossing in front of the car.
If autonomous vehicles are to fulfill humans’ expectations of reducing crashes, it won’t be enough for them to drive safely. They must also be the ultimate defensive driver, ready to react when others nearby drive unsafely. An Uber crash in Tempe, Arizona, in March 2017 is an example of this.
According to media reports, in that incident, a person in a Honda CRVwas driving on a major road near the center of Tempe. She wanted to turn left, across three lanes of oncoming traffic. She could see two of the three lanes were clogged with traffic and not moving. She could not see the farthest lane from her, in which an Uber was driving autonomously at 38 mph in a 40 mph zone. The Honda driver made the left turn and hit the Uber car as it entered the intersection.
A human driver in the Uber car approaching an intersection might have expected cars to be turning across its lane. A person might have noticed she couldn’t see if that was happening and slowed down, perhaps avoiding the crash entirely. An autonomous car that’s safer than humans would have done the same – but the Uber wasn’t programmed to.
That Tempe crash and the more recent Las Vegas one are both examples of a vehicle not understanding the situation enough to determine the correct action. The vehicles were following the rules they’d been given, but they were not making sure their decisions were the safest ones. This is primarily because of the way most autonomous vehicles are tested.
The basic standard, of course, is whether self-driving cars can follow the rules of the road, obeying traffic lights and signs, knowing local laws about signaling lane changes, and otherwise behaving like a law-abiding driver. But that’s only the beginning.
Before autonomous vehicles can really hit the road, they need to be programmed with instructions about how to behave when other vehicles do something out of the ordinary. Testers need to consider other vehicles as adversaries, and develop plans for extreme situations. For instance, what should a car do if a truck is driving in the wrong direction? At the moment, self-driving cars might try to change lanes, but could end up stopping dead and waiting for the situation to improve. Of course, no human driver would do this: A person would take evasive action, even if it meant breaking a rule of the road, like switching lanes without signaling, driving onto the shoulder or even speeding up to avoid a crash.
Self-driving cars must be taught to understand not only what the surroundings are but the context: A car approaching from the front is not a danger if it’s in the other lane, but if it’s in the car’s own lane circumstances are entirely different. Car designers should test vehicles based on how well they perform difficult tasks, like parking in a crowded lot or changing lanes in a work zone. This may sound a lot like giving a human a driving test – and that’s exactly what it should be, if self-driving cars and people are to coexist safely on the roads.
Srikanth Saripalli is Associate Professor in Mechanical Engineering, Texas A&M University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Though the controversial Republican tax bill has been slammed as a giveaway to the wealthy, it currently includes some provisions to close loopholes that help corporations shift money to offshore tax havens. Those provisions, however, may not survive the final legislative wrangling. Justice Department documents reviewed by International Business Times show that lobbyists for the tax havens Bermuda and the Cayman Islands are pressing lawmakers to restore the loopholes that, critics say, enrich offshore insurance companies and American hedge fund moguls.
Bermuda’s lobbying firm, theGroup, last week distributed  talking points on Capitol Hill proposing language to preserve a lucrative Bermuda tax loophole, arguing that the shifts of money to reinsurers in Bermuda “do not represent a permanent move of capital offshore and should not be treated in the same manner” as other companies shifting money overseas. The lobbyists also promoted  a letter from the trade organization Risk and Insurance Management Society to Republican Sen. Tim Scott, which argues that the congressional proposals could “serve to limit U.S. insurance capacity and drive up the cost of insurance.”
At issue are Bermuda-based companies which ostensibly provide insurance to insurers. The current tax code allows U.S.-based insurance companies to shift money to  offshore reinsurers, which can allow them to defer or avoid paying taxes on later investment gains. In recent years, the reinsurance maneuver has been  used by  hedge fund managers to effectively avoid income taxes on the investment fees they earn. Both  Democratic lawmakers and  conservative groups have decried the practice; a  2014 Joint Committee on Taxation  report said “the establishment of offshore businesses that reinsure risks and that invest in U.S. hedge funds has been characterized as creating the potential for tax avoidance.”
Lobbyists for Bermuda are pressing lawmakers to discard provisions in the new tax bill that could close a loophole. Long Bay Beach, Somerset, Bermuda Photo: DON EMMERT/AFP/Getty Images
To generally address the shift of corporate gains offshore, Republican House and Senate lawmakers included provisions in their tax bill that tax the payments made by U.S. based companies to foreign affiliates — and because the new provisions do not exempt reinsurance, they could could shut down the Bermuda loophole. The lobbyists for Bermuda's government are now trying to make sure that any new tax law preserves the existing preferences for offshore reinsurance companies. 
The Senate passed its version of the tax cut bill -- with the new levies on payments to offshore entites -- late Friday and the legislation now moves to a conference committee where its details will be worked out. Lobbyists from theGroup donated more than $90,000 to federal lawmakers during the last election, according to data compiled by the campaign finance watchdog group MapLight. That included $12,000 to Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and $5,000 to Republican Sen. Bill Cassidy, who is on the Senate’s tax-writing committee.
Bermuda hired theGroup on November 2nd -- just as the Paradise Papers scandal was breaking -- for $20,000 per month for a three-month contract focused on lobbying the U.S. Government and the U.S. financial services industry, according to records reviewed by IBT. The lobbyists assigned to Bermuda are Darrel Thompson, a former staffer for former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and chief of staff for Barack Obama’s Senate campaign, and Art Collins, a former insurance regulator and legislative director for the Florida Department of Insurance.
At the same time Bermuda has worked to shape the tax legislation, federal records show the Cayman Islands hired the powerful law firm Baker Botts to influence lawmakers on the general issue of offshore tax policy. Cayman will be paying the firm $12,500 per month starting in 2018, but is currently paying the firm $950-per-hour to prepare messaging and policy documents.
In a  letter of talking points sent to members of Congress, Baker Botts wrote: “Members of Congress often call Cayman a tax haven. Cayman is actually a tax neutral financial services center with stable political and judicial institutions and prominent professional services firms.”
On the topic of minimum taxes, the letter stated: “Imposing a current minimum tax on top of U.S. taxes will merely make U.S. goods more expensive worldwide, and thus less competitive in international markets.”


You’re sitting at home minding your own business when you get a call from your credit card’s fraud detection unit asking if you’ve just made a purchase at a department store in your city. It wasn’t you who bought expensive electronics using your credit card – in fact, it’s been in your pocket all afternoon. So how did the bank know to flag this single purchase as most likely fraudulent?
Credit card companies have a vested interest in identifying financial transactions that are illegitimate and criminal in nature. The stakes are high. According to the Federal Reserve Payments Study, Americans used credit cards to pay for 26.2 billion purchases in 2012. The estimated loss due to unauthorized transactions that year was US$6.1 billion. The federal Fair Credit Billing Act limits the maximum liability of a credit card owner to $50 for unauthorized transactions, leaving credit card companies on the hook for the balance. Obviously fraudulent payments can have a big effect on the companies’ bottom lines. The industry requires any vendors that process credit cards to go through security audits every year. But that doesn’t stop all fraud.
In the banking industry, measuring risk is critical. The overall goal is to figure out what’s fraudulent and what’s not as quickly as possible, before too much financial damage has been done. So how does it all work? And who’s winning in the arms race between the thieves and the financial institutions?
From the consumer perspective, fraud detection can seem magical. The process appears instantaneous, with no human beings in sight. This apparently seamless and instant action involves a number of sophisticated technologies in areas ranging from finance and economics to law to information sciences.
Of course, there are some relatively straightforward and simple detection mechanisms that don’t require advanced reasoning. For example, one good indicator of fraud can be an inability to provide the correct zip code affiliated with a credit card when it’s used at an unusual location. But fraudsters are adept at bypassing this kind of routine check – after all, finding out a victim’s zip code could be as simple as doing a Google search.
Traditionally, detecting fraud relied on data analysis techniques that required significant human involvement. An algorithm would flag suspicious cases to be closely reviewed ultimately by human investigators who may even have called the affected cardholders to ask if they’d actually made the charges. Nowadays the companies are dealing with a constant deluge of so many transactions that they need to rely on big data analytics for help. Emerging technologies such as machine learning and cloud computing are stepping up the detection game.
Simply put, machine learning refers to self-improving algorithms, which are predefined processes conforming to specific rules, performed by a computer. A computer starts with a model and then trains it through trial and error. It can then make predictions such as the risks associated with a financial transaction.
A machine learning algorithm for fraud detection needs to be trained first by being fed the normal transaction data of lots and lots of cardholders. Transaction sequences are an example of this kind of training data. A person may typically pump gas one time a week, go grocery shopping every two weeks and so on. The algorithm learns that this is a normal transaction sequence.
After this fine-tuning process, credit card transactions are run through the algorithm, ideally in real time. It then produces a probability number indicating the possibility of a transaction being fraudulent (for instance, 97%). If the fraud detection system is configured to block any transactions whose score is above, say, 95%, this assessment could immediately trigger a card rejection at the point of sale.
The algorithm considers many factors to qualify a transaction as fraudulent: trustworthiness of the vendor, a cardholder’s purchasing behavior including time and location, IP addresses, etc. The more data points there are, the more accurate the decision becomes.
This process makes just-in-time or real-time fraud detection possible. No person can evaluate thousands of data points simultaneously and make a decision in a split second.
Here’s a typical scenario. When you go to a cashier to check out at the grocery store, you swipe your card. Transaction details such as time stamp, amount, merchant identifier and membership tenure go to the card issuer. These data are fed to the algorithm that’s learned your purchasing patterns. Does this particular transaction fit your behavioral profile, consisting of many historic purchasing scenarios and data points?
The algorithm knows right away if your card is being used at the restaurant you go to every Saturday morning – or at a gas station two time zones away at an odd time such as 3:00 a.m. It also checks if your transaction sequence is out of the ordinary. If the card is suddenly used for cash-advance services twice on the same day when the historic data show no such use, this behavior is going to up the fraud probability score. If the transaction’s fraud score is above a certain threshold, often after a quick human review, the algorithm will communicate with the point-of-sale system and ask it to reject the transaction. Online purchases go through the same process.
In this type of system, heavy human interventions are becoming a thing of the past. In fact, they could actually be in the way since the reaction time will be much longer if a human being is too heavily involved in the fraud-detection cycle. However, people can still play a role – either when validating a fraud or following up with a rejected transaction. When a card is being denied for multiple transactions, a person can call the cardholder before canceling the card permanently.
The sheer number of financial transactions to process is overwhelming, truly, in the realm of big data. But machine learning thrives on mountains of data – more information actually increases the accuracy of the algorithm, helping to eliminate false positives. These can be triggered by suspicious transactions that are really legitimate (for instance, a card used at an unexpected location). Too many alerts are as bad as none at all.
It takes a lot of computing power to churn through this volume of data. For instance, PayPal processes more than 1.1 petabytes of data for 169 million customer accounts at any given moment. This abundance of data – one petabyte, for instance, is more than 200,000 DVDs’ worth – has a positive influence on the algorithms’ machine learning, but can also be a burden on an organization’s computing infrastructure.
Enter cloud computing. Off-site computing resources can play an important role here. Cloud computing is scalable and not limited by the company’s own computing power.
Fraud detection is an arms race between good guys and bad guys. At the moment, the good guys seem to be gaining ground, with emerging innovations in IT technologies such as chip and pin technologies, combined with encryption capabilities, machine learning, big data and, of course, cloud computing.
Fraudsters will surely continue trying to outwit the good guys and challenge the limits of the fraud detection system. Drastic changes in the payment paradigms themselves are another hurdle. Your phone is now capable of storing credit card information and can be used to make payments wirelessly – introducing new vulnerabilities. Luckily, the current generation of fraud detection technology is largely neutral to the payment system technologies.
Editor's note: This article was originally published Nov. 25, 2015.
Jungwoo Ryoo is Associate Professor of Information Sciences and Technology at Altoona campus, Pennsylvania State University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


The tax package pending in Congress includes a provision that would leave churches and other nonprofits, which by law must be nonpartisan, suddenly free to engage in political speech.
This measure, currently only in the House version of the bill, could potentially change charitable life as we know it.
As an accounting professor who teaches nonprofit taxation, I believe that this significant change deserves vigorous public debate and is too big to bury in tax legislation.
Tax law currently bars religious and secular charities alike from engaging in political activity, which the government defines as attempting to influence legislation or intervening in a campaign on behalf of (or in opposition to) specific candidates.
Nonprofits caught breaking this law may pay back taxes or lose their tax-exempt status.
Known as the Johnson Amendment, this provision dates back to 1954, when then-Senator Lyndon B. Johnson led the effort to get this restriction on the books. More nonprofits say they welcome this as a form of protection from political pressure than object to it as a restriction on their rights.
President Donald Trump vowed as a candidate to repeal the Johnson Amendment to give church leaders the ability to speak about politicswithout penalty. But repealing a law takes an act of Congress and power he lacks.
As a step in that direction, he issued an executive order directing the IRS not to enforce it for religious institutions.
The tax bill’s proposed change would actually repeal the Johnson Amendment, and it would apply to all charitable organizations, including churches and other houses of worship like mosques and synagogues. It came as an unwelcome surprise to most charities, which have been openly rejecting it.
“Charitable nonprofits don’t want to be dragged into the toxic political wasteland,” said Tim Delaney, who leads the National Council of Nonprofits.
If the House language becomes law, political speech by these groups would technically need to meet two requirements. First, charities would be able to make political statements in the ordinary course of business – that is, doing whatever it is they do. For example, a prominent pastor could endorse political candidates during a sermon that’s broadcast or livestreamed.
Second, making such statements must cost no more than an “incremental de minimis amount” – regulatory language that basically translates into “not much.”
In other words, calls to vote for a particular candidate could be printed in flyers as long as those missives were mainly about something else. And nonprofits could endorse candidates on their websites as long as the details do not dominate that digital space. Politicking would be allowed on the sidelines and if it does not consume a large share of a group’s budget.
Where exactly the government would draw a line isn’t clear yet. Most likely, churches wouldn’t be free to mail their congregants straightforward calls to “vote for Jennifer Doe on November 7.” But they might be able to include that language in their monthly newsletters or on a web page about a church supper.
Why lift current restrictions on political speech by charities? The Alliance Defending Freedom, a conservative Christian legal group, argues that the Johnson Amendment unconstitutionally restricts free speech by not allowing nonprofits to speak on big issues that matter to the public.
However, there’s no clear evidence that this is a valid concern. Plenty of pastors already speak out often on policy issues, such as abortion, immigration and income inequality. Some even endorse candidates running for office, according to a 2016 Pew study.
In fact, religious leaders have been reportedly speaking out more because of increasingly lax IRS enforcement of nonprofit political activity starting years before Trump signed his executive order.
The Johnson Amendment entangles church and state by requiring the IRS to determine whether speech by 501(c)(3) nonprofits – the kind to which Americans who itemize their returns can make tax-deductible donations – is political or merely issue advocacy.
For example, religious leaders currently can speak about abortion as long as they do not endorse candidates based on their views regarding the procedure. If the proposed tax code amendment becomes law, they would be free to do just that.
Delaney and other nonprofit leaders – including religious ones – say that they would prefer to see partisan politics kept out of charities, churches and foundations. This arrangement, they argue, currently shields them from political pressure from donors, board members or politicians.
There is also a risk that some charities would superficially serve an educational purpose while actually engaging in political activity, according to Roger Colinvaux, a Catholic University law professor who previously served as a lawyer for the Joint Committee on Taxation, a congressional committee with members from both the House and Senate whose staff analyzes tax proposals.
Without restrictions on political speech by churches and secular charities, many experts predict that taxpayers seeking to make political contributions would shift such nondeductible donations from politicians, parties and political organizations to nonpartisan charities.
This would mean potentially billions of dollars in political donations could be written off. And like the tax cuts themselves, this change would come with a price tag.
The House bill would lift this restriction for five years beginning in the 2019 tax year, reducing revenue by approximately US$1.5 billion, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation.
What’s more, contributions to nonprofits for political purposes could be anonymous. While the names of donors who contribute to political campaigns must be disclosed, charitable donations don’t have to revealed.
In other words, donors could make their contributions to nonprofits contingent upon endorsements for candidates without anyone knowing about it if this provision becomes part of the tax code.
More than 4,200 religious leaders signed an interfaith petition to keep the Johnson Amendment intact.
At the same time, 5,500 charitable organizations have objected to the proposed revision by signing a letter to that effect.
And a national poll by the Independent Sector, an organization representing charities, foundations and corporations seeking to advance the common good, found that 72 percent of respondents wanted to keep the Johnson Amendment on the books.
The only people who have called for this change are evangelical Christian pastors.
Given the pending tax package’s potential to make sweeping changes, the question of whether it makes sense to loosen restrictions on political speech by charitable organizations is getting less attention than it should.
Most Americans do not know what is in this legislation, which Trump wants to sign into law before Christmas on a rushed timetable. If he gets his wish, chances are strong that the debate will follow passage rather than precede it.
A huge shift like this deserves a real and open debate, not the kind of behind-the-scenes deal-making that apparently went on before House Republicans folded this nonprofit provision into its tax bill.
Susan Anderson is Professor of Accounting at Elon University.
This article was originally published in  The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


How many times have you tuned into your local NPR station and instead of the regularly scheduled program you’ve heard “If we get 20 donations by the end of this hour, a generous donor will give us $500 in matching funds”? How much of your mail and email, especially in December, bears messages like “If you give today, a generous donor will match your donation dollar-for-dollar”?
I am an economist who studies nonprofit fundraising, and these pitches made me want to find out whether matching funds, a common tool, really make people more likely to give.
Donations, including matching ones, are extremely important to nonprofits. NPR, for example, gets almost  40 percent of its funding from listeners, 20 percent from corporations and only 5 percent from the government.
Research on this topic has raised questions about this common fundraising tool’s effectiveness. Some studies have found that matching funds increase the likelihood someone will donate any amount, while others have not detected that benefit.
To determine one way that matching funds might work, I teamed up with fellow researcher Mike Schreck of the Analysis Group, an economic consulting firm. We looked into whether making people feel importantby having them unlock matching funds for the nonprofits they support would increase the number of donations.
To understand what we mean by “feel important,” consider what happens when NPR stations say “We need 20 donors by the end of the hour to get $500 in matching funds.” If you could know for sure that 19 people would answer that call, you could believe in your power to personally activate the match.
However, if you could be certain that only 18 people will call in, then even if you make a donation the goal of 20 won’t be met. And if you were certain that at least 20 other people will call in, you would realize that you could be the 21st donor or the 22nd. In those cases your gift would still count, but you wouldn’t be helping to make a match.
We reasoned that by tinkering with different thresholds and changing the number of donors needed to unlock matching funds, we could change how important potential donors would feel.
To give that a shot, we first partnered with an educational charity that requested anonymity.
The nonprofit mailed five different types of letters asking prospects for donations. Everyone on its mailing list randomly received one of the five letters. They included a traditional dollar-for-dollar match letter – meaning that if donors gave US$10, the charity would automatically receive $20 – and a control-group letter that simply told people about the group’s mission and asked for a donation.
We also created three letters telling recipients they had been randomly assigned to a group of 10 people. One promised that if at least one of the 10 donated, the charity would get an extra $50 in matching funds. Another said that if at least two of them made a gift, the nonprofit would receive that $50. The third letter pledged those $50 in matching funds if at least three recipients donated.
Everything we told potential donors was true. There was indeed a generous person who promised to make those matches if the various thresholds were met, along with dollar-for-dollar matches if that’s what a donor’s letter told them would happen across the board.
Eight weeks later, we measured and compared the donation rates for the five kinds of letters.
A nonprofit mailed five kinds of letters asking for donations. The control group one didn't mention any match. Another promised a straight dollar-for-dollar match. The rest said recipients were assigned to a group of 10 people and that unlocking matching funds required one, two or three of the 10 to give.
Only 1.59 percent of the prospective donors who got the control-group letter with no match made donations, the lowest rate. The second-lowest donation rate was for those who got a letter requiring one person in 10 to activate matching funds, at 2 percent, followed by a 2.34 percent rate for the people promised an unconditional dollar-for-dollar match. The donation rate among prospective donors told that gifts from two in 10 would do the trick was about the same, at 2.35 percent.
For the people told matching funds would require three donors, the donation rate stood much higher: 3.68 pecent. That surprised us because we thought the higher goal would discourage donations. Instead, potential donors seemed to be reacting to our raising the bar by themselves rising to the greater challenge. It’s possible that as the goal rose, people felt more needed and so were more likely to give.
Response rates in the low single digits may sound underwhelming. But donation rates for this kind of campaign typically run only 2 percent and even averages of 0.5 percent or less can be worth it for fundraisers.
To further test whether making people feel more likely to activate matching funds makes them more apt to give to a charity, we did another study, this time working with people in person. We asked them to decide whether to donate and to tell us how important they thought their gifts would be in terms of activating the matching funds.
We summarize the results from both the mailing and the other study in a paper that is forthcoming in Games and Economic Behavior.
As with the mailings, we found that the more instrumental a person thought their gift was in terms of activating matching funds, the more likely they were to donate.
What should nonprofits learn from our research? Not all pitches about matching funds are equal. The ones that make potential donors feel that their gift is a key part of what it will take to unlock that extra money work best.
Laura Gee is Assistant Professor of Economics at Tufts University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Do you wish you had more money?
Most people do. And even though people work hard to earn their money, many give some of it away, often to help strangers. In fact, 55.5 percent of American households say that they give to charity.
As experts on giving-related topics in our respective disciplines of psychology and economics, we wanted to understand why people choose to spend their money on other people, rather than themselves – that is, what’s behind the urge to donate.
We are not the first to try to figure this out. The Dutch scholars Rene Bekkers and Pamala Wiepking published a paper six years ago that drew from 500 other papers on this topic to identify the key factors that drive giving.
What they found is that for more than 85 percent of charitable donations, people gave because someone asked them to. Yet that doesn’t solve the question of how donors who are approached by many causes choose which ones they will support.
Most people give to causes that affirm important values, including compassion for those in need. Donors are also more likely to give when they think that their donation will make a difference. But donors don’t give only from the heart, Bekkers and Wiepking found. They also consider the costs and benefits of giving, and the benefits to themselves such as feeling good or looking good to others.
But there are very few ways to measure what motivates people to give to charity (or not). While asking thousands of donors why they give for our research, we have rarely encountered anyone who confessed to giving simply because someone asked them to.
Instead, they describe internal triggers. People often say things like they feel bad for people who do not have homes or it makes them feel good to help others.
That’s why we believe it’s best to simply ask donors why they give.
In a study detailed in an article soon to be published in Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, we recruited 819 Americans who reported that they had given to charity in the past. They filled out a detailed online survey that included 54 statements about many different reasons that people give such as “I donate because I feel compassion toward people in need.” We drew from previous research to develop these statements, which participants rated according to how strongly they agreed with them.
Based on the patterns we observed in these initial responses, we whittled the 54 down to 18 statements in six categories that measured the most common reasons for giving (or not). This is how we came up with our motives to donate scale, which highlights five key motivations for charitable giving and one common barrier.
From most important to least they were: altruism, trust, social, (financial) constraints, egoism and taxes. Because “ATSCET” is hard to remember, we chose the handy acronym TASTE for Charity.
Trust: People are more likely to give to nonprofits that they trust will use their donated money to make a difference.
Altruism: Donors tell us again and again that they find it important to help others in need. This reinforces earlier findings by other scholars like Gil Clary, Mark Snyder and their colleagues that find that the most important reason for volunteering is altruistic concern for others.
Social: Many donors say that they give because their donations matter to someone they know and care about. For example, many married couples often make charitable donation decisions together. People who know someone who has a disease or who has died from one may make a donation to charity that promotes research for that disease. Or people may invite friends to a fundraiser for one of their favorite charities or just directly ask for a contribution – something that millions of Girl Scouts do when they ring their neighbors’ doorbells with their cookie forms in hand.
Taxes: The tax breaks many people get in exchange for their gifts to charity are another motivating factor for giving.
Egoism: Egoism is when people give in order to receive some personal benefit, such as feeling good or looking good to others. Our respondents also cited this motivation.
Financial constraints: In addition to those five motivating factors, we found one reason why people balk at giving to charity: They feel like they can’t afford it.
Based on an online survey, donors rank altruism as their top reason for giving to charity and are more likely to cite it as a factor than reasons that benefit themselves like an urge to get a tax break. Financial constraints was the only common barrier to giving that donors mentioned.
So far, we know that people seem to be more motivated by how they can help others when they give, rather than what they can get back.
But we are not yet sure if we would find this same pattern in larger-scale studies. Our participants did not reflect U.S. demographics in terms of gender, age and race or ethnicity. The number of women who took part outnumbered the men, for example, which might have made donors look more altruistic than they would have with gender parity.
So, at this point we don’t know what motivates Americans from all different backgrounds to give. We aim to learn more about that in future studies.
Also, we are multicultural scientists: One of us is a citizen of Canada and Germany while also being a U.S. green card holder, and the other was born in India and is both a U.S. and Canadian citizen. Given our own global perspectives, we don’t expect motivations to be the same across cultures and we can’t help but wonder what drives giving across cultures.
We would like to explore those differences too.
You can take the motives to donate survey yourself to see how your motives compare to people in our studies, by visiting our website at tinyurl.com/motives2donate.
Sara Konrath is Assistant Professor of Philanthropic Studies, Indiana University-Purdue at University Indianapolis.
Femida Handy is Professor of Social Policy at the School of Social Policy and Practice at University of Pennsylvania.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Update: The amendment discussed in the story below did not make it into the final version of the tax reform bill the Senate passed at 2 a.m. Saturday morning by a vote of 51-49. The amendment, which would have created new benefits for large private equity and hedge funds, was one of a series of last minute changes made to the nearly 500-page bill Friday evening, changes that included handwritten additions and substractions. 
Republican Sen. John Cornyn of Texas introduced changes to the tax bill on Friday that would have created a 23 percent deduction for income from pass through partnerships (PTPs), a type of business structure often used by large, publicly traded hedge funds and private equity groups. But the final legislation passed Saturday morning limited the deduction to oil and gas PTPs. So while the Senate tax bill does contain new benefits for oil and gas companies, many of which are headquartered in Cornyn's home state of Texas, private equity groups like Stephen Schwarzman's Blackstone will not be able to take the deduction. 
Original Story:
Just weeks before the election last year, billionaire Stephen Schwarzman gave $2.57 million to the Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC that supports Republican Senate candidates. Now he’s poised to see a huge return on that investment.
The Senate seemed ready to pass the largest overhaul of the nation’s tax code in a generation Friday, in spite of the fact many senators still seemed unclear what was in the bill. Lawmakers have been tacking on last minute amendments, and as a leading tax policy expert pointed out on Twitter, one of those amendments would be a huge boon for hedge funds and private equity managers — including  Schwarzman.
University of San Diego tax professor Victor Fleischer first brought public attention to the carried interest tax loophole. The loophole benefits hedge fund and private equity managers, who are compensated through management fees, usually 2 percent of the money they manage, and a cut, traditionally 20 percent, of the profits they generate. The carried interest loophole allows those managers to claim the latter part of their compensation as long term capital gains, which are taxed at 20 percent, instead of income, which is taxed at 39.6 percent. Then-candidate Donald Trump decried the use of carried interest last year, claiming hedge fund managers used the loophole to get “away with murder.” On Friday, Fleischer, who  joined the Senate Finance Committee’s Democratic staff last year, highlighted  Senate amendment 1715, which was introduced by Sen. John Cornyn, R-TX.   


According to Fleischer, not only does the tax bill allow private equity and hedge fund managers to keep their 20 percent tax rate on the profits they generate, this new amendment allows them to claim a 23 percent deduction on management fees — the part of their earnings that is currently taxed according to their income bracket.
Sen. Ron Johnson said Friday Senate Republicans had agreed to raise the deduction for pass-through businesses from 17.4 percent to 23 percent. The Cornyn amendment would make income from  pass through partnerships, a type of business structure used by publicly traded private equity firms like Blackstone, eligible for that deduction.  
One of the beneficiaries of the new provision would be Schwarzman, chairman and CEO of The Blackstone Group, the  largest private equity firm in the world. Schwarzman chaired Trump’s Strategic and Policy Forum, an advisory group of business leaders that disbanded after Trump’s comments following the now infamous August hate rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
In October 2016, Schwarzman made two donations totaling more than $2.5 million to the Senate Leadership Fund, which is led by the former chief of staff to Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-KY. The Fund spent millions on ads opposing Democratic candidates in tight races in the final days of last year's election. That spending spree included $2.2 million in ad buys opposing former Wisconsin Senator Russ Feingold, who lost to Sen. Ron Johnson by less than four percentage points, in the race's final 10 days.  
It also includes $750,000 worth of ads opposing Missouri Democratic Senate candidate Jason Kander, who eventually lost to Republican Roy Blount by less than three points, and $800,000 worth of ad buys opposing Pennsylvania Senate hopeful Kathy McGinty, who would lose her race to Sen. Pat Toomey by 1.5 percent of the vote. All of that spending was in the final ten days of election cycle, and all three of the victors in those races have said they are voting for the Republican tax bill, which is expected to pass by a narrow margin.
 


When the Trump administration proposed to repeal “net neutrality” rules, the initiative moved telecommunications companies one step closer to their goal of scrapping regulations that prevent them from preferencing internet content they like, and slowing down content they don’t. The initiative has drawn widespread condemnation, but it was not the only step in the industry’s battle to deregulate the internet: an imminent ruling in an obscure court case could end up leaving no federal or state agency with any right to police telecom companies’ treatment of millions of customers.   
Without regulatory protections, consumer advocates warn, internet service providers like Comcast and Verizon could speed up, slow down, or block whichever content they choose for whatever reasons they choose — whether to charge money for fast lanes or to prevent users from accessing content critical of their political agenda. Despite those concerns, the Trump administration issued a headline-grabbing net neutrality proposal in April, led by FCC Chairman Ajit Pai, that would preempt states from regulating internet traffic, and officially terminate the Federal Communications Commission’s jurisdiction over internet service providers.
That move would return jurisdiction to the Federal Trade Commission, which has been seen as a weaker regulator because it cannot preemptively set rules but only take action after abuse harming consumers has occurred. Some conservative groups have nonetheless insisted that the FTC would be a robust watchdog, but an AT&T case moving forward in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the  Ninth Circuit threatens to concurrently eliminate even the FTC’s comparatively weak right to regulate the internet.
Taken together, if the FCC does not delay its vote until the court rules, the net neutrality initiative and court ruling could end up creating a complete regulatory vacuum. 
“It would become a total unregulated zone, really and truly,” said Harold Feld of the watchdog group Public Knowledge. “Because your only options for consumer protection are the FCC, the FTC or the states.”
After the FTC brought an enforcement action against AT&T, the communications giant argued that the FTC does not have jurisdiction over the matter because a different segment of AT&T’s business is also regulated by the FCC. That argument was, in effect, a new reading of the “common carrier” exception and the case (FTC vs AT&T Mobility) found its way to the Ninth Circuit, which sided with AT&T and undercut the FTC’s regulatory authority.
Demonstrations in favor of net neutrality, as FCC Chairman Ajit Pai spoke at the American Enterprise Institute in D.C., May 5, 2017 Photo: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
There is no built-in mechanism in the FCC’s net neutrality proposal to delay its implementation if the court undermines the FTC. The FCC did not respond to International Business Times questions about whether it would delay a vote on the proposal until the court rules, and whether consumers or telecommunications companies would be harmed by delaying the vote until after the Ninth Circuit’s decision has been resolved.
“What we have argued is that it would be wise to wait and see how the Ninth Circuit decision comes out,” said Feld. “Even if odds are good the FTC will win and AT&T will lose, the consequences of getting it wrong are catastrophic. If Ajit Pai really believes that the consumer protection afforded by the FTC is enough, then he should wait and delay the vote to make sure that the FTC’s regulatory authority is intact.”
The FCC is aware of the danger posed by the Ninth Circuit, as it is specifically mentioned in the  draft net neutrality order circulated last week. However, the draft order dismisses the concern out of hand, stating simply: “we find objections based on FTC vs AT&T Mobility insufficient to warrant a different outcome.”
Meanwhile, as evidence of the impending regulatory vacuum, telecom giants have already begun citing the FCC’s preemption of state-level net neutrality rules in their legal arguments in state courts. Charter  attempted to use the draft FCC order as legal ammunition in a lawsuit over deceptive advertising of slow internet speeds in New York.
In theory, FTC's regulatory authority could be salvaged through complex legal proceedings that involve the FCC forcing corporations to separate their common carrier and information services components into different subsidiaries. However, FCC officials have made it clear that they have neither the desire nor the capacity to pursue that avenue.
“AT&T’s argument that the FCC has the legal authority to require structural separation in order to facilitate FTC regulatory authority is baseless,” wrote Nicholas Degani, FCC’s acting general counsel, in  a letter to the Ninth Circuit in October. “It would be unprecedented for the FCC to require separation simply to close a gap between FCC and FTC regulatory authority.”
Speaking more broadly about the prospect of FTC regulation of the Internet, FTC Commissioner Terrell McSweeny wrote  on Twitter: “As I've said many times, the FTC doesn't have resources, expertise, or authority to ensure the Internet remains open.”
But if the FCC’s repeal of net neutrality rules goes through, the FTC may be all that internet users have to rely on to protect the open internet. And if the Ninth Circuit’s ruling stands, they may not even have that.
“The idea that the FTC will come to the rescue if Net Neutrality is destroyed at the FCC is a bad joke,” said Craig Aaron, president and CEO of Free Press. “The heads of the Trump FCC and FTC are defanging their own agencies, watchdogs which had just started to show some bite during the last years of the Obama administration. And that's exactly how AT&T wants them: toothless, tied up and with their tails between their legs.”


A day after a federal court in California ordered cryptocurrency broker Coinbase to turn over information of more than 14,000 of its customers to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the White House said it was looking into possible regulation of bitcoin, the de facto market leader among digital currencies.
In the daily press briefing Thursday, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said, in response to a question about President Donald Trump’s views on bitcoin: “I know this is something that is being monitored by our team here. In terms of specific briefings and announcements on it, I don't have anything that I can share with you right now but would be happy to follow back up with you.”
When asked to clarify what sort of monitoring the team was doing, Sanders said: “Tom Bossert, with the homeland security team, an advisor to the president, has brought this up in a meeting earlier this week. I know it's something that he's keeping an eye on. And we'll keep you posted when we have anything further on it.”
While cryptocurrencies are generally gaining in popularity, partly due to the lack of regulation, bitcoin specifically is way ahead of the rest of the pack. Its value has grown by over 20 times in the last 2 years, and it crossed the $11,000-mark briefly during trade Wednesday (before falling a whopping 20 percent real quick). This massive increase in its value had prompted the questions during Thursday’s White House press briefing.
Cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin, litecoin and XRP have seen unprecedented growth in 2017, despite remaining extremely volatile. Photo: Dan Kitwood/Getty
There is also the matter of tax avoidance. In the Coinbase case, the company claims to have close to 6 million users and calls itself the biggest cryptocurrency brokerage in the world, but IRS data show less than 1,000 people in the country reported cryptocurrency transactions between the years 2013 and 2015. This is despite the fact it is mandatory to report bitcoin and other cryptocurrency transactions on your tax form.
There is also the possible use of cryptocurrencies for illegal purposes, something which has happened in the past, infamously in the case of Silk Road, a platform on the dark web to buy drugs.But for law-abiding investors in cryptocurrency, any regulation may diminish the value of their holdings.
“We believe that the greatest threat is regulation. Several governments across the world have clamped down on exchanges, some halting trading altogether. Others have gone on to outright ban the use of Bitcoin. Sudden government actions in major Bitcoin trading hubs stand to disrupt the market, with the potential to severely affect the utility of bitcoin — and accordingly, the value,” Shidan Gouran, president of Global Blockchain Technologies Corp, told the Street.
Bankers and economists, the sort of people governments are likely to consult on matters of financial regulation, aren’t particularly enthused about cryptocurrencies either. In September, JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon called bitcoin a fraud, and even went so far as to say he would fire anyone from his company for trading in the cryptocurrency. And Nobel Prize winning economist Joseph Stiglitz called for it to be outlawed entirely during an interview Wednesday.


Charles Koch wants to end government subsidies for the farmers who brought you Thanksgiving. He doesn’t seem to have a problem with government handouts for his own company.
A billionaire industrialist, conservative mega-donor, libertarian and free market apostle, Koch is both the head of Koch Industries, the  second largest private company in the U.S., and the founder of his eponymous non-profit, the Charles Koch Institute. On Tuesday, the Institute shared a story on Facebook from leading libertarian magazine and news site Reason (funded in part by money from Koch and his brother David), decrying government subsidies for agricultural products that ended up on Thanksgiving dinner tables across the country.

“For us taxpayers, the rolls, long-grain rice, stuffing and creamed corn on our plates, as well as the cotton tablecloths we're dining on, cost us before we even went to the store,” wrote the piece’s author, Veronique de Rugy.
Criticism of farm subsidies is hardly limited to the Koch brothers or the right. But the critique from the Kochs and their libertarian allies is presented as part of a wider antipathy to subsidies more generally: They argue government subsidies are bad for consumers, as is any government intervention in the economy. The Kochs are spending their fortune advancing those ideas, along with the careers of Republican politicians — all while the company that produced that fortune has accepted hundreds of millions of dollars in government subsidies over the last decade.
Oil and gas conglomerate Koch Industries and its subsidiaries have received at least $422,796,782 in local, state and federal subsidies beginning in 2007, according to research by the Checks and Balances Project using the subsidy tracker built by  Good Jobs First. The actual figure is probably even higher: Of the 231 government subsidies to Koch companies Good Jobs First found after 2006, 49, or 20 percent, had an “undisclosed” dollar value.
Much of that value is coming to Koch Industries from cash-strapped states. In 2014, Koch Nitrogen received a  $148.7 million subsidy from the state of Oklahoma in the form of a tax increment financing district, the largest in state history. The subsidy helped make possible the construction of a $1.3 billion fertilizer plant in Enid, Oklahoma, which employed 143 people as of April,  according to Tulsa World, a local newspaper. That’s more than a million dollars per job. Meanwhile, Oklahoma’s budget is so tight that  20 percent of the state’s school districts have shifted to four-day school weeks due to lack of funds, and the state’s K-12 funding dropped  15 percent between 2008 and 2015.
One of the largest polluters in the U.S., Koch Industries was founded in 1940 by the father of current CEO and chairman Charles. Fred Koch had achieved success in the petrochemical industry by building refineries for the  Soviets and later the Third Reich. Thanks in large part to Charles’s business acumen, the Koch brothers are now two of the richest people in the world: Forbes estimates  they each have a net worth of $48.3 billion; combined, they are worth more than Bill Gates.
They’ve used that wealth to advance their shared libertarian agenda. David Koch ran for vice president on the Libertarian presidential ticket in 1980 and since then they’ve funded a vast network of think tanks, non-profits, educational initiatives and political campaigns with the goal of bringing libertarian ideology mainstream. Their network has come to be known as the Kochtopus, and its reach is considerable: Their political and advocacy network employs 3 ½ times the number of people who work for the Republican National Committee and its congressional campaign arm, according to a  2015 Politico report. Hard numbers on spending are difficult to come by, as the network is largely dependent on non-profit organizations that don’t disclose their donors (so-called “dark money” groups). In January, Charles Koch said his network would spend  $300 to $400 million on politics and advocacy over the next two years.
That advocacy has included decrying government subsidies and urging big business to wean itself off corporate welfare.
“Business leaders [must] recognize that their behavior is suicide, that it is suicide long term. To survive, long-term, they have to start opposing, rather than promoting, corporate welfare,” Koch told a coalition of political and business leaders at  a 2015 retreat. “This means stopping the subsidies, mandates and special privileges for business that enriches the haves at the expense of the have-nots.”
A small part of the millions the brothers have spent will go to the libertarian Reason Foundation, which counts David Koch as a trustee and is the publisher of Reason magazine. The Thanksgiving piece’s author, Veronique de Rugy, is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University. Mercatus is a research center that bills itself as “the world’s premier university source for market-oriented ideas” and it includes Charles Koch as a member of its board. It has been described as a “staunchly anti-regulatory center funded largely by Koch Industries” by the  Washington Post, and was called a “lobbying group disguised as a disinterested academic program” by a  Koch Industries management consultant who taught history at George Mason.


Portuguese soccer player and Real Madrid star Cristiano Ronaldo gained 30 million Instagram followers in 2017, which boosted him to over 116 million people’s accounts following his daily life -- and advertisements. But even more staggering, is the average $416,662 (or £308,000) he makes from each post to the Facebook-owned social network app.
Ronaldo, 32, is now the third-highest paid worldwide celebrity -- per post -- on Instagram.
Rife with advertising deals ranging from Clear Men’s products to Egyptian Steel to his own CR7 fragrances, Ronaldo gains far more money than any other athlete on the planet. The closest professional athlete per post is the NBA's Cleveland Cavaliers star Lebron James who pulls in just more than $125,000 for each Instagram post on average (or £92,457).
The Real Madrid footballer hitting 116 million followers in 2017 on the social networking site makes his profile the second-most followed on the platform, trailing only behind the actress and singer Selena Gomez -- who currently has 130 million Instagram followers.
However, regarding just revenue for each Instagram post, Selena Gomez out-earns him with more than $573,000 per post (£424,000), as well as Kim Kardashian, who pulls in in excess of $520,000 (£385,000) for her day-to-day posts. 
Research conducted by HopperHQ, a scheduling app used to automatically post to Instagram, shows Ronaldo as the third highest-paid celebrity in the world from sponsored photos. He is also the third highest-earning male on the entire photo-based social network, Goal first reported. 
A study conducted by Instagram itself reveals that Ronaldo has gained nine million more followers than rival soccer player, Argentinian Lionel Messi. The FC Barcelona athlete's 21 million additions this year puts him at an overall total of 84 million Instagram followers.


International tourism to the U.S. declined nearly 4 percent in the first six months of the year, according to the U.S. Department of Commerce National Travel and Tourism Office (NTTO) with some experts placing the blame on President Donald Trump.
Fewer visitors from nearly every region of the world visited the U.S. as compared to last year including Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, South and Central America and the Caribbean, according to the Associated Press Thursday. The only place to send more tourists to the U.S. as compared to last year was Canada, there was a 5 percent jump in Canadian tourism to the U.S. as compared to 2016.
The first six months of 2017 saw around 33.8 million international travelers visit the U.S., a 3.9 percent dip from last year. The beginning of summer was particularly rough, as visitors in June fell 6.7 percent compared to last year.
“The latest government travel data is deeply concerning not just to our industry, but to anyone who cares about the economic well-being of the United States,” said Roger Dow, chief executive of the U.S. Travel Association in a statement.“Travel is our country’s No. 2 export and supports more than 15 million American jobs. These numbers are an undeniable wake-up call, and correcting this troubling trend needs to become a national priority.”
The U.S. Travel Association is a non-profit that represents the travel industry.
Trump’s attempts at travel bans — January and March executive orders barring travel from six Muslim-majority countries that were blocked by the Supreme Court — may have turned some travelers off.
“When Donald Trump came in with his travel ban, there was a noticeable drop [in travel] to the U.S. …And then when the ban was overturned, there was a recovery. And when a new ban was announced, there was a drop off,” David Tarsh, a spokesman for ForwardKeys, an airline booking research firm, told CNN in June.
The Global Business Travel Association, an advocacy group, estimated that the U.S. would lose $1.3 billion this year due to less travel.
“We urge the Trump Administration to consider the important lasting impact of business travel and enact policies going forward that preserve both our national security AND our economy for the future,” the group said in May.
The Middle East and Mexico were two places that saw some of the largest decreases in travel to the U.S. Travel to the U.S. from the Middle East dropped 30 percent in the first six months of this year as compared to last year, and Mexican travel dropped 9.6 percent.


How did Donald Trump win the presidency? In a new podcast interview with International Business Times, former Clinton adminstration Labor Secretary Robert Reich says the Republican was able to take advantage of voters' frustration with both parties' failure to confront corporations' growing power over American life — and Reich faulted Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama for failing to "deal with the structural problems" in the economy.
Subscribers can click here to listen to the entire podcast discussion.
Reich spoke to IBT during the release of his new Netflix documentary "Saving Capitalism," which argues that an unprecedented flood of corporate campaign cash resulted in public policies that have distorted capitalism and harmed America's middle class. 
Reich's desire to rescue capitalism has become increasingly controversial — with the United States facing stagnating wages, intensifying economic inequality and persistent poverty, public opinion polls show more and more Americans are questioning whether capitalism is the right economic system for the country. In 2016, one poll showed that among millenials, 43 percent said they had a favorable view of socialism and just 32 percent said they had a favorable view of capitalism . That  same year, democratic socialist Bernie Sanders received millions of votes for president.
Reich, who worked in the Ford, Carter and Clinton administraitons, is now a professor of public policy at the University of California-Berkeley. During his interview with IBT, he reviewed his economic argument through the prism of his relationship with Bill and Hillary Clinton, whom he has known since law school. He opened up about his battles with the Wall Street wing of the Democratic Party while he was serving as Labor Secretary under President Clinton, and recounted his biggest regret from his time in office. He also asserted that capitalism can be saved — but only if Americans are willing to confront and fight back against corporations using huge amounts of money to dominate its political system. 
What follows is a lightly edited excerpt of the podcast discussion.
You argue that capitalism needs to be saved, but what is your response to polls showing many Americans want an alternative to capitalism?
If we could come up with something that was much different, we might want to try that, but even the Chinese who call themselves a communist nation practice a form of capitalism in terms of private property and the free exchange of goods and services. I think the real question is what I meant by ‘saving capitalism’: saving capitalism from the moneyed interests that are now distorting our system of capitalism in ways that make it very difficult for most people to get ahead. 
The issue is not capitalism versus some other ism, because there really isn't another ism around. The question is how to organize capitalism so that big money doesn't make the rules. 
The idea that there is a free market out there some place in nature that can exist without rules, without rules that are generated by politics, by government, by federal agencies and departments and state agencies and departments and legislatures and courts is absurd on its face. 
These rules are necessary. They are constantly being changed and adapted and altered. They are, right now, more than at any time since the 1880s and the 1890s, the Gilded Age of the robber barons, they are being made by and for very, very big companies, corporations, Wall Street and economic elite of very wealthy individuals who were politically active. This is a huge problem. This generates the distress and cynicism and anger about a rigged economy and a rigged system that contributed to Donald Trump becoming president.
Some critics of capitalism argue that capitalism is predicated on unsustainable consumption and economic growth, and that crises like climate change show that over-consumption is destroying the planet. Do you agree?
If the point is that we can't just keep on consuming, that the environment, the planet, the resources we depend on can't tolerate the mass consumption and the increasing consumption that this planet is engaged in, I would say absolutely right, but growth itself is different from consumption. 
Economic growth gives a society the opportunity to do a lot of things, including environmental protection. Rich societies happen to be cleaner than very poor developing economies. Why is that? Because rich societies have the wherewithal to invest in environmental protection and sewers and water systems and systems that make the environment much, much safer and cleaner for most people. I think the issue of growth versus the issue of consumption is that we do want growth that increases our capacity to conserve and to be responsible in terms of stewardship of the planet.
 We want growth that gives us the capacity to do a lot of things beyond that, in terms of education and healthcare. We want growth that enables us to invest in our people, but we don't want growth that simply allows more consumption. They're different. I think that whether we have growth that allows these kinds of public investments or we have growth that simply is focused on consumption, that is a political matter and a cultural matter. There's no reason why growth has to lead to just more material consumption.
You argue that we are living in an age in which money has an unprecedented influence on politics. But were things really better in past eras? 
I think we're back to that Gilded Age right now, but we did have a period beginning after the second World War, culminating in the late '40s, '50s, '60s where we were much more equal society. We were a society that was striving very, very hard, struggling for even more equality in terms of the Civil Rights Act, the Voting Rights Act, Medicare, Medicaid, even the Environmental Protection Act. We were a society that was very much trying to live up to a set of American ideals that included democracy.
My first job in Washington was as an intern for Senator Robert F. Kennedy. I remember those days as being very idealistic days. People who were involved in government, people who were involved in politics were not in it to make a lot of money off of their service in government. They were not in it to become lobbyists. In those days, in the 1960s and '70s, only 3 percent of Members of Congress who were retiring became lobbyists. Today, almost 50 percent of retiring Members of Congress become lobbyists. 
In the '50s, '60s and '70s, you had major movements for improving the quality of life, civil rights, the environment. They were actually making a difference. They were having political consequences. In those days, you didn't have the political money spent on campaigns that you have today. You didn't nearly the degree of political organization by big businesses, by Wall Street, by wealthy individuals. You didn't have anything close to the amount of money being spent by all those various groups.
On top of that, you had countervailing power in the form of labor unions and local banks and farm cooperatives and other groups whose voice in politics counteracted and balanced the voices of big business and the big banks. You don't have those countervailing powers any longer. 
Labor unions in the 1950s and '60s represented about 35 percent of all workers in the private sector. Today, labor unions represent fewer than 7 percent of the workers in the private sector. Today, you don't have local banks. You have global banks. Today, you don't have farm cooperatives that were actually growing and becoming a major force in the farm economy. You have huge concentrated farm processors, agribusinesses.
I don't want to romanticize that period. I mean, we still had a lot of work to do, but at least we understood the work we needed to do, and we kept a very, very strong limit on corporate power.
Your new film recounts your battles with Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin and the Wall Street wing of the Democratic Party while you served as Labor Secretary under President Bill Clinton. When you first got the job, were you expecting those battles to be as intense as they were?
I did not expect the difficulties, the extreme difficulties that I ran into because Bill Clinton, in 1992, ran on a platform of investing in people. That's what “putting people first,” his campaign platform, was all about. Investing in education, in job training, in health, in infrastructure. His notion and my notion was that if you made these kinds of public investments in our workers, in our citizens, you build the economy from the bottom up. You make a more productive society. You overcome or begin to overcome widening inequality. You create opportunities for everyone, and you generate economic growth that allows you in turn to do even more public investments. 
I didn't realize that the budget deficit that we ran into at the start of 1993 when the administration began would be such a powerful instrument by the conservative forces outside and also inside the administration — the Wall Street wing of that administration — to stop in its tracks a lot of what Bill Clinton promised to do in 1992. I was, frankly, amazed and deeply frustrated.
When you spoke with President Clinton about these issues and your concerns about Wall Street’s influence on his administration, what did he say? 
I talked at the time a lot to people inside [the Clinton administration] who I was either expecting to be on my side or were already on my side, or I needed to recruit to my side, including Bill Clinton. I mean I spent a lot of time whenever I could grab him because I knew him for so long, I was able to sneak into his office or sneak into his car. I mean, nobody [but me] could fit into the jump seat opposite Bill Clinton in his presidential limousine because I'm so short. I would do that, and the other Cabinet members and other advisers would be quite annoyed with me for having that face time. I spent huge hours lobbying.
That's what it really came down to — trying to make the strongest case I could for the principles that I thought Bill Clinton was elected on, but the response I got back from Bill Clinton and from others who didn't agree with me was number one, we have got to get the bond traders on our side. We can't afford a huge deficit, budget deficit because that will cause interest rates to go back, that will make it difficult to get jobs back again. We've got to get the Fed and Alan Greenspan to be on our side. We've got to postpone most of what Bill Clinton wanted to do until the economy is better. 
Then, of course, came the terrible, well, the nightmare, politically, of the mid-term elections of 1994, the Republicans taking over Congress and from that point on, it was just trying to survive.
What is your biggest regret from your time serving as Labor Secretary?
The biggest thing that I regret not pushing harder on has to do with labor unions. Bill Clinton, as did Barack Obama, promised the unions that there would be labor law reform. That would be one of the major first initiatives of both administrations, when the Democrats had both houses of Congress. By labor law reform, I mean making it easier to form unions, making it harder for companies and employers to fire workers for trying to form unions. 
In both instances, both the Clinton administration and the Obama administration, both presidents essentially said, "No, I don't want to spend my political capital on that, even though I promised labor unions that I would. They have no real option. They're going to be with me in the future." That, I should have fought harder for...
Workers not only needed unions and still need unions but also the Democratic party needed labor unions because labor union members were the ground troops of the Democratic party. Without them, the Democratic party is really just a big fundraising machine. It has no members, no real active membership, apart from people who are party functionaries.
Do you believe the Obama administration was much different on economic issues than the Clinton administration? 
I think the Obama administration really was very similar to the Clinton administration. It was a continuation, in many ways, of the Clinton economic policies. Many of Obama's advisors were holdovers from the Clinton administration. Gene Sperling, Larry Summers and so on. Many of the decisions made by the Obama administration were consistent with the decisions made by the Clinton administration.
As a result, the economy did reasonably well after the financial crisis. It was a long sustained, and has been even now, a long sustained economic expansion starting in 2009, but the problem of inequality got worse, steadily worse. The fact that median wages were stuck in the mud, that most people did not get a raise. If you're talking about the bottom 80 percent of Americans, hourly workers, they actually, most of them, lost ground during the Obama years as they did during the George W. Bush years, as they did during the Clinton years. This is a long-term problem.
Then, of course the, financial crisis, the bailout of Wall Street exacerbated the anger and frustrations of a lot of people. They did not get much, much benefit out of TARP, which was supposed to be just a transitional program for not only the banks but also for homeowners. The homeowners didn't get bailed out. The banks got bailed out. Homeowners did not. That was a huge problem for many people, that the legacy of that great recession is still with us. 
Most Americans, particularly in the bottom 60 percent, are not yet back to where they were before the great recession. They lost jobs. Some of them still have not got back into the labor force. They lost their savings. They haven't got back to where they were in terms of their capital, their assets. Their houses, they lost. Many of them lost their homes. That legacy is very much a foundation stone, sadly, for the Trump administration, for the emergence of Donald Trump, for the power of the authoritarian right that we now see.
In retrospect, I think that both Bill Clinton and Obama, although they were good stewards of the economy, they didn't deal with the structural problems. They didn't turn the economy around in ways that most people would say generated a truly fair economy — an economy in which anybody could make it.
Do you believe the Democratic Party is part of the problems you outline, or part of the solution? 
I think that the party is nothing. The Democratic Party — there's no there, there. It's just a big fundraising machinery. The real energy, the core, the heart of the Democratic Party to the extent that there is one, is at the grassroots. It's bubbling up right now. It's this resistance to Donald Trump. It's more than that. It's people who are committed to single-payer, committed to getting big money out of politics, committed to many things that Bernie Sanders instigated or at least was a vehicle for getting people energized about. 
The energy in the Democratic Party is progressive energy, if that's the way you want to characterizes it, and the responsibility and the only hope for the Democratic Party as a party is to link up and take advantage of this energy. If it doesn't, then, the party, I'm afraid, is just going to maybe limp through 2018 and maybe pick up some seats, hopefully get control of the House and maybe get control of the White House again in 2020. It will not be a vital force.
Democrats seem energized in opposing Trump — but do you believe the party unity around “resistance” to Trump stifles systemic questions about whether Democrats should move in a more progressive direction?
Initially, the resistance to Trump is all about Trump and his lying... I think that the resistance is moving beyond that because as you get closer to the 2018 elections and then the 2020 elections, many people who are now in politics for the first time were running for office, who are engaged at the grassroots, many of them are coming up to the question you raised. What are we for? What's the positive agenda? Out of that positive agenda is coming many of the ideas that animated the Bernie Sanders campaign such as universal healthcare, single pair, such as getting big money out of politics...
These are thing that were already there in the progressive lexicon and agenda but had not been fully understood, fully appreciated, I think, by many people who call themselves Democrats.
It has been, I think, a massive learning experience for many people. Getting involved in politics and seeing it up close, people I know who have never been political before are saying things like, "We have got to reform our voting system. We've got to get rid of the gerrymandering that is going on and voter suppression. We've got to get big money out of politics. We've got to also do something very, very dramatic with regard to healthcare and the environment." These are people who are beginning to form a new Democratic Party.
If the old Democratic Party only understood that they are not opponents, they actually are potentially the source of energy and momentum and mobilization and the future for the Democratic Party. Then, I think the Democratic Party really does have some potential for taking back the system of government and also our economic system for average people and for the poor and embracing social justice as the Democratic Party once did.


A Swiss bakery in Chicago, which was forced to let go of 800 of its working staff after an immigration raid earlier this year, is struggling to earn the kind of profits it made before the raid happened.
Cloverhill Bakery, which used an unnamed staff recruitment agency to hire its work staff and did not bother double-checking if all of them had proper documentation needed to work in the U.S., ended up losing 35 percent of its work staff after the raid.
The company, which also makes hamburger buns for the McDonald’s Corp., has ended up losing $21 million since the raid. Chief Executive Officer Kevin Toland told Bloomberg that although they had managed to re-staff their facility, it was far from functioning like a well-oiled machine.
A Swiss bakery in Chicago, which supplies buns to McDonald's, was forced to let go of 800 of its working staff after an immigration raid earlier this year. In this photo illustration a lady eats a beefburger in London, England, July 12, 2007.  Photo: Getty Images/ Cate Gillon
“It’s proceeding very, very slowly because it’s like having a brand new factory and a brand new workforce,” Toland said. “That’s presenting a lot of challenges, as you can imagine.”
The parent company of Cloverhill Bakery — Aryzta AG — said it was struggling with retaining immigrant staff in its companies based in the U.S. after President Donald Trump’s promised crackdown on undocumented aliens in the country. The firing at Cloverhill Bakery is by far one of the biggest employment debacles since the president voiced out his agenda to curb undocumented immigrant population in the U.S.
In March, huge protests broke out after New York’s Tom Cat Bakery fired 24 illegally working immigrants. This was done after 30 of their 180 employees were told to produce the documentation required to prove their legal status in the country at an I-9 immigration audit by the Department of Homeland Security.
The people who failed to provide the required documentation ended up losing their jobs. Following the mass job termination, several dozen bakery workers, union organizers, and workers’ rights advocates took to the streets of midtown Manhattan with chants of “Qué queremos? Justicia! Cuando? Ahora!” (“What do we want? Justice! When? Now!” in Spanish) and “When immigrants are under attack, stand up, fight back!” Civil Eats reported. 
Dozens of workers and immigration activists march to the Tom Cat Bakery to demonstrate after numerous employees of the bakery claimed they've received letters threatening dismissal in 10 days if they can't prove they're in the U.S. legally in the Long Island City neighborhood of the Queens borough of New York City, March 22, 2017.  Photo: Getty Images/ Spencer Platt
According to a 2014 Pew Research survey, there were eight million unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. working or looking for work. Among the undocumented immigrants who were gainfully employed, 35,000 worked as bakers, 425,000 worked as cooks and an additional 25,000 worked in food processing industries like fruit and vegetable preserving and specialty.
Apart from that, at least 50 to 70 percent of the country's 1.5 to two million strong hired farm workforce is comprised of unauthorized laborers, an assessment by The American Farm Bureau Federation shows.
Industry experts have opined that due to Trump’s “America First” campaign, farms and factories could be left scrambling to fill the unprecedented number of spots left vacated by immigrants and the price tags on food — particularly produce and dairy — might soar to extreme levels.
"There's a misconception that [undocumented immigrants] have been taking jobs other people would do," Dr. Laura-Anne Minkoff-Zern, an Assistant Professor of Food Studies at Syracuse University, told Munchies. "For the most part that's been proven false. People born in urban areas who are coded as white are not willing to take these jobs. They pay very low, are not eligible for overtime, and workers can't organize."


Elon Musk’s the Boring Company seems to have come some ways from selling hats. In a tweet Wednesday, the billionaire entrepreneur announced his tunneling venture will bid to build an express service between Chicago downtown and the O’Hare International Airport.

Chicago Infrastructure Trust, started by the city’s Mayor Rahm Emanuel, announced on its website it was opening bids for private companies to "design, build, finance, operate and maintain the OES [O’Hare Express System] Project," which it says "will improve transportation between O’Hare International Airport and downtown Chicago by providing faster, more direct, and more reliable service."
Musk explained briefly, in reply to some Twitter users, that the "high-speed Loop" he mentioned in his announcement referred to a transport system similar to his Hyperloop concept, but without the need for vacuum tubes for the electric pods to move in.
The Hyperloop concept — which he gave away to anyone who wanted it and which has since been used by other companies to design their own transport systems — basically envisages transporting people and goods in pods moving at incredible speeds, of up to hundreds of miles an hour, on rails within tubes that have vacuum inside them to remove friction from everything, including air. This would drastically reduce the energy required to keep the pods moving.
Musk said the Loop system would not need to have vacuum tubes, since it is for relatively short rides and can therefore work without getting rid of air friction. And that while it would also use pods, it would not necessarily need rails for the pods to move on.
Despite the friction offered by air, the Loop system would likely complete its Chicago downtown to O’Hare journey in under 20 minutes, since that is the goal of the OES Project, according to the city’s Deputy Mayor Bob Rivkin. He also said the city would look at options both above and below the ground, so long as the service operated at least once every 15 minutes, at a cost lower than taxis, Chicago Sun Times reported.
Elon Musk said his the Boring Company will bid to build and operate a high-speed transport system between downtown Chicago and O'Hare International Airport. Photo: REUTERS/Kamil Krzaczynski
Before Musk had made the announcement about the Boring Company making a bid, Rivkins had expressed hope for exactly that to happen.
"We hope Elon Musk and either builders of hyper-loops and other innovative technologies will respond," Rivkin said.
Emanuel and his staff have been in talks with Musk for several months about a tunnel connecting Chicago downtown to the airport.
Oh, about the Boring Company hats, Musk announced Nov. 21 over $300,000 worth of them had been sold.



A day after the price of bitcoin crossed the $10,000-mark, cryptocurrency brokerage Coinbase had a bad day in court in its over a year-long tussle with the Internal Revenue Service. A federal court in California ordered the company to hand over to the IRS data for over 14,000 of its customers who traded upward of $20,000 in bitcoin between 2013 and 2015.
However, the court denied the IRS’ original petition that asked for Coinbase to release records of almost all its customers for a period of several years. Instead, the court limited it to 14,355 customers only, saying that number would suffice to serve “the IRS’s legitimate purpose of investigating Coinbase account holders who may not have paid federal taxes on their virtual currency profits.”
For its part, Coinbase called the court ruling a “partial victory over IRS” in a blog post written late Wednesday by its director of communications David Farmer. He said the company was “proud to accomplish two important victories for our customers.”
Other than the fact that Coinbase has to now disclose records of only a tiny percentage of its almost six million customers, Farmer pointed out in the blog post that “the quantity of data we must produce for the approximately 14,000 customers who remain in scope has been significantly reduced.”
The data to be handed over to the IRS includes customers’ names, addresses, dates of birth, taxpayer identity, and a complete record of all account activity, including other accounts to which they may have transferred money. IRS wants to investigate these customers because it says fewer than 1,000 citizens reported earnings from or holdings of cryptocurrency on their tax returns during the years 2013-15, which is at striking odds with the millions of people the brokerage says use its platform.
From its initial request for information on all Coinbase customers, IRS had previously scaled down its request to 500,000 customers, but the company contested that in court too, citing the privacy of its users.
“Coinbase is in the process of reviewing the order. As we proceed, we will continue to keep our customers updated. Coinbase has millions of customers and the narrowed summons affects approximately 14,000 of the highest-transacting customers from 2 to 4 years ago. This represents less than 1% of our customer base. In the event that we ultimately produce the documents under this Court order, we intend to notify impacted users in advance of any disclosure,” the company said.
Other cryptocurrency watchers found the ruling troubling.
“We remain deeply unsatisfied with the lack of justification provided by the IRS. Without better rationale for why these specific transactions were suspect, a similarly sweeping request could be made for customer data from any financial institution. It sets a bad precedent for financial privacy,” nonprofit Coin Center’s Peter Van Valkenburgh told the Verge.
Charles Hayter, CEO of market tracker CryptoCompare, told Bloomberg in an email: “The government has sensed a windfall — any company that has a plethora of wealthy users might be in the sights. If there is a tax to be paid the government is going to go after it if it makes an example.”
In a seemingly unrelated development, Coinbase also announced Wednesday night its services would be offline for an hour Thursday night for “performing scheduled maintenance.”



Donald Trump famously prioritizes loyalty, and he made his name as a reality television star who relished his power to fire people. As president, he has made a series of personnel moves that underscore those values: At key federal agencies that were designed to be insulated from political influence, he has refused to appoint officials to full terms, and instead appointed acting directors — a status that gives the officials fewer job protections, and allows Trump to more easily remove them if they displease him.
While White House aides serve at the pleasure of the president, federal law gives set terms to leaders of independent agencies such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Internal Revenue Service, the Office of Government Ethics and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. That, along with Senate confirmation, is designed to protect agency leaders from White House retribution if they make decisions that are politically inconvenient to the president.
Yet, faced with vacancies at the top of those independent agencies, Trump has refused to nominate permanent replacements — even though the Congress that would confirm them is controlled by his fellow Republicans. Instead Trump has put in place interim acting directors: They serve without a set term, can be replaced by Trump at a moment’s notice and can be installed without being examined by opposition party members in the Senate.
“What’s unfortunate about  the law that Trump is exploiting is, if you’re an administration trying to get away with stuff, you can basically govern through acting officials for much of your term, avoiding scrutiny and oversight,”  Jeff Hauser, executive director of the Revolving Door Project at the progressive Center for Economic and Policy Research, told International Business Times. “That’s the big picture concern about this.”
While Senate-confirmed government officials can be fired or pressured to resign, presidents rarely publicly terminate them because their status is supposed to guarantee they are terminated only for poor job performance — not political disloyalty. There are no such traditions when it comes to acting directors (although Trump has not appeared to feel constrained by presidential tradition, in any case).  
Outright firings of Senate-confirmed appointees are rare — only 35 presidential appointees were terminated from 1945 through mid-2014, according to  a report by Larry Sabato. However, in his first months in office, Trump defied precedent and fired FBI Director James Comey and acting Attorney General Sally Yates, touching off weeks of headlines and withering criticism.
Removing acting directors, by contrast, tends to be a routine, lower-profile move that is less politically fraught — a situation that potentially gives Trump more power over them.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Under Attack
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) was created as part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as a way to defend Americans against the predatory financial practices that brought down the global economy in 2008. Even before its creation, Republicans in Congress had the agency in their crosshairs, and now that a Republican is president, the party has the opportunity to quash it.
When creating the CFPB, Congress opted not to put the agency inside the Treasury Department and under the Treasury Secretary. Instead, it established an independent organization and gave the CFPB’s director a fixed term of five years, which the president can terminate only for cause, not based on political allegiances.
But when Richard Cordray stepped down on Nov. 24, likely to pursue a gubernatorial campaign in Ohio, Trump quickly installed his own budget director, Mick Mulvaney — ignoring those who asserted the law creating the CFPB designated Cordray’s deputy as the acting director.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), who first conceived of the CFPB,  tweeted out the passage of the law that states that the deputy director will “serve as acting Director in the absence or unavailability of the Director.”
The Dodd-Frank Act is clear: if there is a @CFPB Director vacancy, the Deputy Director becomes Acting Director. @realDonaldTrump can’t override that. pic.twitter.com/r949ccaJAb
— Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) November 25, 2017
Further underscoring its desire to shield the agency from politics, Congress chose to fund the agency not through the White House budget but via the agency director’s requests to the Federal Reserve. Now, with Mulvaney serving as both the White House budget director and CFPB chief, that budgetary independence has vanished.
President Donald Trump's financial regulator pushed the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to ease up on the lending industry -- which had bankrolled him. Mick Mulvaney in D.C. November 27, 2017  Photo: Alex Wong/Getty Images
According to Sen. Warren, additional senior-level OMB staff, including OMB Director of Communications John Czwartacki, appear to have accompanied Mulvaney to the agency. She also wrote that CFPB employees are held to different, and higher, ethical standards than employees of the Executive Office of the President. Mulvaney, and other OMB staffers, occupy both realms. One requirement prohibits CFPB employees from owning “a security in any ‘entity supervised by the Bureau,’ and requires employees to confirm divestiture in writing within 30 days of the start of employment.”
Having Mulvaney lead the agency is “so singularly problematic” and “a total misreading of Dodd-Frank,” said Hauser.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) speaks during a protest in front of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) headquarters on November 28, 2017 in Washington, D.C. Sen. Warren is demanding that Mick Mulvaney step aside and let acting CFPB director Leandra English do her job. Photo: Mark Wilson/Getty Images
Another Political Figure At The IRS
The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) also has an acting director, whom the president appointed when the previous director finished his term. David Kautter, Assistant Treasury Secretary for Tax Policy, became acting director on Nov. 13, after a career at the law firm Ernst and Young,  helping wealthy clients avoid taxes.
Like Mulvaney, Kautter is maintaining his previous position as he takes on a new one.
The IRS isn’t technically a fully independent agency like the CFPB, as the president may remove the commissioner at will. But,  wrote the New York Times’ Teresa Tritch, “By law and by practice, the Treasury keeps an arms-length relationship with the IRS on matters of tax administration, enforcement and ‘process,’ which basically means that it doesn’t ask the IRS for information about taxpayers. But on matters of tax policy and regulations, it works closely with the IRS.”
Past presidents have used the IRS as a political tool to attack their enemies. The most famous example was Richard Nixon, who ordered the IRS to audit several of his political foes in 1971. During his impeachment proceedings, the House Judiciary Committee  wrote that Nixon, “endeavoured to obtain from the Internal Revenue Service, in violation of the constitutional rights of citizens, confidential information contained in income tax returns for purposes not authorized by law, and to cause ...  income tax audits or other income tax investigations to be initiated or conducted in a discriminatory manner.”
Howard Gleckman, a senior fellow in the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, wrote in Forbes that Kautter’s double role “is  a terrible idea... The IRS must…must…be perceived as non-political. Republicans, of course, have been complaining for years about the Service’s alleged bias. Yet, Trump is taking someone who is already serving in a highly political policy job and giving him the IRS post. The dual roles will inevitably raise serious questions about the independence of the IRS.”
Kautter’s appointment is “an outrageous scandal, but it’s not on its face illegal,” said Hauser, contrasting this instance with the CFPB appointment.
Until this week, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), a key federal banking regulator, had an acting director. When the previous OCC director finished out his term, Trump appointed Keith Noreika as acting director. Noreika was a financial industry lawyer — a conflict of interest — and was given  “special government employee” status, which exempted him from certain ethics and disclosure rules for members of the executive branch. Six Senate Democrats  said he was serving illegally.
On Monday, a former banking associate of Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, Joseph Otting, was  sworn in as OCC director.
Meanwhile, Trump’s acting directors in agencies including the Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency are “quietly dropping the ‘acting’ title from their name,” wrote David Dayen in The Intercept, “suggesting they have every intention of overstaying their legal welcome.”
A Compromised Ethics Office?
Even the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) has a Trump-appointed acting director, as former director Walter Shaub resigned in July, six months before the end of his five-year term. “By not nominating a permanent replacement for Mr. Shaub, the White House  avoids public questions from lawmakers about how the agency should best monitor ethics questions at the White House, including about Mr. Trump’s continued financial ties to businesses now run by his sons,” wrote the New York Times. 
Trump has an acting director at precisely the moment he is filling positions in his administration and the OGE is conducting numerous ethics reviews. The acting director, David Apol, has worked on ethics issues in the federal government for three decades, but as the OGE’s general counsel, he had “a  much more cordial relationship with the White House” than did Shaub, who frequently clashed with the administration.
Trump’s acting director appointments allow him to give Wall Street and corporations the policies they seek while avoiding “a high-profile [Senate confirmation] fight about consumer protection that would be bad for the GOP,” said Hauser. “The optics of either a CFPB or IRS fight are just terrible for the administration.” 


Thousands of American Airlines flights for the holidays have no assigned pilots due to a scheduling error, according to the carrier's pilots union.
The union, the Allied Pilots Association, said that there are more than 15,000 flights that are unassigned between Dec. 17 through 31, one of the busiest travel times of the year. A glitch in the company’s scheduling system allowed all pilots to take the holidays off, according to ABC News.
 
BREAKING: American Airlines says computer glitch allowed all pilots to take vacation over Christmas week. Now union says thousands of flights are in jeopardy of cancellation. Americans says they’re offering 1.5x pay for pilots to fill in and expect to resolve the issue.
&mdash; Sam Sweeney (@SweeneyABC) November 29, 2017

 
 
“Basically there’s a crisis at American for manning the cockpits,” said Dennis Tajer, a spokesman for the Allied Pilots Association to Reuters Wednesday.
American Airlines is at risk of canceling thousands of flights. The company has offered pilots overtime equal to one and a half times their regular pay to take on the unmanned flights, but the union filed a grievance against management over the solution, saying it violates their contract, according to Reuters.
“We are working through this to make sure we take care of our pilots and get our customers to where they need to go over the holidays,” said American spokesman Matt Miller to the Chicago Tribune Tuesday.
American said they had fixed the glitch, but December flights from Dallas-Fort Worth International, American's largest hub, Boston, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, Salt Lake City and Charlotte, North Carolina, are all scheduled without a pilot, co-pilot or both, according to Bloomberg. 


Nov. 20 marked the end of the Atlantic hurricane season, but for the Caribbean, it’s only the beginning of a painful recovery process.
In early September, Hurricane Irma largely destroyed Barbuda and several neighboring Lesser Antilles islands. Two weeks later, Maria took a final fatal stab at Barbuda and entirely knocked out Puerto Rico.
According to The Economist, damage from Irma alone tallies up to US$13 billion. Totals for the entire 2017 hurricane season remain unclear, but Puerto Rico Gov. Roberto Rosello’s recent request for $94.4 billion in aid gives some sense of Maria’s toll.
No matter the final price tag, recovery is sure to be unpayable in a region where 30 percent of people live in poverty and the per capita gross domestic product averages under $9,000 a year, versus $57,000 in the United States.
And while France, Holland and the United Kingdom have come to the assistance of their territories in the region, independent Caribbean nations like Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda, and Cuba have no such obvious sponsors. Their economies shattered by storms – and, in some cases, shackled by debt – some Caribbean nations fear they may never recover.
But behind the scenes, numerous international players are actually racing to rebuild the Caribbean, from tech companies and wealthy individuals to far-flung countries.
Big corporations see an opportunity in the Caribbean’s recovery. Tesla, in particular, seems to have a vision for how the region could rebuild in a more renewable and resilient way.
As an energy and environment researcher, I’m certain that renewables would make Caribbean islands better able to withstand future storm impacts. Whether Tesla can achieve that is another question.
The California-based electric-car company has committed to sending to the island hundreds of its Powerwall battery systems, which could be paired with solar panels to get the electric grid up and running again.
For the millions of Puerto Ricans whose power has been out for over two months, this may come as welcome news. And though some experts have questioned how much it would really help, Tesla did manage to turn the lights on at the San Juan Children’s Hospital back in October.
Puerto Rico isn’t the only Caribbean country with an inadequate energy grid. Across the region, outmoded system designs that rely on a few plants for power production make complete blackouts much higher than grid systems that have an even distribution of power generation.
So even before Irma, Tesla had long seen the Caribbean as a nexus for its energy revolution, with talk of using electric-vehicle batteries to store renewable energy. The idea is that vehicles can charge during the day when the sun is high and winds are stronger, and then owners can sell excess electricity back to the grid when demand is high but supplies are much lower.
Tesla’s desire to power the Caribbean reflects a global energy race as tech companies – among them Samsung and LG – expand their international reach.
The British business magnate Sir Richard Branson, who owns a 30-hectare private island in the British Virgin Islands, has also long advocated that the  Caribbean should shift to clean energy.

The 2017 hurricane season catalyzed this ambition. After Irma, Branson suggested that rich countries fund a “Caribbean Marshall Plan” to help islands move beyond fossil fuels toward low-carbon renewable energy sources like solar and wind.
Hurricane Irma left the solar-powered system on his Necker Island, located roughly nine miles from the ravaged Tortola, relatively intact.
Branson isn’t the only international celebrity with a personal stake in rebuilding the Caribbean region. The actor Robert De Niro has also sought to pitch in.
In September, he said he was “saddened to learn of the devastation in Barbuda,” and called on financial institutions and governments to band together and rebuild the demolished island, where De Niro had hoped to build a $200 million resort.
Two months later, Barbuda remains uninhabitable, with nearly its entire population having evacuated to neighboring Antigua and elsewhere. Locals wonder whether Barbuda will ever be home to anyone again, much less the paradise tourist destination De Niro once envisioned.
For China, the crisis in the Caribbean is an opportunity to expand its influence in an area where it already has deep historic and economic ties.
China’s influence in the Caribbean dates back to Cuba’s 1959 revolution, when communism bound the two nations. Back then, China ignored the U.S. economic embargo to help Cuba after a 1963 hurricane.
This economic superpower also came to the assistance of Grenada in 2004, after more than 90 percent of the island was destroyed by Hurricane Ivan. The 351 housing units China promised to build for those left homeless by the storm opened in late 2012.
Today, China is reported to have offered aid to Cuba after Hurricane Irma. It has also committed $5 million for the United Nations Development Program to assist the Caribbean’s storm recovery.
China’s interest in the Caribbean goes beyond disaster aid. During his 2013 visit to Trinidad and Tobago, President Xi Jinping reportedly promised Caribbean nations a total of $3 billion in loans.
His country has also financed infrastructure and industrial projects across the region. In Jamaica, Chinese state money built the $600 million, 42-mile “Beijing Highway” connecting Kingston to the tourist hub of Ocho Rios. China has also invested $3 billion in Jamaican alumina plants.
This brand of economic diplomacy, which Beijing has also deployed in Africa and Pakistan, for instance, powerfully strengthens China’s international influence. The U.S. knows that, and is keeping a close eyeon Chinese incursions into its maritime backyard.
Caribbean governments must now weigh the pros and cons of these different offers. On the one hand, these countries are so devastated that they simply cannot recover without help.
On the other, I’d suggest it’s risky to cede control over your territory by allowing foreign agents to finance rebuilding. China’s project funding in African has been dubbed “neocolonialism,” because while the country studiously avoids political meddling, its money shapes national development to reflect Chinese interests.
Inaction, however, is not an option. A dozen Caribbean countries were hit hard by hurricanes this year, and climate change promises to keep bringing rising seas and stronger, more frequent storms.
Rebuilding smarter is thus a priority for Caribbean nations, all of which signed the Paris Agreement. That 2015 accord pushes wealthier industrialized nations to commit more money to building resilience, but Europe has shown little willingness to comply with that provision and the U.S is abandoning the entire deal.
Are China, Tesla and Robert De Niro the answer? If the Caribbean can’t save itself, who will?
Masaō Ashtine is Lecturer in Alternative Energy at University of the West Indies, Mona Campus.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Sidewalk Labs, the urban innovation startup owned by Google’s parent company Alphabet, has announced a partnership with the City of Toronto to develop a new waterfront precinct. Time to ask Google: can you build a city?
The Quayside precinct, dubbed “Sidewalk Toronto”, is to become a 500-hectare sandpit for testing a suite of new tech products. The aim is to radically re-imagine the way a city is made.
Even if only a fraction of the ideas being touted work, Sidewalk Labs will be expanding the possibilities of tech-enabled urbanism to far loftier heights than many run-of-the-mill smart city strategies.
Best take note. Any city mildly interested in using technology smarts to improve cities should be paying very close attention.
Further reading:  Creative city, smart city … whose city is it?
Sidewalk Toronto plans to grow phoenix-like out of the ashes of failed smart cities.
Smart cities are based on the idea that cities can be made more liveable, sustainable and efficient by making better use of information and communications technologies. This idea promises a lot, but so far has failed to deliver much.
The biggest failures in the 20-year history of smart cities – notably China’s Dongtan and South Korea’s Songdo – are testament to the hard-boiled truth that good cities can’t be built out of a technology mainframe. Even if they have tech smarts, they haven’t been places people have learned to call home.
And, as companies like IBM, Cisco and Microsoft have learnt, it’s not easy to redeploy the large-scale operating systems used by big organisations into complex urban environments.
Cities are messy places. They’re a heady mix of privatised utilities, legacy infrastructures, resource-constrained public authorities and opinionated voting publics. These ingredients have made it hard to sell a data platform that can operate at the scale needed to produce any real efficiency benefits.
Instead, what has so far been delivered are cities abounding in prototypes of smart parking and smart lights. More were announced last week under the Australian government’s A$50 million Smart Cities and Suburbs Program.
Further reading:  From Smart Cities 1.0 to 2.0: it’s not (only) about the tech
We have seen very little of the “game-changing” disruption spruiked at smart city conferences worldwide. This is also why Sidewalk Labs matters.
Led by CEO Dan Doctoroff, who was deputy mayor of New York under Michael Bloomberg, the company is on a mission to “re-imagine cities from the internet up”. Crucially, this is Google’s version of the internet – the one you’re most likely occupying most of your waking hours.
Instead of trying to sell a clunky operating system that fits legacy infrastructure with new data points, Sidewalk Labs is building products it thinks will change how citizens use the city. And let’s not forget it will own and monetise the data created when people use these products.
Rather than upgrading what we have already, the thinking behind Sidewalk Labs is more focused on the core of how people behave in cities.
For instance, its parking app, Flow, isn’t just about helping you find an empty park, as many smart parking systems do. It introduces a new pricing model that lowers the cost of parking for people who have had to travel further. And it penalises those who really should have walked.
The point of using sensors to monitor air quality and temperature isn’t just to generate real-time data, which governments may or may not use. It proposes to use the data to create optimised environments that reduce the need for restrictive zoning, allowing for “radical mixed use” zoning.
City Block Health, another startup spun out of Sidewalk Labs, is a personalised health system in the US for Medicaid or Medicare members. Presumably, though it’s a bit hard to tell, this will allow these people to be supported across many different (data-driven) interactions as they shop, commute and go about their daily lives.
This is human-centred product design for an era of not just digitally-enabled but “Google-powered” citizens.
The solutions offered here take in the full span of city regulation, pricing, planning, building and human interaction. This is not just tinkering at the edges of urban systems with new technology; this is redesigning the system with the technology at the core.
Of course, the scope to experiment with and ultimately reshape Google-powered urban behaviour is only possible when Sidewalk Labs owns and operates the city space where it can trial its products. This is the premise of Sidewalk Toronto.
Sidewalk Toronto is being built as a beacon for other cities to follow.
The way Sidewalk Labs sees it, the idea that technologists and urbanists can’t get along has to change. The company is integrating urbanists and technologists into its product planning. It’s including residents and workers in beta testing, with a city government giving it social licence to operate.
Instead of a cartel of architects, urban planners, consultants, developers and regulators mapping out the future of the city behind closed doors using the standard master planning process, the company will spend US$50 million over the next year to support an open conversation between citizens, governments, universities and others about what Sidewalk Toronto should be.

Sidewalk Labs is building offices across the US. It’s recruiting a cavalcade of new product managers, partnership and business development managers, machine-learning specialists and forward-thinking urbanists.
If its aggressive recruitment strategy is anything to go by, Sidewalk Labs is aiming for its tech products – focused on urban disruption, powered by the data it hoovers up from our daily lives – to raise the bar for city-making around the world. Doctoroff describes his desire to expand to other cities as “insatiable”.
No doubt there will be lots of ideas that go nowhere. But one thing is clear: Sidewalk Labs is thinking about cities like no other technology company has done before it.
Whether it succeeds in actually building one is everybody’s business.
Further reading:  What might Jane Jacobs say about smart cities?
Sarah Barns is an Engaged Research Fellow, Institute for Culture and Society at Western Sydney University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Many children have played hot potato, a game in which they pass a spud to other children quickly so they don’t get stuck with it when the music stops.
Taxes are like that potato. No one likes paying them; everyone tries to pass them to others. The game of hot potato sheds some light on the debate over Republican tax cutting plans, particularly when it comes to companies.
The House just passed its tax cut bill. It would give about two-thirds of roughly US$1.5 trillion in net tax cuts over the next decade to businesses, mainly by lowering the corporate income tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent. That puts a lot of money on the table. About $100 billion in U.S. corporate profits would be retained by companies rather than paid to the government each year.
Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin has claimed that most of this tax savings would go to workers, in the form of higher wages, in line with the president’s argument that the plan would benefit the middle class.
With the help of hot potatoes, let me explain why he’s wrong.
There are two ways a corporate income tax cut can trickle down to workers’ pockets: directly through higher wages or indirectly via lower prices at stores selling the things they buy.
Mnuchin contends that workers currently bear 70 percent of the corporate tax burden – or get stuck with 70 percent of the corporate tax hot potato. So, a tax cut would mean that companies pass much of their tax benefits to their employees by paying them more or by cutting prices and increasing the buying power of current workers.
Yet, based on past tax cuts, economists have estimated that only 20 percent of the corporate income tax is borne by workers, suggesting that they would get just a small fraction of any corporate tax reduction.
Furthermore, when asked how they’d spend the gains from a tax holiday on the $2.5 trillion that they currently have parked overseas – which is also part of the corporate tax cut plan – most companies indicated they’d pay back debt, repurchase shares or invest in mergers and acquisitions. Wage hikes were not high on the corporate agenda.
Nor have they been part of the corporate agenda for the past several decades. Since the 1970s worker productivity has increased 74 percent, while average wages have risen only 12 percent. There is no reason to believe that tax cuts would all of a sudden generate greater corporate generosity for workers.
As for lower prices, if the U.S. economy were dominated by small businesses, intense competition would force these companies to lower prices rather than give it to shareholders in the form of dividends. Reduced prices for goods would translate into improved living standards for workers the same way that a wage hike would.
But our economy today is dominated by large multinational corporations facing little pressure to reduce prices. So, the gains from a corporate tax cut will remain with the owners of the business – shareholders.
Furthermore, corporate CEOs have large incentives to avoid passing the gains from a tax cut to workers: Executive pay is tied to the company’s share price. If they pass the extra money on to shareholders in the form of dividends or stock buybacks, share prices will rise – as will executive pay packages.

So back to our game. When there’s a tax cut, someone still is stuck with a potato. That is, someone has to pay for it. There are two ways this can be done: increased borrowing or lower government spending.
When economies are near full employment, as the U.S. is today, additional government borrowing will increase borrowing costs or interest rates. So if the U.S. were to borrow more money to finance the tax cuts, the losers would be middle-income households borrowing to start a business, go to college or buy a home. Around 80 percent of Americans are currently in debt, with a median debt of $70,000. Homeowners would be big losers because higher mortgage rates would also lower the value of their home (they’d also get hammered by changes to the tax code that would make the mortgage interest deduction uselessfor most people).
Whether or not the U.S. borrows more and increases the national debt, some spending cuts would also be required.
These would likely come from Social Security, Medicare and other social programs that benefit average citizens and the poor. That’s because lawmakers won’t find much savings anywhere else, apart from the military budget, which they almost certainly wouldn’t touch.
Already this appears to be in the cards. The Congressional Budget Office warned that if the Republican tax plan adds to the deficit, it could set off a 2010 budget rule that would lead to half a trillion in automatic cuts to Medicare over the next decade. And the Senate tax plan calls for repealing the requirement in the ACA that everyone buy insurance, which would lead to 13 million Americans losing health insurance – all to save $338 billion over 10 years.
The consequence of the $1.5 trillion tax cut then would be continuing stagnant wages, cuts in government programs, higher interest rates and rising inequality. Translation: The rich get richer and average Americans get stuck holding some very big potatoes.
Adding further injury, average workers wouldn’t benefit very much from the proposed individual income tax cuts either. Only 8.3 percent of those in the House plan would go to taxpayers making $50,000 or less (which about half of all taxpayers). In contrast, millionaires, the richest 0.3 percent of the population, receive more than a fifth of the cuts.
Even worse, unlike for companies, all the tax cuts for the working class disappear after 10 years.
Steven Pressman is Professor of Economics at Colorado State University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


In the latest in a series of embarrassments for provocateur James O’Keefe, he and his nonprofit Project Veritas were exposed in an attempted sting operation. The group gave a false story about embattled Alabama U.S. Senate candidate Roy Moore to the Washington Post — the news organization that first published corroborated stories of the Senate candidate’s alleged sex abuse of minors — and hoped the paper would run with it. Instead, the Post  disclosed Project Veritas’ attempt to discredit the paper.
Despite the Washington Post humiliation and other recent flops, O’Keefe is doing pretty well for himself. He is president of Project Veritas, which takes in millions in anonymous donations each year, and as of 2016 his annual salary was nearly $320,000. But the work that he and his organization engage in — attempts to make mainstream journalists and liberal organizations incriminate themselves — consistently fails to achieve O’Keefe’s goals.
Why, then, does the money keep coming in, and, in fact, increase every year? Project Veritas is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, so it’s not required to disclose its donors, but by consulting other nonprofit organizations’ tax forms it’s possible to identify some of the group’s donors. An International Business Times review of publicly available 990 tax records and data compiled by Conservative Transparency found that Project Veritas gets much of its funding from two connected nonprofits that act as “pass-through” vehicles for conservative millionaires and billionaires who wish to dissociate their names from the organizations they fund.
Donors Trust, and to a lesser extent Donors Capital Fund, have provided Project Veritas with millions of dollars since its founding in 2010. Both groups are financed by foundations run by wealthy conservative mega-donors such as Charles and David Koch and the Bradley and Searle families.
In 2015, Donors Trust and Donors Capital Fund combined to give Project Veritas close to $1.5 million, about 40 percent of its overall revenue that year. The Knowledge and Progress Fund, a nonprofit directed by Charles Koch and other family members and close associates, gave a single, $5.2 million donation in 2015 — to Donors Trust. That year, the fund pulled in a total of $82.1 million — including $725,000 from the Searle Freedom Trust, $115,000 from the Charles Koch Foundation and $30,000 from the Bradley Foundation — and gave out $68.3 million in grants.
In 2016, the Charles Koch Foundation stepped up its funding of Donors Trust significantly, donating over $700,000. 2016 tax records for many major conservative foundations including Donors Trust are not yet publicly available.  Donors Trust funders also include the Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation (the in-laws of current Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos), the Philanthropy Roundtable and the John William Pope Foundation.
From 2011 to 2015, the sister groups gave Project Veritas over $2.5 million, IBT found. Per IBT’s research, other Project Veritas donors include Dunn’s Foundation for the Advancement of Right Thinking ($100,000 from 2013 to 2014), the National Christian Charitable Foundation ($7,350 from 2013 to 2015) and the Robert S. and Star Pepper Foundation ($5,000 in 2011).
Another prominent donor to Project Veritas is the foundation of now-President Donald Trump, which gave Project Veritas  $20,000 in 2015. Alleged funder of Project Veritas, Eric O’Keefe (no relation to James O’Keefe), a Koch and Scott Walker ally,  reportedly gave the group $50,000 in 2013, although he denied doing so when asked by the Center for Media and Democracy. And before O’Keefe established Project Veritas, PayPal co-founder and  Trump campaign donor Peter Thiel reportedly gave O’Keefe  between $10,000 and $30,000 to produce a video in which he mocked people of color by leading them to believe they had won a lottery.
Billionaire Charles Koch is head of Koch Industries, which he runs with his younger brother, David. The Kochs are some of the wealthiest people in the world, and they spend large amounts of their money on conservative politics and free-market academic programs. Photo: Getty Images/Bo Rader/Wichita Eagle/MCT
‘Donor-Advised Funds’ With Strong Koch Ties
A 2013  article by Paul Abowd at the Center for Public Integrity explains that at Donors Trust, a “donor-advised fund,” funders can open individual accounts, and the trust gives donors “an extra level of control over where their money ends up.” Founded in 1999, Donors Trust has pumped hundreds of millions of dollars into a stream of conservative nonprofits such as the Heartland Institute, the American Legislative Exchange Council, the American Enterprise Institute, George Mason University’s free-market think tanks the Mercatus Center and the Institute for Humane Studies — to which Koch foundations have also given heavily — and the Kochs’ Americans for Prosperity Foundation.
According to its website, the Donors Trust  board of directors includes leaders of some of its donor foundations. Chair of the board Kimberly Dennis is the president and CEO of the Searle Freedom Trust, and Vice Chair James Piereson is president of the William E. Simon Foundation and was previously executive director of the John M. Olin Foundation. Another board member, Thomas Beach, is chairman of two key conservative think tanks, the Reason Foundation and the Property and Environmental Research Center.
The Donors Trust  staff includes past Koch associates. President and CEO Lawson Bader was vice president of the Koch-funded Mercatus Center; Director of Growth Strategies Peter Lipsett previously worked for the Charles Koch Foundation and Koch Industries; and Marketing Assistant Lydia Pitea joined Donors Trust “as a participant in the Koch Associate Program.”
Rising Revenue
As The Hill’s Will Sommer  documented on Twitter, O’Keefe and Project Veritas have frequently undermined their own goals and their credibility since they began operating. The humiliation began in 2010, when an attempted sting of Louisiana Democratic Sen. Mary Landrieu backfired and O’Keefe ended up with a misdemeanor conviction. More recently, in 2016, O’Keefe attempted to scam George Soros’ Open Society Foundations but blew his cover when he forgot to hang up the phone with a target, proceeding to map out his string operation before ending the call.
Nevertheless, both Project Veritas’ revenue and O’Keefe’s salary have steadily increased over the years, as The Daily Beast’s Lachlan Markay  noted on Twitter. In 2012, revenue was roughly $740,000; in 2016, that figure was more than six times higher at nearly $4.9 million. While O’Keefe made  $56,000 as the group’s president in 2012, his salary exploded to  $235,000 in 2015 and then roughly $318,000 in 2016.


President Donald Trump’s namesake company is selling a new line of Trump-branded items this month and several of them are made outside the U.S., according to a new report by the Daily Beast.
The Trump Organization, which Trump still owns, is selling a $32 golf hat made in Bangladesh and a $25 faux gold bar piggybank that made in China. On the Trump website, it said that the hat is “decorated in the USA.”
The company is run by the president’s two sons Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump.
The president has long advocated putting America first and made it a key piece of his presidential campaign and presidency. Trump has also complained about places like China and Mexico stealing jobs away from the U.S. and the importance of manufacturing in the U.S.
“Even though he’s taken some steps to separate himself from his business, we know that he can still receive reports about the Trump Organization and that he can directly profit from the sale of those goods,” said Larry Noble of the Campaign Legal Center, a Washington D.C.-based ethics watchdog to the Daily Beast.
Before becoming president, Trump built his business empire on real estate — namely hotels, luxury condos and golf courses. The company then spun that success into a name licensing business and a reality television show starring Trump called “The Apprentice.”
Trump has taken heat for not following in the footsteps of previous presidents by walking away from his business empire. Issues like foreign dignitaries choosing to stay at Trump’s Washington D.C. hotel may be a conflict of interest for the president.
But being President may also be costing Trump money. An investigation by the Telegraph showed that room rates have fallen at many Trump resorts, some by as much as 67 percent. Earlier this month, the Trump Organization reached a deal to get out of its SoHo hotel in New York City. It was also discovered earlier this month that company is worth far less than they have stated in the past.
Trump's company is selling a hat made in Bangladesh.  Photo: Trump Organization


Update: A federal judge denied a request for an emergency restraining order from Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) deputy director Leandra English on Monday. The order would have kept Mick Mulvaney from serving as the active director of the CFPB. Judge Timothy Kelly made the ruling, just two months after joining the federal bench as an appointee of President Donald Trump. 
Original story: 
Demonstrators gathered outside the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) in Washington D.C.  Wednesday to protest President Trump’s decision to appoint White House budget director Mick Mulvaney to director of the agency. Critics of Mulvaney’s appointment, including Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-MA, who attended the rally, argue that legally, the deputy director automatically takes over if the director leaves, so that deputy director Leandra English is the agency's rightful chief. The procedural issue has become so contentious because Mulvaney opponents fear he’s aligned with the financial services industry, which is vigorously opposed to new CFPB rules governing payday lending the agency instituted last month. 
The CFPB was formed to protect consumers as part of the wide-ranging Dodd-Frank legislation that implemented new regulations on Wall Street after the financial crisis. One of the industries the CFPB has sought to protect consumers from is the payday loan industry, whose members issue short term loans to consumers  at exorbitant interest rates. Mulvaney’s record with the industry, including his comments at a 2014 Congressional hearing, shows a concern for lenders often described as predatory.
As a Congressman, Mulvaney  accepted $55,500 in contributions from payday lenders during his four successful runs for Congress, including $26,600 during the 2016 election cycle,  according to the National Institute on Money in State Politics. Before he was tapped to lead President Donald Trump’s Office of Budget Management, Mulvaney took $115,200 from the securities and investment industry, and another $96,564 from the insurance industry in the 2016 cycle, both more than any other industry, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. This record, along with comments Mulvaney made indicating he  would shutter the agency if given the opportunity, has led critics to question whether Mulvaney’s priority will be consumers — or the companies the agency is responsible for regulating.
In a 2014 hearing, then congressman Mulvaney submitted on-the-record comments for CFPB director Richard Cordray, who recently resigned to run for governor of Ohio as a Democrat. Prefacing a question to Cordray on “payday loans” and “certain types of installment loans,” Mulvaney’s comments suggest a deference to payday lenders.
“I share your understanding that small-dollar lending serves an important function for many borrowers, especially those who may not utilize traditional banking services, and hope the Bureau will work to ensure the continued viability and availability of these products,” Mulvaney said.
Citing a Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank working paper on payday lenders, Mulvaney also asked Cordray how the CFPB would "ensure that there is a balance between strong consumer protection and creditor rights?"
The comments came just two months before a  CFPB report found four out of five payday loans are rolled over or renewed after two weeks, and that the majority of payday loans are renewed so many times that borrowers pay more in fees than the loan was originally worth.
“We are concerned that too many borrowers slide into the debt traps that payday loans can become,” said Cordray at the time.
Payday lenders appear to want Mulvaney to lead the CFPB. The Intercept reported Monday that the Office of Legal Counsel memo arguing for the legality of installing Mulvaney as acting director was written by Steve A. Engel, an attorney who represented a Canadian payday lender before the CFPB in 2015. Engel was one of two lead counsels defending NDG Financial against charges that the company ran a nine-year scheme to illegally offer U.S. customer high-cost loans. The case is still active in federal court.
Although Mulvaney's political views make him naturally inclined toward deregulation — he was a member of the Republican Freedom Caucus — geography may play a part in his concern for payday lenders. The South Carolina congressional district he represented from 2011 to 2017 is located just a 30-minute drive from the national headquarters of Advance America, the "largest non-bank provider of cash advance services in the United States" according to SEC filings. 
At least two of Mulvaney’s former staffers have left government jobs and now represent companies that offer consumer financial products.  As International Business Times first reported Monday, Mulvaney’s longtime staffer and former chief of staff Natalee Binkholder left his office this year to become a registered lobbyist for Santander Bank, which agreed to pay a $10 million fine to the CFPB in 2016 for “illegal overdraft service practices,” and is currently under a  consent order from the agency, which Mulvaney will be responsible for enforcing. Last week,  Reuters reported that the CFPB was preparing to sue the bank over its auto loan practices. In 2015, Santander  came to an agreement with the Massachusetts attorney general to pay $5.4 million for charging excessive interest rates on its subprime auto loans.

Greg Thomas, another former Mulvaney staffer, is now a lobbyist for Primerica Life Insurance Company. In 2015, Sen. Warren dressed down the company’s CEO Peter Schneider during a Senate hearing over the company’s decision to encourage workers near retirement age to move their money from government pensions to risky investment vehicles.


Conservative campus group Turning Point USA is opposed to “safe spaces” — except when it comes to the generosity of its donors. Charlie Kirk, the group’s 24-year-old founder, has claimed his organization has campus chapters at 1,000 colleges and universities and raised more than $5 million in 2016. Earlier this year,  leaked records  revealed TPUSA efforts to secretly funnel thousands of dollars into multiple college student government elections to elect conservatives.
The sources of much of that money have been a mystery, and how much some known sources give is still unknown. “To answer your question, no I will not disclose private giving amounts,” Kirk told International Business Times in an email. “Some people like the amount of their charitable giving to remain anonymous so we wish to honor that request.”
As a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, TPUSA is not required to disclose its donors. But based on public tax records and some reporting by other outlets, IBT has identified the sources of over $900,000 in funding for TPUSA. Republican mega-donor families, GOP politicians and other wealthy individuals have provided large amounts of money so the organization can spread free-market principles — from which the donors benefit — among young people, the majority of whom, overall,  lean  liberal.
The group’s motto is “Big Government Sucks”; its  mission, “to identify, educate, train, and organize students to promote the principles of freedom, free markets, and limited government.” TPUSA recruits “free market activists,” creates “innovative grassroots messaging,” puts out publications and hosts conferences.
“We are proud to fight for free markets and smaller government, both of which are ideas that are resonating extremely well to our target demographic of 18-24 year olds,” Kirk told IBT.
Working to appeal to millennials, TPUSA is funded by a substantial number of older, wealthy individuals whose economic views the group promotes. IBT identified 17 donors to TPUSA, including nine from publicly available Internal Revenue Service records. The documented donations came mostly in 2014 and 2015, as tax records from many of the foundational donors are not yet available for 2016.
Wealthy Conservatives Bankroll TPUSA
Some of the biggest donations came from rich families in the Chicago area, where TPUSA is based.
From 2014 to 2016, the Ed Uihlein Foundation gave TPUSA $275,000, including $175,000 in 2016. Richard Uihlein, the founder of a lucrative shipping business and president of this foundation named after his father, is a Republican mega-donor and a “free-markets, smaller-government crusader” from the Chicago area. He and his wife, Elizabeth, spent  $23.7 million on politics during the 2016 election cycle, the ninth-highest total in the country, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Richard Uihlein made 6- and 7-figure donations to many independent political spending groups including the Unintimidated PAC, which supported Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker; the Tea Party Patriots Citizens Fund; and Club For Growth Action. Uihlein is America’s  top donor to outside spending groups in the current election cycle.
Republican gubernatorial candidate Bruce Rauner declares victory during his election night gathering while incumbent Democratic Gov. Pat Quinn is yet to concede on November 4, 2014 in Chicago, Illinois. Photo: John Gress/Getty Images
The family foundation of Republican Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner, a former private equity executive worth an estimated  $500 million, gave TPUSA $150,000 from 2014 to 2015, according to tax records. Uihlein spent nearly  $3 million in 2014 to help elect Rauner. The governor, with help from his wealthy friends, is trying to  remake Illinois into a conservative-dominated state.
The family foundation of healthcare products company CEO  Vince Foglia and his wife Pat, based in the Chicago area, donated $210,000 to TPUSA from 2013 to 2014. Foglia is a frequent  donor to Republican campaigns, including  $55,000 to Rauner in 2014 and donations to former Illinois Rep.  Joe Walsh, who is a member of the TPUSA advisory council.
In 2015, Home Depot co-founder Bernie Marcus’ foundation donated $72,600 to TPUSA. Marcus is a major GOP donor, having given  $5 million to the pro-Trump super PAC Rebuilding America Now and millions more to spending groups affiliated with the Republican House and Senate during the 2016 cycle.
TPUSA advisory council member  Gary Rabine, an Illinois-based roofing and paving CEO, is a donor, Kirk told IBT.
Other GOP mega-donors to the group include the Henry and Lynde Bradley Foundation ($20,000 from 2015 to 2016), the Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation, named after the in-laws of current Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos ($10,000 in 2015), and Foster Friess, a Wyoming-based investment manager known for his  2012 comments about “gals” putting aspirin “between their knees” as a mode of contraception. Former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon has encouraged Freiss to run for U.S. Senate. IBT did not find public records of Friess’ donations, but Bloomberg  reported that  Freiss, who is on TPUSA’s advisory council, gave Kirk a “five-figure check.” Freiss made least  $3.4 million in contributions in federal political races since the 2012 election cycle, according to Buzzfeed News.
Other donors identified by IBT include:
According to a  book co-authored by Kirk, TPUSA has also received unknown amounts of money from Montana Congressman Greg Gianforte, who is known for assaulting a reporter during a campaign event this year; Allie and Lee Hanley (Allie Hanley is a TPUSA adviser, and Lee Hanley is deceased); Tom Patrick; and the late Jack Roeser.
Kirk would not disclose amounts but told IBT that most members of the  TPUSA advisory council “are financially supportive on a varying degree of support.” While IBT did not discover records of contributions from TPUSA advisory council member Doug Deason, a big donor to Republican candidates whose  father is worth $1.3 billion, he is likely an important donor to TPUSA.
Tomi Lahren (L) and Charlie Kirk at Politicon at Pasadena Convention Center on July 29, 2017 in Pasadena, California. Kirk is the founder of Turning Point USA, and Lahren, a Fox News contributor, will speak at the group's December seminar. Photo: John Sciulli/Getty Images
Event Sponsors Add To List Of TPUSA Supporters
In addition to traditional funders, TPUSA has a host of event sponsors, many of which are key organizations in the right-wing advocacy movement such as the conservative public policy think tank Heritage Foundation, the nonprofit Christian law firm Alliance Defending Freedom and the libertarian think tank the Reason Foundation. Kirk said event sponsors typically top out at $5,000-$10,000. 
“Most of the speakers we bring to campus are paid for by Turning Point USA but we do [have] several partnerships throughout the year with select organizations,” said Kirk. The Foundation for Economic Education provided its CEO Larry Reed to “speak on free markets and the purpose of limited government” at a TPUSA-sponsored  event in April at the University of Colorado at Boulder. FEE is a  recipient of donations from the Charles Koch Foundation and from TPUSA donor Dunn’s Foundation for the Advancement of Right Thinking.
Just a few weeks ago, Dennis Prager — CEO of digital media organization PragerU, a TPUSA  sponsor — spoke at a TPUSA  event at the University of Wyoming. Kirk says it was a “packed house,” but students came out to protest as well, upset at potential “hateful rhetoric” and the fact that student fees covered the event’s $10,000 price tag.
Another TPUSA sponsor, the National Rifle Association, visits TPUSA campus events to “speak about the constitution,” said Kirk. In October, the NRA participated in an  event at the University of Arizona.
Sponsors of TPUSA’s recent Western Regional Conference, which featured speakers including former Breitbart writer Ben Shapiro and Benny Johnson, now a Daily Caller reporter known for his previous plagiarizing, include nonprofits to which TPUSA funders also donate. They include the Heritage Foundation, the Job Creators Network, the Leadership Institute and Alliance Defending Freedom, which the Southern Poverty Law Center has labeled an  anti-LGBTQ hate group.
TPUSA’s upcoming  Student Action Summit in December has additional sponsors including the Reason Foundation, the Koch-connected Generation Opportunity Institute and the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education. Most featured speakers listed on the event page are either Trump insiders, Fox News employees, or both; speakers include Donald Trump Jr., former White House chief strategist  Steve Bannon, former White House press secretary Anthony Scaramucci, former Trump White House adviser and current Fox News “national security strategist" Sebastian Gorka, Fox & Friends host Brian Kilmeade, Fox News host Greg Gutfield, Fox News host Jeanine Pirro, Fox News contributor and  pro-Trump nonprofit employee Tomi Lahren, Fox News host Jesse Waters and Fox News contributor Guy Benson. Some speakers listed on the event page and other not listed are not affiliated with Fox or the Trump administration, Kirk said.
The events are being held in West Palm Beach, Florida, the town that is home to Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort, but Kirk says his summit will take place at the Palm Beach Convention Center. Kirk said that “one of our supporters is thinking of hosting a small dinner early that week at Mar-a-Lago, but nothing [is] finalized and not officially part of [the Student Action Summit],” and that he could end up attending the dinner.
In addition to sponsoring events, the Heritage Foundation provides pocket constitutions to TPUSA students, said Kirk. Heritage is one of the most influential conservative think tanks in America, and its healthy  funding comes from the likes of TPUSA donors the DeVos Foundation and Dunn’s Foundation, as well as from multiple Koch family foundations.
Controversial Moves
TPUSA has had its fair share of controversy over the last several years.
On Nov. 15, journalist Adam Weinstein reacted on Twitter to a  meme generated by the group with the heading, “Socialism Hurts Everyone.”
Socialism Hurts Everyone #SocialismSucks pic.twitter.com/8C3yeOetnM
— Turning Point USA (@TPUSA) November 15, 2017
The best grift in America is convincing rich old-man conservatives to give you their money so you can “reach” young people with a rich old-man message https://t.co/WJUpg7BFXo
— Adam Weinstein (@AdamWeinstein) November 15, 2017
TPUSA’s twitter account came back with an  alarming reply, writing, “The best ‘grift’ this morning is having a guy named Weinstein criticize young people for wanting fewer hands in their pockets. Too good.”
Turning Point USA responded to a tweet by journalist Adam Weinstein on Nov. 15, 2017. The reply is now deleted. Photo: Twitter
After enormous criticism, TPUSA deleted the tweet and issued an  apology, saying the tweet was in “poor taste” and was meant to be a Harvey Weinstein joke and not anti-Semitic.
The organization has invited former Breitbart News editor and right-wing provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos to  college  campuses. During an appearance at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Yiannopoulos  targeted a transgender student.
In November 2016, the group launched a “Professor Watchlist,” which lists professors who allegedly “advance a radical agenda in lecture halls.” Media Matters  found that most of the alleged incident reports on the various academics cited by TPUSA came from conservative activist groups such as the Leadership Institute (which is a  partner of TPUSA and receives donations from TPUSA donors such as the Ed Uihlein Foundation), heavily biased sources such as The College Fix and discredited sources such as the David Horowitz Freedom Center and Project Veritas, which was revealed on Monday to have botched a sting operation targeting the Washington Post. Some have compared the watchlist to a Cold War-era, anti-Communist McCarthyism.
As part of its student activism efforts, TPUSA chapters sometime demonstrate against liberals on campus. One recent demonstration in which a Kent State student wore a diaper and played with toys in a public, outdoor area ended up causing much of the social media world to ridicule TPUSA.
Safe spaces are for children. pic.twitter.com/OSsETyDbC4
— TPUSA at Kent State (@TPUSAatKent) October 19, 2017
As a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, TPUSA is not allowed to engage in direct political advocacy, and the organization has not done so, according to Kirk. But its funding by major Republican donors and close ties to the White House project the image of a partisan organization.
Kirk, a former contributor to Breitbart News, the online platform of the racist alt-right, is an ally of the Trump administration. He worked for the Trump campaign in 2016 and spoke at the Republican National Convention that year. Kirk has appeared on Fox News alongside members of the Trump family.
Two members of the TPUSA advisory council, investor  Gentry Beach and  Thomas Hicks, Jr., the son of a Dallas billionaire, worked with Trump’s sons Donald Jr. and Eric to establish a Texas nonprofit to sell access to the president to big donors during inauguration festivities in January. Beach and Hicks, who were both national vice chairmen of the Trump campaign,  raised millions of dollars for the campaign. Beach has visited the White House multiple times in 2017.
Beach’s father, Gary, was  indicted on five charges of bankruptcy fraud in 2016. Charlie Kirk's father is allegedly  Robert W. Kirk, the project architect manager for Trump Tower in New York City.
“We stay totally removed from restricted political activity,” said Kirk. “Instead, we focus on starting chapters, hosting debates on campus, planning training seminars, and hosting national training conferences such as our upcoming one in Palm Beach in December.”
The organization has over 100 people on staff, and the highest salary is $70,000. “Considering the size of our budget and organization that is something that is not typical with non profits in today’s time,” said Kirk.
Controversy aside, Kirk says that the last year has been “amazingly successful.” TPUSA chartered over 350 new chapters and expects over 2,000 students at its December summit in Florida, said Kirk. “We are proud to have the support of thousands of grassroots Americans that want to see the next generation more understanding of the ideas of free enterprise and smaller government.”


In one of the clearest examples of the revolving door between government and lobbying firms in recent years, Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper’s office announced Monday his chief of staff is leaving the position to return to his previous job at a lobbying firm hired by the governor's office earlier this year.
In 2015, Hickenlooper, a Democrat, hired attorney Doug Friednash to oversee his staff. Friednash came to the governor's office straight from lobbying powerhouse Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck (BHFS). According to a  bio page on the governor’s website, Friednash was a shareholder at the firm, which has seen its revenues and influence grow dramatically over the last decade.
BHFS made $13 million in 2007, nearly doubling to $25 million in 2015 and $20 million through three quarters of 2017, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. In its list of D.C.'s top lobbying firms in 2017,  The Hill said BHFS “has rocketed into the stratosphere” by growing revenue and adding clients. One of those clients is Hickenlooper’s office.
In February, two years after Friednash started working for Hickenlooper, the  governor’s office hired Friednash’s former firm to lobby for the state in the nation’s capital at a cost of $210,000 a year, or $17,500 a month. Federal lobbying records show BHFS lobbied Congress and a variety of executive agencies on fiscal year 2017 and 2018 appropriations as well as “issues related to federal funding for national service programs” and “issues related to health care.”

The contract between the governor's office and BHFS, signed by the governor February 24, said Lt. Gov. Donna Lynne and Friednash would “serve as the primary points of contact for the Office.” Lynne, who is running for governor in 2018, was an executive at Kaiser Foundation Health Plan before she was tapped to join the Hickenlooper administration last year. 
Online lobbying records show no other instances in which the Colorado governor’s office hired a lobbying firm. The governor’s office confirmed to International Business Times that the current administration has never hired any other lobbying firm.
On Monday, the governor’s office and  BHFS announced Friednash would be rejoining his former firm on January 2 of next year and will chair a new political strategies practice group.
Democratic congressman Jared Polis, a candidate for Colorado governor, responded to the news on Twitter, saying, “I think the revolving door of politics is terrible.”

Jacque Montgomery, the governor’s press secretary, said BHFS was hired to help Colorado build relationships with the Donald Trump administration and noted BHFS was the only federally registered lobbying firm with an office in Denver.  
In an August email responding to initial IBT questions about the firm, Montgomery said: “Our office hired a lobbying firm after the new administration came in, anticipating that we would need to build key relationships with the new administration.
“We recognized we would be navigating possible changes in the federal approach to issues of importance to states including energy policy, health care, marijuana and the environment to name a few. We wanted to ensure Colorado had a voice as these issues were discussed.”
Monday, the governor’s office declined to comment on Friednash, his new job or when Friednash received a job offer from BHFS. The office also declined to make Friednash available for comment. When asked if Friednash was behind the decision to hire BHFS, Montgomery told IBT: “As you know, the decision to hire the firm was to help build relationships with the new administration.”  
BHFS did not answer specific questions sent to the firm's press office, but a spokeswoman did say the firm would not be renewing its current contract with the governor's office.
"As part of Doug’s transition to private practice, Brownstein, together with Governor Hickenlooper and Doug, have mutually agreed that Brownstein will not seek to renew its federal lobbying contract when the terms end on February 1, 2018," Lara Day, chief culture and communication officer at BHFS, told IBT in an email. 
Pat Meyers, a veteran of restaurant chains Quiznos and Smashburger, will replace Friednash as Hickenlooper’s chief of staff. Next year, Colorado voters will decide who will replace the term-limited Hickenlooper, who has been mentioned as a possible 2020 presidential candidate. 
This story was updated to include comment from BHFS. 


Mumbai International Airport set a record for the busiest single runway airport in a 24-hour period Friday, according to the Times of India, the airport handled 969 take-offs and landings.
The Mumbai metropolitan area is home to more than 21 million people and is the second largest metropolitan area in India. Despite its gigantic population Mumbai’s airport only operates as a single runway airport. Technically it has two rnways, but they crisscross, so only one can be operated by one at any given time. This quirk of technically being a single runway airport puts Mumbai in the same category as smaller cities and secondary airports to larger cities such as ones in San Diego and Xiamen, China.
Mumbai beat its own previous record of 935 arrivals and departures, according to an airport spokesperson. Mumbai regularly handles over 900 flights per day and hopes to eventually hit 1,000 flights. The record was helped set by unscheduled charter and private flights. These take-offs are banned during peak hours in the morning and evening — but a spike in off-peak take offs helped the Friday record.
The lack of free land in Mumbai coupled with an increased demand for air travel means that the airport has to squeeze the most use it can out of its one runway. The runway has a stated capacity of 46 flights per hour, but twice on Friday, the airport hit 50 flights in an hour. Between 5:30 am local time on Friday and 5:30 am on Saturday the airport averaged just over 40 flights an hour, which meant an arrival or departure every 90 seconds.
Indian air carriers flew around 100 million domestic passengers in 2016, but 97 percent of India’s 1.3 billion people have never been on a flight, according to Bloomberg Sunday.
India is slated to be the third largest flight market in the world by 2025, according to International Airport Review, meaning it will surpass the United Kingdom and settle in behind the U.S. and China.
An Indian-operated SpiceJet Boeing 737-800 aircraft (foreground) takes off as a British Airways Boeing 747-400 aircraft (background) sits on the tarmac at the international airport in Mumbai on October 1, 2009. Photo: Indranil Mukherjee/AFP/GETTY
 


After spending big bucks at big box retailers during Thanksgiving and Black Friday sales, consumers have turned their attention to the other side of retail for Small Business Saturday, a day which encourages shopping at the more local and small-scale mom and pop stores in cities.
The big shopping day, which is sponsored by American Express, encourages shoppers to avoid the more recognizable stores in favor of the ones owned by their neighbors and other members of their local communities. The idea is to give back to the community through the event, by streaming revenue back into it, instead of into the pockets of the corporations that own the bigger chain stores.
While Black Friday and Thanksgiving, as well as Cyber Monday, are all big shopping days that see huge revenue for stores and consumers spending billions of their hard-earned money, Small Business Saturday is also projected to be a successful shopping day, with billions expected to be spent after 2016 saw as many as 112 million customers reportedly shopping at independently-owned businesses and spending more than $15 billion.
While all consumers may know of businesses they would love to frequent in their towns for the day, some places are also potentially going to be better in terms of the atmosphere that small businesses can provide. In a recent study conducted by Thumbtack.com, several cities were rated based on how small-business friendly they were, with Boise, Idaho, Worcester, Massachusetts, San Antonio, Austin, Texas, Grand Rapids, Michigan, Memphis, Tennessee, Louisville, Kentucky, Lawrence, Massachusetts, Salt Lake City and Houston all ranked as being the friendliest to small business owners.
Of course, small mom-and-pop brick and mortar retail shops aren't the only ones who are expected to benefit on Small Business Saturday. The movement also encourages consumers with plans to eat out to Dine Small as well, and take their patronage to local restaurants instead of chains.
In addition, there is some focus online as well. Similarly to Black Friday, where online sales have increased greatly over the years, small shops are also popping up online, specifically with stores in places like Etsy.
According to CNBC, Etsy sellers have been prepping for months in the hopes that they will see big sales throughout Small Business Saturday. This is the first time that Etsy has partnered up with American Express for the event.
Several cities are participating in Small Business Saturday, Pictured, Shaquille O'Neal shops small in a promotional video for Small Business Saturday at a store in Atlanta on Oct. 24, 2017.  Photo: Daniel Shirey/Getty Images for American Express


The holiday shopping season has officially kicked off and gift-givers everywhere are seeking out some of the hottest items in the world in the hopes of scoring the most in demand items. However, those who have been hoping to score a new pair of Adidas Yeezy Boost 350 V2 "Beluga 2.0" shoes may be finding themselves out of luck as they try to get a hold of the highly coveted shoes.
The newest design in the collection, a collaboration between the sports apparel maker and rapper Kanye West, dropped on Saturday, Nov. 25, and eager shoppers everywhere have been trying to get their hands on them. However, technical issues for those trying to order them online are threatening to keep the shoes out of some shopper's carts entirely.
I just come off in the end.... you have no sign of where u are in the line, there is no update.... same page with the same circle rotating. @adidas #YEEZYSEASON
&mdash; knighty (@LeonKnight_) November 25, 2017
Thanks @adidasoriginals let’s me in, but doesn’t even let me verify the captcha page___#yeezy #YeezySeason #YEEZYBOOST #yeezysupply pic.twitter.com/ORoKkLZjeP
&mdash; Vin O_o (@VinO___o) November 25, 2017
4 websites set up at 10am on my computer, iphone and tv... still wasn&#39;t able to cop a pair of yeezy beluga 2.0, mane I hate bots and resellers ___‍♂️ #YeezySeason #IQuit
&mdash; HD (@17HugoD) November 25, 2017
I&#39;ve decided I&#39;m jumping off a bridge after being let into the website to buy the yeezys and it took me off I WANNA DIE @SlLLY @FaZeRug @theyeezymafia @FaZeRug pic.twitter.com/WWAROWMuZs
&mdash; Preavai (@Preavai) November 25, 2017
However, some others have found luck on scoring the shoes by seeking them out in stores, and while some may want to avoid the malls and stores in general, there may be several options for those brave enough to trek outside and away from the computer. While many are focusing on online orders and raffles, other retailers who are offering them may still have them in stock in stores. According to Sole Collector, a number of Adidas stores were set to carry the shoes, including U.S. locations in Atlanta, New York, Chicago, Houston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles and more.
Of course, a big focus on the shoes remains online, with raffles to access a pair from several footwear outlets. Most of these raffles seem to have already ended, however, Shoe Palace still has one going which will allow eager consumers to enter for one last chance to get the shoes.
According to that website, the raffle will be open until Monday, Nov. 27, and only those who win the raffle will be allowed to purchase the shoes.
"Winners will be contacted via email on how to purchase. Raffle starts Monday, Nov. 20th at 6:00AM PST and closes Monday, Nov. 27 at 12:00 AM PST. Winners will be notified by email on Tuesday, Nov. 28th after 12 p.m. PST," the website reads.
These shoes are the second release from the Yeezy collection in the last week. The Yeezy Boost "Semi-Frozen Yellow" shoes were released on Nov. 18.
There are still ways to get the newest Yeezy shoes. Pictured are models wearing Yeezy Boost shoes during the Kanye West Yeezy Season 3 show in New York on Feb. 11, 2016.  Photo: JP Yim/Getty Images for Yeezy Season 3


The figure behind the Wendy’s social media machine has once again shown their internet prowess with a hit on rival fast-food McDonald's. Wendy’s went after the purveyor of the Big Mac in a hilarious Friday tweet.
“Black Friday ***** Need copy and link *****,” McDonald's tweeted Friday in what can only be assumed was an accidental post.
Wendy’s quickly took advantage of the social media mishap.
“When the tweets are as broken as the ice cream machine,” Wendy’s wrote in a retweet.

Wendy’s has been cultivating a hilarious social media presence in recent years, particularly in response to McDonald's. When McDonald's announced in March it would start using fresh beef in its Quarter Pounders at the “majority” of its restaurants, Wendy’s once again went in.
“So you’ll still use frozen beef in MOST of your burgers in ALL of your restaurants?” Wendy’s wrote back. “Asking for a friend.”
Wendy’s also trolled McDonald's in October after the Golden Arches brought “Rick and Morty’s” Szechuan sauce to its restaurants but quickly ran out of supply. Wendy’s responded to numerous tweets from users about McDonald’s sauce by roasting its competitor.
“@Wendys how can you top McDonalds Szechuan Sauce?” one user wrote.
“We’ll start by actually having our sauce,” Wendy’s replied.
Wendy’s has been lauded for its cunning on social media - and it apparently knows its strengths.
“We like our tweets the same way we like our hamburgers,” the company’s Twitter bio reads. “Better than anyone expects from a fast food joint.” 
It’s safe to say Wendy’s won't be ending its Twitter war on McDonald’s anytime soon.



Following  a major investigation that found flaws in YouTube ability to flag predatory content in the comments section of children's videos, several companies are pulling their ads from YouTube.
Mars, Cadbury, Deutsche Bank, Lidl and others have either suspended or pulled their ads until the problem is resolved. “We are shocked and appalled to see that our adverts have appeared alongside such exploitative and inappropriate content,” a spokesperson from Mars said. “We have taken the decision to immediately suspend all our online advertising on YouTube and Google globally. Until we have confidence that appropriate safeguards are in place, we will not advertise on YouTube and Google.”
According to a statement  provided to the Guardian, Lidl is suspending its ads from YouTube as well. “It is completely unacceptable that this content is available to view and it is, therefore, clear that the strict policies which Google has assured us were in place to tackle offensive content are ineffective. We have suspended all of our YouTube advertising with immediate effect.”
Some companies, like Adidas, said they were aware of the issues but did not announce a YouTube ad suspension. “We recognize that this situation is clearly unacceptable and have taken immediate action, working closely with Google on all necessary steps to prevent this from happening again,”  Adidas said.
According to the BBC report the problem stemmed from flags comments not being associated with a correct video. Sources told the BBC that moderators could see if an account had been flagged but not the specific comment or video that led to the report.  There could be upwards of “at least 50,000 active predators” on YouTube today, the BBC reports.
The comments could range from suggestions to outright obscene. Comments like "oh baby," "nice sexy" and even "please can you get completely naked" were comments found on videos children posted to YouTube.
This week YouTube announced it was 'toughening' its approach to 'protect families' on its service. "In recent months, we've noticed a growing trend around content on YouTube that attempts to pass as family-friendly, but is clearly not,”  YouTube said in a statement. “While some of these videos may be suitable for adults, others are completely unacceptable, so we are working to remove them from YouTube.”
New YouTube comment protections include:
Tougher application of our Community Guidelines and faster enforcement through technology
Removing ads from inappropriate videos targeting families
Blocking inappropriate comments on videos featuring minors
Providing guidance for creators who make family-friendly content
Engaging and learning from experts
You can read YouTube’s full strategy to combat predatory YouTube comments  here.
“Across the board we have scaled up resources to ensure that thousands of people are working around the clock to monitor, review and make the right decisions across our ads and content policies,” Johanna Wright, Vice President of Product Management at YouTube said in a statement. “These latest enforcement changes will take shape over the weeks and months ahead as we work to tackle this evolving challenge. We’re wholly committed to addressing these issues and will continue to invest the engineering and human resources needed to get it right. As a parent and as a leader in this organization, I’m determined that we do.”


South Korean authorities reportedly raided Apple’s office in Seoul earlier this week, just ahead of the launch of the company's 2017 flagship — the iPhone X.
While both Apple and South Korean authorities are silent on the reason for the raids, a report in Metro.UK on Thursday said it was done with regard to Apple’s business practices in the country.
According to both Metro and Apple Insider, the timing of the raid is conspicuous and could have been done to hamper the success of the iPhone X, which is launching in the country on Friday.
South Korea is the home ground of Apple’s biggest rival — Samsung. While Samsung’s flagships for the year — Samsung Galaxy S8 and Note 8 — have done well in terms of sales, the iPhone X has definitely outperformed them globally. Apple's devices are also fast catching up to Samsung's offerings in South Korea itself. 
An investigation was launched last year into Apple’s business dealings will local carriers with the South Korean Free Trade Commission. The South Korean FTC has been specifically looking into the company’s contract terms with local carriers, which included the carriers signing up for a specific number of iPhones, sharing a burden of the repair costs and the limitation period of an year on all repair firms for any disputes with Apple.
The circumspect timing hints at the connection between local smartphone makers and the South Korean government. Samsung and its affiliates have a deep reach in the South Korean economy — the company is responsible for one-fifth of the country’s economy.
iPhone X has been already declared sold out in South Korea since pre-order opened in the country. It has been reported that the device’s pre-orders in the country exceed 300,000 putting a huge dent in its rival’s sales. This is too close for comfort for Samsung, which has a big following in the country. Its Galaxy Note 8 received 3,95,000 pre-orders in South Korea in the first 24 hours after its launch in the country in August.
Samsung, on the other hand, has been previously accused of bribing South Korean government officials — its heir Lee Jae-Yong was arrested last year on bribery and other charges.
The South Korean government was accused in 2015 by Roger Kay, the associate president of tech company Endpoint Technologies, of running a protectionist agenda in the country. In his article in Forbes, which was published on June 22, Kay accused the South Korean FTC of giving preferential treatment to local firms in comparison to international firms.
“The KFTC [Korea Fair Trade Commission] has pretty much run amok in recent years, slapping spurious charges on foreign companies as it attempts to execute a protectionist agenda that it thinks benefits entrenched South Korean manufacturing interests,” Kay stated in his article.
Despite such issues, Apple has been steadily gaining traction in the South Korean smartphone market and currently holds a massive 33 percent market share in the country.


America’s first president without prior public sector experience has sent share prices in careening in various directions with a tweet or two, and has engulfed CEOs in glory or ignominy with insults or inclusion in his litany of advisory councils. In a nutshell, Donald Trump has put many companies and their leaders — including Uber Technologies Inc., Facebook Inc., Lockheed Martin Corp. and Boeing Co., to name a few — at risk.
A new study from researchers in the U.S. and Europe seeks to predict what those companies do in response.



Measuring firms’ political risk by examining the frequency with which executives mention political topics during their quarterly earnings conference calls, the authors found that, when corporations face threats of, say, a government shutdown or the U.K.’s exit from the European Union, they use the tools at their disposal to make their circumstances more favorable. 
Those tools include freezes on hiring and investment, but also upticks in lobbying, campaign finance and “forg[ing] links to politicians,” according to the study, which was published this week in the National Bureau of Economic Research. Perhaps more worrisome for those in favor of a government free of private sector influence, they found, was that “such active engagement in the political process is primarily concentrated among larger firms.”
The effects of political risk, according to the authors — from Boston University; Tilburg University, in the Netherlands; the Frankfurt School of Finance and Management, in Germany, and the London Business School — varied across firms that shared a sector or industry. This variation, they wrote, indicated “that the economic impact of political risk is not well described by conventional models in which individual firms have relatively stable exposures to aggregate political risk.”
Put simply, a single oil company’s reaction to tax reform or stricter environmental protection measures, for example, may differ substantially from the energy market’s response, let alone that of the private sector as a whole. And the bigger the corporation, the more effort it pours into government influence. 
The implications extend beyond the potential for private companies to pay for greater influence over policy than regular American citizens. Money spent on campaign finance and lobbying represents a “socially wasteful diversion of resources,” the authors wrote. Slowing productivity by halting hiring and investment, meanwhile, can stunt the economy, depending on the size of the firm in question or the number of companies responding to political discord.


Elon Musk, the South African inventor and founder of Tesla Inc., unveiled his company’s shiny new semi trucks and Roadster sports car last week to much fanfare, and the New York Post reported Wednesday that the firm finished construction of the world’s largest lithium ion battery as part of a multi-million-dollar contract with the South Australian government. 
But a new Bloomberg report more or less rained doom and gloom on those parades.
Taking a look at the company’s expenses over the past year, reporters Nabila Ahmed and Sally Bakewell crunched the numbers and found that Tesla burned through nearly half a million dollars per hour over that period. The automaker, they wrote, is set to run out of money by early August. 
Shares hardly budged in the wake of the Bloomberg story, falling to $312.60 by market close Wednesday, down from $317.80 just ahead of the close on Tuesday and a spike to $322.87 the morning after Musk’s big truck reveal. 
The company reported a net loss of over $773 million last year — down from close to $889 million in 2015 but more than 2.5 times 2014’s more than $294 million loss — according to its most recent annual Securities and Exchange Commission filing. Its revenues, meanwhile, spiked to over $7 billion in 2016 from $4.05 billion and $3.2 billion in 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Revenues rely mainly on auto sales, of which Musk, who is also the chairman and CEO, promised a record number for the fourth quarter of 2017. Still, that pledge came with a note that might scare Tesla shareholders: $1 billion in projected capital expenditures over the same three-month period.
Musk’s promises came in a letter to shareholders a little over a year after his 14-year-old company’s second-ever profitable quarter — and a little under a year after Tesla acquired what Musk wrote that he believes is becoming another moneymaker for the company. On Nov. 21, 2016, Tesla closed its $2.1 billion purchase of the energy company SolarCity Corp., and added hundreds of millions in energy generation and storage revenues ever since.
“Energy generation with Solar Roof will become a bigger portion of our business next year,” Musk wrote investors, citing an increase in residential solar system purchases, relative to leases, in the third quarter. “As we fine-tune and standardize the production and installation process, we expect to ramp Solar Roof production considerably in 2018.”
Although those revenues were still dwarfed by those stemming from car sales, the company has certainly turned its attention to solar on the lobbying front, spending tens of thousands of dollars lobbying Congress to pass legislation in favor its interests in solar energy policy over the past year, federal lobbying documents show.


The 91st annual parade of floats snaking down Manhattan from 77th Street and Central Park West to 7th Avenue and 34th Street has, for many, officially kicked off the holiday season Thursday morning. It also comes with a price tag.
The official costs remain a mystery, as Macy’s Inc. keeps the numbers under wraps, but estimates abound. Just filling those balloons with hundreds of thousands of cubic feet of helium — of which Macy’s is the world’s second largest consumer, after the U.S. government — costs more than half a million dollars, according to CBS. The total annual cost, including float decorations and supplies, staff salaries, costumes and property taxes, the broadcast network found, reaches a staggering $11.6 million to $13.4 million, on average, while each new balloon costs its sponsoring company close to $200,000.
Macy’s, however, reuses plenty of costumes and supplies, rather than starting from scratch each year. Regardless, those expenses represent just a roughly 2 percent dent in Macy’s profits for 2016, down to $611 million from $1.07 billion the previous year, according to the company’s annual Securities and Exchange Commission filing.
Though Macy’s net income may have dropped precipitously year-over-year — in 2014, it stood at around $1.5 billion — times aren’t as tough for the department store’s Thanksgiving Day Parade as they were in the years during World War II. The 1942, 1943 and 1944 parades were halted that year, due to a rubber shortage and the need for helium to inflate U.S. Navy blimps, according to TIME’s brief history of the annual event.
On the other hand, one thing likely driving costs upward this year is heightened security. In the wake of a terrorist attack just south of the route that killed eight people and injured 11 on Halloween this year, security measures at the event included officers wielding assault weapons and carrying radiation detectors, sanitation trucks serving as street-crossing barriers and even sharpshooters eyeing crowds for threats from nearby rooftops, according to USA Today.
In addition to the recent shooting, violence in Las Vegas and a southern Texas town, as well as the Islamic State militant group’s reported designation of the parade as an “excellent target” in the fall of 2016, may give parade-goers pause, but the New York City Police Department was sure to dispel any notion that proper safety was too costly for the city to handle.



Delayed or canceled flights are known to be an annoyance to passengers traveling on or around the holidays. But a group of travelers at the Toronto Pearson International Airport awaiting a delayed flight appeared to make the best of their situation Monday as they broke into song and dance in a series of videos that have since gone viral.
A room full of WestJet passengers awaiting boarding for a flight from Toronto to St. John’s were filmed by fellow passenger Michelle Sacrey Philpott singing folk songs such as “Sweet Forget Me Not,” “Grey Foggy Day,” and “Aunt Martha’s Sheep,” among others. Some passengers were seen dancing as well.

The videos, which were posted on Philpott’s Facebook page, have since been viewed tens of thousands of times.
“Everyone was talking about the videos when we got off the flight because so many people seen it, it was quite funny,”  Philpott told CBC of the videos.
Philpott, who was on her way to Newfoundland by way of the Canadian budget carrier,  told NTV that she’s been contacted by people thanking her for sharing the videos.
“People have been emailing me saying, ‘I’m homesick, I’m away, and this just reminds me of Newfoundland,’” Philpott said.

Sheldon Thornhill and Sean Sullivan were two of the musicians filmed respectively playing the accordion and a guitar. According to Sullivan, his playing music for passersby is a semi-regular occurrence.
“My buddy with the [accordion], Sheldon ... I’m a bit shyer than he is,” Sullivan told CBC. “Anytime we’re gathered around airports like that, he’s often taking out his accordian just out of the blue and start playing for people.”
But Thornhill described the event as a “spontaneous decision” in an  interview with CTV.
“We put smiles on their faces,” Thornhill said. “That’s what we’re all about. That’s what turns us on.”
Toronto Pearson International Airport commented on the viral videos Tuesday morning, writing, “This is what happens when a delayed flight turns into a Newfoundland kitchen party!”


The ongoing feud between President Donald Trump and Big Baller Brand entrepreneur LaVar Ball has provided free publicity for the outspoken basketball dad and his sports apparel company.
According to Apex Marketing Group, a company that examines sports profits, Big Ball Brand has gained an estimated $13.2 million in free digital and TV advertising since Trump and Ball have been exchanging grievances.
"This back and forth with Donald Trump has extended the brand awareness outside of just sports," Apex Marketing Group Eric Smallwood told Yahoo Sports Wednesday. "People who don’t follow sports are starting to get more awareness of the brand. To have that reaction from someone as high up as Trump, it has definitely helped [Ball] reach a larger audience."
Trump and Ball have been in the news since the Big Baller Brand owner seemingly downplayed Trump’s role in the release of his son LiAngelo Ball and two UCLA Bruins players who had been arrested last week for shoplifting in China. Trump, who made a two-day visit to the country, claimed he expedited the case when he asked Chinese president Xi Jinping to help.
After the president heard Ball’s comments, he took to Twitter, called the basketball dad "ungrateful" and suggested he should have "left his son in China." Ball appeared on CNN Monday night and insisted that he didn’t need to thank the president. Trump took to Twitter once again regarding the incident.
"It wasn’t the White House, it wasn’t the State Department, it wasn’t father LaVar’s so-called people on the ground in China that got his son out of a long term prison sentence — IT WAS ME. Too bad! LaVar is just a poor man’s version of Don King, but without the hair," Trump tweeted.
Since the feud, Ball has been the subject of jokes on NBC's famed comedy show "Saturday Night Live." "Late Show" host Stephen Colbert even dedicated a monologue about Ball Monday night, which has helped increase his company’s exposure, according to Bob Dorfman, executive director of San Francisco-based Baker Street Advertising.
"It’s getting Ball’s face out there to an audience that had either never heard of him or had heard of him but didn’t know a lot about him," Dorfman told Yahoo. "If exposure is half the problem, then I think it’s got to help."
Big Ball Brand was founded by LaVar Ball in 2016.  Photo: Getty Images


Some people take to the couch after a big Thanksgiving dinner, but others prefer some retail therapy. Plenty of stores will be open for business on Thursday night.
Kmart is the earliest riser with stores opening at 6 a.m. local time on Thanksgiving. Other stores will hold off until the afternoon or evening. Similarly, Walmart will be open all day, but Thanksgiving deals don’t start until 6 p.m. Meanwhile, Black Friday favorites like Best Buy and Target won’t open until 5 p.m. and 6 p.m., respectively.
Some stores, of course, do not participate in Thanksgiving sales. Costco, BJ’s Wholesale Club, TJ Maxx and Babies R Us are just a few of the major chains that will keep their doors closed on Nov. 23.
Walmart will be one of many stores open on Thanksgiving Day 2017. Photo: Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty Images
Then there are some stores that just can’t open on holidays. Maine, Massachusetts and Rhode Island shoppers have to wait until Black Friday to do their shopping. Stores in those states are closed on Thursday due to local laws.
The following stores will be open in states where it’s legal. Remember to check with your local store in advance as some locations will not participate in holiday hours.
Abercrombie & Fitch: 6 p.m. [store locator]
Belk: 4 p.m. [store locator]
Best Buy: 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. [store locator]
Big Lots: 7 a.m. to midnight [store locator]
Bon-Ton: 11 a.m. [store locator]
Boscov’s: 6 p.m. to 1 a.m. [store locator]
Cabela’s: 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. [store locator]
CVS: open, but hours vary [store locator]
Dick’s Sporting Goods: 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. [store locator]
Dollar General: 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. [store locator]
Dunham’s Sports: 4 p.m. to 1 a.m. [store locator]
Express: 6 p.m. [store locator]
Five Below: 6 p.m. to 1 a.m. [store locator]
Hollister: 6 p.m. [store locator]
JCPenney: 2 p.m. [store locator]
Kohl’s: 5 p.m. [store locator]
Kmart: 6 a.m. [store locator]
Loft: select stores open with various hours [list of holiday hours]
Macy’s: 5 p.m. [store locator]
Meijer: 6 a.m. [store locator]
Michaels: 6 p.m. to midnight [store locator]
Modell’s Sporting Goods: 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. [store locator]
Old Navy: most locations open, but hours vary [store locator]
Sears: many locations open, but hours vary [store locator]
Target: 6 p.m. [store locator]
Toys R Us: 5 p.m. [store locator]
Ulta: 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. [store locator]
Victoria’s Secret: many locations open, but hours vary [store locator]
Walgreens: Most stores open with varying hours, but pharmacies are mostly closed [store locator]
Walmart: Black Friday sales start at 6 p.m., but many will be open all day [store locator]


He was one of the Freaks and Geeks, he was the guy trying to forget Sarah Marshall, he wrote a Muppet movie, he starred on “How I Met Your Mother” and he even played David Foster Wallace. Now, in a podcast interview with International Business Times, actor Jason Segel weighs in on the Harvey Weinstein scandal consuming the entertainment industry. The Hollywood veteran said the situation exemplifies how powerful men have “a Jabba the Hutt mentality” in which they exude “a deep down, core belief that everything is purchasable.”
Subscribers can click here to listen to the full podcast interview.
IBT caught up with Segel during his tour to promote a new novel he co-authored called Otherworld. The action-adventure book explores the dark sides of virtual reality and immersive technologies. Segel tells IBT that the book should warn kids that these technologies are not “being offered to you by people who care about your well-being — they’re being offered to you by people who want to monetize your happiness.”
What follows is a lightly edited excerpt of the podcast interview.
Powerful men like Harvey Weinstein have a Jabba the Hutt mentality, says Jason Segel. Photo: Getty Images, Google Images
What prompted you to write a book about virtual reality?
I was trying the Oculus Rift at Sundance Film Festival a few years ago. They had a demo right before the consumer release, and I got put through their demo with a bunch of different scenarios. I remember I thought two things. First, I thought they've finally cracked it. There's this promise of virtual reality since we were kids, but it was always so clunky and it was at the State Fair, and you were so aware that you were wearing this weird suit. I was like, “Oh, they've done it.” It's only going to get better from here.
Then I had this thought: If your life is not a life that you're really enthused by, why would you ever leave this? If you go from working a job you don't enjoy, and an apartment you don't enjoy, to being able to put on a headset and be in a beautiful mansion and be king of your own skull-sized kingdom, as David Foster Wallace quote, why would you ever leave?
Do you think we are headed for a future where we are all plugged into virtual reality and ignoring the world around us?
I think that there are a few actual potential dead-ends to this road we're on. I think there might be some version because I've been forced to think about technology a lot in doing these books. I think there may be some version where we realize you cannot secure things digitally… Your bank account is not safe if it's all digital. Your election is not safe if it's all digital.
Pretty soon, there's always emerging technologies that they say are for film editing. Honestly, where you can replicate somebody's voice with only a 30-minute sample of them talking? You're going to be able to do it visually, too. Then everything is plausible deniability...
This virtual reality in this book is literal but it can also be used as a metaphor. We are in the middle of a “what is real?” revolution. From fake news to the Instagram life that we all present. That's virtual reality.
Our life is not all made up of perfectly staged photos of food, but that's how we present ourselves. Look how great my day was, and all of a sudden people are wondering why they feel less than [everyone else]. Because we're all comparing our insides to other people's outsides.
There is a debate about technology. On one side there are the triumphalists who say technology's going to solve all the world's problems. On the other side are those warning that technology is destroying the world. Where do you come down?
Like any complicated issue, it's a mix of all of those things. But obviously when someone is trying to sell you something, they only put out the positive aspects of it. So we were told this was going to bring us closer together. Social media's going to allow us all to engage with people we never would have the opportunity to talk to or meet.
Then at the same time I think in a lot of ways it's dehumanized us. There's a road rage phenomenon to social media, where people all of a sudden feel comfortable to say horrible things that you would never say to somebody's face in real life. What's really scary is that I think that people are becoming accustomed to that being acceptable… [It] is slowly becoming okay to say those things to people face to face.
We're seeing people clash in these terrible protest, counter protest, and people screaming at each other and so I think in a lot of ways we've become less sophisticated socially because of technology.
Jason Segel has co-authored a new novel called Otherworld, about virtual reality and immersive technologies. Photo: Mike Windle/Getty Images
What do you hope young people take away from your book?
First of all, this is a fun adventure. It's like Last Star Fighter, which are [the] kind of movies I loved. It has all of that stuff, the Matrix. I remember when I saw the Matrix I was like, “Oh, this changes everything for me.” I'll never write something adventure-wise that’s not influenced by the Matrix.
But also, what it really is about is this deep belief I have that we have to make sure not to trade in this living human interaction for this false promise of something better, because none of that is being offered to you by people who care about your well-being. They're being offered to you by people who want to monetize your happiness.
We already are so close to companies like Amazon being able to provide all of your needs. Already, I'd leave my house less…because Amazon will bring it to me. That's not a great thing. There are ways to use [technology] that are important. It's important to get out into your community and to see people. It's about finding that balance.
How do you think the Harvey Weinstein scandal will change Hollywood?
I think my first answer is okay, well obviously we can get out of the way that sexual assault and rape is a terrible thing, so let's get that out of the way as an obvious statement that everybody should accept. I think that there is another really dark issue at play in the whole scenario, which is powerful people — usually powerful men — having a deep down, core belief that everything is purchasable...including your dignity and I will find the price at any cost, and if I don't find the price, I still don't believe you and I'll take it.
It's a really deep, dark, scary point of view. I think it's rearing its ugly head and you're finding out, “Oh, powerful men seem to have that belief.” That's not a belief that I hold and I hope this moment makes everybody sort of look at that idea — that it's not all purchasable, especially dignity. You can't just take what you want.
Do you think the revelations of sexual harassment and sexual assault will make it more difficult to portray issues of gender and sexuality in comedy?
I think first of all, we'll be in a moment of everybody figuring out levels for a long time and appropriately so. We should all be thinking about these issues, thinking in a serious away. Till the dust settles, I don't think anyone should go near those issues, certainly comedically…
I think that there is a real distinction to be drawn between juvenile attitudes and predatory attitudes. Those are really distinctly different things. There are periods where men and women alike are figuring out how to interact with the opposite sex. Those talks need to be able to be had also. That's a living dynamic also, but when it switches into predatory zone, it's a different thing. It's about power.
I don't think that those interactions are very much about sex. It's a Jabba the Hutt mentality of, I'm going to own this. 


Beyonce’s hit album "Lemonade" and her "Formation" world tour helped her become the world’s richest female musician. She had a stellar year which propelled her over pop star Taylor Swift.
Forbes released their annual list of the highest-paid women in music on Monday, which had Beyonce at the No. 1 spot. Last year, the R&B singer earned $150 million from records sales and touring, according to the website. Her tour alone racked in a quarter of a billion dollars.
British singer Adele followed Beyonce at the second spot with an estimated $69 million. Her "25" album broke records in the first week of sales and it won her a Grammy Award for Album of the Year in February. She secured millions during her world tour, her first since 2011. She performed over 100 shows before she canceled her last two due to vocal issues.
"Adele’s music appeals to listeners of all ages all over the world with her undeniably powerful, emotional vocal interpretations paired with timeless songwriting and production," singer-songwriter Skylar Grey told Forbes. "No matter what genre someone generally subscribes to, it’s hard to find a music lover who doesn’t appreciate what she does."
Swift, who topped last year's list with $170 million, came in third with an estimated $44 million in earnings. Swift should see a windfall as she holds the best-selling album of the year so far with "Reputation."
Canadian legend Celine Dion claimed the fourth spot with an estimated $42 million when she returned to her Las Vegas residency in February. She took a sabbatical after her husband Rene Angelil died in January 2016.
"It's been a tough journey," she told E! News July 2016. "Like I say, many times, many people go through this, and you see your husband suffer for three years, and it's not what you want to see. So now I know he is well, and we live with him in a different way. And I see him through the eyes of my children every single day."
Beyonce and husband Jay-Z had two twins, Rumi and Sir this summer.  Photo: Getty Images


John Lasseter, the chief creative officer of Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios, is taking a six-month break from his position after accusations of sexual misconduct. The longtime animator, who helped turn Pixar into an animation powerhouse, has an estimated net worth of $100 million.
As an executive producer and director, Lasseter's films have brought in roughly $11.2 billion in global box-office sales. He directed acclaimed hits "Toy Story," "Toy Story 2," "A Bug's Life," "Cars" and "Cars 2."
Lasseter, 60, has served as the creative director for all of Disney's animated films and projects. He has been credited with reviving Disney's animation unit.
The Hollywood Reporter reported Tuesday that actor Rashida Jones and Will McCormack, her co-writer on “Toy Story 4,″ stepped down from the project after Lasseter made "an unwanted advance." 
In a memo to his staff, Lasseter cited "missteps" for his leave of absence. He added that the decision came after "difficult conversations."
"I’ve recently had a number of difficult conversations that have been very painful for me," Lasseter wrote in the memo. "It’s never easy to face your missteps, but it’s the only way to learn from them. It’s been brought to my attention that I have made some of you feel disrespected or uncomfortable. That was never my intent."
Lasseter joins a long list of high-profile Hollywood men accused of sexual misconduct, including movie mogul Harvey Weinstein, comedian Louis C.K., director Brett Ratner and actor Kevin Spacey.
Disney executive John Lasseter is talking a leave of absence after being accused of sexual misconduct. He is pictured on July, 17, 2017 in Anaheim, Calif. Photo: Getty Images


Facebook allows housing advertisers to target their ads so that they can be hidden from users of a certain race, according to a new investigation by ProPublica. Facebook had previously vowed to better regulate advertisements that could be seen as discriminatory, but the investigation shows that Facebook’s enforcement doesn’t always work.
ProPublica bought dozens of fake rental ads on Facebook, and specified that they not be shown to users in certain categories, such as Spanish speakers, African Americans and people interested in Islam. The ads violated not only Facebook’s own rules, but they also go against the Fair Housing Act. The law prohibits housing ads that “indicate any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.” The ads were approved within in minutes.
“This was a failure in our enforcement and we’re disappointed that we fell short of our commitments,” said Ami Vora, vice president of product management at Facebook, in a statement to ProPublica. “The rental housing ads purchased by ProPublica should have but did not trigger the extra review and certifications we put in place due to a technical failure.”
If not denied outright, the ads should have at least triggered Facebook’s “self-certify” protocol, which prompts users to assert that their ads are in compliance with anti-discrimination laws.
Rachel Goodman, an attorney with the Amercian Civil Liberties Union's Racial Justice Program provided a statement to International Business Times. 
“While we appreciate that Facebook continues to express a desire to get it right on this important civil rights issue, this story highlights the need for greater transparency and accountability. Had outside researchers been able to see and the system Facebook created to catch these ads, those researchers could have spotted this problem and ended the mechanism for discrimination sooner,” said Goodman. “We’re very, very disappointed to see these significant failures in Facebook’s system for identifying and preventing discrimination in advertisements for rental housing.”
ProPublica produced a similar investigation last year, in which they showed housing ads could be bought that target a white-only audience. In February, Facebook introduced new measures that they said would prohibit discriminatory ads.
“Over the past several months, we’ve met with policymakers and civil rights leaders to gather feedback about ways to improve our enforcement while preserving the beneficial uses of our advertising tools,” said Facebook in a press release earlier this year. “We heard concerns that discriminatory advertising can wrongfully deprive people of opportunities and experiences, particularly in the areas of housing, employment and credit, where certain groups historically have faced discrimination.”
Facebook’s ads also came under scrutiny this year because of Congressional investigations into Russian influence on the 2016 presidential election. Facebook testified that Russian ad buys meant to influence voters could have reached the eyes of as many as 126 million Americans.
Facebook is increasingly a place where businesses are going to attract consumers. Last year Facebook took in over 19 percent of all online ad revenue, according to the Interactive Advertising Bureau, netting $14.1 billion. Facebook ad spending accounted for 40 percent of the overall increase in ad revenue between 2015 and 2016.
UPDATE: Wednesday, Nov. 22, 2017 at 12:26 p.m. EST: Facebook's Vora provided a longer statement about ProPublica's reporting to International Business Times in response to this article. 
“This was a failure in our enforcement and we’re disappointed that we fell short of our commitments. Earlier this year, we added additional safeguards to protect against the abuse of our multicultural affinity tools to facilitate discrimination in housing, credit and employment. The rental housing ads purchased by ProPublica should have but did not trigger the extra review and certifications we put in place due to a technical failure. Our safeguards, including additional human reviewers and machine learning systems have successfully flagged millions of ads and their effectiveness has improved over time. Tens of thousands of advertisers have confirmed compliance with our tighter restrictions, including that they follow all applicable laws. We don’t want Facebook to be used for discrimination and will continue to strengthen our policies, hire more ad reviewers, and refine machine learning tools to help detect violations. Our systems continue to improve but we can do better. While we currently require compliance notifications of advertisers that seek to place ads for housing, employment, and credit opportunities, we will extend this requirement to ALL advertisers who choose to exclude some users from seeing their ads on Facebook to also confirm their compliance with our anti-discrimination policies – and the law.” -Ami Vora, VP Product Management, Facebook
Facebook ads failed their own protocols.  Photo: Dan Kitwood/GETTY


The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) announced Tuesday it would seek to end regulations that stopped internet providers from limiting to access to certain websites and charging different prices for access to certain parts of the web. Internet and tech companies stand in stark opposition to the move — wanting people to have access to all internet sites, without having to pay extra. Internet users also mocked up photos envisioning what the end of net neutrality might look like.
If you're unawareness of the potential impact repealing #NetNeutrality will bring. Then view the image to get a better understanding. #SpreadTheWord pic.twitter.com/J4n5lH3TRr
— Bill Hatem (@illhate) November 21, 2017
Do you want your Internet to look like this? Fight for #NetNeutrality! pic.twitter.com/OOwx5Yy4SX
— Ben Kermani (@bkermani) November 21, 2017
If you don't fight for #NetNeutrality now, here are the questions you will ask later...Why is... by #gigibsohn pic.twitter.com/rDCWXCs4R2
— Commnexis, Inc. (@Commnexis) November 21, 2017
This is what #NetNeutrality prevents. FCC recommends a full repeal of this protection. Call congress to preserve internet freedom. 202-224-3121 pic.twitter.com/ZCPCd3qRpF
— Cardboard Cory (@CardboardCoryCO) November 21, 2017
The proposal would allow internet providers to block or slow down certain websites or charge variable rates for different streaming quality or other internet services. Regulations that created net neutrality prohibited this behavior. FCC chairman Ajit Pai put forward the proposal, which will be taken up in Dec. 14 vote, as a signature piece of his deregulation agenda. Pai, a Republican, was installed by President Donald Trump. The commission has five seats and the vote is expected to fall along party lines, with the three Republican members voting in favor.
“Under my proposal, the federal government will stop micromanaging the internet,” said Pai in a statement. “Instead, the FCC would simply require internet service providers to be transparent about their practices so that consumers can buy the service plan that’s best for them and entrepreneurs and other small businesses can have the technical information they need to innovate.”
Several internet companies are strongly opposed to the move.
“The FCC’s net neutrality rules are working well for consumers, and we’re disappointed in the proposal released today,” said Google in a statement.
Netflix also said that they didn’t support the FCC.
“Netflix supports strong #NetNeutrality. We oppose the FCC's proposal to roll back these core protections,” said Netflix in a tweet.
Netflix supports strong #NetNeutrality. We oppose the FCC's proposal to roll back these core protections.
— Netflix US (@netflix) November 21, 2017
Earlier this year a large number of websites participated in an online protest to preserve the open internet, asking people to call their congressional leaders. The websites included Netflix, Reddit, Vimeo and Twitter.


A recent British Airways survey finds that the majority (59 percent) of airline travelers say it’s perfectly fine to remove your shoes during a flight.
The airline etiquette survey of more than 1,500 travelers from the United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany and Italy found wide disparities in how some passengers view privacy and courtesy. Among the findings, two-thirds (67 percent) say that passengers should only commandeer one armrest and leave the other one open. In regards to chattiness, 83 percent of travelers said conversation with other passengers or people sitting next to you should end after a “hi and a smile.”
Forty-two percent of U.S. travelers said it’s completely unacceptable to share personal stories with other passengers, while U.K. passengers suggested the top way for avoiding conversation is simply to use the restroom.
Americans were much less likely to sign on to the shoeless policy, with 60 percent saying its ok versus 78 percent of British respondents. And although the majority still backed taking one’s shoes off, 87 percent of survey respondents said removing your socks is not tolerable.

Sleeping on crowded flights as well as asking permission to move from one’s seat also saw highly opinionated responses. Eighty percent of travelers said it’s fine to wake up a neighboring passenger in order to use the restroom. But only half that percentage said you can take that opportunity more than once per flight. One-third of those surveyed said they would climb over a sleeping passenger in order to use the bathroom.
And how to do people prefer to climb over a fellow passenger? More than half (54 percent) said the best etiquette for physically maneuvering around them is slither by them face-to-face.
Nearly half of respondents said that the middle armrest on flights is on a first-come, first-serve basis. Although French travelers were twice as likely than all other nationalities to avoid armrests altogether. British passengers were the most likely to move to an empty seat once the seat belt sign was turned off, but 62 percent of Americans said people should wait and ask a flight attendant.
Just slightly more than 1-in-10 U.S. respondents (11 percent) said they would poke a sleeping neighbor who is snoring too loudly, while twice that amount of British passengers would do the same. But 66 percent overall said the best etiquette is too simply ignore a passengers who is snoring obscenely loud.
The most agreement among passengers from every country pertained to bright device screens: 92 percent of travelers said you should dim phones, tablets or computers when the cabin lights are off.


The release of the so-called “Paradise Papers” touched off new scrutiny of how moguls, celebrities and politicians stash their cash in offshore tax havens. The practice, though, is hardly limited to the global elite. In fact, government documents show that state and local officials have sent hundreds of billions of dollars of public sector workers’ retirement savings to a tiny archipelago most famous for white-sand beaches — and laws that shield investors from taxes.  
Operating outside the U.S. legal system, the offshore accounts in the Cayman Islands give Wall Street firms leeway to make complex international investments and to earn big fees off investors' capital. But with offshore accounts featuring prominently in high-profile Ponzi schemes, some critics warn that the use of tax havens can endanger the retirement savings of millions of teachers, firefighters, cops and other public workers — a situation that could put taxpayers on the hook for losses if the investments go bust, or the money goes missing.
The tidal wave of cash has flowed from public pension systems into so-called “alternative investments”: private equity, hedge funds, venture capital firms and real estate. While many alternative investment firms operate in Lower Manhattan, more than a third of all the cash in those private funds flows through vehicles domiciled in the Caymans, according to Securities and Exchange Commission  records reviewed by International Business Times. Those same records show that public pension plans, university endowments and other nonprofits have funneled a massive $1.8 trillion into alternative investments.
“Based on SEC data, it appears that public pensions alone hold around $300 billion offshore in the Cayman Islands in hedge funds and private equity,” said Chris Tobe, a former state pension trustee and author of the book “Kentucky Fried Pensions.”
In recent years, SEC regulators have tried to  crack down on alternative investment firms’ fee schemes that regulators say can end up enriching money managers at the expense of investors. At the same time, state officials and investor groups have pushed for more transparency in the alternative investment industry as a whole.
But with so many of the investments now running through a maze of shell companies in lightly regulated tax havens, some experts say the outflow creates the conditions for rampant fee abuse and financial shenanigans — and prevents pension officials and law enforcement officials from even knowing exactly where billions of dollars of public money is being held.
“The additional risks related to investing in funds established, regulated and custodied in tax havens are real,” former SEC attorney Edward Siedle has warned.
A trove of confidential hedge fund documents reviewed by IBT shows that major financial industry players acknowledge some of the potential risks that can arise when money is invested outside the United States. The documents show that in the fine print of their agreements, the firms admit that shifting cash to less-well-regulated foreign locales can end up putting money into brokerages that may not adhere to traditional banking regulations. They also acknowledge that moving money into international securities can reduce basic protections for investors and ultimately increase the risk of significant losses.
“How does investing in funds established in loosely regulated offshore tax havens benefit government workers — participants in a pension that doesn’t even pay taxes?” Siedle has written.
One answer to that question, say lawyers, involves pension systems seeking to preserve their existing tax exemptions. Under laws passed in the  1960s, those tax-exempt entities would have to pay taxes on the kinds of debt-financed earnings involved in private equity and hedge fund investments — but they  can avoid those levies if they first route their investments through “blocker” corporations in tax-free jurisdictions like the Caymans.
“This is very standard planning — it’s a plain vanilla technique,” said the Tax Policy Center’s Steven Rosenthal, a former partner at the global law firm Ropes & Gray LLP, who advised universities on investments.
Public pension systems vary in how they report their investments. Many simply list the firms that are managing retirees’ money, but not where the firms are located, or whether the funds are ultimately being moved offshore. However, occasional references to offshore funds are scattered throughout public filings.
In South Carolina, for instance, the  annual report for the government workers’ retirement system listed nearly $60 million invested in a Cayman-based fund run by Reservoir Capital Partners, which received more than $2 million in fees from the state last year. In New Jersey, state investment officials have in recent years committed more than a quarter-billion dollars of state pension money to hedge funds based in the  Cayman Islands and  Bermuda, the country at the center of the Paradise Papers controversy. And in Texas, a 2015 report from the teachers retirement system showed the state paying a combined $13 million in fees to Cayman-based funds run by Bain Capital and Soroban Capital Partners.
Siedle told IBT that Wall Street firms may set up shell corporations in tax havens “not to help public pension fund investors, but really to protect the managers from taxes and regulations.”
A  2008 Government Accountability Office report detailed some of the potential benefits financial managers can glean from domiciling their operations in the Caymans. The agency found that “some U.S. persons can minimize their U.S. tax obligations by using Cayman Islands entities to defer U.S. taxes on foreign income.” GAO also warned that “some persons have conducted financial activity in the Cayman Islands in an attempt to avoid discovery and prosecution of illegal activity by the United States.”
Law firms openly promote the benefits of offshore investment vehicles.
“The tax exempt, tax transparent, non-regulated and highly flexible nature of the [exempted limited partnership] and the absence of regulatory or licensing requirements touching the general partner, together with the flexibility of the Cayman Islands exempted limited company, combine to make the Cayman Islands the preeminent jurisdiction for offshore private equity funds,” said a recent  memo from Mourant Ozannes, an offshore law firm whose  website says it is “advising many of the world's foremost financial institutions” on the laws in the Caymans, British Virgin Islands, Guernsey and Jersey.
“The American People Are Not Against Offshore Wealth”
In the political arena, members of both parties have offered varied messages about the flow of American capital offshore.
Republicans faced Democratic attacks over  Mitt Romney’s involvement with Cayman funds, but four years later, Republican Donald Trump ran for president promising to discourage the use of offshore tax havens. Some Democrats have sponsored  legislation designed to try to stop the use of offshore tax havens. During the 2012 election, though, the Cayman Islands Journal reported that longtime Democratic Party official Donna Brazile  told investors at a Cayman Islands conference that “the American people are not against offshore wealth, offshore ‘tax havens’, but they’re often told that, you know, this is taking something away from them."
When it comes to billions of dollars of public pension money leaving the country, Rosenthal said there is nothing inherently problematic about tax exempt organizations using offshore accounts to avoid taxes.
“If you thought the rules about debt-financed income make a lot of sense, then sure, you could get worked up about how this kind of tax planning contravenes congressional intent,” he told IBT. “But I don’t think those rules make a lot of sense, and this is an alternative way to structure investments to sidestep those rules.”
Some lawmakers have disagreed.
In 2007, Michigan Rep. Sander Levin, a Democrat,  proposed a bill to allow tax-exempt organizations such as pension systems to invest directly in private equity and hedge funds, without incurring the tax on debt-financed income — a move designed to discourage the use of foreign blocker corporations.
Two years later, his brother, then-Sen. Carl Levin, introduced  legislation that would have subjected offshore blocker corporations to U.S. taxes. Both measures were designed to keep investments within the domestic financial system and to discourage the use of offshore vehicles, but some lawyers who help financial firms navigate tax laws warned that the Senate legislation would harm the alternative investment industry.
“If enacted [the bill] could significantly reduce investment in U.S. hedge and private equity funds,”  wrote Steve Bortnick of Pepper Hamilton, a compliance law firm. “The provision would tax income that simply should not be taxed in the U.S. (i.e., foreign source income) or tax it at inappropriate rates. This likely would force these funds to restructure in a manner that nevertheless would alienate tax-exempt and foreign investors. At a time when the U.S. economy is struggling, these provisions appear to establish an unnecessary impediment to investment in U.S. investment funds.”
Proponents of the legislation argued that offshore vehicles were being abused to help financial managers shield themselves from taxes.
“This would prevent companies (notably hedge funds) that are American for all practical purposes from avoiding U.S. taxes by claiming to be a foreign company simply because it did certain paperwork and maintains a post office box in a tax haven country,” declared  Citizens for Tax Justice when the senate initiative was launched.
The Managed Funds Association, the  self-described “voice of the global alternative investment industry,” was among the universities, foundations and advocacy groups lobbying Congress and the Internal Revenue Service on Sander Levin’s  bill, federal lobbying  forms show. The organization  also lobbied throughout 2009 on Carl Levin’s bill. Other financial industry players that lobbied on the bill included the Blackstone Group LP, Credit Suisse, the  American Bankers Association, the Investment Company Institute, the  Cayman Islands Financial Services Association and the  Private Equity Council.
The legislation never passed.
“A Number Of Unusual Risks, Including Inadequate Investor Protection”
As public pension money continues to move offshore, taxes are not the only policy question at issue. There is also the matter of potential risks associated with investments outside of the United States.
One set of risks has to do with regulations — or lack thereof.
“Tax havens generally have laxer laws and oversight than in the United States,” wrote researchers Norman Silber and John Wei in a recent Hofstra University  study of offshore investments. “The use of foreign blocker corporations also reduces the amount of information available to the government and the public.”
Some potential risks are outlined in documents from major hedge funds that have managed public pension money. While those documents are confidential — and have been exempted from state open records laws, at the behest of the financial industry — IBT reviewed some that show hedge fund managers admitting the potentially enormous risks of shifting retirees’ money outside the U.S. financial system. 
For instance, 2015 documents from a Canyon Partners fund based in the Caymans tell investors that the fund is registered under a Cayman law that “does not involve a detailed examination of the merits of the fund or substantive supervision of the investment performance of the fund by the Cayman Islands government.” It also tells investors that “there is no financial obligation or compensation scheme imposed on or by the government of the Cayman Islands in favor of or available to the investors in the fund.”
A similar 2015 document from a Cayman-based Fir Tree Partners fund notes that while there is a Monetary Authority in the Caymans, “the fund is not subject to supervision in respect of its investment activities or the constitution of its investment assets by the Authority or any other governmental authority.”
The Cayman-based funds say they can move investors’ money into foreign assets. In separate disclosures applying more broadly to those assets, the hedge funds acknowledge the risk of international investing in emerging markets. These specific risk disclosures apply only to the international assets that the Cayman funds are investing in — and not the Cayman funds themselves. However, the disclosures appear to illustrate the general risks pension systems may face when they move money outside the U.S. financial system.  For example:
Government records and reports from the financial analysis firm Preqin show that public pension systems in  Rhode Island,  Texas,  Florida,  California,  Florida,  Arizona,  Oregon,  Illinois, Washington, Louisiana, New York and  New Jersey have invested in at least one of these aforementioned hedge funds.
“Shareholders May Be Unable To Liquidate Their Investment"
There is also the issue of investor rights. Last year, Rhode Island retirees sounded an alarm about the prospect of their state pension system’s financial managers allowing certain anonymous investors to receive more favorable terms from the same funds in which the pension system puts its money. They asserted that such schemes could end up enriching anonymous investors and financial managers at the pension fund's expense. Other experts have  warned that because firms’ investments are not independently valued by third-parties, managers can use their own valuation process to fleece investors.
Those potential dangers were spelled out in 2015 documents from Luxor Capital and AQR funds in the Caymans, where, according to the Tax Policy Center’s Rosenthal, foreign investors and managers can avoid filing IRS disclosure paperwork and exposing themselves to U.S. transparency laws.
The Luxor fund, said the documents, had signed “side letter” agreements that allow the firm to provide certain shareholders “access to more frequent and/or more detailed information regarding the fund’s securities positions...performance, finances, and management.” That includes “notification of the commencement of certain disciplinary actions, legal proceedings, investigations or similar matters against the fund...possibly enabling such shareholders to better assess the prospects and performance of the fund.”
The documents also said “the fund may give certain shareholders the right to redeem all or a portion of their shares on shorter notice and/or with more frequency,” and that “shareholders may be unable to liquidate their investment promptly in the event of an emergency or for any other reason.”
The AQR fund, meanwhile, warns that it could put investors’ money into assets that “may be extremely difficult to value accurately.” That means “there is a risk that an investor that makes a redemption while the Fund holds such investments will be paid an amount significantly less than it would otherwise be paid if the actual value of such investments is higher than the value designated.”
Preqin data show pension funds in Texas have invested in Luxor’s Cayman-based fund, and government records show the state teachers’ retirement system has paid the offshore fund more than $21 million in fees between  2013 and 2015.
Most Cayman-based hedge fund firms managing pension money — including those whose documents IBT reviewed — are registered with the SEC. However, that does not necessarily mean the agency or American courts have as much power over them as they do over onshore funds.
“The Cayman Islands’ strong bank secrecy laws help shield assets,” wrote University of Hawaii accounting professor Thomas Pearson in a 2009 paper. “Therefore, because of concern that not all the assets are apparent or accessible, a U.S. bankruptcy court may refuse to provide assistance to liquidation of hedge funds domiciled in the Cayman Islands.  Although the SEC has tried to collaborate with authorities offshore, hedge funds’ use of the Cayman Islands or another tax haven country lowers their risk that the SEC or other major securities regulators can acquire the real identity of certain traders and properly enforce insider trading laws.”
Taken together, the risks of investing offshore are significant, said Deborah Hicks Medanek, whose  firm, the Solon Group, advises corporations on restructuring.
“If I were a fiduciary responsible for a large pension fund, I would be very careful not to assume that the legal environment in Cayman or Curacao or the British Virgin Islands was really similar to the legal environment I’m used to,”  Medanek told IBT. “You cannot assume that the same kind of investor protections are out there. If I’m sitting there as a fiduciary of a public pension fund, my ass is already seriously on the line for people who can’t afford not to have pensions when they come due — so I don’t think I’m going to go take those risks, unless I am utterly convinced that the offshore investment gives pensioners access to an attractive manager that’s otherwise not available onshore.”
None of the hedge funds whose documents IBT reviewed offered any on-the-record comments for this story.
“The Fund Will Not Maintain Custody”
Out of all the risks of moving pensioners’ money overseas, few raise as much concern as “custody,” or where pensioners' money and assets are ultimately stored and accounted for, said South Carolina State Treasurer Curtis Loftis. He noted that whereas state and local governments’ investments in stocks and bonds are typically held in U.S.-regulated banks, offshore funds can hold money in opaque accounts and brokerages across the globe.
“Custody was a pretty big part of the  Bernie Madoff and  Jon Corzine problems,” Loftis told IBT, referring to high-profile cases where investors lost their money. “Those guys were custodying money all over the world, allowing them to do all sorts of things with it because offshore does not have the same protections as in the United States. So when public pensions are investing offshore, they are agreeing to have their money custodied in ways that are very risky.”
The hedge fund documents reviewed by IBT underscore Loftis’s assertion.
Under the heading “Absence of Regulatory Oversight,” a Cayman-based Governors Lane vehicle says “the fund will not maintain custody of its securities or place its securities in the custody of a bank or a member of a U.S. securities exchange in the manner required of registered investment companies under rules promulgated by the SEC.” Governors Lane has managed money for the Kentucky public pension system.
Och-Ziff’s documents include similar language, and note that the custody methods means that a bankruptcy “might have a greater adverse effect on the Fund than would be the case if it maintained its accounts to meet the requirements applicable to registered investment companies.”
In its section on custody risk, Mason Capital’s Cayman-based fund says it “may use counterparties and other financial institutions located in various jurisdictions outside the United States” and that “financial institutions may use sub-custodians and disclaim responsibility for any losses.” The firm warns that “investors should assume that the insolvency of any non-U.S. counterparty or other financial institution would result in a loss.”
The custody risks relate to other concerns about the overall governance of Cayman-based investment vehicles. A 2011 Financial Times investigation found that “a small group of Cayman Islands ‘jumbo directors’ are sitting on the boards of hundreds of hedge funds” based there. These directors are supposed to be watching over investors’ money and protecting their interests, but some experts have questioned whether they are adequately independent and able to provide oversight when they are working for so many different funds. Those questions, which have been simmering for years, have resurfaced in a recent hedge fund case in the Caymans.
“With perhaps two-thirds of all hedge funds domiciled in the Cayman Islands, Bermuda, and British Virgin Islands, a web of ‘independent directors’ has developed in these island paradises,” wrote George Mason University professor Janine Wedel, who has studied corruption and corporate governance. “Officially, these directors are independent watchdogs who protect the interests of investors, such as pension funds. The problem is that some appear to be little more than ‘paper directors,’ with perhaps billions of retirement dollars exposed to funds with weak oversight and potentially conflicted governance.”
While these risks of offshore investing may seem hypothetical, a landmark case in Louisiana suggests the opposite. There, three public pension systems found themselves unable to withdraw their collective $144.5 million in investments and earnings from a Cayman Islands-based hedge fund of New York City-based Fletcher Asset Management in 2011. The funds than had to rely on a Cayman court to force the fund to relinquish the money, the Wall Street Journal  reported.
The following year, a Louisiana state legislative auditor produced a  report urging the three pensions to better document any risk that stemming from an inability to quickly and easily withdraw their investments at market price. In 2013, trustees of the pensions  sued affiliates of Fletcher, along with a law firm and an financial services firm involved, for overstating the fund’s value and liquidity.
Months after the case moved to a U.S. federal court, a trustee the pensions appointed — who, after on-site examination in the Cayman Islands, found the fund to be insolvent —  placed the fund and its affiliates into bankruptcy in 2014. The case — which is ongoing  — is exactly the kind of situation that Loftis says he fears for states and cities all over America.
“I’m sure some of these firms set up offshore in order to offer pensions a way to avoid paying taxes, but I’ve always believed it is mostly about the managers creating a way in which they can limit their own taxes and their own legal liability and do whatever they want with the public’s money,” he told IBT. “The custody issue is one of the biggest problems: these offshore accounts mean we don’t really know where all of this money actually is. If we have another economic downturn, I’m not sure the money custodied all over the world ever makes it back home.”


An Icelandic volcano named Öræfajökull has exhibited new geothermal and seismic activity causing the government to issue a warning Friday.
The Icelandic Meteorological Office has issued a yellow alert for the volcano located under Vatnajökull, Iceland's largest glacier. Satellite imaging showed that a half-mile long depression has formed in the ice due to geothermal activity. Icelandic authorities also say that a sulfur smell has been reported nearby at a smaller outlet glacier called Kvíárjökull.
A yellow warning means "Volcano is experiencing signs of elevated unrest above known background levels." The scale has five levels and yellow is third. 
Though the government said there is no sign imminent eruption, they are monitoring Öræfajökull closely.
The Meteorological Office said that seismic activity around the volcano has increased over the past several months as well, indicating increased volcanic activity.
The Meteorological Office said the situation will be monitored in collaboration with scientists from the University of Iceland and the Icelandic Civil Protection Authorities. The Icelandic Coast Guard will fly over the area to gather more data about the volcano which last erupted in 1727.
Volcanic eruptions can have had a far and wide economic impact for the rest of the globe, especially for air travel. The 2010 eruptions of Eyjafjallajökull caused a widescale shutdown for flights entering airspace near northern Europe. The eruptions themselves were relatively small, but they sent massive plumes of volcanic ash into the skies over Europe disrupting the journies of at least 10 million travelers. Much of Europe’s airspace was closed from April 10 through April 15. It is estimated by the International Air Transport Association that airlines lost a total of around  $1.4 billion because of the eruptions.
Map of Volcano statuses in Iceland. Öræfajökull is the yellow volcano on the southeastern coast.  Photo: Icelandic Meteorological Office


Arkema, the French chemicals company whose plant was the site of multiple explosions during and after Hurricane Harvey, has become the subject of a lawsuit Thursday by Harris County, Texas.
The explosions and chemical fires resulting from the hurricane’s flooding released toxic emissions into the nearby residential neighborhood that left several residents and first responders ill. The county’s lawsuit seeks a $1 million penalty and would force Arkema to undergo an independent audit of its disaster preparedness plans and implement any recommendations of that assessment.
For the county, the priority is more on making sure such a public health emergency does not reoccur.
"We're not so much interested in the penalties as we are in the audit and emergency response plan so that it’s prepared for flooding in the future,” Assistant County Attorney Rock Owens, who handles environmental cases for Harris County, told International Business Times. “We’d like to see Arkema consider hardening their storage facilities so that there’s not such a risk of uncontrolled chemical ignition. That created a lot of dangerous possibilities.”
Owens told IBT that the suit was brought with the full support of the Harris County Commissioners Court because everyone involved wants to make sure that the county does not become “another West, Texas,” referring to the 2013 West Fertilizer Company explosion that left 15 people dead and well over 100 injured.
“Suing a victim is never the right solution to a natural disaster,” Arkema’s attorney Rusty Hardin said, responding to the lawsuit in a statement emailed to IBT. “We are disappointed that this lawsuit was filed when we were in discussions with the county to cooperatively resolve the issues. As they and we all know, this was an extraordinary flooding event.  Arkema and its employees, like other businesses and individuals in Harris County, were victims of this storm.”
An  IBT review of Arkema’s Securities and Exchange Commission filings found that the company had warned its shareholders of the very scenario that occurred in August: a flood causing a power failure that results in a loss of temperature control leading to stored chemicals becoming volatile. So Arkema was aware of the dangers posed by extreme flooding.
Owens, volunteering a response to Arkema’s statement, said that he was “responsible to the six million victims of the storm,” not Arkema. “We knew around August 23rd to expect heavy flooding,” said Owens. “The company had time to consider alternatives to keep those materials high and dry and keep residential neighborhoods safe.”
An  IBT review of lobbying records previously found that Arkema had successfully lobbied to delay the implementation of safety rules that would have required the company to more closely coordinate with first responders in preparing for emergencies such as hurricanes.
When asked if Arkema’s lobbying activity was a concern for the county, Owens responded: “They’re entitled to express their opinions in Washington or Austin. But they’re not entitled to endanger the community.”


A Democratic senator is leading the way to allow payday lenders to escape basic consumer protections. In a rare bipartisan effort in July, Sen. Mark Warner, a former venture capital executive representing Virginia, introduced the  Protecting Consumers' Access to Credit Act of 2017 (S.1642) with three cosponsors: two Republicans and one Democrat. The bill would allow lenders to ignore state interest-rate caps by partnering with a national bank. Most states have interest rate caps of  36 percent, but  15 states have none at all, and the bill could mean that millions of Americans would face rates of 350 percent or more.
In addition to traditional payday lenders, newer financial technology companies want to become bigger players in the high-interest loan business, the Huffington Post  reported Tuesday. Warner is an outspoken  proponent of fintech, and should his bill become law, these companies will be able to partner with major banks, evade interest rate caps and profit off of low-income borrowers facing soaring interest rates. Companies such as LendingClub, Prosper and  LendUp will be able to expand their high-interest lending operations.
According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) — which was established under the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010 to help defend consumers against the fraudulent practices of financial firms that led to the global financial crisis of 2008 — over 19 million American households use payday loans, which include an initial fee of around $15 to $20 per $100 borrowed. After two weeks, 70 percent of these borrowers have to then take out a second loan to cover the first. In many cases, that loan gets “rolled over” into still more loans, and borrowers can get saddled with effective interest rates of over  350 percent on the original.
Since last year, payday lenders have been concerned about a  new rule that was under consideration by the CFPB requiring lenders to assess whether a potential borrower can afford to pay back a loan within 30 days, thus avoiding “payday death traps,” among other measures. The rule, which would seriously disrupt the payday lending business model, was finalized in October but won’t go into effect until mid-2019. Warner and some cosponsors say they support this CFPB rule. In May, as the CFPB was considering these rules, House lawmakers  inserted a provision in its  Financial Choice Act — which repeals parts of Dodd-Frank — that would hobble the CFPB’s ability to enforce its rules on payday lenders. The bill passed the House but sits in the  Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, of  which Warner and cosponsor Pat Toomey (R-PA) are members.
Now, President Donald Trump is expected to appoint current Office of Management and Budget Director  Mick Mulvaney as interim director of the CFPB, leaving the agency in the hands of someone who wants to  do away with it.
On Thursday, Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), who originally proposed the formation of the CFPB, expressed her fury on Twitter.
Mick Mulvaney thinks the @CFPB shouldn’t exist. A member of the GOP anarchy gang has no business running the agency. This is a giant middle finger to consumers. https://t.co/rDJ3BR2siO
— Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) November 17, 2017
 
A Deep Divide Over How To Protect Consumers’ Credit
In September, 152 state and national organizations, including the Center for Responsible Lending, the National Consumer Law Center and the NAACP, wrote  a letter to Congress urging members to vote against the Protecting Consumers' Access to Credit Act. “This bill could open the floodgates to a wide range of predatory actors to make loans at 300% annual interest or higher,” wrote the groups. “Fintech lenders also should not be allowed to make loans that exceed state interest rate caps… The bill wipes away the strongest available tool against predatory lending practices.”
Diane Standaert, director of state policy and executive vice president at the Center for Responsible Lending, told International Business Times, “What’s at stake is pretty simple: either allowing 300 percent interest loans or not. Siding with consumers or not. You have to look at the more than 150 groups opposing this versus who’s pushing the bill. There’s a clear the line in the sand about what’s at stake and who really benefits.”
On Oct. 5, a group of business associations wrote  a letter to four of the House and Senate sponsors, thanking them for introducing the legislation and agreeing that without the bill, creditors risk their loans being invalidated once they are sold to secondary buyers, making banks lend less frequently and at higher interest rates. The groups signing the letter include Financial Services Roundtable, Independent Community Bankers of America, American Bankers Association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY), a cosponsor of the House’s companion bill — which passed in the House Financial Services Committee on Thursday with nine Democrats voting for it — explained how he thinks the bill will help low-income borrowers: “The bill corrects a court case,  Madden v. Midland , that closed doors to affordable credit for New Yorkers.” In 2015, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals  ruled that non-bank entities, like payday lenders, that assign debt originally issued by a national bank must adhere to the interest rate caps of the state where the borrower lives. “A joint study by law professors from Stanford, Fordham, and Columbia found that since  Madden upended over 200 years of settled law, access to loans facilitated through bank partnerships with fintech firms disappeared for individuals with credit scores of 644 or less in the Second Circuit,” Meeks said. “A recent Philadelphia Fed study found that loans facilitated through bank-fintech partnerships made available better priced credit for underserved markets. My bill preserves those opportunities for individuals who need them most.”
Steve Kelly, press secretary for Toomey, told IBT, "The bill has nothing whatsoever to do with payday lending. Further, payday lenders do not use the bank partnership model, as confirmed by Acting Comptroller General Noreika, and a recent New York Times report. This bill also does not affect the CFPB’s recent rules relating to small dollar lending, nor does it affect [the Office of the Comptroller of Currency] and [the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation] guidance on bank relationships with payday lenders."
But the contrast between those who support and oppose the bill is stark, with consumer advocates assailing it and financial groups lauding it. The Center for Community Capital at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill put out  a 2007 study after the state legally ended payday lending. Most of the study’s respondents were “completely unaffected by the ban.” Two-thirds of the study’s low- and middle-class respondents for whom the absence of payday lending had an impact said that this absence had a positive effect on their households, as they had “an array of options they use to manage financial shortfalls.”
However, “There was broad agreement that there is a need for short-term consumer credit that is more affordable and manageable than a payday loan.”
Payday Lenders, FinTech Firms Donated To Bill’s Sponsors
The payday lending industry donates to many House and Senate candidates each election cycle. From 2015 to 2016, companies, corporate political action committees and individuals in the industry gave over  $2.8 million to campaigns and independent political groups, 82 percent of which went to Republicans. So far this year, the industry has reported nearly  $840,000 in contributions, with over 90 percent going to Republicans.
But regarding sponsors of friendly legislation, the payday lenders do not discriminate by party — both Democrats and Republicans who sponsored the bill are some of the industry’s biggest recipients of campaign cash. In the 2014 election cycle, Warner’s most recent, the primary sponsor of S.1642 took in the  fourth-largest total in campaign donations from the industry ($21,500), including a maximum donation of $5,000 from the political action committee of the Community Financial Services Association of America, a major trade group for payday lenders. Warner received  other PAC contributions from lenders such as Cash America International and Checksmart Financial.
“Campaign contributions have never influenced Senator Warner’s decision-making on policy matters and never will,” said Warner’s spokesperson.
Warner’s estimated net worth of $238 million made him the  wealthiest senator and the third-richest member of Congress in 2015, the most recent year for which the Center for Responsive Politics (CRP) has estimates. In the 2014 election cycle, Warner was the Senate’s  top recipient of campaign donations from finance and credit companies.
Cosponsor Toomey, a former currency trader and former president of the “free-enterprise advocacy group” Club for Growth, received the  second-highest amount from payday loan donors in the Senate in 2016, his most recent election ($32,900). Maximum donations of $5,000 came from Lendmark Financial Services, trade group National Installment Lenders Association and the Online Lenders Alliance, another industry association. In 2012, a non-election year for Toomey, he still took in the  largest amount of payday lending cash in the Senate — $57,250 — including  $10,000 from the Community Financial Services Association. This year, he’s gotten $1,000 from the industry. CRP estimated Toomey’s 2015 net worth at about  $2.7 million.
In the 2016 election cycle, payday lenders donated $5,000 to the campaign of co-sponsor Sen. Gary Peters (D-MI), a former financial adviser and executive, although his next election is in 2020. CRP estimated Peters’ 2015 net worth at just over  $4 million.
Sen. Steve Daines (R-MT) received  $6,000 from the PAC of Cash America International in the 2014 election cycle and another  $1,500 in the 2016 cycle, according to CRP. Daines was worth  $14.4 million as of 2015, according to CRP, making him the 17th-richest senator. In 2012, the senator worked at Rep. Greg Gianforte’s (R-MT) RightNow Technologies, and after Oracle bought the company, Daines made over $2 million by  selling his stock options.
Advance America is one of the payday lending companies that have donated to the campaigns of sponsors of the Protecting Consumers' Access to Credit Act of 2017. Photo: Andrew Bain/Flickr
A bipartisan trio of representatives introduced the  companion bill in the House, and all have received campaign donations from the payday lending industry. So far during the  current election cycle, primary sponsor Patrick McHenry (R-NC) hasn’t gotten any payday cash, but the campaigns of cosponsors Gwen Moore (D-WI) and Meeks of New York have taken in $5,000 and $4,000, respectively. From  2015 to 2016, Moore received over $16,000, Meeks got $13,000, and McHenry received $5,500 from payday lenders. In the 2014 election cycle, McHenry received over  $43,000 from payday lenders in 2014, the fourth-highest total in the House during that session.
Executives and top-ranking employees of fintech firms have also donated to the bill’s House and Senate cosponsors. For example, Moore has received $7,500 in donations from  individuals affiliated with fintech firm Elevate, which offers loans with interest rates of up to  365 percent. CEO  Ken Rees donated $3,000 to Moore from 2014 to 2016, and  Kevin Dahlstrom also gave Moore’s campaign $1,000 in 2014, when he was chief marketing officer of Elevate. Also in 2014,  Sharon Clarey, then senior VP of human resources at Elevate, gave $1,000. In 2015, then-chief risk officer and executive VP of corporate development  Kathy Boden Holland donated $2,500 to Moore’s campaign.
On Sep. 30 of this year, Elevate CEO Rees donated $5,000 to McHenry’s campaign. One year earlier,  Walt Ramsey, then chief risk officer at Elevate, had given McHenry $1,000 and Daines’ campaign $1,500.
McHenry’s office did not return IBT’s request for comment.
Moore’s chief of staff Sean Gard told IBT that “[Moore’s] thinking is what is best for her constituents. She has taken many votes contrary to what some of her donors have asked.”
Meeks told IBT, “No, campaign donations do not impact my legislative activity. In fact, in September, I voted in favor of an amendment to the appropriations bill to protect the CFPB’s small dollar lending rule which was promulgated to stamp out abusive lending practices among financial firms, including payday lenders.”
Some campaign finance experts have found otherwise in recent years. While there are differing views on the influence of campaign donations, several studies have concluded that contributions do influence policy outcomes. A 2012 book by University of Rochester political science professor Lynda Powell found that at the state legislative level, while the effects vary,  campaign donations do affect the bill-drafting process.
“I am not arguing that there is much quid-pro-quo influence,” said Powell. “But even the best intentioned legislator receiving money from an interest group is likely to at least listen to what donors have to say. And if you are hearing much more from people who donate money to you, it is hard not to be swayed by the greater body of argument and evidence from donors.” Powell’s study also found that “the access legislators give to lobbyists clearly is biased in favor of campaign donors.”
Another  study from 2010 by Baylor political science professor Patrick Flavin found that states with stricter campaign finance laws spend more of their annual budget on public welfare. And the populace appears to have caught on: A 2014  poll found that most voters think members of Congress are more concerned with their donors than their constituents.
Payday Lenders Lobby Congress To Help Expand Their Operations
Research shows that a “particularly effective” strategy for helping shape public policy is  a combination of campaign donations and lobbying — and payday lenders and their trade groups don’t just donate to candidates they hope will support legislation that boosts their interests. Three trade associations representing lenders have spent a combined $1.6 million on lobbying in 2017 to lobby Congress on specific legislation and issue areas, according to federal lobbying records reviewed by IBT.
The Community Financial Services Association of America spent over $700,000 on lobbying in the first three quarters of 2017, lobbying the U.S. House and Senate in 2017 on issues including  consumer financial protection,  short-term lending,  payday advance loans,  Operation Choke Point — an Obama-era Justice Department program to investigate banks’ business with fraud-prone industries such as payday lending,  rules by the CFPB, and a  House resolution against a CFPB rule barring financial firms from preventing their customers from joining class-action lawsuits.
The Online Lenders Alliance has spent $840,000 on lobbying so far this year, speaking with Congress and the Executive Office of the President about  FinTech,  Dodd-Frank and  Operation Chokepoint, “  CFPB regulations on short-term lending,” and  bills from past sessions relating to lending regulation. The groups lobbying on Dodd-Frank implementation don’t specify the particular provision in question, but their lobbying likely has to do with the provision in the House’s  Financial Choice Act hobbling the CFPB and other CFPB-related issues.
In 2017, the Online Lenders Alliance has spent over $112,000 lobbying Congress and the CFPB on  Dodd-Frank,  small-dollar lending, and a previous  consumer credit bill.
Individual companies that have donated to the sponsors of Warner’s Senate bill are also lobbying directly on the same issues. ACE Cash Express, which donated $2,500 to Toomey in the 2016 election cycle, reported spending $460,000 this year to  lobby Congress on the House’s  Financial Institution Customer Protection Act of 2017 as well a 2018 financial services appropriation  bill and other matters.
Elevate has spent over $1.1 million to lobby Congress since late 2013 on credit issues. The company has lobbied on  Dodd-Frank implementation,  Operation Choke Point, 2014  legislation relating to  online lending charters, and  CFPB regulations on short-term lending.
Bill sponsors said that they always consult with lobbyists on both sides of an issue. “Our staff meets with a wide range of constituents, groups and advocates, including some who support this bill, and some who oppose it,” said a Warner spokesperson. Meeks said much the same thing to IBT. “As a Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, I naturally interact with every stakeholder that has an interest in the bills before the Committee including their opponents and proponents.”
“Yeah, I have met with a lobbyist from just about every financial services stakeholder,” said Gard, Moore’s chief of staff, who has  worked in government affairs for the National Association of Bond Lawyers and was previously a broker for online investment firm TD Ameritrade. “I have an open door for anyone so there can never be a question about impropriety. The meetings did not affect the drafting of bill; the congresswoman was added to the bill after drafting.”
While the payday lending bill’s sponsors say they aren’t influenced by campaign donations or lobbying, the people affected by payday lending laws have been clear: voters in several states have approved measures that impose interest rate caps on short-terms loans. 
Nov. 17, 4:35 PM: This story has been updated to include comments from the office of Sen. Pat Toomey.


President Donald Trump declared his nearly two-week trip through Asia “tremendously successful,” but economic history should make us more skeptical.
During the trip, the president continued to promote his so-called “America first” trade policy. He is orienting the country distinctly toward protectionism and claiming that unilateralism in trade is good for America.
Here is the problem: President Trump’s approach to trade seems to be based on a false understanding of how the global economy works, one that also plagued American policymakers nearly a century ago. The administration has forgotten an important lesson of the Great Depression, and virtually all economists agree that this could have unfortunate consequences for the U.S. and the world.
Trump’s “America first” orientation assumes that the United States, as the world’s dominant actor, can behave freely and independently in trade.
Unfortunately for the administration, America’s top economic position does not shield it from the dire consequences that unilateral trade policy can provoke. The constraints on U.S. action result from the basic nature of the international economy and from America’s declining dominance of the world trade system.
It is a standard principle of economics that all individual actors exist within a system. Any action taken by one actor will likely result in a response from others. This means that wise governments, in considering which policies to adopt, must make difficult calculations about how their actions will interact with those of others.
“America first” fails to make these calculations. It disregards how America’s trading partners will respond to the new U.S. protectionism – which is also what American lawmakers ignored during the Great Depression.
Before the 1930s, America’s trade policy was generally set unilaterally by Congress – that is, without the international negotiations used today.
Lawmakers, already in a protectionist mood, responded to the pain of the Great Depression by passing the infamous Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act of 1930, which raised duties on hundreds of imports.
Meant in part to ease the effects of the Depression by protecting American industry and agriculture from foreign competition, the act instead helped prolong the downturn. Many U.S. trading partners reacted by raising their own tariffs, which contributed significantly to shutting down world trade.
Fortunately, America and the world learned a lesson from this experience. With the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act of 1934 and its successors, which granted the president authority to reach tariff reduction agreements with foreign governments, U.S. trade policy came to be global and strategic. This new approach was institutionalized at the international level with the creation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in 1948 and its successor, the World Trade Organization, in 1995.
The basic principle of these agreements is reciprocity – that each country will agree to liberalize its trade to the extent that other countries liberalize theirs. The approach uses international negotiations to overcome protectionist political pressures and recognizes that trade is a global phenomenon that generates national interdependence.
The dangers of ignoring history are only beginning to manifest themselves, but they can be seen in several recent developments that bode ill for us all.
One of the Trump administration’s first actions was to withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership. This agreement, which was a major initiative of the Obama administration, would have created the largest economic bloc in the world by linking America’s economy with those of 11 other Pacific nations. It would also have created an American-led, liberal bulwark in Asia against any Chinese challenge to the regional economic order.
Withdrawing from the agreement denied American exporters enhanced access to foreign markets and was a gift to Chinese influence in Asia. But we are only now beginning to see the longer-term repercussions of President Trump’s decision.
During Trump’s trip, the other 11 signatories of the original trade deal, including Japan, Australia, Canada and Mexico, agreed to move forwardwithout the U.S. This is a problem for America because it means that these countries will grant preferential market access to one another, making it harder for American companies to compete in their markets.
American companies are already feeling the impact of what happens when they’re left out of a trade deal. A recent New York Times article, for example, highlights the plight of American lobster producers whose prices are being undercut by Canadian producers in the wake of a new Canada-European Union trade agreement.
If the United States is reluctant to participate in multilateral trade agreements, other countries have every incentive to do deals that exclude and even may hurt the U.S.
Trump’s ongoing efforts to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement also pose potential dangers. The administration has a tendency to speak of renegotiation as if it can dictate the terms. But while Canada and Mexico may be more dependent on the U.S. than the U.S. is on them, an implosion of NAFTA would be devastating for many U.S. industries that rely on North American trade. Markets increasingly worrythat NAFTA may not survive the negotiations.
In addition to withdrawing from and renegotiating trade agreements, the administration has ramped up unilateral efforts to sanction U.S. trading partners for receiving subsidies or for dumping their products on the American market.
Decisions to impose trade penalties risk blowback, as when sanctions on Bombardier drove the Canadian plane manufacturer into the arms of Airbus, Boeing’s top foreign rival. The threatened imposition of sanctions on imports of solar panels may have a similar effect, damaging American panel installers and encouraging foreign retaliation.
President Trump assumes the U.S. can act unilaterally without consequences.
Economic history shows this doesn’t work. The world’s economies are far more interdependent than they were during the Great Depression, so the impact of governments all following a “my country first” trade policy – as the president said he expected world leaders to do – could have disastrous consequences.
Today, the international trade system America helped create, one based on open markets and classically liberal principles, is under threat as never before. Yet President Trump’s “America first” approach is a total abdication of the traditional U.S. role as its defender. And in fact, the president is doing his best to undermine that system.
In the final analysis, the Trump administration is reverting to a policy that is dangerous for the U.S. economy and for the international system.
If the U.S. abdicates, China may be the only country that can take the reins. The question is, what would that mean for the current system of open and free markets?
Charles Hankla is Associate Professor of Political Science at Georgia State University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.


Republicans in Congress and the White House have been very blunt about their desire to gut the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau – and the threats to it are mounting.
The agency was launched in 2011 in the aftermath of the financial crisis as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The goal was to protect consumers from deceptive or misleading practices in the financial industry.
At the moment, Republicans seem focused on blocking CFPB rules they don’t like, such as one that would have prevented the use of arbitration clauses in financial contracts, making it easier for people to band together to sue banks for wrongdoing.
The Trump administration, which has been heavily critical of the CFPB, now has an opportunity to reshape it from the top because its founding director, Richard Cordray, plans to step down by the end of November.
So what would you miss if the agency suddenly disappeared or was weakened?
In short, a lot. We base this conclusion on the work the three of us have done in recent decades. One of us (Sovern) has been writing about consumer law for more than 30 years, while the other two of us direct a legal clinic that represents elderly consumers. We’ve seen the worst of what financial companies can do, and we’ve also witnessed how the CFPB has begun to reverse the tide.
If you are one of the more than 29 million consumers who have collectively received nearly US$12 billion back from misbehaving financial institutions because of the CFPB’s efforts, you already know its value. But even if you are not, you have probably benefited from the bureau’s existence.
Before Congress created the bureau, there was no federal agency that made consumer financial protection its sole mission. Rather, consumer protection was rolled into the missions of a bunch of different agencies. And, as we saw during the financial crisis, regulators often gave it a back seat.
Congress, for example, gave the Federal Reserve the power to bar unfair and deceptive mortgage lending in 1994. Yet the central bank considered consumer protection a backwater and didn’t use that power until 2008 – too late to prevent the Great Recession. Congress took it away two years later when it passed Dodd-Frank.
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency regulates banks but was so preoccupied with ensuring lenders were safe that it failed to protect consumers from their predatory subprime mortgages – so much so that it prevented states from doing so too. And now President Trump has put a former bank lawyer in charge of it. The Federal Trade Commission, which is tasked with fighting deceptive business practices, lacked the power to prevent such dangerous lending.
This meant consumer protection on financial matters fell through the cracks.
Wells Fargo’s recent fraud scandal is a case in point. In the early 2000s, Wells Fargo employees began opening fake accounts in clients’ names without permission, leading in some cases to lower credit scores and a variety of fees. The bank ultimately opened millions of fraudulent bank and credit card accounts before the scheme came to an end last year.
But as early as 2010, before the CFPB was set up, regulators at the OCC were increasingly aware of what was happening at Wells Fargo thanks to hundreds of whistleblower complaints. The OCC even confronted the bank, yet failed to take any action despite many red flags, according to an internal audit.
It wasn’t until the Los Angeles city attorney and the CFPB became involved years later that Wells Fargo took forceful action to stop the fraud. The regulators fined Wells Fargo a total of $185 million and forced it to refund fees it had charged customers and hire an independent consultant to review its procedures.
More importantly, they sent a clear message to other financial institutions: Cheat consumers and you will face the consequences.
Since its inception, the bureau has acted repeatedly to stop financial institutions from harming consumers.
It blocked debt collector attorneys from suing consumers based on false information. It discovered systemic problems with consumer credit reports and forced companies to correct errors. It compelled credit card companies to refund illegal fees. It protected borrowers from unlawful student loan servicing practices. It made lenders repay consumers they discriminated against. It recovered money for veterans who complained of abusive financial practices.
When the bureau began publishing consumer complaints on its website, companies that might previously have ignored negative feedback paid attention. Financial institutions have responded to complaints to the CFPB more than 700,000 times, often by providing a remedy to the consumers.
Besides protecting consumers, however, Congress had a second motive in creating the bureau: to help prevent the kind of mortgage lending that helped cause the Great Recession.
To that end, the bureau has adopted rules that help consumers to understand their mortgages – something that often wasn’t possible under the previously misleading mortgage disclosures. It also issued regulationsto prevent consumers from taking out mortgages that they couldn’t repay. And after borrowers take out a mortgage, CFPB servicing rulesestablish the procedures servicers must follow when communicating with borrowers, correcting errors, providing information and dealing with loan modification requests.
Two of us have personal experience with one of the bureau’s new mortgage rules, which powerfully illustrates the value of the CFPB.
In 2014, Alice, a client of our law school clinic, was struggling to pay the mortgage on her home – which she had refinanced a few years earlier – after a stroke forced her into retirement. Our clinic helped her apply for a modification of her loan.
But within weeks, instead of acknowledging Alice’s application, the loan servicer summoned her to court to begin foreclosure proceedings in violation of CFPB servicing rules. Fortunately, our clinic was able to rely on those rules in getting the foreclosure action dismissed. Alice got her loan modified and remains in her home.
This reveals how the bureau is particularly important to protect vulnerable consumers, like the elderly, who are frequently targeted by fraudsters and predatory lenders because of their cognitive and other impairments and because they often have accumulated substantial assets. The CFPB is the only federal agency with an office specifically dedicatedto protecting the financial well-being of older adults.
The bureau has brought cases against companies that attempted to take advantage of seniors by, for example, misrepresenting the interest rateson pension advance loans or deceptive advertising. In 2015 alone, consumer complaints to the CFPB brought relief to more than 600 older Americans just through debt collection problems.
The bureau has also worked to prevent financial abuse of the elderly, estimated to cost seniors as much as $36 billion annually. The CFPB has educated financial institutions, nursing facilities and others about recognizing and stopping elder financial abuse and exploitation.
Given Alice’s ill health, the consequences for her might have been disastrous if she had been thrown out of her home. But now she – and all of us – face the loss of the CFPB’s aid.
The CFPB is under attack from Republican members of Congress who believe more in lifting bank regulations than in protecting consumers. Some members have proposed eliminating the agency altogether.
The House of Representatives has passed a bill that would cripple the CFPB by, for example, taking away the power it used to fine Wells Fargo for opening illegal accounts and concealing its complaint database from public view. In other words, it would force the bureau to sit idly by as financial institutions lie to consumers.
Even if the bureau survives, it may be less protective of consumers when current director Richard Cordray leaves, which he said he plans to do by the end of the month. Then we might see a former banker or bank lawyer put in charge, just as has happened at the Treasury Department and comptroller’s office. Those officials opposed the CFPB’s arbitration rule and seem far less interested in protecting consumers than Cordray. It is even possible that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin himself might become the interim leader of the CFPB.
Nearly every American has or will have a loan or bank account, a prepaid card, credit card, a credit report or some combination of those, and so has dealings with a financial institution policed by the CFPB. But few of us read the fine print governing these things or can understand it when we do. That gives the companies that write these agreements the ability to draft them to suit their own interests at the expense of consumers.
Similarly, we do not always know when a financial institution takes advantage of us, just as Wells Fargo customers did not always know that it had opened unauthorized accounts that lowered their credit scores.
Consumers need protection from misbehaving companies. If the bureau is eliminated, significantly weakened or starts protecting banks rather than consumers, all consumers will suffer.
This is an updated version of an article originally published on July 10, 2017.
Jeff Sovern is Professor of Law, St. John's University.
Ann L. Goldweber is Professor of Clinical Education, St. John's University.
Gina M. Calabrese is Professor of Clinical Education, St. John's University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.


Furnishing a new apartment or home? Black Friday is the perfect day to find deals for household appliances. Home Depot, Best Buy, Sears and others all have to deals for refrigerators, washers and toasters.
With the holidays right around the corner, getting those big-ticket items for friends and family is cheaper with Black Friday deals.
Best Buy has a variety of French Door, Side by Side and Top and Bottom refrigerator deals. 
Insignia™ - 9.9 Cu. Ft. Top-Freezer Refrigerator - White - $279.99
Insignia™ - 10.2 Cu. Ft. Bottom-Freezer Refrigerator - White - $299.99
Frigidaire - 18.1 Cu. Ft. Top-Freezer Refrigerator - White - $429.99
Haier - 16.4 Cu. Ft. Counter-Depth Refrigerator - Stainless steel - $699.99
Frigidaire - 25.6 Cu. Ft. Side-by-Side Refrigerator - Stainless steel - $799.99
Samsung - 24.5 Cu. Ft. Side-by-Side Refrigerator with Thru-the-Door Ice and Water - Stainless steel - $899.99
Samsung - 25.5 Cu. Ft. French Door Refrigerator with Ice Maker - Stainless Steel -$999.99
LG - 21.8 Cu. Ft. French Door Refrigerator - Stainless Steel - $999.99
Samsung - 30" Wide, 22 cu. ft. French Door Refrigerator - Black stainless steel - $999.99
Whirlpool - 24.6 Cu. Ft. Side-by-Side Refrigerator - Stainless steel -  $999.99
Magic Chef 10.1 cu. ft. Top Freezer Refrigerator in Black - $288.00
Hotpoint 14.6 cu. ft. Top Freezer Refrigerator in White - $398.00
Frigidaire 18 cu. ft. Top Freezer Refrigerator in White - $428.00
Haier 28 in. W 15 cu. ft. French Door Refrigerator in Stainless Steel - $698.00
Frigidaire 25.5 cu. ft. Side by Side Refrigerator in White - $748
Maytag 33 in. W 21 cu. ft. Top Freezer Refrigerator in Fingerprint Resistant Stainless Steel - $798.00
Samsung 24.5 cu. ft. Side by Side Refrigerator in Black - $898.00
Kenmore 60412 18 cu. ft. Top Freezer Refrigerator w/ Wire Shelves - White - $429.99
Kenmore 60304 14.5 cu. ft. Top Freezer Refrigerator - Bisque - $479.99
Kenmore 60413 18.1 Cu. Ft. Stainless Steel Refrigerator - $559.99
Samsung RT18M6215SG/AA 18 cu. ft. Top-Freezer Refrigerator with FlexZone™ - Black Stainless - $649.00
Frigidaire FFSS2615TE 25.5 Cu. Ft. Side-by-Side Refrigerator - Black - $743.99
Frigidaire FFSS2615TS 25.5 Cu. Ft. Side-by-Side Refrigerator - Stainless Steel - $793.99
Kenmore 51113 25 cu. ft. Side-by-Side Refrigerator with Ice & Water - Stainless Steel - $949.99 
Amana - 3.5 Cu. Ft. 8-Cycle Top-Loading Washer - White - $269.99
Amana - 6.5 Cu. Ft. 11-Cycle Electric Dryer - White - $269.99
Whirlpool - Cabrio 4.3 Cu. Ft. 12-Cycle High-Efficiency Top-Loading Washer - White - $399.99
Whirlpool - Cabrio 7.0 Cu. Ft. 13-Cycle Electric Dryer - White - $399.99
Samsung - 5.0 Cu. Ft. 11-Cycle High-Efficiency Top-Loading Washer - White - $499.99
Samsung - 7.4 Cu. Ft. 11-Cycle Electric Dryer with Steam - White - $499.99 
Hotpoint  3.8 cu . ft. DOE Top Load Washer in White - $349.00
Hotpoint 6.2  cu. ft. Electric Dryer in White - $349.00
GE 3.8 cu. ft. DOE Top Load Washer in White - $359.00
GE 7.2 cu. ft. Electric Dryer in White - $359.00
Samsung 4.5 cu. ft. High-Efficiency Top Load Washer in White, ENERGY STAR - $449.00
Samsung 7.4 cu. ft. Electric Dryer in White - $449.00
Kenmore 3.5 cu. ft. Top Load Washer & 6.5 cu. ft. Dryer Bundle - White - $679.98
Kenmore 3.5 cu. ft. Top-Load Washer & 6.5 cu. ft. Electric Dryer - White - $709.98
Samsung 4.0 cu. ft. Top-Load Washer & 7.2 cu. ft. Front-Load Electric Dryer - White - $759.98
Other retailers have deals on large and small appliances including electric ovens and microwaves. There are also a number of deals for appliances at places like  AJ Madison and Lowe's. 


A Southwest Airlines pilot was arrested Wednesday at St. Louis Lambert International Airport after security officials for the Transportation Security Administration found a loaded 9mm pistol in the first officer’s carry-on luggage.
The 51-year-old unnamed pilot was detained at the Terminal 2 security checkpoint around 4:45 a.m Wednesday, the  St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported. He was arrested on suspicion of unlawful use of a weapon by local authorities after they were alerted to the incident by the TSA. The pilot was reportedly scheduled to board Flight 1106 to Las Vegas.
Police confiscated the man’s Smith and Wesson M&P Shield 9mm pistol, which TSA Spokesperson Mark Howell said was loaded with seven rounds of ammunition at the time of the pilot’s arrest. It was not clear why the pilot had the gun in his carry-on, but he did not have a permit and was not authorized to carry it.
“We are aware of a situation involving a Southwest Pilot at St. Louis Airport,” the carrier said in a statement to International Business Times. “We are currently working alongside the appropriate authorities to gather more information. We have no further information to share at this time.”
UFC champion Tyron Woodley claimed he was on the same Las Vegas-bound flight the pilot was scheduled to board and said he witnessed two individuals handcuffed at security prior to boarding.
“I get there, it’s like 5 a.m. I’m going through pre-TSA, and I see two pilots that are handcuffed,”  Woodley told TMZ on Tuesday. Woodley went on to say that he thought nothing of it until he boarded the flight, which was scheduled to leave at 6 a.m. At departure time, passengers were informed they were missing flight crew needed to fly the plane, Woodley claimed.
“We found out that one of the pilots had a 9mm [pistol] or some type of gun,” he said. Woodley said passengers were compensated with $100 vouchers for the delay.
The St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported Wednesday that charges against the man are pending, and the case has been turned over to St. Louis County prosecutors.
A Southwest airline plane is seen on the tarmac at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport on September 19, 2016 in Phoenix, Arizona. Photo: DANIEL SLIM/AFP/Getty Images


The Trump Organization is worth far less than they have previously stated, according to Crain's New York Business Wednesday. The business magazine said that the company has claimed revenues 10 times larger than what they actually bring in.
The Trump Organization tumbled 37 spots on Crain’s annual list of largest privately held companies in New York City from No. 3 to No. 40. Cain’s relies on companies to self-report revenue figures. New federal filings by President Donald Trump show that the company’s annual revenue falls somewhere between $600 and $700 million, less than one-tenth of the $9.5 billion figure the company had been reporting.
The Trump Organization did not respond to the new list, as well as a request for comment from International Business Times.
“It was obviously important to Donald to have his company at the top of the list and I don't know why he felt that way but the numbers that he presented are just flagrantly untrue,” said Crain’s reporter Aaron Elstein in an interview with WNYC, a public radio station in New York.
In the previous rankings, the Trump organization was next to companies like Hearst and Bloomberg. In the new rankings, the Trump Organization falls just after Bamberger Polymers, Inc. and just before Krasdale Foods, Inc.
The Trump Organization has focused on hotels and luxury condominiums — two real estate sectors that have seen a building boom in New York in the past decade. Since 2008, hotel room stock in the city has increased by 50 percent, reaching 115,000 rooms. New York has seen 9,000 new condos since 2015.
Trump as a brand name also seems to be devalued. The average price per square foot at two of Trump properties in New York have fallen by almost a quarter since 2015, according to the Wall Street Journal. The square footage value of space in Trump Towers has fallen 23 percent and at the Trump International Hotel and Tower on Central Park West, its fallen 24 percent.


Nevada has temporarily called off its first inmate execution in 11 years. Scott Dozier, sentenced for the 2002 murder of his 22-year-old drug associate, Jeremiah Miller, was to be put to death on Nov. 14. Dozier instructed his lawyer in August not to file any more appeals.
On Thursday, Nov. 9, however, Judge Jennifer Togliatti temporarily postponed the execution. Judge Togliatti said she was “loath to stop” Dozier’s execution, but she did so because she was concerned about the untested and controversial drug protocol that would be used to put him to death. She wanted to give the state Supreme Court a chance to evaluate.
From my perspective as a scholar of capital punishment, Nevada’s new drug protocol sheds a glaring light on the troubled state of lethal injections in the United States. It also raises some serious ethical questions.
The first lethal injection protocol was developed by Oklahoma’s medical examiner, Jay Chapman, in the late 1970s. Back then, Oklahoma was looking for an alternative to electrocution, which was considered  inhuman and brutal.
The protocol Chapman developed called for the  use of three drugs : The first, sodium thiopental, would anesthetize inmates and put them to sleep before the lethal drugs were administered. The second drug, pancuronium bromide, a muscle relaxant, was meant to render the inmate unable to show pain. The third drug, potassium chloride, led to a cardiac arrest and eventual death. This protocol soon became the standard and was adopted by all death penalty states –  now numbering at 31.
However, by the start of this decade, pharmaceutical companies, “citing either moral or business reasons,” refused to allow their products to be used in executions.
The difficulty of securing the drugs that had been part of the standard protocol led death penalty states to experiment with many different drugs in many different combinations.
States likes Alabama and Arkansas, for example, maintained the three-drug protocol but replaced sodium thiopental in the standard drug cocktail with midazolam or pentobarbital, which doctors normally use as sedatives or for anesthesia. Other states, including Arizona and Ohio, started using a two-drug protocol, while a few, such as Georgia, Missouri and South Dakota, adopted a single drug.
Nevada’s new protocol involves a three-drug combination – the sedative diazepam (better known as Valium), the muscle relaxant and paralytic cisatracurium and the opioid fentanyl.
My research on methods of execution reveals that this combination of drugs has never been used in an execution.
Execution by a lethal injection, even when it follows the standard protocol, is a surprisingly complicated procedure. Finding usable veins and getting the drug dosages right has proved to be particularly difficult. As I found out, it has often been an unreliable method of execution. Since its introduction, 7 percent of all lethal injections have been botched.
Those complications and difficulties increase when states try out new, untested drugs or drug combinations. Convicts have taken a leading role in opposing such experimentation. In February 2017, a death row inmate in Alabama appealed to the United States Supreme Court saying that he preferred death by firing squad to an injection of midazolam. While it recognized lethal injection’s history of problems, the majority held that since Alabama did not offer the firing squad as an execution method, his preference could not be honored. In a dissenting view, however, Justice Sonya Sotomayor called the use of new drugs in lethal injection the “most cruel experiment yet.”
Nevada’s Dozier too has said that he is opposed to “the state’s plan to kill him using a drug protocol that has never been used in an execution.”
There are other troubling issues as well. Using fentanyl, a drug that is killing thousands of Americans annually during the current opioid crisis, is horrifying, to say the least.
In addition, figuring out the right dosage of diazepam and fentanyl in Nevada’s new protocol will not be easy. And if this is not done correctly, Dozier could even wake up in the middle of the execution, as Susi Vassallo, a New York University professor of emergency medicine, has written on lethal injection notes. In the words of Judge Togliatti, he could be “aware of pain” and struggle to breathe.
Employing the powerful paralytic cisatracurium in this new drug protocol raises other ethical concerns.
If the combination of diazepam and fentanyl fails to work, cisatracurium will prevent Dozier from signaling to his executioners that they are botching the execution even as it happens. As David Waisel, an anesthesiologist at Boston Children’s Hospital, claimed, “Cisatracurium can hide signs of inadequate anesthesia.” That is its only purpose.
In other lethal injection protocols, the muscle relaxant was also designed to stop the heart. Thus, those who conduct the execution and those who witness it will not be able to see the visible signs of Dozier’s suffering if it occurs.
In my view, if Nevada and other death penalty states insist on experimenting with new drugs to keep the machinery of death running, citizens and government officials alike need to take responsibility to prevent any cruelty.
Writing about the use of the guillotine in France more than half a century ago, Albert Camus, philosopher, author and journalist, said,
“Society must display the executioner’s hands on each occasion, and require the most squeamish citizens to look at them, as well as those who, directly or remotely, have supported the work of those hands from the first.”
While lethal injection is different from the guillotine, in modern times the imperative remains the same.
Austin Sarat is Professor of Jurisprudence and Political Science at Amherst College.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.


A team of scientists in the United Kingdom and the U.S. recently reported the discovery of pathological signs of Alzheimer’s disease in dolphins, animals whose brains are similar in many ways to those of humans.
This is the first time that these signs – neurofibrillary tangles and two kinds of protein clusters called plaques – have been discovered together in marine mammals. As neuroscience researchers, we believe this discovery has added significance because of the similarities between dolphin brains and human brains.
The new finding in dolphins supports the research team’s hypothesis that two factors conspire to raise the risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease in dolphins.
Those factors are: longevity with a long post-fertility life span – that is, a species living, on average, many years after the child-bearing years are over – and insulin signaling.
Gallego-Iradi, one of the authors of the paper, began the study on the dolphins’ brains more than a decade ago on the shores of Spain. It took several more years for other researchers to establish the connection between metabolic dysfunction and insulin resistance in dolphins and humans. This recent study also did that.
Together, the insight into the similarities between dolphins and humans has led us to hypothesize that Alzheimer’s and diabetes are diseases not of old age but of a long post-fertility life span.
Alzheimer’s is a progressive brain disease that leads to memory loss and changes in cognitive ability. There is no cure, and the disease ultimately leads to death.
It is hard to overstate the burden of the disease, both on those who are diagnosed with it and their families. It is the sixth-leading cause of deathin the U.S. Deaths from the disease in the U.S. rose 55 percent from 1999 to 2014.
Alzheimer’s disease has two major pathological hallmarks: The development of clusters of a protein called beta-amyloid outside the cells and tangles of another protein called tau inside the cell.
The protein clusters outside the cells are called senile plaques. The tangles inside are called neurofibrillary tangles.
We saw both of these in the brains of the deceased dolphins.
Dolphins belong to an order of mammals called cetaceans that have adapted to live in the water.
Although dolphins live in water and humans live on Earth, dolphins and humans are very much alike in some key ways. In the last 50-60 million years, the brains of dolphins and other cetaceans, including porpoises and whales, have hyperexpanded. So have human brains. This is a process called enchephalization.

Also, as do humans, dolphins have a highly evolved brain development and a very complex social relationship. This brain similarity with humans suggests the possibility that dolphins, as humans, have developed similar molecular machineries and pathological characteristics, including similar neurodegenerative diseases.
And, cetaceans and humans live long. This is important, as longevity is one of the most relevant factors in neurodegenerative diseases. Cetaceans have longevity ranges between 20-100 years, which is enough time to develop brain amyloid deposits.
Some aspects of Alzheimer’s pathology have been reported in a wide range of other animals. Our evolutionary relatives, such as apes and monkeys, and our pets, dogs and cats, develop one of the pathologies, the amyloid pathology. Amyloid plaques also have been described in captive wild animals such as bears.
But to see both plaques and tangles in another species is rare.
We believe this makes our findings in dolphins of both neuritic plaque and tangle pathology in dolphins all the more remarkable.
Cetaceans become stranded many times each year all over the world. This stranding generates alarm, and scientists study to understand why it happens. Some of the factors include poor water quality; animals living in very deep water who detect the shore too late; unbalance and confusion created by Earth’s magnetic field changes; contamination by heavy metals such as mercury, cadmium or zinc; or contamination by compounds such as PCBs and DDTs. Other possible causes are viruses and parasites, traumatic death, predation or fishing mutilation, or ship sonars interfering with animal echolocation.
Dolphins stranded in Spain between 2003 and 2006 led to Gallego Iradi’s findings about the Alzheimer’s pathology.
The samples represented three different species of dolphins (bottlenose, striped and Risso’s) stranded on the coasts of Spain. Their brains all had the same twisted strands and protein clusters in their brain as human patients with Alzheimer’s disease. They also had neuronal loss, strengthening the idea that dolphins and humans could have the same Alzheimer’s pathology.
Years after those findings, other scientists began to explore a possible connection between a failure in insulin signaling and Alzheimer’s.
Dr. Simon Lovestone at the University of Oxford and Dr. Frank Gunn-Moore at the University of Saint Andrews began to develop a hypothesis that this failure in insulin signaling in humans, related to post-fertility longevity, could be a cause of Alzheimer’s in humans.
And here’s another connection.
Cetaceans are uniquely prone to a prediabetes state and are one of the few animals, other than humans, with a naturally long post-fertility life span.
We postulated a linked mechanism that led us to hypothesize that animals with a long post-fertility lifespan would be at risk for both insulin resistance and Alzheimer’s. This hypothesis led us to the prediction that cetaceans and other animals with unusual longevity would be at risk for both insulin resistance and would have Alzheimers’ pathology – a prediction for which we have provided some proof in our recent article.
Maria Carolina Gallego-Iradi is Assistant Scientist at University of Florida.
David Borchelt is Professor, Neuroscience at University of Florida.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.


A recent American Airlines flight from Mexico City to Miami was struck by a bird that became lodged in the plane’s nose mid-flight. The airline confirmed the incident in a statement to International Business Times.
“American Airlines Flight 1498 from Mexico City to Miami encountered a bird strike upon landing Nov. 14. The flight landed safely and taxied to the gate,” the airline said. “The aircraft was temporarily taken out of service as our maintenance team repaired the radome. The aircraft was repaired, and returned to scheduled service later that same day.”
A representative for the carrier  told Fox News in a statement that no one was injured during the incident.
BIRD STRIKE: An American Airlines plane get a bird stuck in its nose cone while landing in Miami. pic.twitter.com/JeAZeYYjUV
&mdash; ABC World News Now (@abcWNN) November 15, 2017

A news clip from ABC captured the aftermath. An unnamed employee told ABC-affiliate WPLG that while carriers do deal with bird strikes, they are “never like this.” It was not clear whether the individual worked for American Airlines, Miami International Airport or another employer.
A flight safety specialist for the British Airline Pilots Association (BALPA)  told the Telegraph earlier this year that bird strikes aren’t usually dangerous.
“Aircraft are designed and built to withstand bird strikes and pilots undergo rigorous training to enable them to deal with eventualities like a bird strike,” Stephen Landells told the Telegraph. “In my flying career I have experienced 10 bird strikes, none of which caused any significant damage. On half the occasions, in fact, due to the small size of the birds, I was not aware that I had hit one until inspecting the aircraft after landing.”
Images of the plane were also shared by the Miami Plane Spotter account on Instagram.
A post shared by Miami Plane Spotter (@planespottermia) on Nov 14, 2017 at 9:18am PST


NutriBullet's maker and distributor, Homeland Housewares, is facing a lawsuit Tuesday after 22 customers claimed to have suffered severe injuries from the Magic Bullet NutriBullet Pro blender system. The $40 blender has reportedly caused cuts, nerve damage and second-degree burns to customers. 
NutriBullet boasts a "powerful, 600-watt motor," according to an advertisement claim. Customers alleged that its motor caused the product to explode because of how quickly the blades were spinning. Many claimed an explosion happened after 15 to 20 seconds of use.
Getting a NutriBullet as a present? It makes more than just smoothies. https://t.co/CpDCHucCdx pic.twitter.com/sl22ln0z6o
— NutriBullet (@thenutribullet) December 12, 2016
Abir Cohen Treyzon Salo, LLP represents the alleged NutriBullet victims. The firm asserts that manufacturers and distributors are required, by law, to warn customers of the product's "hidden dangers."
"Unsafe products due to design and manufacturing defects, like the NutriBullet, can lead to serious injuries, including nerve damage," the law firm wrote on its website. "Product liability laws require manufacturers and distributors of products like the NutriBullet to warn consumers about these often hidden dangers when their consumers are using their products for their intended use."
Rosa Rivera, who is the mother of late Latina singer Jenni Rivera, is among those who claim to have been injured by the product. Rivera spoke to reporters at a Tuesday press conference about the product, saying: "Don't use this product no more because it's dangerous."
NutriBullet released an official statement Tuesday in response to Rivera's allegations.
"Customer safety and satisfaction are paramount at NutriBullet, and we were saddened to learn that Ms. Rivera was injured," NutriBullet said in a statement, according to CBS affiliate KCAL. "It is clear, however, that the plaintiff's attorneys are trying to sway public opinion by orchestrating a publicity campaign that makes a very safe product appear dangerous."
"Reports of our blenders causing injury are extremely rare...We typically find customers have failed to adhere to the operating instructions and warnings provided, but we will have to let the process play out to determine the final cause in this case," NutriBullet added. 

This wouldn't be the first time Homeland Housewares has faced legal complications over the NutriBullet. San Francisco resident Pete Damiano alleged in March 2017 that he had suffered severe injuries after his NutriBullet exploded while he was making hot mango sauce. 
"My client did not have warnings on his device and the user manual had soup recipes on it," Lori Andrus, a lawyer from Andrus Anderson and Damiano's representative, told Fox News in March. "We sued the makers of Magic Bullet, a year ago, for the same suit. We settled the suit, and got them to add the warnings to their manuals."
A Florida couple also accused the manufacturer of negligence in 2016 after a man alleged that the blender caused injury to his wife Dec. 20, 2014. The couple's lawsuit also claimed that damage to their property also occurred because of the NutriBullet. 
Representatives for NutriBlender and the Abir Cohen Treyzon Salo law firm did not immediately return International Business Times' request for comment. 
NutriBullet, pictured December 12, 2016, has come under fire over allegations that their blenders are exploding and causing injury to customers. Photo: NutriBullet/Twitter


Nordstrom was under fire Tuesday after shoppers complained about the limited offerings within its newly launched plus-sized selection. A customer shared pictures on Twitter Oct. 29 following her experience shopping for plus-size items at a branch of the store in Brea, California. She claimed that Nordstrom's selection was "unfortunate," which led others to share their thoughts on the matter. 
The retailer reportedly announced their plans to expand upon its current plus-size offerings after the success in sales from Khloé Kardashian's Good American line, a denim brand that is carried at Nordstrom. The department store capitalized off of the success, which led to the opening of its new Century City location in Los Angeles — the location was set to include extended sizes of denim wear from its brand partners. The all-inclusive expansion carried over to other stores nationwide, including the Brea Nordstrom.  The Brea location, however, received backlash on Twitter for its apparent lacking selection. 
"It's unfortunate that a big brand like Nordstrom's plus size formal dress section is this small compared to 'regular' sizes," one user wrote in an Oct. 29 tweet alongside pictures of Nordstrom's seemingly minuscule plus-size selection.
it's unfortunate that a big brand like Nordstrom's plus size formal dress section is this small compared to "regular" sizes pic.twitter.com/kARNdtWMQa
— sofia a (@sup3random) October 29, 2017
Nordstrom didn't catch wind of the Twitter complaint until Nov. 9, saying: "We're sorry you're disappointed."
"Thanks for the info. Our in-store Manager at the Brea, CA location is aware of this matter," Nordstrom said in a Nov. 11 tweet. "If you'd like to connect with her directly, please don't hesitate to DM us with your best method of contact."
We’re sorry you’re disappointed. We’d like to help connect you with the store manager, can you let us know which location you visited?
— Nordstrom (@Nordstrom) November 9, 2017
Thanks for the info, Sofia. Our in-store Manager at the Brea, CA location is aware of this matter. If you'd like to connect with her directly, please don't hesitate to DM us with your best method of contact - either phone number or email address. Thank you.
— Nordstrom (@Nordstrom) November 12, 2017
Other Twitter users complained that "all their stores are like that" or that there was "very little selection of anything plus sized."
Yup! Don't let @Nordstrom fool you. All their stores are like that. #KingOfPrussiaMall #Pennsylvania
— Nuggett Flavor (@MzFlavor70) November 15, 2017
It's not just formal attire, my local store has very little selection of anything plus sized so I quit shopping there
— NH (@Buffy1962) November 14, 2017
"We're sorry we disappointed the customer who tweeted about her experience at our Brea store. We have varying levels of formalwear in plus sizes in our stores," Pamela Lopez, Nordstrom's PR director, told International Business Times Wednesday. "We know there’s an opportunity to have a more robust plus-size formalwear selection in some of our stores and we’re working on it." 
Added Lopez, "We're always happy to connect customers to a personal stylist who can bring in merchandise from any of our stores and Nordstrom.com so customers can continue to visit their local store for all their shopping needs."
The retailer confirmed in October that it will work towards adding more options and variety to its existing plus-size and petite selections, both in-store and online. Nordstrom asked its brands to add more zeros, 2's, 14's, 16's and 18's. Participating brands initially included Topshop, Rag & Bone, Madewell, Caslon and Halogen. The size selection and brands will also expand by Spring 2018 to 15 additional stores. 
"Our customers have been asking for a broader range of sizes on both sides of the spectrum – the zeros and 2's and beyond size 12," Tricia Smith, Nordstrom's executive vice president and general merchandise manager, said in an October press release. "We recognize the opportunity to serve customers better by having more sizes. Style and fashion apply to everyone. They're not created for a limited group of sizes."
"We don't view being size inclusive any differently than the need to be more inclusive across the board—whether it's ethnicity, size or body type. In our opinion, petite and plus sizes shouldn't be considered special categories. They're just sizes," Smith added. 
Nordstrom has 357 stores in 40 states nationwide. Founded as shoe retailer in 1901, the Seattle-based department store giant, was valued at $7.4 billion in May.
This story has been updated to include a comment from Nordstrom.
Nordstrom, pictured on February 8, 2017 in Miami, first announced its size-inclusive plan in October 2017. Photo: Getty Images


This story is being co-published with Capital & Main
Mark Janus, an Illinois child-support worker, will soon argue before the U.S. Supreme Court that his free speech rights have been violated because he must pay “agency fees” to a union that, inter alia, negotiates contracts on his behalf. Last year California elementary school teacher Rebecca Friedrichs made the same First Amendment arguments at the high court against the teachers association to which she paid agency fees. The court deadlocked on Friedrichs’ complaint following the death of conservative Justice Antonin Scalia, but his replacement, Justice Neil Gorsuch, is widely expected to cast a decisive vote in favor of Janus and against public-sector unions.
California’s labor movement has helped enact some of the most progressive reforms in the country, including the $15 minimum wage, rights for domestic workers and sanctuary state legislation to protect undocumented residents. It has helped to establish the state as a counterweight to the Donald Trump administration. But the Supreme Court is likely to undercut that power when it rules later this term in Janus v. American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Council 31.
“The entire country will become right-to-work with the stroke of pen,” predicted Terence Pell, the president of the Center for Individual Rights at a Heritage Foundation event in Washington D.C. last August.
Pell, whose organization represented Rebecca Friedrichs against the CTA, exaggerated the impact of a  Janus win, but not by much. The decision would affect only public employees, but they comprise the majority of unionized workers in the country. Thirty-four percent of public-sector workers are in unions nationwide, compared to just six percent of those who work for private companies. In California, some 54 percent of public employees hold union cards, while only about nine percent of private-sector workers do, according to unionstats.com.
Millions of public-sector workers would be fair game for anti-union messages from groups on the right, including the Washington state-based Freedom Foundation. “By educating union members about their right to stop paying dues, the Freedom Foundation defunds Big Labor,” a narrator intoned in a videotaped fundraising appeal earlier this year. “That means more money for the workers and less money for liberal politicians.”
Cutting unions off at the knees to curtail their political power is the dream project of some of the nation’s biggest right-wing funders and activists, including the Koch brothers, the Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation ($845 million in assets in 2015) and the State Policy Network (SPN) a consortium of 66 ultra-conservative think tanks with a combined revenue of some $80 million. For years these groups have poured money into anti-union causes in the belief that union-backed Democrats stand in the way of slashing government spending and of privatizing education through more charter schools and school voucher programs.
The SPN director, Tracie Sharp, wrote in a 2016 fundraising letter, “Today, coercive Big Government unions are the biggest sources of funding and political muscle for the Left – but we are also primed right now to deliver the mortal blow to permanently break its stranglehold on our society.” Sharp especially singled out teachers’ unions for her ire.
The Bradley Foundation, whose founder, Harry Bradley, was a member of the John Birch Society, gave out more than $42.5 million in 2015 (the last year for which its tax return is available), including a half-million-dollar grant to the Freedom Foundation. Documents obtained by the Center for Media and Democracy showed that union-busting to defund Democrats has been an aim of Bradley Foundation grant-making for at least 14 years. The documents include notes about many of the foundation’s grants that are similar to one attached to a $100,000 gift to Colorado’s Independence Institute, for “neutralizing the power of Colorado’s teachers’ unions by defunding them at the local school district level.”
Not to be outdone, the Alexandria, Virginia-based Donors Capital Fund, a "donor advised" fund that channels individual contributions to specific causes while allowing contributors—like the Koch brothers and the DeVos family— to remain anonymous, shelled out more than $67 million in 2015. Much of it went to fund an infrastructure of right-wing think tanks and activist groups, including nearly $4 million to the SPN (where Rebecca Friedrichs is now a fellow) and its state affiliates. Donors Capital Fund and its sister fund, Donors Trust, have been conduits for contributors like the Kochs to fund attacks on unions, notably the fight against collective bargaining for public employees in Wisconsin, as Mother Jones reported in 2013.
California groups have yet to attract much of these donors’ largesse, but the opportunity for a big win against labor could change the equation. In Orange County, two SPN affiliates share a Tustin office — the Washington state-based Freedom Foundation and the California Policy Center — and aim to be at the heart of attempts to convince union members to quit paying dues, and to bleed labor treasuries through litigation.
The California Policy Center, founded in 2010, is still small, with more than $800,000 in revenue in 2016, the last year for which its tax return is available. Nonetheless, the organization doubled its revenue in both 2014 and 2015. In 2015, it scored a $120,000 grant from Donors Capital Fund, and a $50,000 assist from the center's parent organization, the State Policy Network.
Robert Loewen, a retired corporate attorney with Gibson Dunn, became chairman of the California Policy Center board four years ago because, he said, he wanted to combat the idea that “people on the left were champions of the little guy. They’re actually hurting the little guy, so it was all a big lie.”
Loewen argued that money from public-sector unions drives the liberal narrative. Politicians are in lock step with labor, Loewen claimed, because of the latter's campaign cash.
But it's not only politicians who Loewen believes are controlled by organized labor.
"The PTA has been corrupted by the unions,” he said. “Somehow or other, they have to find out they’ve been set free,” Loewen said of the teachers he hopes will be emancipated by Janus .
“Someone has to show them – this is how you leave the union.” That someone would be Loewen and his group.
Loewen’s plans to target education unions may seem cribbed from SPN’s playbook, but he denies SPN is involved with his organization.
“That network has nothing meaningful to do with my operations,” Loewen claimed, adding that he was unaware of its $50,000 donation. “If they would come and dump $10 million in my bank account, I would love that.”
Defender of the Little Guy may be an awkward mantle for Loewen and the California Policy Center leaders to take up, given their wealth and backgrounds. But Loewen said his organization has reached beyond its traditional base – in part to combat what he calls "the left’s narrative" that it stands with working people.
Loewen and his board are longtime backers of Republican causes, and the move comes as Orange County voters increasingly turn to the Democratic Party, partly because of a growing Latino electorate. The California Policy Center is a tax-exempt non-profit, despite its desire to affect political change. So far, no one has suggested that the center has violated its tax-exempt status by engaging in overtly political activity, but the Freedom Foundation has recently been accused of doing so in complaints to the IRS and the attorneys general of Oregon and Washington.
Loewen’s organization backs a parent union led by Santa Ana school board member Cecilia Iglesias, who is also community relations director at the California Policy Center. The group joined Anaheim parents at Palm Lane Elementary in a three-year battle to convert their school to a charter.
Last July the group screened the anti-teachers-union documentary Waiting for “Superman” at a Santa Ana restaurant. Afterward, parent-union activist Celia Robles said she participates because her son’s school hasn’t been responsive to her. She joined a school advisory committee, but felt ignored when she questioned budget figures. She said her son’s teacher brushed off her concerns that he’s not sufficiently challenged in the classroom, saying, “He’s doing well enough.”
In reaching out to the grassroots, the California Policy Center may have borrowed from the approach of its fellow SPN affiliate, the Freedom Foundation, which targets individual union members by visiting them at home.
The foundation began the project three years ago when the Supreme Court ruled, in Harris v. Quinn, that nearly a million workers nationwide who care for the elderly and disabled in their homes couldn’t be forced to pay so-called agency fees for union representation if they chose not to join the union.
Following the court’s decision, the Freedom Foundation launched a campaign modeled on union organizing to strip home-care and in-home child care workers’ unions of their memberships in Washington and Oregon, and this year in Orange County, California.
The foundation sought to obtain lists of workers, and set off to connect with them. The group created cable TV ads and a website, optouttoday.com, that encourages home health aides and child care providers to quit paying dues, and instructs them how to do so. It’s also filed lawsuits against unions and launched a failed effort to establish its own union for child care workers to compete against the Service Employees International Union in Washington.
The Freedom Foundation trumpets its own achievements, but payroll records from state agencies in Washington and Oregon show mixed results. In Oregon, union membership among home-care workers had fallen by 40 percent. However, 88 percent of Washington state home-care workers still belonged to the SEIU, while 78 percent of licensed child care workers remained dues-paying members. In Orange County, local Freedom Foundation director Sam Han said it was difficult to track progress because he’s been unable to obtain lists of home-care workers from the state.
“They haven’t changed our ability to win significant wage and benefit improvements,” said Adam Glickman, secretary-treasurer of SEIU Local 775 in Washington. “They haven’t changed our ability to engage in politics and advocate for our members. It’s been a legal nuisance, frankly.”
At SEIU’s Local 925 in Seattle, which represents child care providers, executive vice president Tricia Schroeder agrees. The Freedom Foundation is far from destroying the union in the short term, but her union has had to respond to its attacks, which costs money.
“It’s disheartening as a union leader that that’s the way you spend union dues. I would much rather run stronger contract campaigns and organize.”
That may well be part of the Freedom Foundation's strategy. When it forces unions to fight back, it drains their resources. Its funders certainly seem persuaded that the Freedom Foundation is hitting its mark. The group reported a million-dollar increase in its total revenue in 2015 —  a 50 percent jump from the year before, according to its latest publicly available tax return.
Whether anti-union groups can do as well or better than the Freedom Foundation if Mark Janus wins his case is an open question.
They'd face a very tough sell with teachers, firefighters and police officers, whose unions have achieved middle-class wages, health care and pension plans for their members that are rare outside of the public sector. What’s more, the political muscle that labor has built in California could cause the same right-wing forces that bemoan it to think twice before making a major investment in the state, at least in the immediate aftermath of a pro-Janus  decision.
Several of the unions cited or quoted in this series are financial contributors to Capital & Main.


Famous Barbie doll manufacturer Mattel unveiled their first hijab-wearing Barbie, which was modeled after American fencer Ibtihaj Muhammad, who competed in the 2016 Olympics held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, donning the headscarf.
Apart from the cultural attire, the doll itself is designed after Muhammad, which means the Barbie is dark-skinned, instead of porcelain. Also the doll’s signature miniature waistline, which has often been criticized for being a sex-symbol, has been traded for a curvier figure. The doll comes complete with fencing gear, including a mask, a sabre and training shoes.

"When I think about my own journey, me being a Muslim girl involved in the sport of fencing, there were people who made me feel like I didn't belong," Muhammad said, the Guardian reported. "For all those people who didn't believe in me, this Barbie doll is for you."
“Today, I’m proud to know that little girls who wear a hijab and, just as powerfully, those who don’t, can play with Barbie in a headscarf,” Muhammad added. "She's a Barbie who is strong enough to wield a giant sabre and dedicated enough to spend years working her way to an Olympic medal. I know that the more diverse dolls are offered, the many more inspiring stories girls will be able to tell.”
The Barbie was unveiled by the company at the Glamour's Women of the Year summit. The hijabi Barbie was number 10 in Mattel’s long line up of “Shero Barbies.” Other Barbies in this line up were modeled after inspirational people, who dared to be unique, such as singer Zendaya Coleman, actress Emmy Rossum, singer Kristin Chenoweth and director Ava DuVernay.
So how did Mattel choose their “Sheroes”? According to the Barbie-making company, in order to qualify, a woman should have broken boundaries, be an inspiration for women and, of course, played with Barbie dolls when they were young. Just like Muhammad's, Barbie dolls inspired by Olympic gymnast Gabby Douglas, ballet dancer Misty Copeland and model Ashley Graham, went into production in 2016.
At the time, Mattel had delivered on Copeland’s request that the dolls designed after her should “really reflect a dancer’s body and also not shy away from the fact that I have muscular calves, hips, a bust, and brown skin,” the New Yorker reported. 
Graham also had her specific instructions: “There’s no such thing as a thigh gap on my body. I wanted it to have cellulite, but they said it would look like a mistake.”
When news of the first hijabi Barbie hit the social media, many people were thrilled to find that their favorite childhood dolls were no longer limited to white-skinned, western clothes-wearing versions.







However, there were a few negative reactions to the Barbie, with people rebuking Mattel for designing dolls that teach kids about traditional outfits, which have often been perceived as a sign of oppression.





 


Airbus seems to have edged out its rival Boeing at the ongoing Dubai Airshow, where the European aerospace company signed a deal Wednesday to supply 430 A320neo aircraft to Indigo Partners. The deal between the French aircraft manufacturer and the U.S. group is valued at $49.5 billion, if considering the planes’ list price, Airbus said.

The deal is not final yet, and is only a non-binding memorandum of understanding, but it is still one of the biggest ever in aviation history. The 430 aircraft will be spread across Indigo Partners’ four airlines — Frontier Airlines in the U.S., Volaris in Mexico, Wizz Air of Hungary and JetSmart of Chile. If a single airline were to get all those planes, it would become one of the 10 largest carriers globally.
Also, the list price of aircraft is rarely what they are actually sold at. Usually, airlines get anything between a 40 and 60 percent discount, which could be even more in case of very large orders, like the one announced Wednesday. So even if Airbus was to deliver all 430 aircraft to Indigo, its balance sheet would reflect a number much smaller than the $49.5 billion announced today.
The first A320neo in flight, seen from inside a chase plane on Sept. 25, 2014. Photo: Airbus
The French company has been severely lagging behind its U.S. rival Boeing so far this year, in terms of annual order book tally. During President Donald Trump’s visit to China earlier in November, Boeing signed agreements with China Aviation Suppliers Holding Company to sell 300 aircraft, valued at $37 billion at list prices.
However, if all the deals both the aircraft manufacturers are making in Dubai are confirmed before the end of the year, it would be difficult to predict which of the two would emerge with a bigger order book for 2017, CNN reported.
Airbus also won an order for five of its C-295 MW military transport aircraft at the Dubai Airshow. The UAE armed forces announced the purchase from Airbus Defence And Space.

The Dubai Airshow began Monday and ends Thursday.


Late Tuesday, electric car manufacturer Tesla posted its response to a class-action lawsuit filed against the company a day earlier that accused its production plant in Fremont, California, of being a “hotbed for racist behavior.” Tesla titled its response, posted on its website, “Hotbed of Misinformation.”
Monday’s lawsuit — the most recent against the Elon Musk company by black employees accusing it of ignoring complaints of racist behavior at the workplace — was brought on behalf 100 black workers by Marcus Vaughn, a former employee of the company. In the lawsuit, Vaughn said he was frequently called the n-word by coworkers and superiors since he started working at the Fremont facility in April, and after months of his complaints being ignored (including one in an email to Musk), he was fired in October for “not having a positive attitude.”
Tesla had no comment on the lawsuit Monday, but said Tuesday: “Regarding yesterday’s lawsuit, several months ago we had already investigated disappointing behavior involving a group of individuals who worked on or near Marcus Vaughn’s team. At the time, our investigation identified a number of conflicting accusations and counter-accusations between several African-American and Hispanic individuals, alleging use of racial language, including the ‘n-word’ and ‘w-word,’ towards each other and a threat of violence. After a thorough investigation, immediate action was taken, which included terminating the employment of three of the individuals.”
The company’s statement added it considered its action “fair and just response” to the facts the company knew at the time, and that it would initiate further action if needed.
Signage is displayed outside Tesla Motors before the Tesla Energy Powerwall Home Battery event in Hawthorne, California, April 30, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Patrick T. Fallon
In addition, the Tesla post pointed to a number of “false statements” in the lawsuit against it. First, it said, the reference to 100 workers in Vaughn’s suit was a fabrication, and called him the sole plaintiff. It also clarified Vaughn was not, in fact, fired, but that he was on a six-month contract which expired at the end of October. His email to Musk did not mention any racial discrimination but only concerned Vaughn’s commute and Tesla shuttles, which the company said was “addressed as requested.”
The lawsuit also refers to an email Musk sent to Tesla employees on May 31, in which he wrote: “Part of not being a huge jerk is considering how someone might feel who is part of an historically less represented group. … Don’t ever intentionally allow someone to feel excluded, uncomfortable or unfairly treated. Sometimes these things happen unintentionally, in which case you should apologize. In fairness, if someone is a jerk to you, but sincerely apologizes, it is important to be thick-skinned and accept that apology.”
Vaughn’s lawyer Larry Organ told Bloomberg on Monday: “The law doesn’t require you to have a thick skin. Tesla is not doing enough. It’s somewhat akin to saying ‘stop being politically correct.’ When you have a diverse workforce, you need to take steps to make sure everyone feels welcome in that workforce.”
Tesla released Musk’s email, titled “Doing the right thing,” in its entirety to provide context for his comments the lawsuit refers to. It also referred to Organ as having “a long track record of extorting money for meritless claims.” The company would rather spend more on a trial and clear its name than settle with the plaintiff, it said.
“Our company has more than 33,000 employees, with over 10,000 in the Fremont factory alone, so it is not humanly possible to stop all bad conduct, but we will do our best to make it is as close to zero as possible,” the Tesla statement added.
Shares of Tesla fell 2.12 percent during Tuesday trade on Nasdaq, but had recovered very slightly (up 0.06 percent) during after-hours trade.


Stove Top unveiled on Monday its solution to providing people with an easier way to enjoy more of their Thanksgiving dinner through its "Thanksgiving Dinner Pants." The holiday-inspired pants boast a "Stuffin'-Stretch" waistband that will give wearers the ability to "eat in comfort." 
The food-focused holiday can be known to lead to overeating, despite the average stomach capacity being about 8 cups. Stove Top desires to help alleviate the problem of feeling stuffed through its limited-edition pants. The pants retailed at $19.98, but they sold out moments after becoming available online. 
"Stove Top has created Thanksgiving Dinner Pants: comfortable, stretch-waisted pants with a little bit of Stove Top style," Stove Top said in a Nov. 13 press release. "Family and friends will be envious of your level of comfort at the Thanksgiving table. The unisex, maroon pants feature an over the belly waistband, embellished with iconic Stove Top stuffing imagery and complimented by XXL stuffing print pockets."

Stove Top released a parody video to its YouTube page Monday to help promote the "Thanksgiving Dinner Pants." The video depicts a family that is struggling to regain comfort after feeling "stuck and restricted" from their "delicious, home-cooked meal." The family's frustration appeared to be diminished by the stretchy pants.
"You love having Thanksgiving dinner with your family and enjoying a second serving of a delicious, home-cooked meal," the video's narrator said. "But afterwards, you feel stuck and restricted in your uncomfortable jeans, khakis or slacks. You try to unbutton your pants for relief, but they're too tight. You're trapped!"

The spoofed infomercial video featured a variety of disclaimers but claims: "This is the stuff Thanksgiving is made of and the perfect way to enjoy Thanksgiving dinner in comfort and style."
Stove Top has created stretchable pants that will provide people with more comfort after eating their Thanksgiving meal, pictured are boxes of Stove Top stuffing on November 23, 2009 in San Francisco. Photo: Getty Images


This story is being co-published with MapLight.
Republican state law enforcement chiefs dined with their top donors at President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort last weekend, according to an agenda obtained by MapLight through a public records request.
An agenda for the Republican Attorneys General Association’s fall meeting in Palm Beach, Fla., lists a dinner on Friday at Mar-a-Lago’s Teahouse restaurant for “Edmund Randolph Club” members. The club, named for the nation’s first attorney general, includes donors who give RAGA  at least $125,000 per year.
The reception at Mar-a-Lago was not publicized, and privacy was apparently a priority, despite the resort’s  blurring of lines between private events and White House business. "Cell phone use and picture taking is prohibited in all areas,” the agenda said. “If guests need to take a phone call, they may do so in the guest reception area or outside."
Since Trump was elected,  corporate lobbyists and  foreign leaders have made frequent use of his family’s hotels. While Trump has publicly handed off his private business enterprise to his adult sons, he hasn’t divested from it. The assets  are being held in trust for him, raising questions about whether the president is violating the emoluments clause of the U.S. Constitution, designed to prevent the nation’s leaders from financial gains during their time in the White House.
Though Trump  has spent at least 25 days at Mar-a-Lago since becoming president, he was traveling in Asia on a 12-day tour during the RAGA reception at the club. The agenda was obtained by MapLight through a public records request to Nebraska Attorney General Doug Peterson, one of 29 Republican attorneys general.
The White House and RAGA did not immediately respond to questions from MapLight.
The association, a 527 organization that can raise unlimited amounts from individuals and corporations, has enjoyed  a surge in funding during the Obama administration, as attorneys general  banded together to challenge new environmental, healthcare and immigration regulations. After he was elected, Trump chose a previous RAGA chairman, former Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, to lead the Environmental Protection Agency.
RAGA donors have included the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest lobbying group; Koch Industries, the global conglomerate run by libertarian billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch; and the Judicial Crisis Network, a conservative “dark money” organization that  is helping Trump remake the federal court system.
State officials attending the meeting were invited to participate in a wide range of excursions, from golf outings or trips to local museums, to catamaran tours on Florida’s Intracoastal Waterway. The attorneys general were scheduled to hold 45-minute fundraisers together in groups of three or four officials. RAGA pulled in $7.3 million in donations during the first six months of 2017, after  raising $19.3 million between 2015 and 2016.
The attorneys general were also treated to a high-profile slate of conservative speakers. A day after the Mar-a-Lago event, RAGA was scheduled to hold a dinner for top donors at The Breakers, a luxury Palm Beach hotel that’s on the National Register of Historic Places, with U.S. Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta. Last year, Republican attorneys general  sued the Labor Department over an Obama administration rule that would have made 4 million workers eligible for mandatory overtime pay. Acosta  moved to undo the rule before it was  struck down by a district court.
Top RAGA donors were invited on Sunday to a lunch event moderated by National Review editor Rich Lowry. Later that day, there was a reception featuring U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla. On Monday, recently retired Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, now a Fox News contributor, moderated a panel on "rule of law restoration" under Trump.
View RAGA Fall Meeting on Scribd



A recent listeria outbreak traced to a kitchen at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) has led a handful of airlines to suspend using an on-site catering company for flight meals. American Airlines, Virgin Australia and Delta Air Lines all reported they have temporarily stopped using Gate Gourmet after a recent inspection found traces of listeria at its facilities.
Listeriosis is typically caused by ingesting contaminated food, according to the CDC. An estimated 1,600 cases of listeriosis in the U.S. are reported annually, and pregnant women, newborns, older adults and people with weakened immune systems are most susceptible. Symptoms include muscle aches, stiff neck, fever and confusion. They can appear similar to those of the flu in women who are pregnant.
American Airlines told International Business Times in a statement that it “ceased using” Gate Gourmet for its onboard catering on Nov. 1. However, the airline clarified that signs of listeria were found neither on food nor in food preparation surfaces during the inspection.
“Based on our concerns over the progress of the action plan, we made the decision to suspend the use of catering from this location,” American Airlines said. “While no reports of illness related to the LAX Gate Gourmet catering operation have been reported to American, out of an abundance of caution, we made this decision because we felt it was the right thing to do for our customers and team members. Although we use Gate Gourmet as a caterer in other locations, we currently do not have any information that suggests that Listeria has been detected at any other facility.”
The carrier added that those who do not “receive their standard catering service will receive an electronic travel voucher for use on a future flight.”
A passengers waits for a Delta Airlines flight in Terminal 5 at Los Angeles International Airport, May 4, 2017 in Los Angeles, California. Photo: ROBYN BECK/AFP/Getty Images
Delta Air Lines announced last week that it “has temporarily adjusted catering operations so Gate Gourmet can take more aggressive actions to further improve food safety,” according to Forbes.
“This move is out of an abundance of caution for the health and safety of our customers,” Delta Air Lines said in a statement. “Delta has made alternate catering arrangements so there is no interruption to its on-board food offerings.”
Virgin Australia alerted its passengers to the incident last week, Forbes reported. The airline — which runs between Sydney and LAX — said in a statement that “there will be limited catering available on flights from Los Angeles.” As the result, the carrier is reportedly providing customers with food vouchers.
American Airlines said in its statement that Gate Gourmet was cooperating with state and federal officials and “immediately implemented a comprehensive corrective action plan to address this issue.” The airline added that it brought in its own outside experts to review and monitor the incident.
“While no reports of illness related to the LAX Gate Gourmet catering operation have been reported to American, out of an abundance of caution, we made this decision because we felt it was the right thing to do for our customers and team members,” the airline told IBT. “Although we use Gate Gourmet as a caterer in other locations, we currently do not have any information that suggests that Listeria has been detected at any other facility.”
Gate Gourmet spokeswoman Catherine Nugent told Forbes that Gate Gourmet remains “committed to delivering a safe and efficient service.”
“We reaffirm that our LAX facility is operating without restriction and continues to comply with all local and federal regulations,” Nugent said. “When we identified the issue on non-food contact areas at our LAX catering kitchen, we immediately enacted our remediation cleaning protocols with an aggressive treatment and comprehensive testing plan.”


Gym lovers will no longer need to have joined a particular fitness club to access it. POPiN, a new app that removes the barriers to accessing fitness spaces, offers a flexible pay-per-minute method as a supplement to any user's regular workout plan.
A variety of fitness apps have emerged with aims to enhance how individuals workout. While not a direct competitor to subscription-based apps like ClassPass, POPiN offers a cheaper alternative for those looking to get the most out of their workout experience. 
"POPiN isn't a replacement for a regularly used gym membership. It's really more of a supplement," Dani Richmand, a marketing and media relations representative for POPiN, told International Business Times Tuesday. "Most of our users have gym memberships they are happy with. They use POPiN when their gym isn't convenient. For example, while traveling or commuting for work.  Some POPiN users have even selected to join gyms on our platform."
Popping into one of our favorite locations for an afternoon workout. @mercedesclubnyc has INCREDIBLE facilities, but don't just take our word for it. Download POPiN to access to this exclusive club and see for yourself!
A post shared by Popin (@popinnyc) on Jul 20, 2017 at 1:19pm PDT
Many POPiN users may possess gym memberships, but this isn't a requirement to access the app. POPiN allows its users to find premium gyms nearby that accommodate an individual's schedule and wallet. With per-minute rates between $0.14 and $0.26, a 45-minute workout would cost anywhere between $6.30 and $11.70. It also allows users to mix up their regular regimen. 
POPiN users check into a participating gym by scanning a QR code. The app keeps track of the user's time at the facility until they return to the front desk to check out. POPiN will then calculate the total an individual owes for their workout in the app. 
The app's features are only accessible at six New York City gyms at this time, but two additional gyms will be available through the app soon. There are also potential plans to expand to other metropolitan cities, including the on the West Coast. 
"POPiN is looking at the west coast as a possible next destination," Richmand told IBT. "Until then, the focus is on perfecting the model in New York and expanding to additional locations in all five boroughs."
CompleteBody Chelsea,  Limelight Fitness and Mercedes Club are among the growing list of gyms that are included in the POPiN network. 
Founded in July 2017, POPiN's CEO wanted to find a way to benefit from the money-making side of the fitness industry.  
"I said to myself, 'What would something like that in the fitness industry look like?'" POPiN CEO Dalton Han said on Nov. 1 to Fast Company. "With technology, we can really make it frictionless to walk into a health club. I knew there has to be a better design, a better way to do this."
POPiN is available in Apple's App Store and Android's Google Play. 
New app allows users to pay by the minute to access premium gyms in NYC, pictured is a fitness studio in Austria May 15, 2008. Photo: Getty Images


It’s no secret that climate change has disastrous consequences for  coastal real estate and  drought-stricken farmland, but the rise in global temperatures harbors potentially serious implications for a sector thrust into political focus in recent decades: manufacturing.
In a new  study examining the impact of hotter weather on half a million Chinese manufacturers over the decade spanning 1998 to 2007, researchers found that an extra day of extreme heat, defined as exhibiting temperatures above 90 degrees Fahrenheit, leads to roughly half a percentage point drop in output, or nearly $10,000 for the average firm,  in 2017 dollars.
That may seem miniscule, but that’s just one firm, and one day. In aggregate, the study authors note, rising temperatures could cost the global market for manufacturing products billions by the middle of the 21st century. In China — which  became the world’s largest manufacturing nation, a title long held by the U.S., in 2010 — an annual one-degree shift in temperatures would lower the country’s manufacturing sector’s gross domestic product by close to a full percentage point, the study estimated.
Given China’s position as “essentially the factory of the world,” with its manufacturing products constituting 12 percent of global exports, there are sure to be ripple effects in the form of higher prices for products purchased by the U.S. and other nations, said Kyle Meng, an assistant professor at the University of California at Santa Barbara and one of the study’s authors. More specifically, the $47 billion loss (  in 2017 dollars ) to Chinese manufacturers’ output as a result of climate change projected by the study could lead those firms to raise their prices to compensate.
“We all know China is the world’s  biggest emitter” of carbon dioxide, Meng said. “Our hope is that this would potentially lead to greater urgency on the part of both businesses in China and the government in China to greatly reduce their emissions.”
However disastrous for manufacturers on average, a temperature increase wouldn’t damage the productivity of all industries under that umbrella in equal measure, the authors noted.
Meng said he and his fellow researchers — from the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Duke Kunshan University in China’s Jiangsu province and his own department at UCSB — had expected that higher-technology sectors, those least likely to involve laborers working outside, would see little impact. But, to their surprise, the effects of hotter weather were evenly spread between high- and low-technology producers, as well as between those relying predominantly on labor and those relying predominantly on capital, such as machinery and other equipment.
But certain industries, such as coal and iron mining, fared far better than others; in fact, those sectors saw slight increases in production, though those increases both amounted to less than 7 percent by mid-century. For plastics, textiles, and nonmetal mining, however, the results were more worrisome, with output declining by close to 20 percent roughly over the same period. For rubber and timber industries, production was projected to fall by roughly a quarter. The drop in output from China’s textile industry, in light of its sheer size, would prove most costly, with a $4.3 billion loss by the middle of the 21st century as a result of climate change.
While China ratified the  Paris Climate agreement, a landmark accord of nearly 200 parties working to avoid a rise in global temperatures of two degrees Celcius, in September, President Donald Trump, a vocal supporter of American manufacturing on the campaign trail,  announced in June that the U.S. would withdraw.

Whatever the impact of rising temperatures on manufacturers, the private sector appeared to foresee the costs. The chief executive of Dow Chemical Co., which  lobbied Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency on the Climate Accord during the second quarter of 2017,  publicly bashed Trump in the wake of the decision. The CEO of manufacturing behemoth Unilever Inc., which explicitly advocated for its “support for climate change & Paris Climate Agreement,” according to federal lobbying forms, said the “enormous outcry” over the decision was likely pushing companies to reduce their carbon footprints by innovating their technologies with a new sense of urgency.


This report is being co-published with Capital & Main.
Mark Janus, an Illinois child-support worker, will soon argue before the U.S. Supreme Court that his free speech rights have been violated because he must pay “agency fees” to a union that, inter alia, negotiates contracts on his behalf. Last year California elementary school teacher Rebecca Friedrichs made the same First Amendment arguments at the high court against the teachers association to which she paid agency fees. The court deadlocked on Friedrichs’ complaint following the death of conservative Justice Antonin Scalia, but his replacement, Justice Neil Gorsuch, is widely expected to cast a decisive vote in favor of Janus and against public-sector unions.
A conservative U.S. Supreme Court may be preparing to drop a bomb on the country’s public sector unions, but California has heard it ticking for years. When the court agreed to hear Janus v. American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31 , Joshua Pechthalt, president of the California Federation of Teachers (CFT), said his union and others in the state had already been working to absorb the blow. The case could strip public agency unions of much of their funding, and he admitted the effects on California’s labor movement could be devastating. Or, for some of the same reasons, they could be reinvigorating.
“I think [Janus] is going to hurt, but it need not be the end of the world,” said Pechthalt. “Frankly, we’re going to have to do the kind of organizing that we should have been doing all these many years. I think the labor movement got a little bit complacent.”
In states like Wisconsin, Kentucky, Iowa and Michigan, where Republican state administrations have slashed union power in recent years, the Janus case looks to be a crippling blow in a national turn against unions. But California is going the other way, passing pro-union legislation such as a 2017 bill guaranteeing union access to government employees during job orientations. The Golden State is an exception in the national labor movement's fortunes, and Janus will put that status to the test.
While non-union workers in a unionized department are not required to pay full union dues,  under a unanimous 1977 U.S. Supreme Court case called   Abood v. Detroit Board of Education, they must pay lesser fees to support contract bargaining, from which they benefit.
In a statement to Capital & Main, Diana Rickert of the Illinois-based Liberty Justice Center, which is representing Janus, wrote: “Today, Mark Janus and more than 5.5 million other government employees in America are forced to pay money to a union in order to keep their jobs . . . The First Amendment gives everyone the right to choose which organizations they will and won’t join or support financially.”
Momentum for this argument has been building for years. In the 2014 U.S. Supreme Court case Harris v. Quinn, the court ruled that homecare workers in Illinois did not have to pay agency fees because they were not truly public employees, and Justice Samuel Alito, writing for the majority, basically   invited  more challenges to Abood.
The two organizations representing Janus, including the National Right to Work Legal Defense Foundation, seem poised for a victory. Nelson Lichtenstein, a labor historian at the University of California, Santa Barbara, pointed out the potential danger for organized labor, noting that from one-third to about one-half of all people represented by a union are not members of that union, and may choose not to pay agency fees.
“If unions play things wonderfully, it will just make life more difficult for them. And if they don’t, it’ll just be a disaster,” Lichtenstein added.
And so all eyes turn to California. Though it does not have the high percentages of union members found in New York, Alaska and a few other states, California’s labor movement has a reputation as the most innovative in the country.
Ruth Milkman, a labor expert at the City University of New York and a former longtime professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, points out that the state earned this reputation, paradoxically, by having a relatively backwater movement during the height of industrial unionization. With less heavy industry than states like Michigan, Ohio or Pennsylvania had earlier in the 20th century, the labor movement in California – and particularly the Service Employees International Union, or SEIU – would later focus sharply on organizing the service sector, with its hospital and government workers, and even the entertainment industry.
When globalization shifted heavy manufacturing to Mexico, South America and Asia toward the end of the last century, gutting powerful unions like the United Auto Workers and the United Steelworkers, service unions were poised to grow and California knew better than anyone how to do it.
“In the late 20th century and continuing into the new century, the SEIU became the engine of growth for organized labor,” said Milkman.
Justice Neil Gorsuch joins the Supreme Court, 2017 Photo: Alex Wong / Getty Images
California is the place, Milkman notes, where new classes of workers are created. She points to the late-1990s SEIU campaign to recruit home health-care workers. They were categorized as independent contractors paid by Medi-Cal and thus not eligible for unionization, but the SEIU and others prevailed on the administration of Gov. Gray Davis and the state legislature and passed a 1999 law making these workers public employees and changing their eligibility. This precipitated what Milkman called the biggest National Labor Relations Board election in American history, adding that it brought nearly 100,000 homecare workers into the SEIU – a move that has since been replicated around the country, and then with publicly funded childcare workers, as well.
Similarly, California unions have a legacy of organizing immigrant labor, building off the pioneering efforts of Cesar Chavez and the United Farm Workers. This work is still evident in the SEIU’s Justice for Janitors campaign that began in the late 1980s and continues today. California unions have also been firmly behind the campaign for a $15 hourly minimum wage, which many see as a first step to organizing fast-food workers.
“A lot of the success that [California unions have] had over the past two decades can be attributed to their success in the political arena, and that has created a more stable environment, particularly for public sector unionism, but also for unionism generally,” said John Logan, a labor historian at San Francisco State University. “While in the rest of the country, at the state level, there’s been a number of very brazen attacks on unionism, particularly after [Republican electoral gains in] 2010.”
Post-Janus, California unions will certainly lose some of the money that gave them that political clout, but they still have the benefit of a pro-union state government.
California bucks national trends by still creating quite a bit of pro-union legislation. Logan noted there have been proposals about changes to the right of fair representation, so that non-union members in a post-  Janus  era would have to either pay for the union to represent them in a grievance or have the option of hiring a private attorney. But California, like every other state, is restricted by the National Labor Relations Act, so there are only so many legislative responses possible. The principal response to Janus is a call for old-school grassroots organizing.
“A number of our unions and our affiliates are using this as a time to go back to basics,” said Angie Wei, chief of staff at the California Labor Federation. “Which is one-on-one conversations, member-to-member, at the worksites. And building a permanent structure for the union … building power from the ground up.”
“Some of the [agency fee] people have just never been talked to about the union and don’t understand it,” said Bob Schoonover, President of SEIU Local 721 in Southern California. Like the public in general, he said, these workers are largely unaware of union influence in matters beyond members’ wages and benefits. For instance, California unions are also solidly behind single-payer health care, and property tax reform and increased school budgets.
Schoonover pointed out that his local was part of a health-care reorganization under the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles County, which brought public health, mental health and the hospital system under one umbrella, making it more efficient for everyone. This is how unions can demonstrate their importance to all working people.
“The thing about a union, [like] the NRA or the Chamber of Commerce, is they’re there all the time,” said Nelson Lichtenstein. “In contrast to Democratic Party campaigns or Bernie Sanders rallies, they don’t go away. They have their people in there lobbying. That is important.”
Planned Parenthood is another one of these permanent institutions, Lichtenstein noted, but he added that progressives have very few others. The Right has more: mega-churches, business groups, phalanxes of think tanks. So both unions and Planned Parenthood are under attack all the time. “I link the two because both are kind of organizational, social institutions that are widespread and have constituencies. The Right understands that’s a threat.”
The CFT's Joshua Pechthalt said it’s a defining moment for labor. “This is sort of a new period of American history: When people don’t see a collective response as being valuable, or possible, they opt for individual answers,” he said. “We have to win people over to the fact that we’re stronger when we stick together in a union.”
Several of the unions cited or quoted in this series are financial contributors to Capital & Main.


Presidential candidate Donald Trump was an outspoken critic of pharmaceutical companies and high drug prices. He told prospective voters that he’d allow Medicare to negotiate with drug companies. President-elect Trump said Big Pharma was “getting away with murder” with its exorbitant prices for drugs and said he would bring those costs down.
On Monday, roughly 10 months later, Trump formally nominated Alex Azar, the former president of Eli Lilly’s U.S. operation, to run the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), which oversees the Food and Drug Administration. A Senate committee plans to hold a hearing very soon.
As a former Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services and private sector executive, Alex Azar has the qualifications and experience to get results. The Senate HELP committee will promptly schedule a hearing on his nomination.
— Sen. Lamar Alexander (@SenAlexander) November 13, 2017
Not only did Azar  work at Eli Lilly for 10 years, the final five of which he was president, he was a board member of the Biotechnology Innovation Organization (BIO), the primary lobbying group for the biotech industry, of which Eli Lilly is a  member. Azar left both positions in January to launch a biopharmaceutical and health care consulting firm, Seraphim Strategies LLC. Should he become HHS secretary, he’d be overseeing Eli Lilly and his former clients. Prior to joining Eli Lilly, Azar was deputy HHS secretary under President George W. Bush.
The political strategies of Eli Lilly, BIO and another industry lobbying group, including efforts to fight drug pricing transparency and defend their patents in order to keep prices high, shed light on the pro-industry approach that Azar is likely to take as HHS director, should he be confirmed.
Pharma Giants Fight Nevada Over Transparency
In June, the Nevada state legislature passed a law to increase transparency in drug pricing, requiring companies to disclose information on manufacturing, marketing and advertising costs and profits for essential diabetes drugs. It also targets pharmacy benefit managers and aims to obtain information about confidential rebates.
Eli Lilly is one of the biggest manufacturers of diabetes drugs and has come under intense criticism for consistently increasing the price of these drugs. The cost of two key insulin drugs rose quickly while Azar was president of the company; Humalog and Humulin increased in price by approximately 21 percent in 2014, 17 percent in 2015, 7.5 percent in 2016, and 8 percent in the first quarter of 2017, according to an October  letter to Trump from three Democratic members of Congress opposing the Azar nomination.
Re Trump's new HHS pick, a former exec at Eli Lilly, here's a chart of insulin prices set by Lilly and its primary competitor Novo Nordisk pic.twitter.com/C2W4PLe5vN
— Owen Davis (@odavis_) November 13, 2017
BIO and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), a major drug industry trade group of which Eli Lilly is  a member, filed a  lawsuit on Sep. 1 against Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval and the state’s Health and Human Services director, alleging the law violates the Constitution and risks their member companies’ important trade secrets and patents.
Azar has  acknowledged that drug prices are too high, but his professional pedigree does not indicate that significantly lowering drug prices — and, thus, drug company profits — will be at the top of his agenda. According to the three members of Congress who wrote the letter to Trump — Raul Grijalva (D-Arizona), Mark Pocan (D-Wisconsin) and Jan Schakowsky (D-Illinois) — Azar “played a key role in creating the very pharmaceutical industry practices that [Trump has] pledged to end.”
Will Azar Exercise His Department’s ‘March-in’ Rights?
Because a substantial amount of funding for pharmaceutical research comes from federal government agencies such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH), regulators reserve the right to license drug patents as a means of reining in skyrocketing prices. The federal government has faced mounting pressure to use those so-called “march-in” rights, established by the 1980  Bayh-Dole Act, in recent years, but hasn’t done so.
In September, for instance, the nongovernmental organization Knowledge Ecology International wrote a  letter to Trump’s Domestic Policy Council director and a senior adviser to then-HHS Secretary Tom Price, asking the agency to use its march-in rights to lower the “excessive” price of a multiple sclerosis (MS) medication known as Zinbryta, which is marketed by both AbbVie Inc. and Biogen Inc. The price of 150 milligrams of the drug in the U.S., $7,390, towered above the cost for the same amount in similarly developed countries; in Sweden, for example, 150 mg of Zinbryta cost $1,737, the group wrote.
A month earlier, Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD) and Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT),  sent letters to  Biogen and six other companies asking them to describe their MS treatment drug pricing strategies, citing a 2015  study on such medications in the journal Neurology. The paper found that MS treatment “costs have accelerated at rates well beyond inflation and substantially above rates observed for drugs in a similar biologic class,” and urged “clinicians, payers, and manufacturers in the United States to confront the soaring costs.”
Companies, consumer protection groups and members of Congress have unsuccessfully pushed the NIH to exercise these rights  six other times in the past two decades.
Azar’s former employer makes clear its stance on patent privileges,  stating on its website that it “supports strong and effective protection of intellectual property rights, including patent protection for pharmaceutical products.” In the post, Eli Lilly warns that threats to such protections could have a “chilling effect on the industry’s ability to bring new lifesaving medicines to patients around the world.”
Several months before Azar  was promoted to president of the firm’s U.S. affiliate, Eli Lilly helped another company fight to protect private control of patents in a 2011 lawsuit over the extent to which Bayh-Dole protected private ownership of inventions, even when the invention was partially funded by the government at a university.  
In the 2011 Supreme Court case, Eli Lilly was among half a dozen companies that jointly filed an  amicus curiae brief supporting the defendant, a diagnostic products firm accused by Stanford University of unauthorized use of an HIV testing patent developed by a Stanford faculty member both while he worked at the school and later during his employment by the company. Although part of the researcher’s funding came from the NIH, the defendant, Roche Molecular Systems Inc.,  was ultimately victorious.    
“The Bayh-Dole Act does not diminish inventors’ rights in their inventions,” the firms wrote. “Congress could not have intended the Bayh-Dole Act to generate such unsettling and disquieting results.”
James Love, the director of KEI, the organization pressing the federal government to exercise its march-in rights, told International Business Times that “we’ll have to wait and see” how the former Eli Lilly executive reacts to calls for the invocation of Bayh-Dole, especially as Trump himself has been silent on the issue.
“Azar has got to figure out what his job is — if it’s protecting drug companies or if it’s protecting American consumers,” Love said. “I’m sure that Azar will be questioned about it in his confirmation hearing.”
A Lobbying Blitz During Trump Presidency
In late January, Trump  met with a collection of CEOs from the top pharmaceutical companies, including David Ricks, the former CEO and current chairman of the Indiana-based Eli Lilly and Company. Drug companies have increased their lobbying presence this year to ward off legislation that would hurt their profits.
Eli Lilly has been active on the lobbying front, advocating for its interests in intellectual property issues over much of the past decade — including,  most recently, negotiations of the North Atlantic Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which contains measures for strict patent protections — according to the  federal lobbying database. The lobbying group PhRMA  lobbied  Congress on “Bayh-Dole march-in rights policy issues” as recently as the third quarter of this year.
The drugmaker has additionally lobbied the department Azar was selected to lead on  drug importation and online sales,  trade issues,  health care reform implementation,  drug pricing,  patent reform and  promotion of public-private partnerships over the last year, federal lobbying records show. In total, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics, Eli Lilly has reported spending $5.7 million on lobbying efforts so far in 2017.
The two major trade groups that Eli Lilly is part of have been lobbying furiously this year as the Trump administration works out its position on drug pricing and regulations. PhRMA had a  big increase in lobbying in 2017’s first quarter, spending about one-third more than it had during that period in 2016 and making it the country’s third-largest federal lobbying organization. So far this year, PhRMA has reported spending nearly  $20 million on federal lobbying. In addition to march-in rights, PhRMA has lobbied HHS, the Food and Drug Agency and/or the Centers For Medicare and Medicaid Services on  drug  pricing,  Medicaid prescription drug benefits,  several bills aimed to increasing transparency and reducing costs of medications, and pharmacy benefit manager  disclosure requirements.
BIO has spent  $7 million on lobbying this year, already more than in 2016, and has lobbied Congress, HHS and other agencies on  drug pricing,  renegotiating NAFTA,  march-in rights,  patents and  drug importation bills, among other issues.
A Friend To Pence
Azar has connections to a pivotal member of the White House administration. Eli Lilly is headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, where Vice President Mike Pence was governor from 2013 to 2017. In 2010, Azar personally  contributed $500 to Pence’s U.S. House campaign, records compiled by the National Institute on Money in State Politics show. Then, in 2012, he gave Pence’s Indiana gubernatorial campaign nearly $3,000. In 2016, before Pence withdrew his candidacy for governor, Azar donated $1,000.
Eli Lilly has been a  major supporter of Pence’s political career. Its political action committee gave $8,700 to Pence’s 2010 House campaign, $21,550 to his 2012 run for governor, and $25,000 to his 2016 gubernatorial campaign.
Azar’s numerous conflicts-of-interest have led the three U.S. representatives to sharply criticize his nomination, “Mr. Azar’s appointment would send a very clear signal that your Administration is happy to put the pharmaceutical fox in charge of the health care henhouse,” reads their letter to Trump. “It would also be a perfect example of revolving door practices that are undermining the public’s trust in their federal government.”
Correction (11/14/17 at 10 AM): A previous version of this article stated that Trump, during his campaign, pledged to allow Medicaid to negotiate drug prices. He promised to allow Medicare to do so.


The nation’s largest student loan servicer systematically helped hike interest rates on borrowers and saddle them with crushing debts, according to a lawsuit filed by Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro. The suit comes just as President Trump and Education Secretary Betsy DeVos have  delayed new rules designed to protect student borrowers.
The case against Navient is a politically bold — and some might say risky — move for Shapiro, a first-term Democrat who has been considered a rising political star. The company is a corporate powerhouse that employs roughly 1,000 people in Pennsylvania. But in a podcast interview with International Business Times, Shapiro said he felt obligated to challenge the company in court after his office reviewed a flood of borrowers’ complaints to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Subscribers can click here to listen to the entire podcast interview.  
“The allegations are completely unfounded and the case was filed without any review of Pennsylvania residents' customer accounts,” said Navient spokeswoman Patricia Christel in a statement emailed to IBT. “We comply with the rules that govern the student loan program as set by Congress and the U.S. Department of Education, and there are no allegations that we have violated these rules. Navient is a leader in helping student loan borrowers succeed; in fact, 49 percent of balances serviced by Navient for the government are enrolled in income-driven repayment plans and Navient-serviced borrowers are 37 percent less likely to default than those serviced by others. We will vigorously defend our record in court, and are confident we will prevail following an impartial review of the facts.”
During a wide-ranging discussion with IBT, Shapiro explained the details of his case against Navient, and argued that the company’s behavior harmed not only student borrowers, but the entire American economy. He also slammed the Trump administration for its attempts to neuter the CFPB, and he talked about how as a progressive Democrat he was able to win office in 2016 in Pennsylvania, the same year Trump won the state. 
What follows is a lightly edited excerpt of the interview with Shapiro. 
Your lawsuit is against one company, Navient — but that company is not just any company. It is the largest student loan servicer in the entire country. Why did you file this suit?
Navient had preferred status by many colleges. They were literally touching the lives of millions of college students and their families. In a nutshell, they did a number of things wrong…
Number one, they were charging people excessively high interest rates, and number two, these companies have a responsibility to work with the student, to work with their families, and put them in a proper repayment plan for them. By putting them in the wrong repayment plan, sometimes the effect is a student would have to pay off their loan for more years than they otherwise should have. Sometimes they were put into a repayment plan that spiked the interest rates. Sometimes they were put in a repayment plan that ended up costing them more in interest than principal.
There is one example, by putting folks who would have qualified for a different repayment plan, they put them into something that ultimately cost nearly $4 billion in interest charges to the principal balances of 1.5 million student borrowers who were in forbearance. That's $4 billion. Just to be clear, that doesn't mean that the students have paid the full $4 billion, but they were in the process of paying that. If they were forced to take these loans to the end, it would have totaled about $4 billion. That is absolutely abhorrent behavior, and it's behavior that we simply can't let stand. That's why we took this action of filing a lawsuit to try and hold Navient accountable.
You note in the complaint that Navient saw "extremely rapid growth in the riskiest category of subprime lending.” Do you think there is a parallel to what happened in the housing crisis with lending to subprime borrowers and offering high-interest mortgage rates? 
I think that the parallel here is that both the housing crisis and what we're alleging Navient did wrong with their student loan business, it involved economics and ethics. Economics in that the company was trying to jack up the amount of money they could make, in this case on the back of students, and ethics, in that in both instances, ethical leadership would have steered them away from these kinds of predatory practices, steered them away from these kinds of widespread abuses.
I think the parallels also demonstrate that we need tougher regulations. Some of that we can do at the state level, here in Pennsylvania and other states. Some of that is going to have to come from Congress. What I have seen from this Congress and this president is that they seem to be walking away from regulation in this area, making it easier for these kinds of predatory practices to continue. That to me is very dangerous. It's dangerous for consumers, for students, for families. Before it was the housing crisis. 
Now it's preying on student loan holders. Who knows what's next? We've got to get this right, and it's going to require more action in Washington, and action by attorneys general like me in the states.
Navient could argue that it has to charge less creditworthy borrowers a higher interest rate to make sure the lenders don’t lose money. What do you say to that? 
[Navient] failed to put struggling borrowers into repayment plans that that borrower could afford. That is their requirement, Navient's, to put them in that proper repayment plan. When borrowers like you're describing have trouble repaying their student loans, they have a right to apply for income-driven repayment plans that would bring with it lower monthly premiums, lower monthly payments.
They're not allowed, because some student is struggling, and there's maybe more of a risk to Navient, to just jack up the interest rates, to extend the payment plans, to really take advantage of this person who is maybe lower income, has fallen on tough times, whatever the case may be. In fact, they have an ethical and legal responsibility to work with that student, to work with that family, to help them be in a position where they can in fact pay off their loan, but do it under terms that are responsible and reasonable. 
These income-driven repayment plans spell that out. We believe Navient did not follow that. We believe Navient instead took advantage of this class of individuals.
You argue that Navient was moving struggling borrowers into forebearance, rather than income-driven repayment plans. Explain the difference between those two options. 
In its basic terms, an income-driven repayment plan says, "You've fallen on tough times. Your income went down, whatever the case may be. We're going to proportionally adjust your repayment plan so that you can pay back your loan and also still be able to afford your mortgage, and food, and taking of your children, whatever the case may be." 
Forbearance, where they were steering a lot of people toward, they say, "We're going to forgive your payment for now," but in exchange for that, what they really don't tell you but they are doing, they're jacking up the interest rates, and essentially extending the loan on the back end and dramatically increasing the cost of the loan for the student, for the individual. While at first glance, at first blush it might sound like, "Boy, we're doing them a favor by putting them into forbearance," you're actually just increasing the cost at the end of the day.
We believe Navient engaged in a scheme where they ultimately pushed people into this forbearance so that they could increase the ultimate payments and the money back in their pockets. We think that's wrong. That's why we sued them, not just on behalf of students and families in Pennsylvania but because they have a significant operation in my home state of Pennsylvania, in Wilkes-Barre, and these practices touched on students, families across the country, we believe we have an opportunity to recover for all Americans affected by this. That's something we take very seriously.
Do you believe Navient’s behavior affects more than just student borrowers?
For those people listening right now who say, "Boy, I don't have a loan, so it doesn't really apply to me. This doesn't affect me," the truth is, Navient's conduct affected all Pennsylvanians, affected all Americans, because what you've done is you've taken millions of people across our country, and made it harder for them to buy a home, made it harder for them to invest in their startup business, made it harder for them to go to the grocery store, go to the mall, and purchase goods and services and things in their area that they need. 
That affects the economy for all of us. It affects communities for all of us. It stopped that really bright college graduate from starting a company in Denver, Colorado, and developing a new widget, or providing a new service. These are things that ultimately harmed all of us as Americans, held all of us back, because of the corporate malfeasance that we witnessed here from Navient.
Your office reviewed hundreds of complaints about these loans that were filed with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau — an agency that Republican lawmakers have tried to defang. How much harder would it be to do your job if there was no CFPB?
The CFPB is a critical partner for us in protecting consumers around the country. I think if you ask any attorney general that, they would agree. Some of them may have more of a partisan bent, and so they might be a little bit less forthcoming with you, but make no mistake, every attorney general office around the country works with and depends on the data and assistance that comes from the CFPB. They are valued partners with us…
I've engaged with my colleagues, other attorneys general around the country, in trying to urge Congress to keep the CFPB in place and make sure that they have teeth…While we're lobbying to keep the CFPB in place because they're valuable partners, we're also taking more of this on our own shoulders in Pennsylvania so that we can protect our consumers, protect seniors, protect student loan holders, and others who are consistently impacted by these kinds of abuses and scams.
What I don't get, I'll just say this final point, what I don't get is, this president, the coalition that helped elect him, these are people who day in and day out are getting scammed, and getting screwed. They need government to look out for them, not look out for the special interests. Why they try and do away with the CFPB and make it easier for the special interests, and make it harder for average Pennsylvanians, is something to me that is absolutely unconscionable and just doesn't make sense.
Navient is a company that employs roughly 1,000 people in your own state. What's the company saying? Have you felt any political pushback from what you're doing? 
My job is to apply the law without fear and without favor. My job is to hold people accountable who violate the interests and rights of Pennsylvanians or violate the law. My job is not to distinguish between who's doing that, whether they're connected or not, whether they're from my home state or not. My job is to protect the people of Pennsylvania, and I am the one constitutional officer in my state that has the ability and the responsibility to do that...
In terms of their response, yeah, I find it curious that their response in letters to the editor and stuff like that has been to attack me personally. That tells me a lot about an opponent, if you will, that if they start attacking you personally, it means they don't have the law on their side and they don't have the facts on their side. I'm a big boy. I can take that. I recognize that's part of the job. At the end of the day, I'll be judged based upon my ability to stand up for the people of Pennsylvania and deliver real results. 
When it comes to this Navient lawsuit, my goal is really threefold. Number one, to get restitution, and debt forgiveness, and other things for people who have been impacted. Number two, monetary payments to deter future violations like this from Navient or others. Number three, most importantly, to change corporate behavior, to make sure that a big corporation like this can't continue to prey on students and their families in the way that they have.
You and President Trump have very different political views, but you both won Pennsylvania in the same election year. What do you think that means?
It's interesting. I got over three million votes. I was the highest vote-getter in Pennsylvania. Donald Trump, I think, was second to me. We figured this out. There were probably about 250,000 people that voted for him and voted for me. The question is, why? 
I think what we've been able to deduce from this is there's anger out there. There's real frustration. They want people in government who are going to go to battle for them, to fight for them, who are going to stand up to the interests that have stopped progress. These are individuals who I find to be less ideologically centered and just more focused on trying to improve their communities, trying to improve their opportunities in life.
For as diverse and different as our state is, the truth is people basically want the same thing. They want safe communities, good schools, and economic opportunity for them and others. In this case, I think what I was able to do was go out and explain that. "I'm going to make your community safer by dealing with the heroin epidemic. I'm going to stand up to those people who are scamming you. I'm going to make sure that your kids have safe schools to go to." These are the things we talked about day in and day out. We took it from a hopeful, positive perspective. 
Candidate Trump, on the other hand, tapped into that anger. He didn't do it in a hopeful, optimistic way, but what he did, and he did this unfortunately very successfully, he divided people and made folks in Pennsylvania and other states feel as though there were others to blame for their anger, for their frustration, by the way, very real anger and very real frustration. I'm not criticizing people that felt that way. By tapping into it in that angry way, he was able to get that message through.
Fast forward a year later, and you realize that all of these things he said and these commitments he made were really empty...he was able to manipulate the system through anger, through negativity, to be able to gather in three states 80,000 more votes than Hillary Clinton, but what he's done governing-wise has done nothing to help these individuals that he claims to want to help. These are people I see every day. These are people I work with every day who are desperate for help from Washington, and it's just simply not coming.


A woman has accused three members of an AirAsia flight of sexual harassment days after the airline filed a complaint against the woman for verbally abusing a crew member, according to Press Trust of India Saturday.
The woman alleges that a flight attendant made “unwelcome physical advances” on a Nov. 3 flight from Ranchi, India, to Bengaluru, India. In a Nov. 7 police report, the woman accused three crew members of “molestation, misbehavior, threatening and rowdyism.” The woman alleges that a crew member cornered her near a bathroom.
“He was trying to be touchy while there was no one around near the washroom. I found that awkward but did not say much as I was not sure about his behavior,” she said in a statement to police.
She also said that flight crew insulted her after she complained about the dirty bathroom and alleged she was detained on the runway by crew members and not allowed to go to her gate until all other passengers left.
AirAsia denies the woman’s claims and filed a complaint about the woman with the Indian Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) immediately after the flight. The airline alleges the woman verbally abused one of its staff.
“The senior cabin crew who was operating the flight, following the pre-take off safety and security procedures, noticed the [woman] speaking on the phone and requested her to switch off her mobile phone as this is against prescribed safety procedures... The passenger resorted to verbal abuse against the senior cabin crew,” said AirAsia in a statement to Press Trust of India.
The airlines called the woman a “disruptive passenger” and said she was detained on the runway because she was brought to the airport police station.
Passengers can be banned from flying for three months to a lifetime by the DGCA for causing issues on a flight. 
An Indian woman has accused AirAsia of sexual harassment.  Photo: Beawiharta/REUTERS


In a round of on-stage interviews at a New York Times conference Thursday, big-name chief executives weren’t shy in their criticism of President Donald Trump, and more generally, of Washington. One CEO even hinted that he may still be interested in taking Trump’s job in 2020.
Joined by interviewer and New York Times columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin on a Jazz at Lincoln Center stage, billionaire and Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban said the president — whom he once vocally supported — “has no common sense.”
“I’ve supported him briefly; then I got to know him,” Cuban said of Trump. He added later, in a play on the reality TV star’s own words, “The only thing he’s ‘winning’ is least popular president in history.”

Asked whether he would run for president in the 2020 election, something he’s suggested before, Cuban cited reservations about his family’s public exposure. The idea of what his eldest daughter would face on social media during his hypothetical campaign was “not a comforting thought,” he said.
Still, moving away from recent remarks to Fox News that he would run as a Republican if he launched a bid, Cuban told Sorkin he’d “potentially” run as an independent candidate. It’s a designation he explicitly placed above Republican and Democrat — in that order.
Starbucks Corp. CEO Howard Schultz was more forthright in his dismissal of a possible presidential run but pulled no punches when describing the incumbent administration, if not by name.
While “every American should respect the office of the president,” Schultz said, “teenagers and college students have been imprinted with an America I am not familiar with. He recalled an American couple he’d met during travels in Normandy, who told him they’d visited the region of northern France “to be reminded of who we once were.”
“We are living in a world where, every day, some episodic event affects how we live,” he said of the political and media environment.
On business-related matters, Schultz also didn’t hold back when criticizing Congress for its recent hasty attempt to pass landmark reform of the U.S. tax code.
“This is not tax reform. This is a tax cut,” he said. “This is fool’s gold.”
Also alluding to the rush to push bills through Congress without much debate — as well as the year’s chaotic political news cycle — was BlackRock Inc. CEO Larry Fink, who took the stage with outgoing American Express Co. CEO Kenneth Chenault.
When Chenault remarked that private sector mentality had “devolved into thinking that ‘short-term’ is two weeks and ‘long-term’ is two years,” Fink quipped that “‘long-term’ in Washington is about six weeks.”
Fink also lightly took aim at Trump’s habit of attributing economic health to himself, primarily by pointing to stock market figures.
“China is right, Japan is right, Europe is right, the private sector of America is right,” he said, adding that confidence in Trump’s promises of deregulation certainly played a significant role in the market’s surge.
Other CEOs defended the protection for young immigrants established by the administration of former President Barack Obama, a policy known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), which the Department of Homeland Security announced in early September it had begun phasing out.
“It’s always a delicate point for anyone,” said United Airlines CEO Oscar Munoz, who was born and raised in Mexico before emigrating to the U.S. Having met with Trump on at least one occasion since the president’s inauguration, he highlighted his own advocacy for so-called “Dreamers,” adding that he “can say things that others can’t say.”
Laurene Powell Jobs — the founder and president of the for-profit charity Emerson Collective, which aired pro-DACA ads in September — recalled her own encounter with Trump.
Despite ultimately deciding to end the program, Powell Jobs said the president was sympathetic to the situation of the Dreamers in private and appeared to acknowledge the negative effects the program’s withdrawal would have on young people.
“He said the same thing to us that he said publicly, that they were brought here through no fault of their own,” Powell Jobs said of the children and young adults affected. She laughingly recalled him telling her, “I have a bigger heart than you would imagine.”


Proving identity is a routine part of modern daily life. Many people must show a driver’s license to buy alcohol at a store, flash an ID card to security guards at work, enter passwords and passcodes to retrieve email and other private information, and answer security validation questions when calling banks or credit card companies for customer service.
Authentication is also getting easier for people: Take the iPhone, for example. Unlocking the early versions required a multi-digit passcode. Then Apple introduced Touch ID, which would unlock the phone with a fingerprint reader. The latest version, just out, is the iPhone X, which can use its camera to perform facial recognition to authenticate a user.
As a software security researcher looking at authentication technologies for hand-held devices, I am fully aware that the technologies change, but the challenge remains the same: How can a digital system authenticate an analog human’s identity?
There are three main ways of proving an identity. One involves something you know – like a password or your mother’s maiden name. This method assumes the authorized user will have information no unauthorized user does. But that’s not always the case: For 145.5 million Americans affected by the Equifax security breach revealed in September 2017, reams of previously private information may now be known to criminals.
A second method of authentication is with something you have – such as a key to your home’s front door or a smart card to swipe at work. This assumes a limited number of people – possibly as few as one, but it could be a small group of users, like a family or co-workers – are allowed to enter a physical space or use a digital service.
A third way is by authenticating the individual human being – who you are – with some aspect of your biology. There are various type of these biometrics, such as fingerprints, facial recognition, iris scanning and voiceprints. This strategy, of course, assumes that the bodily feature is unique to the particular individual – and, crucially, that the digital system involved can tell the difference between people.
Using two or more methods together can improve security and is called two-factor, or multi-factor, authentication.
This increasing dependence on digital authentication may actually result in less security. While cameras, sensors and other devices can make authentication easier for people to accomplish, they carry their own weaknesses.
When a system seeks to authenticate an individual, it must compare the information the person is presenting – what they know, what they have or who they are – against a previously stored database of authorized users. As the Equifax security breach makes clear, those databases are themselves vulnerable to attack. Information stolen from there could be used somewhere else – for instance, to identify which bank a particular person uses and answer security questions when calling to transfer money. Or the database itself could be corrupted, altering information so an attacker would be able to fake his way into a physical space or system.
Another potential security threat inherent in biometrics in particular is that criminals don’t need to guess a password, or force someone to reveal it: The simple presence of the victim – even at gunpoint – can supply the fingerprint or face to authenticate and unlock a system.
As authentication becomes more complicated, using multiple factors and secure communications between sensors and databases, users become less willing to jump through all the hoops. So security managers try to make the process easier for them without weakening the protections. This commonly happens on websites that urge users to log in using their Facebook or Google accounts; those sites rely on the advanced security of the tech giants rather than creating their own authentication systems.
In one futuristic scenario, authentication could occur without a user even noticing: When you walk into a store, facial recognition could identify and authenticate you. Then, at checkout, you’d need only to scan your purchases and leave – the store will automatically charge the credit card of your choice. This isn’t science fiction: Amazon has patented a systemfor doing exactly this in its Amazon Go cashier-less convenience stores.
This is possible in part because of the increasingly common practice of computer systems authenticating each other – so the store’s system would recognize you, connect to the credit card company and authorize your purchase all on its own.
It may be more convenient, and even more secure, than a magnetic strip on a plastic card in your wallet. But the potential dangers will require much higher security for private information, particularly biometric data. A real identity still comes down to flesh and blood.
Jungwoo Ryoo is Professor of Information Sciences and Technology at Altoona campus at Pennsylvania State University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.


In the last 90 years, three catastrophic hurricanes have struck Puerto Rico.
San Felipe II in 1928 and San Ciprían in 1932 triggered political and economic changes in America’s largest colony that endured for generations. However, Puerto Rico remains an  unincorporated territorial possession of the United States, subject to the plenary powers of Congress. The Puerto Rican government exercises only those powers that the Congress allows. In other words, it is still a colony.
As a political economist who has studied Puerto Rican political and economic change, I believe Hurricane Maria could be another watershed moment that redefines U.S. treatment of Puerto Rico.
In 1928, things were not well in Puerto Rico.
Three decades of U.S. colonial rule had transformed Puerto Rico into a vast sugar plantation controlled by absentee corporations and a prized military base for protecting the Panama Canal. A classic study of Puerto Rico noted that “thousands are undernourished, or actually starving, while the products of the Island bring more than $100 million a year. Disease is present everywhere.”
Luis Muñoz Marín, arguably one of Puerto Rico’s most famous political figures, wrote that Puerto Rico had been converted into a “land of beggars and millionaires… It is Uncle Sam’s second largest sweat-shop.”
Puerto Ricans wanted to reform the colonial system that was responsible for these woes. In April 1928, Félix Córdoba Dávila, Puerto Rico’s resident commissioner in Washington at the time, complained that Puerto Ricans “are not asking for charity, but for rights.”
Then came Hurricane San Felipe II, a Category 5 hurricane.
The War Department reported that on Sept. 13, 1928, Puerto Rico “was struck by the most devastating hurricane in its history, and the results of years of private and public enterprise were obliterated in a few hours.”
San Felipe II killed 312 people. It left a half a million Puerto Ricans homeless and destitute, almost one-third of the island’s population. Property damage, estimated at US$85 million – about $1.57 billion in 2017 dollars – was unprecedented. According to the Red Cross, no sector of the economy was “left in a worse plight” than the coffee farms. Plantations lost almost their entire crop, and Puerto Rico never regained its prominence as a coffee exporter.
President Calvin Coolidge’s call for Americans to contribute to the American Red Cross generated $3.1 million in donations. The War Department dispersed more than $500,000 worth of supplies and reassigned Army officers, including medical staff, to Puerto Rico. Congress established the Puerto Rican Hurricane Relief Commission in 1928 with $8,150,000 to provide loans for rehabilitating coffee plantations, reconstruction and jobs. U.S. authorities reported that Puerto Ricans were “undismayed and undiscouraged,” and as “bending every effort to create from the ruins a greater Puerto Rico.”
At the same time, San Felipe II led to increased opposition to U.S. colonial rule. The Nationalists and the Union Party emerged as vocal critics of U.S. colonial policy. Many Puerto Ricans portrayed the federal government’s response to San Felipe II as charity that failed to alter the regime of colonial rule and absentee capital – the root of Puerto Rico’s misery.
Four years later, in September 1932, San Ciprían, a Category 4 hurricane, struck Puerto Rico.
It left 225 dead and caused $35 million damage (about $644 million in 2017). The Red Cross director reported: “The acute and intense hurricane surpasses anything he has seen in his career.” San Ciprían intensified the misery that afflicted Puerto Rico. The majority of Puerto Ricans lived a precarious existence. They lacked reserves to survive the ravages of any hurricane for long.
The Army, private relief organizations, Red Cross, colonial administration and federal government took action to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe. In August 1933, President Franklin Roosevelt created the Puerto Rican Emergency Relief Administration and charged it with providing “relief for the destitute unemployed of the island.” The agency’s director acknowledged the desperate need for aid, but noted that it should be temporary. Puerto Ricans, he wrote, “were an industrious people with a real desire to work and distinct aversion to charity and relief.”
The creation of the Puerto Rican Emergency Relief Administration was an important change in U.S. colonial policy. The scale and severity of Puerto Rico’s humanitarian crisis was beyond the capacity of the charity-focused, volunteer approach of the Red Cross and other organizations. A federal agency had stepped in.
Although the agency saved lives, it was not well-funded. Governor of Puerto Rico Blanton Winship complained in 1935 that “Puerto Rico continues to receive only a small portion of the funds to which the island is rightfully entitled.” These relief efforts did little to mitigate political discontent.
Calls for independence escalated. Puerto Ricans denounced the corrupt colonial administration that opposed the federal agency, blocked land reform and was solidly in the pocket of the absentee corporations. Labor strikes broke out throughout the island, and often turned violent. The colony was on the verge of collapse.
The two hurricanes were a wake-up call for federal authorities to the failures of colonialism. San Felipe II and San Ciprían set in motion a process of reform that culminated in the Commonwealth of Puerto Ricoin 1952. The government of Puerto Rico was unofficially given autonomy to manage domestic affairs, including the economy.
The magnitude of human loss that Hurricane Maria has inflicted is still unknown. As of this writing, the official number of Puerto Ricans killed by Maria stands at 51, but journalists have been investigating the accuracyof these figures. Moody’s Analytics estimated property damage at $55 billion, and projected a $40 billion loss in economic output.
But the physical devastation, upheaval and trauma inflicted on daily life in Puerto Rico add up to much more. San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz went so far as to say that if not resolved, the situation could lead to “something close to a genocide.”
The Donald Trump administration’s response to the crisis reveals that Puerto Ricans are racialized as subordinate, despite their U.S. citizenship. Trump’s racially charged statements resurrected long dormant, degrading characterizations of Puerto Ricans as lacking the capacity and will to fend for themselves.
Maria has also exposed the crisis within Puerto Rico’s divided politics. The Statehood and Commonwealth parties have campaigned for decades on resolving Puerto Rico’s political status. Yet, both parties share responsibility for the island’s escalating debt, and neither has been able to stop Puerto Rico’s economic decline. The entrenched poverty, crisis in political leadership and the federal government’s continued treatment of Puerto Rico as “foreign to the United States in a domestic sense” have an uncanny resemblance to the situation in 1932.
A major difference, however, is that Puerto Rico does not figure as prominently in U.S. national security as it did before the collapse of the Soviet Union and demise of Cuba as a regional threat. This partially explains the federal government’s seemingly untroubled response to the unfolding crisis in Puerto Rico.
Another critical difference is that the Puerto Rican diaspora has emergedas a powerful, if unexpected, economic and political force. They have come to the aid of their island, and are actively lobbying against some of the most restrictive colonial policies – the Jones Act, PROMESA board and inequity in federal programs.
Puerto Ricans living across the U.S. are putting pressure on their local officials and the federal government for more assistance, and have organized a nationwide campaign to raise funding and collect donations for Puerto Rico. As a recent editorial in Puerto Rico’s leading newspaper put it, “the diaspora is key to the reconstruction of the country.” It may also be key in moving the federal government to finally resolve Puerto Rico’s political status.
Editor’s Note: This article has been corrected to state that Carmen Yulín Cruz is mayor of San Juan.
Pedro Caban is Professor of Latin American, Caribbean and U.S. Latino Studies, at University at Albany at State University of New York.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Instagram is projected to reach 1 billion users by the first week of January, outdoing Twitter and Snapchat. The photo-sharing app is fast gaining users because of features such as Stories and improved messaging functionality.
Influencer marketing company Mediakix projects that Instagram will reach a billion users by Jan. 5 or even earlier. According to its forecast, the photo-sharing app has added 653,595 users per day in the past 5 months.
The forecast was done by analyzing Instagram's user growth patterns using a logarithmic function for the projection. The researchers did not take into consideration, the data before Facebook’s acquisition of Instagram, but only the data from July 2012 to September 2017. According to the prediction, Instagram will be growing at an increasing rate in the coming months. While the growth from 300 million to 400 million users took 286 days, the growth from 600 million to 700 million users took only 126 days. The analysts predict that it will take about 100 days for Instagram to grow from 800 million to 1 billion users.
The platform is massively outperforming its rivals — Twitter and Snapchat. While Instagram currently stands at more than 800 million users, Snapchat is at 178 million and Twitter is at 330 million users. While Instagram is expected to cross 1 billion users soon, Snapchat, according to Goldman Sachs is projected to reach 221 million users by the end of 2018 and Twitter is expected to cross only 400 million users in the same period, according to Mashable.
If everything goes as predicted, Instagram will become Facebook’s fourth social media application after the Facebook app, Messenger app and WhatsApp.
One of the reasons cited for the growth of the photo-sharing platform is that it acts as a complement to Facebook’s 2 billion users-strong network. You can connect Instagram to Facebook and share photos and posts from the photo-sharing site to Facebook. This cross-posting of Stories and posts exposes even users who use only Facebook to using Instagram.
Instagram has also grown as an advertising platform and currently services 2 million advertisers. Unlike Facebook, in which ads run on the sidelines of the main news feed, Instagram provides brands a platform where they can target users more specifically using techniques such as native advertising i.e. sponsored ads and influencer marketing — advertising using Instagrammers with large fan bases.
In these ways, Instagram gives brands a different advertising platform as well as a platform for implementing innovative social media strategies as an alternative to traditional ways and avenues of marketing.
It also gives users more engaging content to look at, but not devote as much attention to as Snapchat — users can quickly scroll through images and stop at the one they like. This makes it more appealing to users.
Instagram seems to have paid out its price to Facebook — it was acquired for a billion dollars and now it is reaching a billion users.


After failing to repeal Obamacare and a disastrous general election for their party on Tuesday, Republican members of Congress are feeling intense pressure from major donors to agree on and pass a tax cut bill for President Donald Trump to sign into law. Two GOP lawmakers made headlines in recent days for their unusually candid statements about the power that donors hold over them and their policy decisions.
Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina reportedly said on Thursday that “the financial contributions will stop” if tax reform fails.
Lindsey Graham says “the financial contributions will stop” if tax reform fails.
— Alan Rappeport (@arappeport) November 9, 2017
New York Rep. Chris Collins told reporters on Tuesday that his donors were “basically saying, ‘Get it done or don't ever call me again.’”
A review of these legislators’ campaign finance records shows which kinds of donors they appear to be scared of irritating. Both Graham and Collins are dependent on donors who can contribute large sums to their campaigns — those who also are likely to gain from the GOP tax cut plan, which heavily favors the wealthy and large corporations — and take in relatively few small contributions.
According to the Federal Elections Commission data analyzed by International Business Times, only 1.4 percent of the money this year from individual donors to Graham — a member of the Senate Budget Committee — came in the form of “small donations,” or contributions of $200 or less. The vast majority (70 percent) came from donations of $2,000 or more.
Among the top corporations that have donated to Graham’s campaigns from 2013 to the present are several that are sponsoring a “Tax Prom” event next week in hopes of the GOP passing a tax reform bill that will drastically cut their corporate tax rates from 35 percent down to 20 percent. PACs and individuals associated with companies such as  Tax Prom sponsors Altria, Boeing, ExxonMobil, and Raytheon have lavished Graham with donations over the past five years. Of Graham’s  donor industries, the securities and investment industry ($814,000 since 2013) is second only to lawyers and law firms, according to data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics.
Graham has  introduced modest campaign finance reform legislation and has  criticized the influence of super PACs.
For Collins, 8.1 percent of the money from individual donations to Collins this year were small. Nearly 70 percent were donations of $2,000 or more. During the 2016 election cycle, small donations made up 9.2 percent of Collins’ total individual contributions.
The wealthy will also benefit from income tax cuts; the latest Tax Policy Center  analysis of the regressive tax plan concluded that by 2027, those in the top 0.1 percent of Americans in terms of income will see an average tax cut of over $278,000, while those in the bottom 20 percent will get a tax cut of only $10.
The New York Times  estimates that nearly half of middle-class families would end up paying more in taxes in 2026 as a result of the plan.
Outside Groups Lay On The Pressure
In a recent CBS interview, Trump’s top economic adviser and former Goldman Sachs CEO Gary Cohn made it clear that CEOs will benefit the most from the GOP tax cut plan.
This quote from Gary Cohn is just too perfect: "The most excited group out there are big CEOs, about our tax plan." pic.twitter.com/1a5u1EoJVQ
— Jeremy Slevin (@jeremyslevin) November 9, 2017
“We see the whole trickle-down through the economy, and that's good for the economy,” Cohn said.
Campaign contributions aren’t the only way that wealthy donors pressure politicians. Independent groups, funded in large part by wealthy, conservative business executives and their companies, are telling politicians that they’re fed up and want tax cuts now. Americans for Prosperity — a “social welfare” nonprofit founded and largely funded by the billionaire industrialists and far-right political mega-donors Charles and David Koch — has spent millions on a tax cut campaign, including  ads pressuring centrist Democrats to work with the GOP to pass the plan.
Other groups are turning up the heat as well. The  Job Creators Network, which counts Americans for Prosperity and the Koch-backed Libre Initiative as partners, is spending millions of dollars on its campaign for tax cuts, which included a rally outside the Internal Revenue Service. A slew of other conservative political organizations such as FreedomWorks and Heritage Action are reportedly  rallying behind the House GOP tax bill.
Current Campaign Finance System Reinforces Inequality
The Equal Protection Clause of the U.S. Constitution outlines a core principle of American democracy: that of “one person, one vote.” With weak campaign finance laws, lax enforcement and high — sometimes nonexistent — contribution limits, the current election system allows those with more money more of a say in elections, and thus, more influence once their preferred candidates take office.
Studies have shown that policy most reflects the preferences of the most wealthy members of society and that those preferences do not reflect the greater public opinion on issues including the economy. A Demos  study found that less than half of donors making contributions of $1,000 or higher “supported the Dodd-Frank financial reform bill, which established a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and helped restore stability to the financial system [after the 2008 financial crash], compared with 74 percent of non-donors.”
Other  research finds that in the U.S. Senate, “there is a dearth of congruence [on policy] between constituents and senators — unless these constituents are those who write checks and attend fundraiser.”
“The wealthy disproportionately affect the policy agenda because money buy access and voice,” Sean McElwee, a researcher who studies campaign finance and inequality, told IBT. 
“Politicians rarely engage in a direct quid-pro-quo, but their views on the ills in our society are deeply shaped by who has access to their ears, and more often than not, those individuals are affluent white men... For decades we had to learn about the influence of the donor class through careful research, but these days Republicans are openly touting that reality to reporters, which admittedly makes my job easier.”


Should Democrats present a moderate corporate-friendly agenda to try to win suburban swing voters, or should they instead embrace the populist politics of Bernie Sanders? Lee Carter, the self-described socialist who won a pivotal election in Virginia this week, says the latter path is the only way forward. 
In a podcast interview with International Business Times, Carter discussed how his candidacy encapsulated the larger battle now roiling the Democratic Party — and how Sanders’ 2016 presidential campaign may have created a legacy fundamentally reshaping the party from the ground up.
Carter is a 30-year-old Marine veteran. During the campaign, he declared that he was a democratic socialist and was met with skepticism by his state’s Democratic Party. That is because his populist campaign message was the opposite of what Democratic operatives have been telling candidates to run on in suburban districts like the one where he was competing. But Carter campaigned in support of a state-based single-payer health care system and union rights. At one point, he tweeted out himself putting a letter from an anti-union group into a paper shredder.
Carter’s opponent, the House of Delegates’ Majority Whip, sent out mailers likening him to Marx and Stalin. But on election night, Carter shocked Republicans and Democratic Party elites alike, winning by 9 points. It was one of the key victories that helped Democrats rack up historic gains in Virginia.
Subscribers can listen to the full podcast by clicking here. What follows is a lightly edited excerpt of the discussion. 
What prompted you to jump into this particular race?
I was motivated to run for office after I got hurt at work in the summer of 2015. I was treated so horribly by my former employer and by the Virginia Workers Compensation Commission that I thought, I have to run for something, I have to fix this, because I can't allow anyone else to go through what I've been through...
I've been interested in politics my whole life, but the thought of running for office was sort of in the same place in my mind as the thought of winning the lottery. You know, it's that thing that you dream about when you're spacing out, instead of paying attention to what you should be paying attention to. But, yeah, it was the injury that really made me step forward and run for office. 
I was installing lighting controls. I was a Virginia employee of a Georgia company and I got hurt in Illinois. I couldn't walk for about three months and came back to Virginia and took up the legal fight to get the compensation that I was owed… It highlighted to me the glaring loopholes and problems that have been intentionally inserted into worker protections over the last 40 years by corporate special interests.
Did the 2016 election play a formative role in your political outlook? 
I've always been somewhat dissatisfied with the way that the Democratic Party acts when it gets into power, but I could never reconcile the two until 2016. 
What we saw in the presidential race in 2016 was, we saw a formerly unknown independent senator from Vermont come out and say, “I'm a democratic socialist and this is what this means,” and he got 13 million votes in the Democratic primary. And then on the right we saw obviously the rise of Donald Trump as this sort of, you know, this anger that didn't really have a direction, that didn't really have a form, but his candidacy gave voice to that. 
It really just showed me that the center of American politics, we've known it for a very long time, no longer holds. The common knowledge of the 1980s, 1990s, belongs in the 1980s and the 1990s, because people, especially in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, people are hungry for a change from the status quo. The vast majority of people don't necessarily know what direction they want that change to go in, but they know that they want something different. 
That's what the 2016 election showed me. It really gave me the example that I needed to actually pursue the politics of conviction and righteous indignation, and the politics of going out there and saying, “We need to rework our economy and make it an economy and a political system that works for working people first, and doesn't worry about how much large corporations can make in the process.”
For years, Democratic strategists have said that their party needs to run moderates in suburban districts. But you ran as a democratic socialist in one of those districts. What do you think your victory says about the party’s strategy? 
My district, even thought it is a suburb of Washington D.C., it's the suburb where most of the blue-collar workers live. It's one of the more affordable places. We have a lot of people that are in the building trades. We have a lot of carpenters, painters, electricians, and so on and so forth, that live here and work throughout the rest of the D.C. area. 
It's also one of the more diverse places in Virginia. Our population is about 13 percent African-American, about 23 percent Hispanic and Latino here in the 50th district, so when the conventional wisdom says that the sort of politics of working people can't work in the suburbs, they really discount the fact that 99 percent of people are working people. 
There's only two ways to make a living. You either make a living through the work that you do, whether that be through brain or through muscle, or you make a living off of the money that you've already got. Those are your only two choices. And so when we go out there and talk about making life better for working people, there are a lot of blue-collar workers in my district who reacted to that, who said, “Yeah, I have heard the phrase, ‘If you fall off a ladder you're fired before you hit the ground.’” There are a lot of people who work for less than $15 an hour who we go out there and we say we're going to make sure that every job provides a living wage, and they know that their lives will actually improve immediately when we implement that.
This just goes to show that this sort of message of making life better for working people connects with working people, it connects with 99 percent of the population. It's sort of hard to get through a lot of people's pre-formed notion of their partisan identification. The Republican performance was fairly consistent with previous years, but we were able to go out there and target people who have been disaffected with the local process entirely. 
We won on the back of thousands of votes of people who typically don't vote, or maybe only vote in presidential years. And because we were able to go out there with the help of hundreds of grassroots supporters knocking on doors for us, we were able to go out there and talk to people and give them a reason to be excited about a House of Delegates race that they would've otherwise ignored.
How do you define socialism, and did the label become a political liability for you in the campaign?
My opponent actually sent a mailer to about 11,000 homes in the district that featured pictures of Karl Marx, Engels, Lenin, Stalin, and Lee Carter. So clearly the old Red Scare tactics of 40 and 50 years ago, they just don't work, because what democratic socialism is, is an economic philosophy that potentially says, “Worker-owned businesses are better than investor-owned businesses.” That's all it comes down to. 
When you have a business that's owned by the employees where the decisions are made democratically in the workplace, that company is not going to ship its own jobs to China, that company is not going to downsize, it's not going to force people to work 80, 90 hours a week on starvation wages. These are things that just aren't going to happen if the people that are affected by the decisions are the people making the decisions. 
And obviously it worked out. We were able to go out there and say, “Yes, I am a democratic socialist,” much like Bernie Sanders. We were able to go out there and say, “We want to empower working people both economically and politically. We want to bring democracy to the workplace and we want to bring healthcare to all Virginians as a human right,” and people responded to that.
Did you labeling yourself a socialist generate pushback from the Democratic Party establishment in Virginia? 
Not over that specific label, but about my policy position, absolutely. Even before the presidential primaries of last year, the very first conversation that I had with the Democratic Party of Virginia, they told me, “You can run as far left as you want, but you're going to lose.”
Do you think the election in your district should be looked at  as an example of how that notion, that conventional wisdom, should be rejected?
Absolutely. In the wake, particularly in the wake of last year's election, there's been a lot of hand-wringing within the Democratic Party and sort of the pundits out there about how did the Democrats lose white working class voters and how did the Democrats lose the enthusiasm among black voters, and all these various things that led to our loss in the presidential election last year to Donald Trump.
The fact that I was able to go out in a very diverse working class district and I was able to garner support across racial and ethnic lines on a platform of inclusion and a pro-worker stance, should show people in districts like that, in places like the Rust Belt and working class suburbs throughout the country, it's to show people that this is the message that you have to have if you want to excite a broad coalition of voters, and actually start winning elections again… I certainly hope it will provide a concrete example for candidates like me throughout the country to look to and to say, “This is a winning electoral strategy.”
The Richmond Times-Dispatch reported “the Democratic Party establishment is aligned with Dominion Energy, a regulated monopoly and supportive of Dominion's desire to build the Atlantic Coast Natural Gas Pipeline across Virginia.” The paper went on to note that during the campaign, you opposed that plan. What kind of pushback did you get from your position on that issue? 
[Dominion is] the largest single source of funding for both major political parties here in Virginia, and so whatever Dominion wants, Dominion gets. Things like this, the tight relationship between a lot of elected Democrats and the large corporate interests — you know, on the state level it's usually power utilities, on the federal level it's usually Wall Street — this tight relationship that they have allows the corporate interests to water down the Democratic Party's message, to make it wishy-washy and weak and something that you can't really convey to the voters, because it's confused about what exactly it is.
When you forego the funding from those corporate interests, it allows you to go out there and say, unabashedly, “If you work for a living, I'm going to make your life better,” because you're not taking money from the people that are going to have to pay for that. It strained the relationship a little bit between myself and particularly the state party. I had good relationships with the local parties and good relationships actually with the staff on the gubernatorial campaign in the regional office, but with the house caucus in Richmond, it was difficult because there are a lot of members in the house caucus who do take money from these large donors that I was actively attacking. 
How do you think you're going to be received by your fellow Democratic legislators? Some of them have taken big donations from the very corporate interests that you were elected to challenge.
I see this as being on a bill-by-bill basis. Anytime somebody wants to work on a bill that'll make life better for people, I'll work with them on it. If they want to work on a bill that will make it easier for corporations to take advantage of working people, I'm going to fight them tooth and nail.
I'm going to be in an interesting position to both be an ally on some issues, and be a thorn in the side on others. I really feel like it's important for me to do that because the Democratic Party cannot just rest on opposition to Trump as the strategy going forward, because eventually Donald Trump's going to be gone and Donald Trump has the lowest approval rating of anything in American politics, and the second lowest is the Democratic Party. 
We need to work on making the Democratic Party the kind of organization that people can be proud of, the kind of organization that people will gladly claim the name of and work to elect. Thankfully, we have a few years of grace period now to do that while Donald Trump is in the White House, and we can use that opposition to him for electoral advantage. But yeah, like I said, when he's gone, if we haven't fixed our own house by then, we're in for a world of hurt. 


Facebook’s first president, Sean Parker, is now worried about the ramifications of the social media platform he helped usher into the world.
“I don't know if I really understood the consequences of what I was saying, because [of] the unintended consequences of a network when it grows to a billion or two billion people and ... it literally changes your relationship with society, with each other,” said Parker. “It probably interferes with productivity in weird ways. God only knows what it's doing to our children's brains.”
Parker spoke Wednesday at an event hosted by news site Axios in Philadelphia. The entrepreneur and philanthropist now runs the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy, an organization he founded. He said that he has become a “conscientious objector” to social media and is trying to warn people about the dangers of sites like Facebook. 
“The thought process that went into building these applications, Facebook being the first of them, ... was all about: 'How do we consume as much of your time and conscious attention as possible?'” said Parker.
The site, as originally designed, was meant to get you hooked. 
“That means that we needed to sort of give you a little dopamine hit every once in a while because someone liked or commented on a photo or a post or whatever ... It's a social validation feedback loop ... You're exploiting a vulnerability in human psychology ... [The inventors] understood this, consciously, and we did it anyway,” said Parker. 
Legislators now too are beginning to grapple with the influence of social media. With A bevy of foreign ads, especially from Russia, Congress is trying to determine what role these sites played in the 2016 presidential election. 
Parker, 37, co-founded music sharing site Napster at 19 and joined on to Facebook at 24. Parker served as president for Facebook from 2004 to 2005, but was pushed out after he was arrested for possession of cocaine, though he was never charged with a crime. He continued to advise Facebook after his ouster.
Parker was played by actor and singer Justin Timberlake in a movie about Facebook, 2010’s “The Social Network.” Parker, however, was upset by his portrayal as a party animal. He called the movie “a complete work of fiction,” according to Business Insider.
 
Entrepreneur and philanthropist Sean Parker. Photo: Theo Warger/GETTY


Facebook’s first president had some choice words Wednesday for the social media giant he helped to found. Sean Parker, 37, criticized the potential effects of social networks and said he was concerned about their effect on human psychology.
Parker made his mark as an entrepreneur early: at 19, he founded the music-sharing service Napster. At 24, he became the founding president of Facebook. Parker is now worth some $2.6 billion, making him the 93rd richest person in tech and the ninth richest entrepreneur in America, according to Forbes.
Now the founder and chair of the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy, Parker recently put $250 million of his money behind cancer research, making him the largest donor ever to immunotherapy treatment research. While speaking Wednesday about cancer research during an Axios event at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia, Parker said he has become “something of a conscientious objector” regarding social media.
“It’s a social validation feedback loop,” Parker said. “It’s exactly the kind of thing that a hacker like myself would come up with because you’re exploiting vulnerability in human psychology.”
Parker also said he was concerned about the potential impacts on kids.
“It literally changes your relationship with society, with each other,” he said. “It probably interferes with productivity in weird ways. God only knows what it’s doing to our children’s brains.”
Sean Parker attends a benefit gala in Beverly Hills, California, Jan. 9, 2016. Photo: Getty Images


Tucked away in the recently announced GOP tax bill is a small item you may have missed: a new tax on university endowments. As I have spent decades working in higher education, the proposal immediately piqued my interest.
Colleges create endowments by raising funds from alumni, companies and other donors, invest the money in stocks, bonds and other assets, and use the returns to fund student aid programs, professors’ salaries and any other expenses needed to run a college. Republicans want to slap a 1.4 percent tax on certain endowments’ investment income, also known as their returns.
Some college leaders are already howling at the proposal – and at several others in the tax bill targeting higher education – arguing it would threaten their autonomy and reduce support for poorer students.
Since tax revenue to run the government has to come from somewhere, I believe colleges and universities are fair game. To me, the questions that matter are simple: Is the tax itself fair? And would it be effective?
Republicans have expressed concern about the tax-exempt status of college endowments for several years, arguing the largest ones aren’t spending enough on tuition assistance and questioning how the funds are managed.
Such endowments have grown dramatically recently, presenting a juicy target for GOP lawmakers looking for revenue to offset nearly $1.5 trillion in tax cuts for companies and individuals.
Post-secondary institutions reported a total of $547 billion in endowment assets as of 2016, up 54 percent from five years earlier, shortly after they got whacked by the financial crisis. And in the preceding academic year, from 2014 to 2015, schools earned a total of $26 billion off their endowment assets.
Currently, Harvard University boasts the largest endowment, at $37.6 billion – more than neighboring state Vermont’s entire annual GDP.
Harvard, however, is not alone in having a hefty endowment. Fellow private universities Yale, Stanford and Princeton all have more than $20 billion each, as does the public University of Texas. The 10 biggest endowments combined were worth more than $183 billion in 2016, about a third of the total.
Republicans aren’t targeting all schools with an endowment, however, or even only large ones.
Their plan has three criteria: To be taxed, a school must be private, enroll at least 500 students and have an endowment that amounts to at least $250,000 per student – up from an earlier proposal of $100,000. This means all public colleges are exempt, as are private schools with an endowment smaller than $125 million or a disproportionately large or small student body.
One other requirement is that an endowment must actually earn a return on its investments to be taxed. Many do not in any given year.
Some of the largest endowments generate quite a bit of money. During the 2014 to 2015 academic year, Yale earned the most of any university, returning $2.55 billion – or more than $200,000 for every one of its 12,385 students. Princeton came second at $2.51 billion, while Harvard’s endowment returned $2.23 billion.
The earlier proposal, which was detailed only last week, would have affected about 150 of the 3,922 colleges that have an endowment, yielding what I estimated would have amounted to just under $270 million based on the 2014-15 academic year. Republicans said the tax would reap $3 billion over a decade.
The latest version, with the much higher threshold, would affect fewer than half that, or roughly 60 to 70 schools. That would probably not lower the amount raised that much since only a handful of primarily elite schools will pay almost all of the tax.
Most colleges, on the other hand, would not pay very much. For example, Carleton College in Minnesota, which ranks in the middle of the tax list, would owe about $250,000. Some colleges, such as Emory in Atlanta, whose endowment lost almost $160 million in the period, most likely would receive a tax credit, useful for deferring this tax in the future.
Fair tax systems do not punish select groups. The bill as currently written fails this criterion.
The bill primarily punishes the Ivy League and a small number of other elite private universities like Stanford, MIT, Notre Dame and Duke. These four schools, along with seven of the eight Ivy League colleges, would have paid about $200 million of the total tax, according to my calculations.
While lawmakers have expressed concern over large endowments, the tax does not punish universities just for amassing a huge amount of money. I work for The Ohio State University, which has a $3.6 billion endowment, but it is exempt since it’s a public college.
Regional rival the University of Michigan, with an endowment of almost $10 billion, is similarly exempt, as is the University of Texas system, which has the third-largest endowment, at $22.5 billion.
The tax is also unfair even among private universities, since those with large endowments but very small or large student bodies would not be taxed.
For example, Rockefeller University in New York City has a $2 billion endowment, which returned $111 million in 2014-2015. But it does not have enough students to be taxed under the present plan. On the other end, Brigham Young University in Utah has a $1.58 billion endowment and earned $202 million in investment income during that period, yet its large student body means it wouldn’t pay a tax either.
If the goal is to raise revenue from colleges that collect large amounts of tax-free donations, limiting the tax to just a few private institutions is simply punitive.
Another problem is that the proposal uses the number of students to determine whether to apply the tax.
The bill states the count of students “shall be based on the daily average number of full-time students attending such intuitions (with part-time students taken into account on a full-time student equivalent basis).”
I believe this would allow schools to find creative ways to avoid paying the tax, just as Fortune 500 companies do. The student body figures reported to the Department of Education count part-time students the same as those matriculating full-time. So schools would have to compute a new number based on the “full-time equivalent” calculation, which creates ample room for creative accounting.
For example, many schools provide executive education and extension programs for individuals who are generally not considered students. But you can expect many schools to turn them into students, and the same goes for people enrolled in massive open online courses, or MOOCs. Given that 58 million people signed up for MOOCs in 2016, this would not be a particularly high hurdle.
An effective tax is one that is not easy to evade. The proposed bill is not very effective because it is easy to evade.
Republicans presented their plan as a method of simplifying the tax code. The tax on private colleges’ investment income does not accomplish this but rather makes things even more complicated.
If endowment earnings are going to be taxed, a fair approach would be to keep things simple. Just institute a tax on endowment income from all colleges and universities, regardless of number of students or whether it’s public or private. This would have raised about $359 billion – not a lot more, but it would do it a lot more simply, fairly and effectively.
In general, I am not against taxing university endowments or investments. However, if we are going to do it, the tax needs to be fair and not have giant loopholes. The current bill is a punitive mess that is extremely suspect in its long-term ability to raise money.
Jay L. Zagorsky is Economist and Research Scientist at The Ohio State University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Republicans in Congress recently released more details of their tax plan, which they say would boost economic growth and lower the burden on middle-income households. They hope to pass a bill into law by Christmas.
The reality is that the proposed cuts, which carry a price tag as high as US$1.5 trillion over a decade, would offer the greatest relief to corporations and the wealthy.
Simply put, the plan reflects the thinking of supply-side economics, whereby tax cuts to top earners are said to result in more business investment. Lowering taxes for the wealthy and companies, the theory goes, fuels a benevolent cycle that ultimately leads to higher wages and a stronger economy.
I have worked on a wide range of economic policy topics, including taxes, for two decades now. Evidence from past changes suggests that the tax plan would do little to increase business investment or help workers. Instead, it would increase the gap between rich and poor, while leaving massive budget deficits in its wake.
House Speaker Paul Ryan and President Donald Trump promote their new tax plan. Photo: REUTERS
Republicans these days don’t often use the term “supply-side economics,” which has been pejoratively dubbed “trickle-down” or even “voodoo” economics – the latter by none other than former President George H. W. Bush.
Instead, Republicans and President Donald Trump continue to make the false claim that their plan would mostly benefit middle-class Americans. In contrast, an economic analysis of the tax plan framework released last month showed that half of the proposed cuts would go to the top 1 percent.
The latest version is unlikely to significantly change that result. While the 39.6 percent tax rate will remain, the threshold has been more than doubled to US$1 million from less than $500,000, meaning earnings up to that point will be subject to less tax, and the plan would still get rid of the estate tax, which is mostly paid by wealth families. In addition, two-thirds of the benefits – about $1 trillion – will go to companies, which, as I’ll explain, primarily benefit the rich as well.
In any case, here’s the theory of how cutting taxes for the wealthy leads to more growth and jobs. The wealthy would use the lion’s share of their tax savings to invest in new and existing businesses. This would drive more economic growth, leading to increased levels of productivity, more jobs and higher wages.
Tax cuts to companies would also give the economy a kick. Companies could in theory use some of their increased profits to finance new plants, office space and equipment, and the lower rates would induce more foreign businesses to invest in the United States, altogether boosting jobs, productivity and wages.
President Trump’s Council of Economic Advisers claims that the corporate tax cuts alone would boost economic growth to 3 percent to 5 percent a year.
Research on past tax changes suggests that the Republican tax plan will not have the impact its backers claim.
Four large-scale tax changes in the past four decades help to illustrate these points: tax cuts in 1981 and 2001 and tax increases in 1993 and 2012. I compared what happened to business investment, employment, wages and economic growth before and after each tax change.
In August 1981, Congress lowered personal income tax rates – especially for high-income earners, who saw a drop in the top tax rate from 70 percent to 50 percent – as well as the corporate rate. Similarly, two decades later Congress cut personal income tax rates and the estate tax.
So what happened? Business investment, clearly a key metric in evaluating the success of the supply-side tax cut argument, was virtually flat as a share of gross domestic product after the 1981 cuts. Following the June 2001 cuts, it actually fell, from 13.8 percent in the month the bill passed to under 12 percent three years later.
As for jobs and wages, their growth increased only a little after the 1981 tax cuts and actually slowed in the three years after the 2001 tax cuts were passed.
The flip side of the supply-side argument is that any increase in taxes should have the opposite effect: less investment, slower growth, fewer jobs and stagnant wages. Empirical evidence suggests otherwise.
In August 1993, Congress raised the top marginal tax rate to 39.6 percent from 35 percent on high-income earners. Lawmakers raised the top rate again at the end of 2012, while also increasing the estate tax.
Business investment grew after the 1993 tax increase, from 11.6 percent of GDP to 13 percent three years later. And it grew after the 2012 one as well, albeit more slowly, from 12.5 percent in December that year to 12.7 percent in 2015 (though it reached 13.1 percent a year earlier).
Jobs and wages tell a similar tale, both of which grew at a faster pace after the tax changes.
As for economic growth, supply-side policies do not tend to result in a stronger economy. While growth jumped immediately after the 1981 cuts, the economy quickly lost steam. And in 2001, GDP barely budged. Meanwhile, growth accelerated modestly in the years after the tax increases in both 1993 and 2012.
Proponents of such policies think that by giving more money to the “supply side” of the economy, the wealthy and investors who manage the capital necessary for productive investments such as manufacturing plants or new trucks and computers, they can spur long-term economic growth.
The data show this is not the case. Long-term economic performance is little different whether you cut or raise taxes on the richest Americans. Other research on the impact of corporate cuts also shows this.
Rather than wasting money on supply-side tax cuts that line the pockets of the wealthy and corporations that have already seen  outsized gains  in income, the money could be  much better spent  on more infrastructure – bridges, roads and canals – and on education. Over the long term, this is what drives productivity and economic growth – not more money to the wealthy – because this leads to more business investment, higher wages and more jobs.
So why do investors appear so ecstatic over the prospect of tax cuts and continue to drive major stock indexes to fresh highs?
Because they’re the ones who would get most of the gains from the cuts, whether because they’re already wealthy or because a growing share of corporate after-tax profits are used to keep shareholders happy through share repurchases and dividend payouts. In fact, virtually all profits have been spent on shareholders in the past two decades, compared with around a third or less in the decades before the 1980s.
Another part of the supply-siders’ argument in favor of a lower corporate tax rate is that it would make the U.S. a more attractive place for foreign companies to invest. Yet overseas businesses are already investing a growing amount of money in the United States, regardless of the relatively high statutory tax rate. This suggests that their investments are likely driven by considerations other than the tax rate, such as by skill level of the local labor force, access to markets, a sound legal system and good infrastructure.
In sum, there’s little if any evidence to support the notion that tax cuts for high-income earners and companies will trickle down to average Americans.
The government would lose revenue by passing these tax cuts without any clear offsetting economic benefits. To make budgets add up, Congress would have to accept larger deficits or force spending cuts on vital programs in health care, education, retirement and social services.
All told, this would further exacerbate already very high income inequality. That is clearly the 21st century’s definition of “voodoo economics.”
Christian Weller is Professor of Public Policy and Public Affairs at University of Massachusetts Boston.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Boeing Co. announced Thursday it had signed a deal with the China Aviation Suppliers Holding Company to sell 300 airplanes. The agreement was signed in Beijing in the presence of President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping, where Boeing's representatives were present as part of the U.S. mission to China.

The orders and commitments for single aisle and twin aisle aircraft are valued at $37 billion at list prices, according to the company’s announcement of the agreement. China is expected to require 7,240 aircraft over the next 20 years, by when it will likely account for 18 percent of global aviation trade. The majority of these airplanes are expected to be single aisle.
“China is a valued customer and key partner, and we're proud that Boeing airplanes will be a part of its fleet growth for years to come. Boeing and China have a strong history of working together based on great mutual respect, and these orders build on that foundation," Kevin McAllister, Boeing Commercial Airplanes president and CEO, said in the statement.
The company also said it would work with China to reduce the environmental impact of aviation and make the Chinese air transport system more efficient.
Bloomberg reported the purchase will include 260 Boeing 737 narrow-body airplanes and 40 Boeing 787 and Boeing 777 wide-body aircraft.  According to Flight Fleets Analyzer, Boeing has received 1,074 passenger aircraft orders from unannounced commercial customers, a majority of which are likely Chinese airlines.
China has now become the biggest commercial customer for the aviation company — one of every four airplanes is being sold to Chinese customers. One in every three Boeing 737s — the company’s most demanded passenger plane — is being sold to Chinese customers.
The total value of new airplanes needed by China over the next 20 years is estimated to be over $1.1 trillion.
Chinese airlines have been signing deals with Aviation companies to fulfill their requirement. During President Jinping’s visit to Berlin this year, French aviation company Airbus SE said it had won a $22 billion order to supply 140 planes to China for 20 wide-body Airbus A350s and 100 narrow-body Airbus A320 aircraft. The company is expected to be in talks to sell A380 superjumbo jets to Chinese airlines.
Boeing itself had signed a $38 billion deal with Chinese carriers in September 2015 to sell 190 single-aisle Boeing 737 airplanes and 50 wide-body jetliners.
The Thursday deal is a part of a larger endeavor on part of President Trump to address the U.S.-China trade deficit. Trump called on China to address unfair trade practices, which have led to a mismatch of benefits from trade between the two nations.
"This relationship is something which we are working very hard to make a fair and reciprocal one. Trade between China and the United States has not been — over the last many many years — a very fair one for us," he reportedly said in Beijing.
In addition to the Boeing deal, General Electronics Co. also reached an agreement Thursday to sell $3.5 billion worth of parts to Chinese companies, including airplane engines.


Washington D.C. is now singularly focused on tax reform. Lobbyists are in a “frenzy” over the GOP-led effort to rewrite the nation’s tax code. Republican lawmakers, desperate to pass at least one major piece of legislation before the end of the year, have put all their eggs in the tax reform basket: one congressman said this week that donors told him he should never call them again if the  legislation isn’t passed. The effort to bring to fruition the GOP’s promise of a $1.5 trillion tax cut is now an around-the-clock effort on Capitol Hill. Even the parties are tax-themed.
Next week, 600 congressional staffers, lobbyists and think tank employees, as well as Vice President Mike Pence himself, will get together for an annual tradition that is imbued with extra significance this year: the Tax Foundation’s annual gala, known as “Tax Prom,” brought to you by 61 corporations very interested in seeing their tax bills reduced.  
The Tax Foundation, a non-profit tax policy think tank founded by Depression-era industrialists, has been holding its annual dinner since 1937, which it calls "tax world’s most celebrated event of the year," on its website. This year's Tax Prom, scheduled for Nov. 16, will honor Pence with a Distinguished Service Award. Last year, the event drew 196 congressional staffers and nine members of Congress, according to the Tax Foundation.
A single general admission ticket to Tax Prom costs $750. A table can run from $18,000 to $35,000. Of course, these prices are pocket money for the event’s corporate sponsors, which include some of the biggest companies in the world and some of the biggest spenders in Washington, including ExxonMobil, United Technologies, Verizon, Pfizer and Boeing, to name just a few.   
Sixty-one companies spent a total of $1.1 million sponsoring Tax Prom, and many of them have huge off-shore holdings, according to the Institute on Taxation And Economic Policy, another non-profit tax policy think tank. Twenty-three Tax Prom corporate sponsors have a combined $800 billion parked offshore in at least 1,075 tax haven subsidiaries, according to an ITEP analysis provided to International Business Times. Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation has estimated that U.S. companies are currently holding a total of  $2.6 trillion offshore to avoid paying taxes to Uncle Sam.
The  House’s tax bill includes a provision that would offer a one time reduced tax rate, called a repatriation tax, for companies bringing that cash home. (The Senate’s companion bill is  scheduled to be introduced Thursday.) While the current corporate tax rate is 35 percent, a number Republicans want to lower to 20 percent, the one-time repatriation rate would be just 12 percent for cash brought stateside, and five percent for non-cash holdings transferred home. The goal of such a tax rate is to encourage companies to bring their cash home and invest in the U.S. But it would also amount to a huge tax break for those companies.
“The repatriation tax break in the House tax plan would be a major windfall for companies," Richard Phillips, a senior policy analyst at ITEP, told IBT in an email. "Pfizer alone could see a tax break of at least $26.7 billion from just this provision. It is outrageous that lawmakers are proposing to reward precisely those companies that have been the biggest offshore tax dodgers.”
If the 12 percent tax rate is applied only to the $800 billion held offshore by Tax Prom sponsors, those companies would receive a $150 billion tax cut against current corporate rates, according to ITEP, which included an exemption on foreign tax credits when making its calculation.
The repatriation tax break is not a new idea. In fact, one was enacted a little over a decade ago. In 2004, Congress allowed companies to bring back their profits to the U.S. under a tax rate of roughly five percent. The IRS calculated 843 companies took advantage of the tax break and brought $312 billion to the U.S.
But while that $312 billion  did enter the U.S. economy, it didn’t spur hiring at the companies that took advantage of the temporary low rate. According  to a congressional report, the 15 companies that benefited most from the tax break cut more than 20,000 jobs between 2004 and 2007, an era of economic expansion. Of the five companies that benefitted the most from the 2004 repatriation rate, two of them, Merck & Co and Pfizer, are Tax Prom sponsors.
The Tax Prom’s 61 corporate sponsors are not new to mixing with the K-street crowd. Together, they handed out $110 million in campaign contributions during the 2016 election cycle and spent $290 million on lobbying in 2016, a total they are poised to surpass this year: through three quarters in 2017, they have already spent $272 million on lobbying, according to ITEP calculations.   


During the 2016 presidential campaign, Hillary Clinton’s critics suggested that donors to her family’s foundation were seeking access or political influence from her family — and her prospective White House. A year after the election, Donald Trump is president, the Clinton Foundation has only a handful of new corporate donors — and many of its previous sponsors have not made new contributions.
Most of the companies that have previously donated to the Clinton Foundation didn’t contribute in the second quarter of 2017, according to the organization’s website, although some, including Acxiom Corporation, BTIG LLC, Google and Starkey Hearing Technologies, have. Cities, countries, foundations and other nonprofits also donate to the foundation, and some contributed in 2017.
It’s impossible to know precisely what’s happened to Clinton Foundation fundraising in the year since Secretary Clinton lost. As a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, the foundation submits financial information to the Internal Revenue Service once per year, and information on both 2016 and 2017 is not yet publicly available. But International Business Times contacted nearly 50 major corporations that had previously donated to the foundation, asking if they had made new contributions after the 2016 presidential campaign. Thirty of them did not respond or declined to comment on the questions. Of the 18 that did, all said they had not made new donations.
Previous Clinton Foundation donations from many companies came in the form of membership, sponsorship and conference fees for the annual Clinton Global Initiative event, which the foundation discontinued roughly a year ago. Nearly half of the major companies contacted by IBT gave money only for the Global Initiative, according to the foundation’s website. “We donated a total of $45,000 between 2010-14 for membership in the Clinton Global Initiative,” Verizon told IBT. “We haven’t given anything since ‘14 and have no plans to do so.”
Other companies donated to specific foundation projects in the past but haven’t given this year and don’t plan on doing so in the near future. American manufacturing company Corning “contributed $150,000 to the Clinton Foundation [in 2013] to support an initiative to inspire and advance the full participation of women in society,” a company spokesperson told IBT. The company has not contributed since before the 2016 election and has no plans to donate in 2017.
Some companies consulted by IBT have programs that match charitable donations given by their employees, who can choose from many charities, and a few have given small amounts to the Clinton Foundation in recent years for this reason. In addition, companies can donate goods and services, as opposed to cash, which aren’t reflected in the foundation’s list of contributors.
Companies that told IBT they have not donated since the 2016 election include Boeing, Chevron, Daimler Trucks North America, Dell, Duke Energy, General Electric, Humana, Lockheed Martin and UPS (via its foundation).
In February, then-president of the foundation Donna Shalala  said that 2016 revenues were down “because of voluntary restrictions” and because Bill Clinton and his daughter Chelsea were busy campaigning for Mrs. Clinton instead of fundraising for the foundation. It took in around  $300 million in 2015, down from  $338 million in 2014.
During the Clinton campaign, the foundation began a process of reevaluation — at least partly in response to criticism about perceived conflicts of interest.  In August 2016, during the general election, President Clinton  announced that the Clinton Global Initiative was shutting down, and he laid out changes that the foundation would make should Secretary Clinton become president, including a commitment to accept donations only from U.S. citizens, foundations and permanent residents. The foundation has now  resumed applying for foreign grants, according to BuzzFeed News.
Instead of stepping down from the Clinton Foundation board, as Bill Clinton planned to do if his wife became president, he moved up from director to chair of the board. Chelsea remained vice chair, and Shalala joined the board while stepping down as president and CEO. Hillary Clinton returned to fundraising for the foundation in August 2017.
In early 2017, the foundation finished  shutting down the Clinton Global Initiative and laid off the majority of the initiative’s roughly 100 staff members. While the foundation is spinning off some programs, it’s “scaling up” others. Raising money is a big priority after two years of reduced fundraising.
A Clinton Foundation spokesperson provided the following statement to IBT:
“The Clinton Foundation has continued to make important progress in 2017 on some of the biggest challenges facing the U.S. and the world. We’re engaging with a wide range of partners across business, government, and civil society who help make our life-changing work possible. We’ve received support from solar companies who are helping us  promote renewable energy and provide relief supplies to the Caribbean; corporations that are working with us in the U.S. to  fight the opioid epidemic and childhood obesity; and publishing companies who support our work to promote early childhood development.”


Once upon a time, the world suffered.
In 1987, 20 million people across the world were plagued by a debilitating, painful and potentially blinding disease called river blindness. This parasitic infection caused pain, discomfort, severe itching, skin irritation and, ultimately, irreversible blindness, leaving men, women and children across Africa unable to work, care for their families and lead normal lives.
But the recent discovery of a drug called ivermectin was about to change it all. Not only was ivermectin cheap and easily synthesized, but it was also a powerful cure: With only one dose a year, it was possible to completely rid patients of disease and even halt the progression toward blindness. In short, ivermectin was a miracle drug – one whose discovery would lead to Satoshi Omura and William Campbell winning the Nobel Prize in medicine in 2015.
There was no time to be wasted. Recognizing that the populations most at risk of disease were those least able to afford treatment, Merck & Co. pledged to join the fight to end river blindness. Thirty years ago this October, the pharmaceutical company vowed that it would immediately begin distributing the drug free of charge, to any country that requested it, “for as long as needed.” It was the final piece of the puzzle: an effective drug for a tragic and completely preventable disease. And we all lived happily ever after.
Only… we didn’t.
Merck’s generous offer should have been the final chapter of a brief story with an upbeat ending – the eradication of a tragic and preventable disease that had plagued humankind for centuries. But such was not the case: 30 years later, in 2017, river blindness rages on across the world, afflicting as many as 37 million people, 270,000 of whom have been left permanently blind.
Neglected tropical diseases like river blindness stand in stark contrast to those like tuberculosis, which is estimated to affect a third of the world’s population due to the increasing prevalence of highly antibiotic resistant strains.
In short, tuberculosis has stuck around because medicine has run out of drugs with which to treat it – which is why, as a molecular biologist, I am researching new ways we can finally defeat this stubborn disease.
But this only increases the urgency for river blindness and other widespread diseases for which, unlike tuberculosis, science does have effective cures – and inexpensive ones at that. Even with all the necessary tools, the world has failed to cure the curable.
One-and-a-half billion people across the world suffer from neglected tropical diseases, a group of infectious diseases that prevail in tropical and subtropical countries lacking good health care infrastructure and medical resources. These diseases typically do not kill immediately but instead blind and disable, leading to terrible suffering, creating losses of capital, worker productivity and economic growth.
Thirteen diseases are universally recognized as neglected tropical diseases. At least eight of these diseases, including river blindness, already have inexpensive, safe and effective treatments or interventions.
For less than 50 cents per person, the United States could cure a fifth of the world’s population of these severely debilitating and unnecessary diseases. In spite of this, the United States allocates nearly as little to treating and preventing neglected tropical diseases around the world as it does to drugs for erectile dysfunction.
Consider dracunculiasis, or Guinea worm infection, which occurs when people consume water contaminated with fleas carrying parasitic worms. The worms mature and mate inside the human body, where they can grow to be  two to three feet long.
Adult females eventually emerge from painful blisters at the extremities to lay eggs in stagnant water, where offspring will infect water fleas and begin the cycle anew.
No drug exists that can cure Guinea worm, but because of a cohort of mostly privately funded public health efforts, the number of Guinea worm infections worldwide has dropped from 3.5 million in the 1980s to only 25 in 2016.
Funding from the U.S. and other countries could help in the final push to eradication, and some argue that funding from the individual countriesthemselves could help.
Another example, albeit more grim, is the group of soil-transmitted helminths, or worms. Roundworm, hookworm and whipworm collectively affect over a billion people across the world, all in the poorest areas of the poorest countries. All these worms infect the human intestines and can cause severe iron deficiency, leading to increased mortality in pregnant women, infants and children. Furthermore, hookworm infections in children retard growth and mental development, leading to absences from school and dramatically reduced labor productivity.
However, soil-transmitted helminths can be expelled from the body with a single pill, each of which costs only one penny. What’s more, preventing infection in the first place is completely achievable through increased awareness and sanitation.
Without drastic increases in funding and public awareness, the plight of people affected by the neglected tropical diseases is unlikely to budge anytime soon.
The U.S. spends over US$8,000 per person per year on health expenditures, compared to countries in Africa that spend around $10. While this opens the door to a critique on efficiency, it’s far more indicative of the disparities in health resources.
Less than 20 percent of the world’s population lives in some of the most developed and economically high-functioning countries, including the United States – and nearly 90 percent of the world’s total financial resources are devoted to the citizens of these nations. And yet, low-income countries bear the majority of the world’s infectious disease burden. In short, the rest of the world does not suffer the same diseases the United States does, and Americans are doing little to nothing about it.
At first glance, this is not so surprising. As a whole, the world suffers – but how many neglected tropical diseases currently penetrate American borders?
Some experts predict that eliminating or controlling the neglected tropical diseases in sub-Saharan Africa alone, which shoulders over 40 percent of the global burden of neglected tropical diseases, could save the world $52 billion and over 100 million years of life otherwise lost to disease.
Conversely, some global health experts estimate that for every dollar spent on neglected tropical disease control, we get back over $50 in increased economic productivity. By increasing awareness and funding of neglected tropical disease eradication, the United States will be making one of the best global investments possible. The rest of the world has waited long enough.
Katherine J. Wu is Ph.D. Candidate in Microbiology at Harvard University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


While still struggling to remedy widespread power outages and destruction wrought by Hurricane Maria, the Puerto Rican government is working to restructure its debt. Insurers of those debt bonds, on the other hand, are at risk of having to pay out billions, and potentially taking a hit to their bottom lines — an outcome they’re seeking to avoid through a campaign of lobbying and litigation.
Ambac Financial Group, Assured Guaranty LTD and MBIA Inc., through its subsidiary National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation — all of which, for a premium, guarantee repayments to debt holders in the event of an issuer default — are collectively on the hook for upwards of $26 billion in Puerto Rican debt over the long term. In late September, as those on the island were just beginning to rebuild, the bond rating agency Moody’s Investors Service  called the storm a “credit negative for financial guarantors that guarantee the interest and principal payments on a significant portion of Puerto Rico’s outstanding debt obligations,” naming the latter two insurers as the most vulnerable.  
Following the approval of a $36.5 billion disaster relief package by the  House and then the  Senate, Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) told the Intercept he was working on a proposal that would  include forgiveness for Puerto Rico's obligations, which would leave it to the insurers to pay back a substantial portion of Puerto Rico’s debt and interest payments. Less than two weeks earlier, President Donald Trump’s  ultimately empty promise to simply cancel all of Puerto Rico’s debts caused the three firms’ share prices to decline markedly, with MBIA’s taking the greatest drop, of  8.4 percent.



Assured Guaranty, which released its third-quarter results Friday, with Puerto Rican debt service exposure of $8.2 billion, warned shareholders in a  filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that “economic activity in general and tourism in particular, as well as tax collections, are all expected to decline in the short term” in the U.S. territory, while “migration to the mainland is also expected to increase.” The company’s $431 million in losses for the first nine months of 2017, the filing said, “was primarily attributable to Puerto Rico exposures.”
Assured Guaranty said in an emailed statement that the company's “liquidity and capital position are very strong,” and drew a line between debt service exposure, or “issuers’ scheduled principal and interest coming due over the next 30 years,” and net par exposure, which stood at $4.9 billion as of Sept. 30.
“Although the hurricanes have been a setback for near-term economic activity, very substantial Federal resources for relief and rebuilding are expected over the intermediate and longer term to stimulate economic activity and help to revive the Puerto Rico economy,” the company said, adding that “we unconditionally cover any shortfalls in scheduled payments by issuers.”
In its second- and third-quarter filings, released Tuesday, MBIA specifically named the island's debt problems as a likely cause of “losses or impairments on a greater number of the Company’s insured transactions.” Ambac, in its second-quarter report, bluntly informed shareholders that its Puerto Rico losses could exceed $1.6 billion.
Under Title III of the  Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA), the Commonwealth already filed for bankruptcy in May, but the storm forced the board created by the law to revise its budget to accommodate for larger expenses and smaller revenues, which is bad for the bond insurers. As the capital markets research firm Height Securities LLC put it in an Oct. 31  report on Puerto Rico’s fiscal situation, “a 23 percent reduction in expected budgetary improvements would effectively erase PR’s ability to service any debt.”
“The interests of the government and the creditors and the monolines are not aligned,” Ed Groshans, of Height, told International Business Times. “The goal of the financial control board is not to enrich predators.”
Groshans said complete debt forgiveness was highly unlikely, but the bond insurers are not going to let their shareholders suffer losses from the island’s debt restructuring without a fight.
Immediately after the end of a freeze on creditor litigation under PROMESA, the Commonwealth faced  a spate of lawsuits over its debt and budget restructuring, including two suits from Ambac, which also  sued Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. In total, Ambac racked up nine Puerto Rican debt-related litigation efforts by June 30, according to its second-quarter SEC  filing.
The conflict stemmed in part from the Puerto Rican government’s plan to funnel sales taxes, meant to back so-called COFINA bonds, to its general obligation debt. MBIA — which, along with Ambac, Height named as especially in danger of substantial losses because of relatively larger COFINA exposures — and Assured Guaranty were also among the litigators, but  withdrew their suit in the wake of Maria’s devastation. Holders of COFINA debt known as the COFINA Seniors Coalition, led by the Tilden Park Capital Management LP, GoldenTree Asset Management LP and investment advisory firm Whitebox Advisors LLC, have been locked in its own legal battle with officials and general obligation debtholders.
Streets are flooded street around damaged houses in Juana Matos, Catano, Puerto Rico, pictured September 21, 2017, following Hurricane Maria's arrival. Photo: Getty Images
According to Tom Sanzillo, director of finance at the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, who also didn’t see a full cancellation of Puerto Rico’s debt as a possibility, the legal fight is bound to continue.
“There’s going to be a lot of lawsuits going back and forth; it’s going to be a lot of fun for the lawyers,” he told IBT. “The optimal outcome for the insurers is a kind of grand settlement where everybody agrees to take less and the insurers take out a little less.”
The insurers aren’t just taking their concerns to court, but to Congress as well.
The Financial Guaranty Insurance Co., through the firm BGR Government Affairs, provided Congress with “strategic advice and counsel on issues regarding Puerto Rico's economy” during the third quarter, according to federal  lobbying forms. Through the lobbying firm Mercury, the National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., a subsidiary of MBIA that handles the country’s Puerto Rico exposures, lobbied Congress on “Puerto Rico Debt Reform” and laws affecting the island’s debt restructuring over the same period, federal lobbying  documents show.
In the second quarter, Assured Guaranty paid the firm Steptoe & Johnson LLP $300,000 to lobby Congress and the Treasury Department on “legislative proposals impacting Puerto Rico,” while the COFINA Seniors Coalition, via two lobbying firms during the first quarter,  advocated for its interests related to the “Puerto Rico economic crisis” before Congress and the Treasury.  
The law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, on behalf of Ambac, enlisted Harbinger Strategies LLC — and its team of  four  former  GOP  staffers, including two previous chiefs of staff to Republican Whips — to lobby on “issues related to Puerto Ricos economy and debt” and the implimentation of PROMESA during the last quarter, federal lobbying  files show.
The firms and COFINA Seniors all either declined or did not respond to requests from IBT for clarification of their desired outcomes.
Whatever their objectives, they ought to have seen the crisis coming, Sanzillo said, flagging a Moody’s report that showed all four of the rating agency’s municipal defaults in 2016 were related to the Commonwealth.
“This makes Puerto Rico an extreme example of correlated risk within a single credit family that not only includes [general obligation bonds] but extends to lease and revenue debt,” said the report, from late June of this year. “The number of rated municipal defaults will more than double in 2017 if the various Puerto Rico credits now entering court-ordered resolution are restructured with bondholder losses or otherwise default.”
Sanzillo also pointed out that, amid the legal and lobbying fracas, lower-income residents of Puerto Rico who depend on funding for pensions, schools and hospitals have found themselves caught in the middle.
“The bondholders, they want 100 percent on their bonds, but they’re not getting it. The workers, they don’t want to take hits; they don’t deserve it,” he said. “The smaller people whose retirements got wiped out — those are the real victims.”
Correction (11/08/2017 at 4:25 PM): Both MBIA and Ambac, not Assured Guaranty, have relatively high exposures to COFINA debt. 
Update (11/10/2017 at 8:50 AM): This post has been updated to include a statement from Assured Guaranty.


IndiGo airline issued an apology Tuesday following what it called an "unacceptable" incident with a passenger and airline employees. The month-old video footage was taken of the passenger as he was manhandled by ground workers for the India-based airline on the tarmac of Delhi Airport. 
The video made waves on social media, but the airline didn't make an official apology until three weeks after the incident. Two IndiGo staffers appeared to pin the male passenger, Rajiv Katiyal, to the ground and tackle him Oct. 15 after the customer allegedly grabbed one of the airline workers. The passenger seemingly attempted to fight his way out from underneath the employee holding him down. 
The incident apparently stemmed from a verbal argument, which led the staffers to prevent the passenger from boarding. The customer was said to be taken into police custody, according to reports. The employees were suspended during the investigation period but were later terminated.
#indigoairlines most idiots are hired by indigo airlines. Never travel from this. Shame! Shame ! Shame ! pic.twitter.com/L7MGdCOlTv
— Upendra Singh (@theupensingh) November 8, 2017
"We truly apologize for the treatment shown towards Mr. Rajiv Katiyal by one of our employees. At IndiGo, [the] dignity of our passengers and staff is of utmost importance," IndiGo wrote Tuesday on Twitter. "Any act that comprises the dignity of either is of serious concern to us. Under the code of conduct violation, this incident was investigated and stern action was taken against the staff."  
We truly apologise to Mr. Rajiv Katiyal for this incident & assure him that the employee has been terminated. pic.twitter.com/9xZcSftgit
— IndiGo (@IndiGo6E) November 7, 2017
IndiGo President Aditya Ghosh claimed Tuesday to have "personally spoken" to Katiyal about the situation. Ghosh said he discovered that the customer was responsible for instigating the physical altercation with airline staffers. One of the employees involved, who was determined to be the main culprit, was terminated for his involvement because Ghosh claims "he's the exact opposite" of what IndiGo's customer experience aims to be. 
"I acknowledge the unpleasant experience our passenger went through while engaging with our staff at Delhi airport," Ghosh wrote on Twitter. "My personal apologies as this do not reflect our culture." 
We condemn the actions of our staff & have taken stern action. We truly apologize for this. Such behavior is unacceptable - @AdityaGhosh6E pic.twitter.com/lGNT8An7rQ
— IndiGo (@IndiGo6E) November 7, 2017
The Ministry of Civil Aviation of Government of India (MoCA), an organization that regulates airline policies, requested a detailed report on the incident. MoCA also encouraged the passenger to file a complaint against the employees that ignited the altercation. 
"IndiGo passenger incident from Oct 15 is deplorable and unfortunate. Passenger safety and security is our top-most priority," Jayant Sinha, Minister of State for Civil Aviation, wrote Tuesday on Twitter. "MoCA has already asked for a detailed report from Indigo by tomorrow. IndiGo has issued a news release stating that the culprit has been terminated."
"We hope that the passenger will file a criminal complaint. This will enable us to take appropriate action," Sinha added. 
Indigo passenger incident from Oct 15 is deplorable and unfortunate. Passenger safety and security is our top-most priority. 1/n
— Jayant Sinha (@jayantsinha) November 7, 2017
MoCA has already asked for a detailed report from Indigo by tomorrow. Indigo has issued a news release stating that the culprit 2/n
— Jayant Sinha (@jayantsinha) November 7, 2017
has been terminated. Indigo senior executives have personally apologised to the passenger. We hope that the passenger will file 3/n
— Jayant Sinha (@jayantsinha) November 7, 2017
a criminal complaint. This will enable us to take appropriate action. I will meet Shri Kalra to address his concerns. 4/n
— Jayant Sinha (@jayantsinha) November 7, 2017
This isn't the first time IndiGo has come under fire for its customer service. A passenger tweeted Saturday about airline workers that allegedly behaved "rudely" to her, which resulted in the airline issuing an apology on the employees' behalf. Aditya Narayan, son of Bollywood singer Udit Narayan, also got into a verbal altercation in October with IndiGo employees.
There was an manhandling altercation between airline employees and a passenger on IndiGo Airlines, pictured on December 27, 2010. Photo: Getty Images


Lawyers representing Renaissance Technologies, the  $97 billion hedge fund that until last week was run by conservative mega-donor and Trump-backer Robert Mercer, were scheduled to meet with the IRS Tuesday in New York to discuss the estimated $7 billion the fund owes the U.S. government. That meeting,  first reported by Bloomberg, came just days before President Trump is scheduled to install an interim head at the IRS who spent a decade as a senior executive at an accounting firm that paid $123 million to avoid criminal prosecution for devising tax avoidance schemes.
Mercer spent at least $22.5 million supporting conservative candidates in the 2016, while backing  analytics company Cambridge Analytica, which helped the Trump campaign target voters. He also reportedly  invested $10 million in Breitbart News, is helping the  president with his legal bills, bankrolled alt-right provocateur  Milo Yiannopoulos and advised the Trump campaign, which included using his influence to install Steve Bannon and Kellyanne Conway, Mercer family favorites, in important campaign posts. Last week, Mercer  stepped down as co-CEO of Renaissance, which runs a fund that has been called the “perhaps the world’s  greatest money making machine.”  In a resignation letter to Renaissance employees, Mercer said he would continue working at the firm as a member of the technical staff. He also said he had sold his stake in Breitbart to his daughters for “personal reasons.”
Renaissance has been engaged in a longstanding dispute with the IRS over the use of what are called “basket options”: complicated financial structures that allow hedge funds to treat, or critics say, disguise, short-term financial transactions as long-term investments. This allows funds like Renaissance to pay the capital gains rate (20 percent) on those transactions, instead of treating them as income, and subjecting them to the corresponding income tax rate, which is nearly 40 percent. 
The IRS has not commented on how much in unpaid taxes it is seeking from Renaissance, but in 2014 the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued  a report that called Renaissance “the largest basket option user,” and estimated the firm avoided $6.8 billion in taxes.

While it’s unclear just how much help Mercer,  a computer scientist and staunch libertarian, can expect from the administration in his company’s dispute with the IRS, Trump’s pick to run the agency,  David Kautter, will assume the role of acting IRS commissioner next week without Senate confirmation. Kautter worked at accounting giant Ernst & Young for 18 years, a stint that included serving as the firm’s director of national tax from 2000 to 2010.
While Kautter was at Ernst, the firm developed schemes to help clients avoid paying the amount they owed to the IRS. Between 1999 and 2002, Ernst developed tax shelter products for 200 wealthy clients that helped hide $2 billion in tax liabilities, according to a 2013 Justice Department press release describing the department’s  $123 million agreement with Ernst. Kautter was not implicated in the tax dodge schemes. Four of those involved were sentenced to between 20 and 36 months in prison, before two of the  sentences were overturned.
In August, the Senate Finance Committee confirmed Kautter as assistant treasury secretary for tax policy in a  26-0 vote. During his confirmation hearings, Kautter said he “should have been more active” in uncovering the illegal schemes,  the Intercept reported. Kautter was included in email chains at Ernst regarding the tax avoidance efforts, according to The Intercept, but told the Senate committee that the “the firm set up a separate reporting structure with respect to tax shelters” that did not include his office.
Since Mercer became co-CEO in 2010, the same year the IRS issued its initial warning on “basket options,” Renaissance spent $3.5 million lobbying Congress and the treasury department on tax issues. Before 2010, Renaissance spent a total of just $780,000 on lobbying dating back to 2001, according to federal lobbying records.
Renaissance founder James Simons was a major Hillary Clinton donor in 2016. Simons  stepped down as CEO in 2010, but  Bloomberg reported Tuesday that Simons pressured Mercer to step back from a leadership role at the firm, citing sources that said Simons believed Mercer’s political association with alt-right figures like Bannon and Yiannopoulos was hurting morale at the hedge fund.


Snap Inc. (NYSE: SNAP) saw its share price plummet Tuesday after the company’s third quarter 2017 financial release showed it added only 4.5 million users and nearly quadrupled its losses from 2016. The company expected $236.9 million in revenue but reported $207.9 million. 
Snap's earnings saw a loss of 14 cents per share versus a loss of 15 cents per share that was expected.
In after-hours trading, the share price dipped to $12.37 after closing at $15.12. After the poor earnings were announced, the share price had fallen roughly 17 percent.
Snap brought in $207 million in revenue for Q3, which is up 62 percent from this same period last year. But losses were staggeringly higher with a net loss coming in at $443 million. The company nearly quadrupled the amount of money it went through during this same period in 2016, $124 million. Unsold Spectacles, the camera sunglasses the company’s CEO Evan Spiegel touted as its future in hardware sales, accounted for $40 million of the losses. 
Expectations were down pretty much across the board for the third quarter. Daily active users (DAUs) was at 178 million versus the 181.8 million users that were expected. 
Snap reports it has 178 million daily active users, which is an increase of 17 percent year over year. Competition from Facebook has also reportedly hurt the company as Facebook Camera, Instagram Stories and WhatsApp Status have all directly aimed stepped up their efforts to take on Snapchat's market share.


Colombian pop singer Shakira resides in Spain, but “lives” in the Bahamas for tax purposes, her lawyer told Univision News Tuesday.
The information comes as part of the “Paradise Papers” leak, a set of 13.4 million documents from two offshore legal and financial service providers in Bermuda and Singapore. The documents come primarily from Bermuda-based Appleby. The investigation was headed by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), whose members include the New York Times, BBC and Univision News.
The Bahamas, Bermuda, the Cayman Islands and the British Virgin Islands — where the papers show several famous people’s money being parked — are all notorious tax havens.
The singer, whose full name is Shakira Isabel Mebarak Ripoll, lives in Barcelona, Spain, with her husband, soccer player Gerard Piqué, said Ezequiel Camerini,  Shakira’s attorney. Shakira does own a house in the Bahamas and once physically lived there, he said.
“Our client has been a resident of the Bahamas since 2004 and owns a house in said country from that date,” said Camerini. “As an international artist she has resided at different locations throughout her professional career and, in every case, has fully met the laws of all the jurisdictions where she has resided.”
In addition to “living” in the Bahamas, Shakira has also parked $35 million worth of assets in the form of musical rights in two other notorious tax havens, Malta and Luxembourg. Shakira runs a company in each of the countries that retain the rights to her songs and intellectual property.
“ICIJ does not intend to suggest or imply that any persons, companies or other entities have broken the law or otherwise acted improperly,” the group said in a disclaimer posted online. The leak shed light on dozens of people and companies who have offshore accounts and investments hidden from the public eye.
German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung, which is part of the ICIJ, first acquired the leak before sharing it with the rest of the consortium, which began publishing reports on the information Sunday.


The government roundup of royal family members and prominent businessmen continued in Saudi Arabia Monday, ensnaring Nasser bin Aqeel al-Tayyar, the founder of the kingdom’s largest travel company Al Tayyar Travel.
Arrests of prominent Saudi figures began Saturday just hours after Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salma, adviser and favored son of King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, commissioned a powerful “anti-corruption” committee. Outside observers believe the arrests are targeted at consolidating power for the young prince, who at age 32 has caused a stir for ascending to power so quickly.
Another person trapped in the arrest was international billionaire investor Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal.
Saudi columnist Jamal Khashoggi wrote in the Washington Post Sunday that he applauds the idea of anti-corruption, but that the Crown Prince is acting like Russian leader Vladimir Putin with the mass arrests.
“As of now, I would say Mohammed bin Salman is acting like Putin. He is imposing very selective justice. The crackdown on even the most constructive criticism — the demand for complete loyalty with a significant “or else” — remains a serious challenge to the crown prince’s desire to be seen as a modern, enlightened leader,” wrote Khashoggi. “The buck stops at the leader’s door. He is not above the standard he is now setting for the rest of his family, and for the country.”
It appears as if the detainees are being held at the Ritz-Carlton in Riyadh, the Saudi capital. U.S. officials estimated that as many as 500 people could have been rounded up in the arrests, including 11 princes, four ministers and over a dozen former ministers.
The Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Riyadh where the detained princes are thought to be held.  Photo: Faisal Al Nasser/REUTERS
The new anti-corruption committee can seize assets, and a no-fly list has been created with a number of prominent names on it, according to Reuters Monday. Owners of private jets now need a permit to take off.
The shakeup of the country’s elite comes at a tumultuous time for the kingdom. A ballistic missile launched from Yemen was intercepted over Riyadh on Saturday, and ​Prince Mansour bin Muqrin was killed in a helicopter crash on Sunday.
Saudi Arabia said Monday that Lebanon has declared war against its country because of the aggressive actions of Hezbollah, deepening an ongoing conflict with Iran.


In an interview with Fox News’ Tucker Carlson on Monday, Ivanka Trump discussed tax reform and how it will benefit the middle-income families. When the first daughter listed food as one of the investments stay-at-home parents have to make, many Twitter users pointed out the weirdness of the statement.

During the particular segment of the interview, Trump went onto discuss how the government does not offer enough support to middle-income parents for children who have not yet entered their schooling age. 
She talked about how expensive a stay-at-home parent finds it to raise their children, especially with the global economy becoming so competitive. The aspects of a child’s upbringing, such a parent invests in, include enrolling for “Mommy and Me” classes, afterschool activities and food, according to Trump.
Trump’s statement equating a basic necessity like food with optional childcare choices became an instant source of mockery on Twitter. Here are some of the hilarious tweets posted by Twitterati in response to Trump’s statement:








Some of the Twitter users also noticed Trump started her statement with the word “indeniably” when she actually meant to say “undeniably,” which gave them another reason to criticize her vocabulary which has been a subject of mockery in the past.




Trump and Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin were joined by an array of business leaders to discuss tax reforms in a roundtable conference in Newport Beach, California, Monday. During the meeting, Republican’s proposed tax plan was extensively discussed, which reportedly lowers corporate taxes from 35 percent to 20 percent, reduces tax brackets from seven to four, doubles the standard deduction for families, scraps the estate tax and decreases the overall tax burden on the middle class.
According to Los Angeles Times, Trump promised under the new “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (which is what the new tax plan will be called), child tax credit would expand from $1,000 to $1,600 per child for married couples earning up to $230,000.
“Something that I feel very strongly about, and the administration is deeply committed to, is ensuring that hard-working Americans have more of their hard-earned money in their pockets at the time when they need it the most, and that’s often when they’re raising children or they’re caring for adult dependents,” she said.
During her interview with Fox News, Trump reemphasized the proposed benefits of the new tax plan.
“Really it’s the central theme, middle-income Americans and supporting them,” she said, Politico reported. “We spend less than any country in the developed world on children between the ages of zero and 5. It’s just a fact. We don’t invest enough resources.”
Although critics have argued the new tax plan will end up benefitting the wealthy businessmen of U.S. more than middle-income families, Mnuchin, who also gave an interview on Fox News, disagreed this notion.
“This is not about tax cuts for rich people,” Mnuchin said. “It’s about tax cuts for the middle class.”


Tiffany & Co. on Monday announced the debut of its luxury Home & Accessories Collection, and it wasn’t long before the internet zeroed in on the price tags of what the company described as “everyday objects.” Among those products introduced by the line was a $9,000 ball of yarn and a $1,000 tin can.
The yarn ball is one of a limited edition of five and is crafted of “handspun strands of textured sterling silver,” according to the  company’s website. Potential buyers may be interested to know the nearly $10,000 silver object will be shipped free of charge.
The internet was quick to move on the company’s line of “extraordinary” ordinary objects, which include a protractor, ruler, crazy straw, paint can, first aid box and faux paper cup — all wildly more expensive than their utilitarian equivalents.
Should I buy a new iPhone or get a tin can from Tiffanys pic.twitter.com/MVe0RnKOxn
&mdash; Joan La Croix-ford (@ITSMYKOL) October 27, 2017

Tiffany &amp; Co&#39;s latest collection, Everyday Objects, is here to troll us all pic.twitter.com/LDP95h0ZVd
&mdash; Kate Rabinowitz (@dataKateR) November 3, 2017

tiffany&#39;s selling a ball of yarn for $9000 is why we can&#39;t have nice things
&mdash; Hannah Cohen (@hannahgcohen) November 6, 2017

Tiffany and co is really out here trying to sell a ball of yarn for $9000 pic.twitter.com/7V8IOUMUfp
&mdash; . (@laichronicles) November 4, 2017

Can Tiffany interest anyone in a $9,000 ball of yarn? (h/t @TIME) pic.twitter.com/lgpKu8ioYI
&mdash; Sarah Halzack (@sarahhalzack) November 3, 2017

I&#39;ll take a birds nest for ten THOUSAND dollars pic.twitter.com/5UlLcs9Fdh
&mdash; Melanie Newman (@MelanieLynneN) November 6, 2017

“Should I buy a new iPhone or get a tin can from Tiffanys,” one social media user remarked. Another tweeted: “Tiffany & Co's latest collection, Everyday Objects, is here to troll us all.”
“I think what makes the collection unique is that it incorporates the best quality, craftsmanship and design with a level of functionality that allows you to use these things every day,” Reed Krakoff, chief artistic officer at Tiffany & Co., said in a statement. It was unclear, however, precisely how one might “use” a solid ball of silver.
The company described the line as possessing “a whimsical wink that is quintessentially Tiffany.”
“The luxury house is known for its tongue-in-cheek approach to design, and the Tiffany Archives serve as a wellspring of inspiration for a series of objects in this collection, many of which can be engraved to make them uniquely personal,” the company said in a  press release. 


It’s been estimated that Kim Kardashian makes hundreds of thousands of dollars for a coveted promotion on her social media, but the number may be higher than previously thought. According to a new projection, the 37-year-old reality star could be pulling in as much as $588,000 per post to her Instagram account, which boasts more than 1 million followers.
Website  Inkifi, which has a tool that can be used to check how much a post on individual accounts is worth, claims the star’s branded content posts could be worth nearly $100,000 more than previously estimated.
“We've taken data based upon ‘The State Of Influencer Marketing 2017’ report and calculated that, on average, each follower on your Instagram channel is worth [$0.01],” Inkifi told Mirror Online. “All deals and sponsorships will be different depending on the influencer/celebrities status, however this calculator aims to give an estimate of worth based off how many followers someone has.”
The figure tops the $500,000 estimation Michael Heller, CEO of digital marketing firm Talent Resources, previously gave to  Us Weekly in March. Heller, who reportedly arranges many of deals the Kardashians promote on social media, said at the time that a Kardashian plug can lead to a product selling out “immediately.”
Current Obsessions @kkwbeauty _ @marianna_hewitt kkwbeauty.com
A post shared by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Nov 4, 2017 at 2:22pm PDT
Heller also told Us Weekly that Kourtney Kardashian, 38, and Khloé Kardashian, 33, made up to $250,000 respectively for an Instagram promotion. But Inkifi estimates that the eldest Kardashian sister banks closer to $334,000, while Khloé Kardashian may bring in around $393,000 for a social media push. With major price tags attached to potential promotions, Heller said the women can be incredibly selective with their brand alignment.
“They only endorse what aligns with their lifestyle,” Heller said. “They turn a lot down.”
Social posts make up about 25 percent of their total income, Heller said, so the selection process for promotions is not likely something that the reality stars take lightly. But if there was any question about Kim Kardashian’s capability as a businesswoman, she has confirmed that she runs her own verified social media accounts. She  told Vanity Fair last year that she could never see herself hiring someone to manage her accounts.
“I could never see me hiring someone,” she told the magazine. “For me, it wouldn’t seem authentic. Because it’s all about me, I couldn’t imagine trying to find someone to do that for me.”
But she did clarify that she’ll occasionally consult friends or her assistant Stephanie Shepherd for advice on a caption or photo.
“I will send two pictures to my friends or assistant and ask which they like better,” she said. “Just tonight, I posted a pic of my friend Larsa [Pippen] for her birthday and sent three pictures to my assistant and asked which she liked best because I couldn’t decide. I love asking caption advice too—sometimes I draw a blank.”
KKW FRAGRANCE campaign by Mert &amp; Marcus launching November 15 kkwfragrance.com
A post shared by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Oct 25, 2017 at 9:07am PDT


Republican Ed Gillespie will have many reasons to be grateful to the Koch brothers if he wins the Virginia governor’s race Tuesday — almost three million reasons, in fact. Charles and David Koch, the billionaire libertarians who run the giant materials and chemicals conglomerate Koch Industries, lead a powerful network of conservative political donors and have come to Gillespie’s aid in the race. How do you say thank you for that kind of help? Should he emerge victorious, Gillespie is poised to enact policies that benefit the Kochs and their business.
The Kochs, whose conglomerate operates oil refineries and gas pipelines, are spending big to support their one-time political consultant, Gillespie, while also ensuring that his Democratic opponent Ralph Northam does not take office. Northam has made protecting the environment a  touchstone of his campaign, with strong stances on curbing carbon emissions and supporting development of Virginia’s renewable energy sector. He received $2.5 million from the Virginia League of Conservation Voters. Gillespie’s campaign website has no sections on the environment, but his “all-of-the-above”  energy plan begins with a commitment to construct two natural gas pipelines, and continues with promises to repeal carbon regulations, reinstate a coal tax credit and support offshore oil and gas drilling.
Gillespie’s campaign  released a seven-page plan for addressing rising sea levels and increased flooding on Virginia’s coast. But the plan didn’t contain the term “climate change” and didn’t address the reason why sea levels are rising. By addressing the dangers posed by climate change without acknowledging its existence, Gillespie is walking a fine line: demonstrating  concern for state voters in flood-prone areas, while not crossing fossil-fuel backers like the Koch brothers, whose Koch Industries has given $20,000 directly to his campaign and whose Americans for Prosperity is supporting him with $2.6 million worth of ads.
Gillespie is a longtime lobbyist and political consultant, having worked for the likes of health insurance giant Anthem and fraudulent energy conglomerate Enron. After  hounding from local Virginia press, Gillespie disclosed that he also consulted on behalf of the Koch-backed Institute for Energy Research (IER), as well as its advocacy arm the American Energy Alliance (AEA), in 2016. IER produces research in support of nearly every conservative environmental policy position: questioning the dangers of climate change, opposing government-created green jobs, critiquing cap and trade, arguing against solar and wind power tax credits, and supporting the Keystone XL Pipeline.
Two Energy Groups Made Possible By The Kochs
Founded in 1989, the Institute for Energy Research is a non-profit dedicated to “freely-functioning energy markets.” In 2008, it created the American Energy Alliance to act as its advocacy arm. On its website, AEA currently has tools users can use to send form emails to their elected officials urging them to “withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement as soon as possible” and end a “wasteful” clean energy subsidy that “lines pockets of wind energy corporations.”
Both groups are headed by Thomas Pyle, a former Koch Industries lobbyist who also lobbied on behalf of the National Petrochemical and Refiners Association. Pyle led the Trump administration’s transition team at the Department of Energy.
Billionaire Charles Koch is head of Koch Industries, which he runs with his younger brother, David. The Kochs are some of the wealthiest people in the world, and they spend large amounts of their money on conservative politics and free-market academic programs. Photo: Getty Images/Bo Rader/Wichita Eagle/MCT
Gillespie has been  cast in the media as being from the establishment wing of the GOP, narrowly beating out Corey Stewart, a Trump-aligned populist who campaigned on preserving Confederate monuments, to secure the Republican nomination in the governor’s race. However, the deep connections between the Koch-backed IER and both Gillespie and Trump show overlapping consensus within the GOP. Gillespie’s campaign is now engaged in a balancing act, as Trump’s approval is at a low  33 percent in Virginia, and the president is not campaigning for Gillespie.
Because they are nonprofits, neither the IEA or the AEA are legally required to disclose their donors, meaning both organizations are considered “dark money” groups. But research has shown that the vast network of Koch-funded entities, which together employ  three and a half times more people than the Republican National Committee, are their main funders. The Koch network gave $3 million to Pyle’s groups in 2015, according to  The Los Angeles Times.
Data compiled by Conservative Transparency shows that Koch family foundations and other nonprofits to which the Kochs donate have contributed to IER for years. In the late 1990s and 2000s, the Claude R. Lambe Charitable Foundation, a now-defunct foundation operated by the Kochs, gave a total of  $235,000 to IER, and the Charles Koch Foundation gave over $30,000 total through 2014. The American Petroleum Institute and Exxon Mobil have combined to give IER almost $500,000.
AEA appears to be  almost entirely funded by Koch-backed political groups. Freedom Partners was AEA’s biggest donor from 2008 to 2014 at nearly $3.9 million, and the Center to Protect Patient Rights — another major conduit of donations from the Koch political network now called American Encore — gave over $1.1 million.
AEA raised $4.67 million in 2015, the last year for which data is available. IER, despite calling itself a research organization, gave most of the $2.9 million it raised that year directly to its advocacy arm. In total, the groups raised $5.37 million in 2015 — and more than half of that came from the Koch network.
Koch connections abound among the leaders of the two groups.  Wayne Gable, who lobbied for  Koch Industries along with Pyle, is on the board of IER and, as of 2015,  chairman of AEA.  Nancy Pfotenhauer, the former president of Americans for Prosperity and former Koch Industries employee, was on the IER board in 2015.  Daniel Simmons, vice president of policy at both IER and AEA who now works for the U.S. Department of Energy, was a research fellow at the Koch-funded Mercatus Center at George Mason University. Scott Beaulier, who was a director at AEA as of 2015, has set up several Koch-funded free-market university centers and is on  the board of the Institute for Humane Studies, another Koch-backed free-market center at George Mason, along with Charles Koch and two Koch Foundation officials.
More Koch Cash Boosts Gillespie
Americans for Prosperity (AFP) has reported over  $2.6 million on TV and digital ads and mailers against Northam, according to data compiled by the Virginia Public Access Project. The group also claims to have done significant phone banking and canvassing. Large independent expenditures like these could have a major impact for Gillespie, who has trailed Northam considerably in campaign fundraising, although the two candidates’ combined haul has  broken records in Virginia. Through September, Northam raised twice as much money as had Gillespie, but a recent increase for Gillespie and more spending by Northam has nearly evened out their respective cash on hand. The Democratic Governors Association has backed Northam with more than $6 million.
As a 501(c)(4) “social welfare” nonprofit, AFP isn’t required to disclose its donors, but according to data compiled by Conservative Transparency, AFP has  received millions from Freedom Partners — the “central bank” of the greater Koch political operation, which also doesn’t disclose its contributors — as well numerous other Koch-backed political groups including AEA itself ($100,000 in 2011), the Charles Koch Foundation and the David Koch Foundation, and corporations such as tobacco giant Reynolds American.
Gillespie got to hobnob with donors in August at the  annual AFP summit, where he condemned white nationalism in a speech. However, many have  accused him of running a racist campaign, airing  ads that stoke fear of Latino gangs and lambast Northam for being “weak” on immigration. In response, the Latino Victory Fund ran a now-retracted  ad depicting a pickup truck with a confederate flag and a Gillespie bumper sticker chasing Latino, black, and Muslim children through Virginia streets.
Koch Industries donated $10,000 to the Gillespie campaign on May 5, and another $10,000 on Oct. 18, but the Kochs are also indirectly financing his run. Koch Industries gave $250,000 to the Republican Governors Association (RGA) in April, and Charles Koch added $25,000 in June, according to a mid-year IRS report. In turn, the RGA, a super PAC, has put millions into the race; according to data compiled by the Virginia Public Access Project, the RGA has donated over  $8.7 million directly to Gillespie’s campaign, but it also routed  $5 million to the campaign through a super PAC it controls and finances called A Stronger Virginia. It gave that group a total of $8 million, so more reported donations or spending are likely. A Stronger Virginia has disclosed roughly $20,000 it spent on digital ads, $21,000 on TV ads, over $150,000 on polling and robocalls, and a $150,000 donation to the Virginia Republican Party.
The RGA is funded largely by corporations such as 21st Century Fox, Exxon Mobil and Facebook and wealthy conservative executives like Koch, Kenneth Griffin and Bernard Marcus.


A bevy of leaked financial documents released Sunday unveil how the rich and powerful use offshore accounts to avoid taxes or to obscure investments and assets. The leak, dubbed the Paradise Papers, is a follow-up to last year’s Panama Papers and revealed some notable names in addition to state-run Russian corporations' investments in Facebook and Twitter.
Bermuda, the Cayman Islands, the Channel Island of Jersey and the British Virgin Islands — where the papers show several famous people’s money being parked — are all notorious tax havens.
The documents come largely from Bermuda-based Appleby, a law firm that provides offshore legal services. The investigation was headed by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) whose members include the New York Times, BBC and Vice News.
“ICIJ does not intend to suggest or imply that any persons, companies or other entities have broken the law or otherwise acted improperly,” the group said in a disclaimer posted online. Several noteworthy names include actors, musicians and politicians.
US Secretary of Commerce, Wilbur Ross kept investments in a shipping company with Russian ties after joining the Trump administration.  Photo: Daniel Leal-Olivas-AFP/GETTY
Ross, a banker before becoming part of President Donald Trump’s administration, retained investments in a shipping company with ties to Russia even after becoming commerce secretary, the New York Times reported Sunday. The shipper, Navigator Holdings, does a significant amount of business with a Russian energy company, Sibur, which is owned in part by a Russian oligarch currently under U.S. sanctions and Vladimir Putin’s son-in-law.
Queen of England's personal wealth had ties to the Cayman Islands. Photo: Stefan Wermuth/GETTY
Around $13 million of the Queen’s personal estate was invested in off-shore accounts in the Cayman Islands and Bermuda. While the Queen is not personally involved in investments, the off-shore funds could have been used to avoid taxes, according to the BBC Sunday.
“Our investment strategy is based on advice and recommendation from our investment consultants and appropriate asset allocation,” said Chris Adcock, the chief financial officer of the Duchy of Lancaster to the BBC. The Duchy provides the Queen with an income and manages her personal fortune.
Pop singer Madonna was shown in the papers to have been a shareholder in a Bermudan medical supply company which was shuttered in 2013, according to Business Insider Monday.
Bono, frontman of U2, invested in a company in Malta, a low tax country for foreign investors.  Photo: Chelsea Lauren/GETTY
The lead singer of rock band U2 was an investor in a Lithuanian shopping mall through a company based in Malta, which is also a country that foreign investors can use to avoid taxes, according to the Guardian Sunday.
“Bono was a passive, minority investor in…a company that was legally registered in Malta until it was voluntarily wound up in 2015. Malta is a well-established holding company jurisdiction within the EU,” said a spokeswoman for the singer to the Guardian.
The actress famous for roles in movies like “Love Actually,” “Bend It Like Beckham” and “Pirates of the Caribbean” appears to have invested money in a Jersey-based real estate firm, according to Business Insider.


The U.S.-based International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), the publishers of the high-profile Panama Papers leaks, published another database — The Paradise Papers — on Sunday revealing offshore of "some of the world’s most powerful people and companies."
The Paradise Papers include around 13.4 million leaked documents, including nearly 7 million loan agreements, financial statements, emails, trust deeds and other paperwork from the Bermuda law firm Appleby Group Services Ltd. Appleby was named offshore firm of the year by Legal 500 UK in 2015. The law firms branches are in Bermuda, Isle of Man, Jersey, Guernsey, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Mauritius and the Seychelles, and it has a presence in Hong Kong and Shanghai.
"The Paradise Papers reveal offshore interests and activities of more than 120 politicians and world leaders, including Queen Elizabeth II whose private estate indirectly invested in a rent-to-own loan company accused of predatory tactics. At least 13 allies, major donors and Cabinet members of U.S. President Donald Trump appear, including Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross’s interests in a shipping company that makes millions from an energy firm whose owners include Russian President Vladimir Putin’s son-in-law and a sanctioned Russian tycoon," the press release by ICIJ summarized.
Democrat Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut said Ross had misled Congress and the Americans by concealing his ongoing stake in the company, Navigator. 
“Only after a thorough investigation can Americans be sure Secretary Ross really has their best interests at heart,” Blumenthal said.
The leaked files from Appleby, the offshore law firm, include details of tax planning by nearly 100 multinational corporations, including Apple, Nike and Uber.
The offshore industry makes “the poor poorer” and is “deepening wealth inequality,” Brooke Harrington, a certified wealth manager and Copenhagen Business School professor said, adding: “There is this small group of people who are not equally subject to the laws as the rest of us, and that’s on purpose.”
These people “live the dream” of enjoying “the benefits of society without being subject to any of its constraints,” he said.
The leak has prompted Canadian tax authorities to review reports linking a key fundraiser for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to offshore trusts in the Caribbean. 
The papers also revealed Queen Elizabeth II has invested millions of dollars in medical and consumer loan companies.
"The records show that as of 2007, the queen’s private estate invested in a Cayman Islands fund that in turn invested in a private equity company that controlled BrightHouse, a U.K. rent-to-own firm criticized by consumer watchdogs and members of Parliament for selling household goods to cash-strapped Britons on payment plans with interest rates as high as 99.9 percent," ICIJ said in a blog post.
U.K. politician John McDonnell called for a public inquiry into tax avoidance, saying people will be “outraged” to hear of its scale.
"I think we want openness and transparency overall... Of course it will [raise some eyebrows that the queen is involved] and the Duchy of Lancaster that manages those funds has to be held to account," he told Sky News, adding: “But it’s not just them. The [disclosures] just demonstrate the scale of tax avoidance that’s going on. That’s why we published a call 18 months ago for a proper openness and transparency programme so that people can know what’s going on."
"I think we need now a full public inquiry because we’ve heard from the government time and time again that they’re tackling this issue, we now know they’re not tackling it effectively. What we need is a public inquiry on tax avoidance overall. We also need full publication of registers of beneficiaries of these trusts," McDonnell said.
According to a database compiled by The Lawyer magazine, Appleby's corporate clients include Barclays Group, Citibank, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs, HSBC Bank, ­JPMorgan Chase, KPMG, ­Lloyds Banking Group, PwC, Royal Bank of Scotland Group, Santander UK and Standard Chartered.
Below are some other reactions to the Paradise Papers leak.






The smartphone chipset industry has had an interesting year, and saw Nvidia moving into AI and Samsung starting large-scale semiconductor production.
And the clincher is being revealed as the year is about to end — Broadcom's  expected $100 billion takeover bid for Qualcomm.
This would be the biggest ever takeover bid in the chipset industry, whose total worth currently stands at $300 billion. Broadcom is reportedly set to offer a $70 per share deal in cash and stock soon.
While representatives from either company yet to comment, the share prices of both have risen since the rumor broke out Friday. While Qualcomm’s shares made their biggest ever gain since October 2008 of 19 percent, Broadcom’s shares rose 5.5 percent in intraday trading Friday.
The fact that Broadcom — itself valued at $112 billion — has put out a $100 billion bid for Qualcomm has taken many people by surprise. Since Qualcomm is currently valued at $44 billion, the deal might be irresistible for the company.
However, there seems to be a curious link between the two companies; while Qualcomm makes chipsets for mid-tier and premium smartphones, Broadcom makes chipsets for Apple’s iPhones such as the iPhone X. And, the fact that Qualcomm has been involved in a lengthy court battle against Apple and has accused the company of infringing its patents.
While Qualcomm had sought a ban on the sale of Apple iPhones in many countries, Apple had countersued Qualcomm for $1 billion in damages for charging hefty royalties on the use of its technology.
Qualcomm has maintained its stand that Apple is violating six of its patents and using the technology to extend the iPhone’s battery life.
“Qualcomm’s inventions are at the heart of every iPhone and extend well beyond modem technologies or cellular standards. Apple continues to use Qualcomm’s technology while refusing to pay for it” the company’s general counsel Don Rosenberg said in a statement on Oct. 13.
Qualcomm is currently in a vulnerable position. In December 2016, it was hit with a fine of $865 million for charging excessive licensing fees to phone makers by the Korean Free Trade Commission. Then, in October, it was fined $773 million for abusing its monopoly power by the Taiwan Free Trade Commission.
The United States Free Trade Commission has sided with Apple and is suing Qualcomm for forcing Apple to use its chipsets in some of its devices.
The buyout might save Qualcomm from the outcome of the judgment. If Broadcom buys out Qualcomm, chances are that it will ink a separate deal with Apple to settle the cases between the two companies, and end the Qualcomm-Apple feud once and for all.
While the terms of the deal haven’t been revealed, chances are that the company has the support of one of the industry’s behemoths, most probably Apple, since it has the most to gain from the deal.
For the consumer, the deal might not sound so sweet, as it could create a monopoly and drive up the prices of smartphones.


Pizza Hut executives claimed Thursday that sales haven't been affected by the NFL protests of police brutality during the national anthem — unlike one of its top competitors Papa John's. Pizza Hut, which is part of Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE: YUM), reported a 3 percent sales growth during its third-quarter earnings.
"We're not seeing impact on any of that on our business," Yum! Brands CEO Greg Creed said in a call with investors Thursday. 
Pizza Hut's remarks come after Papa John's has stated that the protests have "hurt" their sales and have forced the company to rethink their advertisements. The protests have been polarizing, with some supporting the players and owners for their stance, while others, like President Donald Trump, condemning them.
"I am proud of our accomplishments," Creed said in a press release Thursday. "I'm especially proud of our ability to leverage our culture to rapidly transform to a more focused, more franchised and more efficient company which delivers more growth to our shareholders."
Papa John's, which began its reign as the official pizza company of the NFL in 2010, only experienced 1 percent sales growth. Sales were below expectations, but the Kentucky-based company claims it expects the same results in the next quarter because of the protests.
"The NFL has hurt us, more importantly, by not resolving the current debacle to the players' and owners' satisfaction," John Schnatter, Papa John's founder and CEO, said in a press call Wednesday. "NFL leadership has hurt Papa John's shareholders."
Schnatter added: "This should have been nipped in the bud a year and a half ago. Like many sponsors, we're in touch with the NFL. Once the issue is resolved between the players and the owners, we're optimistic the NFL's best years are ahead."
It should be noted that while Papa John’s is an official NFL sponsor, Pizza Hut is not affiliated with the NFL and is an official sponsor of the NCAA.
Frozen pizza maker DiGiorno appeared to throw shade at Papa John's following its accusations against the NFL. DiGiorno's sales are below Papa John's, but Nestle brand compared the two company's third-quarterly sales by using emojis in a tweet.
Better Pizza.Better Sales.
— DiGiorno Pizza (@DiGiornoPizza) November 1, 2017
DiGiorno Pizza reeled in $1.014 billion in sales during the same timeframe that Papa John's garnered $1.71 billion. 
Pizza Hut, pictured on November 18, 2016 in Terre Haute, Indiana, claims to have not had sales impacted by NFL protests like its competitor Papa John's. Photo: Getty Images


A TUI Airways flight from Cancun, Mexico, to Manchester, England, made an emergency landing last week after a “disruptive passenger” attempted to “aggravate” other passengers, the airline said. The passenger was reportedly drunk prior to boarding the flight.
The Wednesday flight diverted to Gander International Airport in Newfoundland, Canada, and the man was reportedly escorted off the flight by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, as well as his partner, the  Manchester Evening News reported Wednesday. An unnamed passenger aboard the Dutch carrier said that the man “kept walking up and down the aisles, trying to aggravate passengers.”
“The flight crew did refuse to serve him alcohol. He kept saying, ‘You have given it to everyone else,’” the witness told the Evening News. “His partner tried to calm him down but in the end the flight crew had to separate them. Then we were told we were diverting to Gander Airport in Newfoundland to offload him.”
The passenger was not identified by name, though  CBC reported last week that he was a 24-year-old British man. He also reportedly faces charged under the Aeronautics Act and was held ahead of his court appearance last Thursday.
The Evening News reported that the man “had been disruptive during the bus transfer prior to the flight,” though it was unclear what exacerbated his behavior to the point that the flight was forced to land.
The plane reportedly spent two hours on the ground in Canada before continuing on Manchester.
“Once the passenger was offloaded and after a short delay we can confirm that the aircraft departed safely and continued its journey to Manchester,” a spokesperson for the airline told the Evening News. “We would like to again apologise to any passengers inconvenienced by this and would like to reassure customers that we take a zero tolerance approach to any behaviour of this kind.”
Passenger planes of German airliners Lufthansa and TUI pass one another at Tegel Airport on July 29, 2008 in Berlin, Germany. Photo: Photo by Sean Gallup/Getty Images


After the news broke that Joe Ricketts was shuttering media companies Gothamist and DNAinfo, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio had some choice words for the billionaire. Ricketts announced the organizations’ closure a week after employees voted to unionize.
“Joe Ricketts is a coward,” de Blasio tweeted Friday. “He wouldn’t last a minute under the intrepid scrutiny of the reporters he employed. What a loss for our city.”
More than 100 staff were informed via email Thursday they would lose their jobs in the wake of the abrupt closures.
“I’ve made the difficult decision to begin the orderly wind down of the DNAinfo/Gothamist business,” Ricketts wrote. “Reaching this decision wasn’t easy, and it wasn’t one I made lightly.”
Ricketts justified the decision by saying “businesses need to be economically successful if they are to endure.”

Social media users also railed against Ricketts’ decision.
“Journalism isn’t a hobby for rich people to experiment with and then abandon when it becomes inconvenient for them,” one person tweeted.
“Gothamist was the best NYC news for years,” wrote another. “Voice, character, real perspective. Gawker’s gone, Village Voice is a ghost. NYC media is f------.”

Adding fuel to the fire was Ricketts’ apparent decision to delete the archives from the website – removing all articles before the reporters who wrote them had a chance to save the clips.
“If only Joe Ricketts could have scraped together the money to keep Gothamist and DNAinfo up long enough for writers to save their clips,” one person tweeted, alongside a screenshot of Ricketts’ reported $2.1 billion net worth.

Ricketts, the former CEO and chairman of the brokerage firm Ameritade, founded DNAinfo in 2009 in an effort to “report unbiased neighborhood news and information,” he said.
“While we made important progress toward building DNAinfo into a successful business, in the end, that progress hasn’t been sufficient enough to support the tremendous effort and expense needed to produce the type of journalism on which the company was founded,” Ricketts wrote in a statement Thursday. “I want to thank our readers for their support and loyalty through the years. And I want to thank our employees for their tireless effort and dedication.”


Joe Ricketts, the former CEO and chairman of the brokerage firm Ameritrade, shut down the local media companies DNAinfo and Gothamist along with its affiliates, including DCist on Thursday. Ricketts informed 115 staff across Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Washington and New York, who got laid off as a result of the abrupt closure, via email of the decision.
“I’ve made the difficult decision to begin the orderly wind down of the DNAinfo/Gothamist business,” Ricketts wrote. “Reaching this decision wasn’t easy, and it wasn’t one I made lightly.”
Although the final decision to keep or liquidize Ricketts’ media companies came down to an all-important vote, the businessman’s statement put up on the sites of DNAinfo, Gothamist and all its other sister sites do not reflect how the fate of these media companies was decided.
"But DNAinfo is, at the end of the day, a business, and businesses need to be economically successful if they are to endure," Ricketts wrote in the long statement, which pops up every time one tries to access the domains belonging to his dissolved companies. "And while we made important progress toward building DNAinfo into a successful business, in the end, that progress hasn't been sufficient to support the tremendous effort and expense needed to produce the type of journalism on which the company was founded."

According to Washington Business Journal, the newsrooms of both Gothamist and DNAinfo voted to unionize less than a week ago. Ricketts opposed the move because he thought the process promotes “a corrosive us-against-them dynamic that destroys the esprit de corps businesses need to succeed.”
Ricketts' net worth is estimated by Forbes to be $2.1 billion and he ranks 388 in the magazine’s top 400. He is married to Marlene Ricketts, with whom he has four kids.
Ameritrade was founded by Ricketts in 1997. In 2011, he retired from the board of directors of TD Ameritrade. TD stands for Toronto-Dominion Bank, which is the largest shareholder. At present his son Todd Ricketts is a board member, while Ricketts owns 7 percent of stocks in the company. Joe's children are also majority owners of the Chicago Cubs, which won the World Series in 2016 for the first time in 108 years.

However, the Ricketts family did not always enjoy the kind of luxurious life they are able to afford today. According to Chicago Mag, Joe was born to a carpenter and small businessman and had to work as a janitor in college to pay for his tuition. He also went to school part time and took nine years to graduate from Creighton University after getting married and having children when he was in his early 20s. It was only after he worked as a credit analyst for Dun & Bradstreet, he went on to found his own business in 1975.
Joe’s son Todd was briefly considered to become the deputy commerce secretary for President Donald Trump. However, Todd fought against Trump’s nomination during the republican primaries, choosing to extend his support for Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker’s campaign instead, Heavy reported. 
The business mogul praised everyone’s hard work throughout the years in building the companies to the point where millions of people turned to these outlets for informative news every day.


The Federal Bureau of Investigation  probe notwithstanding, a quick read of the up-to-$300 million  contract the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority awarded to the  two-person Montana firm Whitefish Energy reveals a few problematic clauses. Along with requiring PREPA to waive any claims against Whitefish in the event of a delay in completing the electric grid renovations, the contract bars PREPA, FEMA, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Comptroller General from auditing or reviewing Whitefish’s labor-related costs and profits.
While that might seem odd for such an ambitious project, such restrictions are far from unusual for procurement contracts with the federal government.

Since the enactment of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act in 1994, contracting industries have embraced the broadly-applicable “commercial item” contract designation,  defined as an item “of a type customarily used by the general public or by non-governmental entities” for non-governmental purposes.
Despite being termed “commercial,” many of the items the federal government purchases from the private sector, such as military transport aircraft and weapons systems, aren’t necessarily available on the commercial market, or once were but aren’t anymore, and are purchased through non-competitive bids. In the absence of similar goods on the market with which to make a viable comparison, the difficult burden of a reasonable price assessment is predominantly shouldered by the government agency. If the contracts are terminated, the contracting government entity doesn’t have the right, under  current law, to audit the contracting firm.
The issue was summed up in a March  report from the General Services Administration Inspector General, which found that, of 45 contracts sampled, 44 were awarded without a price analysis.
“As a result,” the report stated, “prices for these contracts, and others awarded without required price analysis, could remain unevaluated for up to 10 years, increasing the likelihood that customer agencies will overpay for services under these contracts and placing taxpayer dollars at risk.”
Scott Amey, general counsel at the watchdog group Project on Government Oversight, which has been pushing for commercial item contract reforms for  nearly two decades, described such procurement processes as an effort to “pin the tail on the donkey.”
“The burden has been placed on the government to determine whether these prices are fair and reasonable,” said Amey, who’s estimated the total dollar amount of commercial item contracts awarded by the federal government to be about $100 billion annually. (The Department of Defense gave out $47.6 billion in such contracts last year, according to a  report from the Government Accountability Office.)
After an item is determined to be “commercial,” Amey told International Business Times, the designation sticks.
“Once one person overpays, everyone overpays,” he said, pointing to the substantial waste of taxpayer money that can result.
That appeared to be the case after Bloomberg Businessweek  reported in 2014 that the Department of Defense agreed to pay Bell Helicopter $13.4 million for $4.4 million worth of parts. The Pentagon, Bloomberg  found, purchased $445 gears for more than $8,100. Boeing, meanwhile, overcharged the Pentagon by $13.7 million, of which it  reportedly refunded $3.2 million.
The Defense Department  has sought to limit the scope of the “commercial item” category and mandate better “determination of price reasonableness.” But Congress,  under pressure from industry lobbyists, has often pushed forward measures do the opposite, often in the form of amendments attached to annual National Defense Authorization Acts. The NDAAs Congress passed between 2013 and 2017, as detailed by the GAO  report on DoD procurement, bolstered the department’s ability to accurately determine how much it should pay, but also made it harder for Defense to price items differently from past purchases; kept the onus of price determination on the government’s shoulders, as opposed to those of the private seller; broadened the definition of “commercial item”; and established preference for commercial items and services at certain contract price levels.
Not unlike Whitefish, which recently  retained its own lobbyist, contracting firms have been active on Capitol Hill.
Along with the Project on Government Oversight — which has spent $10,000 to $20,000 annually on lobbying efforts that include commercial item procurement, among other issues — SAP America Inc., a subsidiary of the German software giant SAP SE, and the Cedar Rapids-based information technology and aircraft systems company Rockwell Collins Inc. make frequent appearances on the federal lobbying database.  
Rockwell, which said in its previous annual  report with the Securities and Exchange Commission that a third of its sales “were derived from U.S. Government contracts,” has been lobbying on the issue since 2009, spending upwards of $200,000 per quarter on its advocacy efforts. Last quarter, for example, it spent $169,429 on lobbying efforts that included a push “to strengthen commercial item procurement for DoD acquisition policy in the FY [20]18 National Defense Authorization Act… to include clarifying the definition of a commercial item,” its  third-quarter federal lobbying form said. Rockwell did not respond to IBT requests to elaborate on its position or desired outcome.
SAP America, according to the Government Service Administration’s  Federal Procurement Data System, has received hundreds of thousands of dollars annually through its subsidiaries for IT software products and services, training services and other forms of technical support. It also paid lobbyists hundreds of thousands to lobby Congress, the DoD and the GSA on, among other subjects, “commercial item contracting” over the  past  two  years,  federal  lobbying  forms  show. SAP also did not respond to requests to clarify its lobbying objectives.  


U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren warned Wednesday that the nation’s largest student loan servicer has positioned itself to stealthily strip consumer protections from unwitting borrowers across the country. In an interview with International Business Times, she also said the loan servicer, Navient, should not be permitted to be a government contractor handling student loans on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education.
The Massachusetts Democrat was sounding an alarm about Navient’s recent  acquisition of online lender Earnest. She said the transaction opened up the possibility that the company will try to boost its profits by selling debtors on refinancing their current federal student loans with the company’s own private loans — the kind that she said to do not necessarily permit income-based repayment options.
“The fear is that Navient will do this because Navient can make money off it, but the difficulty for the people who have been shifted over is that they lose many of the protections that federal law gives to them on federal loans,” said Warren, who has sponsored  legislation to let borrowers refinance their federal student loans. “So long as a student holds a loan that is a federal student loan, there is a public service loan forgiveness loan program available, there are income driven repayment options, there is a borrower defense if the college cheated the student — there are protections put in place. But those critical federal protections disappear if the loan is refinanced and taken private. That could matter to many students whose loans, if Navient is successful, are shifted from being federal loans to loans that are held privately.”
Navient fired back at Warren, asserting that the lawmaker was distorting its record.
“This continues a pattern that misrepresents the good work we do to help borrowers navigate a complex system and avoid default,” said Navient spokeswoman Patricia Christel in a statement to IBT. “Under contract rules, we may not use Department of Education customer data for any marketing purpose whatsoever. We have built compliance routines to ensure strict adherence to this requirement.”
As a contractor for the Department of Education, Navient services $300 billion worth of student loans for roughly 12 million Americans. In recent weeks, the company has been unabashed about the potential upside of moving beyond just servicing loans, and into originating private student loans.
“We will add over $1 billion in new refi loans to our balance sheet this year, and I expect we will add more than $1.5 billion in new loans in 2018,” Navient CEO Jack Remondi  told investors last month. “With Earnest, we’ll be a dominant originator of refi loans.”
In a letter to Remondi, Warren said the situation presents “a potentially serious conflict of interest: the company could be collecting monthly payments from federal student loan borrowers with one hand, and trying to get some of those same borrowers to trade in their federal loans for Navient/Earnest's private refinanced loans with the other hand.”
Navient — which had previously been part of Sallie Mae — has been under intensifying scrutiny after the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau filed a  lawsuit earlier this year against the company. The agency asserted that Navient “created obstacles to repayment by providing bad information, processing payments incorrectly, and failing to act when borrowers complained.” The suit was followed up by separate state suits filed by attorneys general — including one in Pennsylvania, where the company employs roughly 1,000 people.
“They were charging people excessively high interest rates…and they failed to put struggling borrowers into repayment plans that that borrower could afford,” Pennsylvania’s Democratic Attorney General Josh Shapiro told IBT. “[They’ve] taken millions of people across our country, and made it harder for them to buy a home, made it harder for them to invest in their startup business, made it harder for them to go to the grocery store, go to the mall, and purchase goods and services and things in their area that they need. These are things that ultimately harmed all of us as Americans, held all of us back, because of the corporate malfeasance that we witnessed here from Navient.”
Navient has denied those allegations,  declaring that they are “unfounded and are designed to get headlines rather than help student loan borrowers.” The company’s website asserts that “53 percent of student loan balances Navient services for the government are enrolled in income-driven repayment — more than any comparable servicer.” Christel told IBT that “we lead the way” in enrolling borrowers into income-driven repayment plans, and she said  government data show that federal student loans serviced by the company “produce  37 percent lower default rates.”
In her letter to Navient’s CEO, Warren challenged that statistic.
“The allegations in the CFPB's lawsuit raise questions about whether the company has managed default rates by simply encouraging borrowers to postpone payments by railroading them into forbearance periods that delay repayment in exchange for the accrual of interest,” she wrote.
Amid the CFPB suit, Navient has in recent months boosted its lobbying spending in Washington. An IBT review of federal records show that during the first three quarters of the year — as Republican lawmakers have sought to defang the CFPB — the company has spent more than $1.9 million on lobbying, which is a 21 percent increase over the same time period in 2016.  Federal records show Navient has sought to influence the policies governing the CFPB.
During the CFPB litigation, Navient said that its top priority is not necessarily safeguarding borrowers.  
“The servicer acts in the lender's interest,” the company declared in  court filings. “There is no expectation that the servicer will ‘act in the interest of the consumer.’”
Warren cited that statement — and Navient being fined  $97 million for overcharging service members on student loans — as reasons lawmakers should be concerned about the potential for abuse in the company’s acquisition of a private lender.
“In my view a company like that should not have hundreds of millions of dollars in federal contracts to handle student loans,” she told IBT.
Correction: This story has been corrected to note that Navient has spent $1.9 million in 2017, which is a 21 percent increase over 2016. 


If you died 200 years ago in America, your family would wash and dress your body and place it in a bed surrounded by candles to dampen the smell of decomposition.
Your immediate family and friends would visit your house over the course of the next week, few needing to travel very far, paying their respects at your bedside. Before the body’s putrefaction advanced too far, the local carpenter would make a simple pine casket, and everyone would gather at the cemetery (or your own backyard, if you were a landowner) for a few words before returning you to the earth.
You would be interred without any preservative chemicals, without being cosmetized with touch-ups like skin dyes, mouth formers or eye caps. No headstone, flowers or any of the other items we relate to a modern funeral. In essence, your demise would be respectful but without pomp.
Things have changed pretty substantially since America’s early days as funeral rites have moved out of the house and into the funeral home. How did we get here and how do American traditions compare with typical practices in other countries?
In doing research for “Memory Picture,” an interactive website I’m building that explains the pros and cons of our interment options, I’ve discovered many intriguing details about how we memorialize death. One of the most fascinating is how the founding of the modern funeral industry can essentially be traced back to President Abraham Lincoln and his embrace of embalming.
The simple home funeral described above was the standard since the founding of the Republic, but the U.S. Civil War upended this tradition.
During the war, most bodies were left where they fell, decomposing in fields and trenches all over the South, or rolled into mass graves. Some wealthy northern families were willing to pay to have the bodies of deceased soldiers returned to them. But before the invention of refrigeration, this often became a mess, as the heat and humidity would cause the body to decompose in a matter of a couple of days.
Updating an ancient preservation technique to solve this problem led to a seismic change in how we mourn the dead in America. Ancient Egyptian embalmings removed all internal organs and blood, leaving the body cavity to be filled with natural materials.
In 1838, the Frenchman Jean Gannal published “Histoire des Embaumements,” describing a process that kept the body more or less intact but replaced the body’s blood with a preservative – a technique now known as “arterial embalming.” The book was translated into English in 1840 and quickly became popular in America.
Catching wind of these medical advances, opportunistic Americans began performing rudimentary embalmings on the corpses of northern soldiers to preserve them for the train ride home. The most common technique involved replacing the body’s blood with arsenic and mercury (embalming eventually evolved to using variants of formaldehyde, which is still considered a carcinogen).
Results improved, but not on a grand scale. These were “field embalmings,” performed by nonprofessionals in makeshift tents set up next to the battlefield. Results were unpredictable, with issues involving circulation, length of preservation and overall consistency. It is estimated that of the 600,000 that died in the war, 40,000 were embalmed.
Business was doing so well that the War Department was forced to issue General Order 39 to ensure only properly licensed embalmers could offer their services to mourners. But the technique was limited to the war – to make embalming part of a traditional American funeral would require Abraham Lincoln, who you might say was an early adopter.
Many prominent Civil War officers were embalmed, including the first casualty of the war,  Colonel Elmer Elsworth, who was laid in state in the East Room of the White House at Lincoln’s request.
Upon the death of Lincoln’s 11-year-old son Willie in 1862, he had the boy’s body embalmed. When the president was assassinated three years later, the same doctor embalmed Lincoln in preparation for a “funeral train” that paraded his body back to his final resting place in Springfield, Illinois. Nothing like this had happened for any president previously, or since, and the funeral procession left an indelible effect on those who attended it. Most visitors waited in line for hours to parade by Lincoln’s open casket, usually set up in a State House or rotunda after being unloaded from the train.
Lincoln’s appearance early in the trip was apparently so lifelike that mourners often reached out to touch his face, but the quality of the preservation faded over the length of the three-week journey. William Cullen Bryant, editor of The New York Evening Post, remarked that after a lengthy viewing in Manhattan, “the genial, kindly face of Abraham Lincoln” became “a ghastly shadow.”
This was the first time most Americans saw an embalmed body, and it quickly became a national sensation.
The public was painfully aware of death, with an average life expectancy of around 45 years (almost entirely due to an infant mortality rate higher than anywhere on Earth today). Seeing a corpse that exhibited lifelike color and less rigid features made a strong impression.
While we do not have statistics on the increase in embalmings during this time, there is ample evidence that the Civil War had a profound effect on how Americans treated death. Victorian mourning traditions gave way to funeral homes and hearses. Local carpenters and taxi services began offering funerary services, and undertakers earned “certificates of training” from embalming fluid salesmen. Eventually, every American could be embalmed, as most are today.
There was one potent caveat: Families could no longer bury their own. More was needed than the assistance of friends and family to inter a corpse. Death was becoming professionalized, its mechanisms increasingly out of the hands of typical Americans. And as a result, the cost of burying the dead soared. The median cost of a funeral and burial, including a vault to enclose the casket, reached US$8,508 in 2014, up from about $2,700 three decades ago.
Thus was born the American funeral industry, with embalming as its cornerstone, as families ceded control of their loved ones’ bodies to a funeral director.
When people talk of a “traditional” American funeral today, they usually refer to a cosmetized, embalmed body, presented in a viewing before being interred in a cemetery.
This unique approach to interment is unlike death rites anywhere else in the world, and no other country in the world embalms their dead at a rate even approaching that of the U.S. Funeral tradition involves the intersection of culture, law and religion, a recipe that makes for very different outcomes across the globe.
In Japan, nearly everyone is cremated. The cultural traditions bound to the ceremony, which include family members passing cremated bone remains to each other using chopsticks, predate the Civil War.
In Germany, where cremations are also increasingly popular, the law requires that bodies be interred in the ground – even cremated remains –including the purchase of a coffin and a land plot. This has led to “corpse tourism,” in which cremation is outsourced to a neighboring country and the body shipped back to Germany.
Other European countries struggle to deal with limited land resources for burial, with countries such as Greece requiring that graves are “recycled” every three years.
In Tunisia, as with all majority Muslim countries, nearly everyone is interred in the ground within 24 hours, in a cloth shroud and without chemical embalming. This is in accordance with Islamic scripture. It also bears close resemblance to the original interment of Americans before the Civil War.
While American funerals are typically more expensive than in other countries, U.S. citizens enjoy many more options – and can even choose a simple Muslim-style interment. The key thing is to plan ahead by thinking critically about how you want yourself or your loved ones interred.
If you were to die in 2017, chances are you would meet your demise at the hospital. Your family would be asked if they had an “advanced directive” regarding “disposition of remains.” In the absence of clear guidelines, your next of kin would most likely sign away the rights to your body to a local funeral parlor that will encourage them to have the body embalmed for a viewing and burial.
You would be interred with the blood and organs of your body replaced with carcinogenic preservative liquids, heavily cosmetized to hide the signs of the the embalming surgery that rendered you this way. Your embalmed body would be placed in an airtight casket, itself placed inside a concrete vault in the ground.
And you may wish for it to be that way. But if you prefer anything else, you must make your wishes known. To say “I don’t care, I’ll be dead” places an undue burden on your family, which is already mourning your loss.
Brian Walsh is Assistant Professor of Communications at Elon University.
This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Samsung Electronics on Thursday announced major appointments to its board, including appointing a new corporate president. Tim Baxter, who is head of the company’s North America division, will now serve as corporate president of Samsung Electronics North America. He will remain CEO of the division.
Kwon Oh-Hyun will serve as the chairman of the Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology, which works on its semiconductor business. Inyup Kang will serve as the president of the company’s large-scale integration (LSI) division, which works on core components of smartphones. DJ Koh is president of the company’s mobile business, and Roh Hee-Chan will serve as president and chief financial officer at Samsung Display. Hwang Deuk-Kyu will serve as president and head of Samsung China. The full list of appointments can be found on the company’s website.
The appointments will fill a vacuum of leadership in the company following the indictment of its South Korean president and heir to chairman Lee Kun-Hee. Lee Jae-Yong’s arrest in a corruption case in January and CEO Kwon Oh-Hyuh’s resignation in November, in which he stated that the company was facing an unprecedented crisis, raised further questions about the electronic giant's future.
“As we are confronted with unprecedented crisis inside out, I believe that time has now come for the company start anew, with a new spirit and young leadership to better respond to challenges arising from the rapidly changing IT industry,” Kwon said in his resignation letter.
The board rejig seems to be a response to the Kwon resignation as it does put younger leaders in charge — all the appointments are promotions from within the company.
The company was facing a series of debacles around the same time last year, following the Galaxy Note 7 crisis, which took place when the device started exploding due to its battery overheating.
The Note 7 fiasco caused the company a loss of $17 billion in the third quarter of 2016. But the company recovered thereafter and announced record profits in the next quarter. The company has been on a roll since and has generated record profits all three quarters of 2017. The major credit for this goes to the company’s diversification — it has put more focus on its semiconductor and display business.
The company set up a new plant in China to make displays for Apple’s 2017 flagship — the iPhone X and with chipmaker Qualcomm, also developed the world’s first commercial 10nm processor — the Qualcomm Snapdragon 835. The processor has been adopted by most leading flagships, including the Google Pixel 2 and OnePlus 5, boosting Samsung’s profit in consecutive quarters.
Samsung has also moved on from the Note 7 and launched the Galaxy S8 in April and the Galaxy Note 8 in August. Both devices have had a successful run. The company has sold more than two million Galaxy S8 handsets globally and even though the numbers for the Note 8 are not yet available, according to the South Korean publication the Investor, the company expects to sell 12 million handsets in the October-December quarter.
The new announcement follows the company’s announcement of three new CEOs on Tuesday. Kim Ki-Nam now heads the components business, HS Kim heads consumer electronics and DJ Koh heads the mobile business. The former leaders BK Yoon and JK Shin have resigned from their posts, making this the biggest board rejig in the company’s history.


Ride-sharing app Uber banned far-right activist Laura Loomer after she complained about Muslim Uber drivers just after a terrorist attack in New York City allegedly involved a former Uber driver. The ride-sharing app has banned other far-right activists in the past.
In an email to Business Insider Wednesday, Uber said that Loomer, a former Project Veritas supporter with over 100,000 Twitter followers, was barred for violating the company’s ethics guidelines.
Loomer took to Twitter this week and fired off tweets against Muslims following Tuesday’s attack. According to reports, an Uzbek immigrant allegedly drove into a bike lane, killing eight people and injuring 12 others.
The far-right activist sparked online debate after she claimed she was late to a press conference because she couldn’t get an Uber driver who wasn't Muslim.
"I'm late to the NYPD press conference because I couldn't find a non Muslim cab or @Uber @lyft driver for over 30 min! This is insanity," Loomer wrote.
"Then let me be the first to say I never want another Muslim entering this country EVER AGAIN! #ProudIslamophobe," she tweeted.
Following August's racially charged events in Charlottesville, Virginia, that left one woman killed, Uber promised to continue to ban individuals involved in hate speech from its service.
"There is simply no place for this type of bigotry, discrimination, and hate," Regional General Manager Meghan Verena Joyce wrote in a statement.
Lyft did not immediately respond to International Business Times’ request for comment about whether Loomer was banned from its service too. 
Uber banned far-right activist Laura Loomer from its ride-sharing service. The company is pictured on July 1, 2014 in Barcelona, Spain. Photo: Gett Images


Pakistan International Airlines issued an apology Wednesday after leaving behind two corpse-filled coffins. The coffins were intended to be flown to Lahore, Pakistan, on Saturday, but they were mistakenly forgotten at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York.
The incident occurred on PIA's final New York-Lahore flight. The route was suspended due to financial losses, which means passengers would have to fly into London and take Etihad Airlines.
PIA said Wednesday it "regrets the inconvenience caused due to negligence on part of the airline's ground handling agency...and expresses its sympathies with the family members of the deceased persons," according to BBC News. 
The airline also placed blame on its ground-handling staff. Relatives of one of the dead men,  Nauman Badar, had asked for his body to be buried in Maryland. The family of the second dead man, Nasir Ali, had his body transported back to Lahore by Etihad Airlines.
All expenses will be covered by PIA as it continues to oversee the transfer operations of the corpse-filled coffins. The oversight was ordered by PIA Chairman Musharraf Rasool Cyan, Channel NewsAsia reported Wednesday.  
PIA is no stranger to controversy. In April, a pilot was caught taking a nap in business class on a flight to London. In May, Pakistani officials found 20 kilograms of heroin on a flight after reports of three similar incidents in 2016. The airline also came under fire for slaughtering a goat on a Pakistani airport tarmac in December 2016. 
PIA reportedly loses more than $340 million annually. The Pakistan government has looked to lawmakers for support in shutting down the seemingly "bankrupt" airline. 
"Such a recommendation from a parliamentary committee will help the government take the difficult decision that it is otherwise hesitating to take," Sardar Mehtab Abbasi, the Pakistan Prime Minister's adviser on aviation, said of PIA in May before a Senate Special Committee hearing. "We are trying to restructure PIA, but it is an extremely difficult task."
A representative of Pakistan International Airline did not immediately return International Business Times' request for comment. 
Pakistan International Airline, pictured in Islamabad on February 8, 2016, reportedly forgot about two corpses on its aircraft.  Photo: Getty Images


Department store JCPenney is getting ahead of the forthcoming Black Friday and Cyber Monday holidays by teasing out savings to potential shoppers. The big box retailer shared a  72-page ad on its website Wednesday, more than three weeks ahead of the post-Thanksgiving weekend of savings.
Shoppers can expect to save big on electronics, with $200 savings on a Samsung 55” Class 4K Ultra HD LED Smart TV. The PlayStation 4 console, which normally retails for $300, will be on sale for $200. Both are being offered at a limit of one per household.

Fine jewelry shoppers will see savings of up to 80 percent off already reduced prices. Sterling silver diamond studs and pendants that are normally offered at $125 will be on sale for $20 each. Half carat diamond earrings and diamond rings — normally $625 and up — will be priced at $147 each. For the big spenders, 1 carat diamond earrings in 14K gold will be offered at $377 (more than 76 percent off the normal price of $1,625).
Select major appliances will be up to 40 percent off. A 26-foot French Door Refrigerator from Samsung will retail at $995 — more than $1,000 off its original price. A Cooks convection air fryer regularly priced at $100 will be offered at $20 after a mail-in rebate.
Sales of clothing and linens will see massive savings, with boots normally priced up to $79 is instead being offered at $20. Select Nike styles for men, women, and kids will be offered at 25 percent off. Home Expressions towels will be a mere $3, whereas they normally retail for $10.
Early birds to JCPenney’s Thursday sale will also have the chance to win major savings coupons, including $500 off $500 valid through Christmas Eve, $100 off $100 or more, and $10 off $10 or more. For more details on Black Friday savings, head to  JCPenney’s website.
Signage is displayed at the entrance of a JC Penney department store inside the Manhattan Mall, May 15, 2017 in the Herald Square neighborhood in New York City.  Photo: Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images


Amid a cascade of political problems this fall, there could be a happy moment for Donald Trump. A trade case that will soon land on the president’s desk could give him an opportunity to boost American manufacturing and slam an Obama administration policy at the same time — while potentially winning praise from environmentalists for helping cut greenhouse gas emissions.
The U.S. International Trade Commission  recommended Tuesday that the president impose tariffs on imported solar panels in order to counter the financial harm caused by a mix of seemingly unrelated economic trends — and the unintended consequences of President Barack Obama’s economic stimulus package — which have pushed the U.S. solar manufacturing industry to the brink of extinction.
The cost of the solar energy has plummeted, finally making the renewable power source price-competitive with fossil fuels. Solar panels are no longer a specialty item — there are scores of installers throughout the nation who make the process almost as easy as adding an appliance to a home. And with more people looking to match their buying habits with their environmental politics, the demand for solar continues to rise.
That should be welcome news after a series of devastating hurricanes and wildfires, and at a moment when scientists say the world needs to embrace renewable energy in order to prevent catastrophic climate change. But just last April, Suniva, one of America’s two largest manufacturers of solar panels, declared bankruptcy.
Instead of increasing domestic manufacturing, America’s rush to solar fueled an import boom — one effectively subsidized by the U.S. government. While Beijing had already begun propping up its solar industry, President Obama’s 2009 stimulus delivered hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars to foreign companies.
“Unfortunately, the Obama administration stimulus funding for solar installations primarily benefited Chinese producers who were also receiving massive grants, loans, and other government subsidies, and then dumping their product in the U.S. market,” Tim Brightbill, a partner with the law firm Wiley Rein who is representing SolarWorld Americas, told International Business Times. “The stimulus had almost no benefit for U.S. producers of solar cells and modules.”
The result is a failing American solar manufacturing sector — and diminished environmental benefits. Recent science suggests that, for as long as nine years, the carbon cost of producing and importing an Asian-made solar panel is greater than the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions that the same panel will provide on the roof of a home.
The U.S. industry’s crisis led Suniva and SolarWorld Americas, the two largest U.S. solar manufacturing companies, to file a case in April with the ITC, asking it to declare that their industry has been seriously damaged by foreign imports.
On Sept. 22, the ITC  ruled unanimously that foreign imports have injured American manufacturers. On Tuesday, the commission released its “remedy recommendations” for President Trump, who has the power to accept or reject the recommendation by January. The four ITC commissioners laid out separate, yet similar, plans including tariffs of up to $0.35/watt on panels that would kick in after a yearly import quota had been reached and decrease over four years.
Possibly hinting at how the administration is leaning, the White House  said in a Sept. 22 statement, “The U.S. solar manufacturing sector contributes to our energy security and economic prosperity.” Axios  reported that Trump is likely to issue tariffs on solar imports.
“There is a strong economic justification and a strong environmental justification for having solar manufacturing in the market where the product will be used,” said Brightbill. “The U.S. is the second-largest solar market in the world, and solar demand is strong and growing...yet imports have taken all of that growth. It doesn’t make sense either economically or environmentally.”
Ben Bierman (R) and Chris Gronet (L) lead U.S. President Barack President Barack Obama on a tour of the Solyndra solar panel company on May 26, 2010 in Fremont, California. Obama's federal stimulus plan provided substantial loans to Solyndra, which later went bankrupt. Photo: Paul Chinn-Pool/Getty Images
An Incentive Plan — And A Loophole
Obama’s economic stimulus package was aimed, among other goals, at creating domestic jobs by helping incentivize and grow U.S. companies. Part of the $787 billion American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 — section 48C — was the Advanced Energy Manufacturing Tax Credit, a $2.3 billion program that provided a 30 percent tax credit to 183 companies investing in green energy manufacturing or energy conservation technologies.
To earn the tax credits, projects had to be based in the U.S., and a “  Buy America ” clause was included to boost domestic manufacturing. But the clause had a loophole: It would be waived if “the relevant manufactured goods are not produced in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities.” Because of the relatively small solar manufacturing capacity in the U.S., domestic solar installation companies receiving stimulus money would be allowed to purchase panels from overseas, undercutting U.S. manufacturers.
But that’s not all — while roughly 70 percent of the grant recipients were American companies, there were at least 17 foreign-based companies receiving 48C tax credits that had already arranged for solar or wind manufacturing operations in low-wage nations, according to a  2010 report from a project of the BlueGreen Alliance Foundation, an environmental nonprofit. Six U.S. companies that were awarded tax credits, including First Solar and Sun Power, already had manufacturing operations in low-wage, East Asian countries such as China, Malaysia and the Philippines.
Receiving the biggest chunks of 48C stimulus funding were American manufacturers of polycrystalline-silicon, the key ingredient in most of the world’s solar cells. In January 2010, Hemlock Semiconductor Corp. was awarded $142 million in 48C tax credits to expand its polysilicon manufacturing operations in Hemlock, Tennessee, where it is based. The North American branch of the Germany-based Wacker Chemie got over  $128 million in 48C tax credits to help build a polysilicon manufacturing facility in Charleston, Tennessee. The Norwegian  REC Silicon, which has two U.S. operations, received $155 million in credits — the highest amount awarded to a 48C recipient — and  AE Polysilicon got $45 million.
Domestic polysilicon manufacturers posed another problem for the country’s solar panel producers: Both before and after receiving stimulus funds, they entered into long-term “take-or-pay” contracts with foreign, often Chinese, solar manufacturing companies. REC Silicon, for example, entered into several contracts guaranteeing sales of  polysilicon and  solar  wafers — electrical components of solar cells that are made from polysilicon — at fixed prices to companies headquartered in East Asia. Hemlock entered into numerous  take-or-pay contracts with foreign solar producers in China, Japan and Germany.
Using cheap, subsidized polysilicon and polysilicon products from the U.S., along with huge subsidies and tax credits from their own government, Chinese manufacturers were able to produce solar panels at extremely low cost, allowing them to “dump” huge numbers of cheap panels into the U.S. market.
At the same time, China was expanding its polysilicon manufacturing, further reducing global prices. Oversupply of polysilicon pushed prices way down in 2011, with global pricing  falling over 60 percent. In 2012, the price continued to decline.
After the U.S. imposed tariffs on Chinese solar imports in 2012, China  responded in mid-2013 with its own steep tariffs of up to 57 percent on polysilicon imports from the U.S. This move hurt the U.S. polysilicon industry. REC Silicon’s Washington facility, for example, exported 80 percent of its polysilicon to China before the tariffs. Until September 2015, companies were able to exploit a  loophole that waived the tariffs if Chinese companies were importing the material for use in products that would then be exported. Still, U.S. companies have taken a hit.
The stimulus money wasn’t nearly enough for American solar manufacturers to weather this perfect storm. From 2011 to 2014, at least  16 domestic facilities manufacturing solar modules, cells and other components closed. In 2014, the U.S. produced a mere 2 percent of the world’s solar panels, while Asia, particularly China, made 87 percent. From 2010 to 2016, as the overall U.S. solar industry more than doubled, solar manufacturing jobs went from 27 percent of total domestic solar industry jobs  down to 15 percent. In 2016, the industry continued to increase its workers, and manufacturing employees remained at roughly  15 percent of the workforce.
The Georgia-based Suniva provides a prime example of how American manufacturers can’t compete with foreign competitors. In late 2015, Suniva had reached a verbal agreement with a potential customer that would purchase panels for $0.665/watt. By early 2017, however, that customer had  abandoned its deal with Suniva, instead signing with a southeast Asian supplier that was selling at only $0.38/watt. In April 2017, Suniva filed for bankruptcy.
An employee makes a final check on a solar panel at the Renewable Energy Corporation (REC) intergrated solar manufacturing facility in Singapore on November 3, 2010. Photo: ROSLAN RAHMAN/AFP/GettyImages
Environmental Cost
The fact that U.S. solar companies import most of their panels from cheaper, overseas markets creates a surprising dilemma. The environmental impact of importing panels — from shipping polysilicon to East Asia to transporting completed solar panels to U.S. installation companies — is considerable. An expert estimates that for U.S. solar customers, it could take almost a decade just to pay back the carbon generated in the production and transportation of panels made in East Asia.
The process begins with the mining of quartz, the most common form of silica. Next, initial refining turns the quartz into metallurgical-grade silicon, a process that employs huge, energy-intensive furnaces to keep the quartz hot. To turn this type of silicon into extremely pure polysilicon needed for solar power, factories use hydrochloric acid and hydrogen, which create a toxic byproduct called silicon tetrachloride. The next step, creating the silicon wafers that make up solar cells, also requires hazardous chemicals.
Next, the solar cells are combined into solar modules, or panels. Because of the tariffs imposed by the U.S. on China, and then Taiwan, for dumping huge amounts of cheap panels into the U.S. solar market, these countries have moved much of their manufacturing to countries like Malaysia and Thailand, which aren’t subject to tariffs, further increasing the amount of transport involved in the process.
When the solar panels are complete, diesel-fueled ships with heavy containers of panels travel from Asia to the U.S. to deliver them to American solar installers.
The countries where the many steps in this production process take place affect the overall environmental footprint of a solar panel’s creation. The greenhouse gas payback time — how long it takes for a panel to make up for the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from manufacturing and transporting it — increases sharply with imports from Asia. China, for example, relies heavily on coal for its electricity; therefore, producing solar components there has a much higher carbon intensity than in Europe or the U.S.  A May 2014 report by the Argonne National Laboratory and Northwestern University found that solar panel manufacturing in China has roughly double the carbon footprint than in Europe. China also has fewer environmental and efficiency standards for its factories than in Western countries. (The study did not include the energy cost of transporting the solar panels to their final destination.)
The greenhouse gas payback time for a panel produced in a country with a carbon-intensive energy grid and installed in a country with a more energy-efficient grid can be considerable,  says Dustin Mulvaney, a professor of environmental studies at San Jose State University who has researched the environmental cost of solar production.
A panel made in East Asia could use an energy grid that is four times more greenhouse gas-intensive than a grid in the U.S. If that panel’s energy payback time is two years, the efficiency discrepancy between the U.S. and, for example, China would make the greenhouse gas payback time eight years. Mulvaney added that factories that use installed solar capacity to help power their operations will reduce the carbon payback time of their panels.
At IBT’s request, Mulvaney made a calculation to estimate how much transportation might increase the greenhouse gas payback time of a panel made from polysilicon mined in Washington state, sent to China, manufactured in Malaysia and installed in Los Angeles. In this scenario, transport would account for a roughly 10 percent increase in carbon payback time, given that shipping is far less energy-intensive than trucking.
Considering both estimates, it could take nearly nine years for a panel installed on a U.S. roof to make up for the greenhouse gas emissions involved in its production and transportation. Most panels last around 25 years, so if used for its full lifespan, assuming it escaped any weather-related or other damages, the panel would pay off the carbon used in its production close to three times over.
Keeping manufacturing in the U.S. would decrease greenhouse gas production considerably. Suniva and SolarWorld said that imposing adequate tariffs on all solar imports would save the domestic solar manufacturing industry. If sufficient tariffs are imposed, and the U.S. solar industry overall does not suffer a major blow, this would be a win for the environment. But the companies say ITC’s trade remedy doesn’t go far enough.
The Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA), the main trade group representing the entire U.S. solar industry, declined to answer IBT questions about the environmental impact of solar imports.
Frank Asbeck, founder and CEO of Germany's SolarWorld poses for a picture before an extraordinary shareholders meeting in Bonn August 7, 2013. Photo: REUTERS/Wolfgang Rattay
A Tariff On All Imports
Suniva and SolarWorld engaged in a bitter dispute over the best remedy for the financial injury. SEIA, which strongly opposed the tariffs, saying they would cost thousands of American jobs. In May, SEIA president and CEO Abigail Ross Hopper vowed to “  lead the fight on this petition every step of the way.”
Competition with much cheaper foreign products has led most manufacturers to close up shop. At least  26 U.S. plants that manufacture crystalline silicon photovoltaic products have shuttered since 2012, according to a recent ITC prehearing report. The closures represent a loss of $1 billion in investment and thousands of jobs in 22 states, according to Matt Card, executive vice president of commercial operations at Suniva.
Suniva is majority-owned by Chinese solar company Shunfeng International, and SolarWorld is owned by German parent company SolarWorld AG. In fact, Shunfeng stopped supporting Suniva’s trade case in May,  saying it was “not in the best interests of the global solar industry.”
Most arguments against Suniva’s trade case alleged that tariffs on solar panel imports would greatly increase solar installers’ costs, putting thousands of people out of work and decreasing the solar capacity installed in America. According to Greentech Media — a company owned by Wood Mackenzie, a firm that provides “commercial intelligence for the energy, metals and mining industries” — the higher tariff and floor prices originally proposed could halt  two-thirds of U.S. solar installations through 2022.  Up to 84,000 solar workers will lose their jobs by 2020 under a new proposal, according to SEIA. Hopper has said the tariffs, if imposed, “could be devastating. The price of solar in America will double and as any business owner knows, when you raise the price, you lose demand.”
But there have already been tariffs imposed on Chinese, and then Taiwanese, solar imports, and neither impeded the industry’s growth long-term. “Both of those times, opponents made the same claims,” Ben Santarris, head of corporate communications for SolarWorld Americas, told IBT. “None of that happened; in fact the reverse happened. Solar demand continued to increase, installation continued to increase, jobs continued to increase.”
In 2012, the U.S. slapped tariffs on imports from China, which was dumping heavily government-subsidized panels into the more expensive U.S. market. A new round of tariffs on Taiwanese imports came in 2015 because China had exploited a loophole in the original tariff order that allowed it to manufacture its products offshore to evade the restrictions. The industry did not take a hit; the number of solar jobs in the U.S. has steadily increased since 2010, including  increases of 20 percent or higher since 2012, according to the Solar Foundation.
The new proposed tariffs would be different, however, says Hopper, because they would apply to imports from any foreign nation. In a statement to IBT, Hopper wrote, “This case is completely unrelated to the hyper-focused trade cases of years past, which just hit Taiwan and China. This one would have a global impact...You simply cannot overstate the potential harm this petition could cause and there’s zero to gain, except for the investors of these two foreign-owned, bankrupt companies. The American economy will suffer immensely if this goes through.”
Mulvaney, the environmental studies professor, doesn’t think the proposed tariffs would ultimately hurt the industry. “I think it could slow it for a little, but I think it’ll reassure the industry...and open manufacturers. There’s a huge market in U.S. on the consumer side — they want in. I think it’ll get settled because the stakes are pretty high.” He added that foreign “factories, including Chinese ones, could migrate to the U.S. and increase domestic manufacturing that way.”
Early murmurs suggest that Mulvaney, as well as petition advocates, may be correct. Several foreign solar manufacturers including BYD of China and Adani Solar of India are  considering opening factories in the U.S. due to the prospect of tariffs, according to Greentech Media. If the tariffs go into effect, “I think the clear direction that will emerge from this is that manufacturing in the U.S. will be incentivized, or supported by direct or indirect means,"  said Adani Solar’s chief marketing officer Gagan Pal.
SolarWorld expected its proposed remedy to create at least 35,000 solar jobs, including nearly 10,000 in manufacturing.
This picture taken on November 28, 2009 shows a masked worker in a lab coat sorting silicon wafers at the manufacturing centre of solar cell maker Trina Solar in Changzhou. Photo: PHILIPPE LOPEZ/AFP/Getty Images
Unlikely Bedfellows
SEIA has been one of the loudest voices against the tariffs. Earlier this year, it joined with some prominent right-wing organizations, atypical allies for solar advocates, to oppose the trade petition. The combined effort, called the “free-market” Energy Trade Action Coalition, includes the conservative Heritage Foundation (funded in part by fossil fuel titans such as Charles and David Koch and ExxonMobil), the Republican-aligned corporate bill mill the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC), and the free-market think tank R Street Institute, an ALEC member.
“Organizing and coordinating” the coalition’s efforts is  George Felcyn of the Houston-based law firm Bracewell, which specializes in energy issues and advises major oil and gas companies such as BP and Kinder Morgan, as well as some renewable energy companies.
Asked about SEIA’s decision to unite forces with right-wing groups that are generally hostile to green energy, Hopper said, “In this case, we are fighting the same fight and that’s for a free market. As ALEC has publicly said — ‘our country’s trade laws were set up to facilitate and promote an even playing field, not provide shelter to those unable to compete.’” However, with China massively subsidizing its companies, those on the other side don’t consider the current market free.
Regarding “the narrow universe of American cell and panel manufacturers, which employ only 1,000 Americans,” SEIA president Hopper said, “We will address proposals to help them at the appropriate time, but they have to also be able to help themselves.” Exact estimates of the number of jobs in each subsector are difficult, but manufacturing advocates have estimates well above 1,000.
“American solar manufacturing is thriving,” said Hopper, citing a SEIA  publication featuring manufacturers — mainly those that do not produce cells or modules but rather inverters, steel products and mounting systems — that have made “good business decisions.” But overall solar manufacturing hasn’t matched the growth in other parts of the industry over the last several years. The Solar Foundation’s  analysis shows that as overall solar jobs steadily increased in the U.S., manufacturing jobs didn’t nearly keep up.
SEIA  lobbying resulted in a  bipartisan group of 69 members of Congress signing letters to the ITC, asking its chair to reject the Suniva petition because “increasing costs will stop solar growth dead in its tracks.”
Among the groups supporting Suniva and SolarWorld in the trade case is the Alliance for American Manufacturing, a trade association formed in 2007 by manufacturers and the United Steelworkers, North America’s largest industrial labor union. In a September 15  letter to the ITC, AAM president Scott Paul wrote, “The growing U.S. solar installation market would be well served by vibrant domestic competition rather than an over-reliance on imports from China. Allowing Chinese imports to destroy the remaining market share for domestic solar cells and panel manufacturing would ultimately disrupt the possibility of a truly competitive market and make it more subject to the vicious cycles of overcapacity and over-consumption that plague China’s government-driven economy.”
On October 10, Arizona-based manufacturer First Solar came out in support of Suniva and SolarWorld after staying silent for some time. CEO Mark Widmar wrote to the ITC, agreeing that import tariffs should be imposed and criticizing SEIA for failing to “engage constructively” on the issue. First Solar has  manufacturing operations in Malaysia and Vietnam as well as in Ohio, but it uses thin-film technology to produce its cells, a process that doesn’t use polysilicon. Therefore, its cells and panels would be exempt from the trade remedies under consideration.
Tesla, which is currently building what will be the largest solar manufacturing facility in the U.S.,  came out against the Suniva/SolarWorld petition.
U.S. Sen.  Ron Wyden of Oregon, home to a SolarWorld plant, and several U.S. representatives in districts that have seen solar manufacturing job losses have also stated their support.
President Donald Trump speaks to the National Association of Manufacturers in Washington, DC, September 29, 2017. Trump will decide on solar tariffs recommended by the ITC by January. Photo: SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images
Imports Have ‘Decimated’ The Manufacturing Industry
In a statement to IBT, Suniva wrote that the trade case “is about almost 30 U.S. cell and module manufacturers driven out of business in the last five years, leaving only two U.S. companies to stand between China and its proxies from owning the sun.” The tariffs are essential for keeping the U.S. solar manufacturing industry alive, say proponents. Brightbill is worried that without tariffs, “There’s a real threat that America would lose solar manufacturing, which we think would be a very bad thing.”
A Suniva statement shortly after the ITC injury decision said that the company “is gratified that the ITC has found that a surge of imports into the U.S. has decimated the American [crystalline silicon photovoltaic] cell and module manufacturing industry.”
Solar manufacturers Suniva and SolarWorld asked the ITC to recommend a $0.25/watt tariff on imported solar cells and $0.32/watt on modules in 2018, tariffs that would decrease over four years. Before the remedy phase, the companies had requested higher tariffs and a floor price on modules. In addition, SolarWorld  asked the ITC to impose a temporary import quota of 0.22 GW for cells and 5.7 GW for modules in 2018. Instead, Suniva  asked for a minimum price of $0.74 cents per module.
SolarWorld made other recommendations including loans and grants to stimulate domestic solar manufacturing and research and development, and asked for steps to address the potential circumvention of relief through Free Trade Agreement partners excluded from the Commission’s injury finding, particularly Canada and Singapore. Suniva asked for an executive order directing U.S. governmental agencies to require the use of American-made solar cells and disbursements of funds for U.S. companies seeking to develop new manufacturing capacity, including polysilicon producers.
SEIA was discouraged by the ruling and hoped to influence the ITC’s recommendations to the president. “As the remedy phase moves forward, I am determined to reach a conclusion that will protect the solar industry, our workers and the American public from what amounts to a shakedown by these two companies,” said SEIA’s Hopper in a September 22 statement. “An improper remedy will devastate the burgeoning American solar economy and ultimately harm America’s manufacturers...”
The “incredible progress” of the American solar industry “will be stopped in its tracks with new worldwide tariffs,” claimed SEIA in an October 3 press release.
SEIA accuses Suniva and SolarWorld of proposing illegal remedies and instead  called on the ITC to recommend a license fee on foreign manufacturers of up to $0.01/watt to export solar cells and modules to the U.S., revenue that would be delivered directly to American manufacturers. SEIA also proposed “technical assistance” of up to $10 million per year and managed by the Department of Commerce, and “traditional adjustment assistance” from the Department of Labor for “adversely affected workers” and grants for training programs at community colleges.
Tuesdays recommendation are far less generous than Suniva and SolarWorld wanted. In a statement, Suniva called the recommendations “weak” and “disappointing,” stating that “we’ll see very shortly the extinction of what remains of this manufacturing sector, and the jobs of American workers, as yet another high-tech manufacturing industry will have been destroyed because of an overt plan by China.”
SEIA also expressed disappointment, with Hopper saying in a statement that the “proposed tariffs would be intensely harmful to our industry. While we will have to spend more time evaluating the details of each recommendation, we are encouraged by three commissioners’ reference to alternative funding mechanisms, including our import license fee proposal.”
"We need a program that pulls together a diverse coalition of industry leaders to end the solar wars," Desari Strader, a solar industry veteran and president of IDEAS for USA, a new think tank focused on manufacturing policy, told IBT. "What the ITC commissioners have offered does not get us there. We need a global settlement that includes a quota for domestic production, and wee need to open China’s market to US producers."
Many expect Trump to support tariffs. The president ran for office on a platform of bolstering the American manufacturing industry, and specifically against what he characterized as illegal trade practices by China. In his fourth month as president, Trump  ordered a Commerce Department review of potentially illegal Chinese steel dumping into the U.S. market. Despite a delay, the White House is  expected to implement tariffs on steel.
In April, Trump issued a “Buy American”  executive order, although critics have called it “  empty.” Still, Trump’s public posture on trade, which includes attacks on the World Trade Organization and the NAFTA trade deal, has SEIA and others worried. Referring to general trade measures against China, Trump  told his chief of staff in August, “I want you to know, this is my view. I want tariffs. And I want someone to bring me some tariffs.”


Back when lawmakers were crafting the health reform law that Congress is now working to dismantle, they sought to make a deal with large health insurers. In return for the influx of new policyholders who wouldn’t have otherwise been able or required to buy insurance, the industry behemoths would together fork over an annual, multi-billion-dollar fee, the amount of which would increase year by year. While the industry’s leading lobbyist has remained committed to its campaign to abolish the fee since then — characterizing it as a direct tax on consumers, as the group says insurers must cut benefits and raise premiums to pay for it — the collective profits of the five largest insurers have continued to rise.
Here’s where it gets confusing. In their third-quarter earnings, many health insurers, such as UnitedHealth Group Inc. and Anthem Inc., are reporting revenues stunted by a temporary suspension of the large annual fee imposed by the Affordable Care Act. That math may sound disjointed to the average reader, but it’s ubiquitous throughout the earnings reports of the biggest publicly-traded health insurance companies this year. And, with $14.3 billion for the industry to cough up when it’s set to return next year, the fee, and insurers’ response to it, is one reason Americans will likely face higher premiums and less-generous benefits in 2018.
Combined with UnitedHealth’s withdrawals from the ACA’s individual market, the suspension of the fee — alternately called the Health Insurer Fee (HIF), the Health Insurance Provider (HIP) Fee and the Health Insurer Tax (HIT) — “reduced consolidated revenues by approximately $1.6 billion,” the company said in its recent third-quarter  earnings release. Aetna, which is expected to report third-quarter earnings Tuesday,  noted a $430 million decline in year-over-year revenue in the second quarter, “primarily due to lower premiums… and the temporary suspension of the HIF in 2017.” Molina Healthcare, set to report its third-quarter results Thursday, similarly flagged a “reduction to revenue as a result of the 2017 Health Insurer Fee (HIF) moratorium” in its second quarter Securities and Exchange Commission  filing.
Anthem, in its third-quarter  filing Wednesday, was transparent in how it addresses the yearly fee, which Congress suspended for 2017 when it passed 2016  appropriations legislation. The company noted that, while operating revenue had increased, it was “offset by the impact of lower Health Care Reform fees, primarily due to the HIP Fee suspension for 2017, as we did not price affected products to cover any HIP Fee related expense in the current year.” Similarly, Cigna, expected to report earnings Thursday, said in its previous quarterly SEC  filing that “our pricing actions in 2017 reflected the moratorium on the industry tax, whereas in 2016 we included this tax in our premium rates.”
In other words, the insurers say that the loss of a massive government-imposed fee has hurt their revenues — because with the fee in place, they raised premiums and cut benefits.
The  ACA and the  Health Care Education and Reconciliation Act together imposed the non-tax-deductible annual fee on insurers as a way for the government to both recoup the advantages of the ACA to those companies and keep the health care law fiscally sound, former officials from the previous administration told International Business Times. Those involved in and familiar with the law’s development said they’d hoped the firms would take at least a something of a hit to their profit margins to cover it, in return for the influx of new policyholders thanks to Obamacare’s individual mandate and subsidies that helped lower-income Americans afford the cost of health care. (In mid-October, President Donald Trump  announced plans to eliminate the latter.)

Analysts, on quarterly earnings calls, suggested profits as one of several places where insurers could cushion the fee’s financial blow. An analyst from JPMorgan Securities LLC on Humana’s second-quarter  earnings call, for example, suggested, “either you have to absorb the differential in terms of lower earnings growth, you have to reduce benefits, you have to cut [general and administrative costs] or you have to raise premium” when the fee returns in 2018. The company’s chief financial officer, Brian Kane, responded that it was not possible to take the windfall from the absence of the fee this year “and invest it in benefits.” Anthem CFO John Gallina said on his company’s recent third-quarter  earnings call that “the HIP fee always impacts every analysis,” and, consequently, between 2017 and the other years in which Anthem paid the fee, “profitability by line of business, all the ratios, all the metrics, are all really non-comparable.”
Although Brian Thompson, who heads UnitedHealth’s Medicare and Retirement division, promised in the company’s second-quarter  earnings call to “keep our benefit offerings as stable as possible” with the return of the fee in 2018, the company’s then-CEO had a different take. The fee “really affects the cost for consumers,” Stephen Hemsley said. In the third-quarter  earnings call, Hemsley’s replacement, David Wichmann, reiterated this view, saying the fee “ultimately increases [the] cost to consumers through either increased premiums or benefit reductions.” Cigna CEO David Michael Cordani, when asked about the return of the fee on his company’s second-quarter  earnings call, more or less hinted at the  relative  inelasticity of demand for health insurance policies when said, “we do not see a demonstrable change in purchasing patterns” as a result of price changes in response to HIF.
Adjusting prices to corporate or sales taxation is a normal business practice, so the insurers’ descriptions of revenue increases in response to the fee and the lobbying group’s warnings of higher costs are not unusual or absurd. Worse for insurers, the non-deductible nature of the fee has tended to expand insurers’ tax rates by upwards of 10 percent, according to their annual and quarterly reports. Yet between 2010 and 2016, an IBT review of SEC filings shows, the total net income of the five biggest publicly-traded American health insurers — namely, UnitedHealth, Anthem, Aetna, Cigna and Humana — has grown by nearly $2.5 billion, to 14.2 billion in 2016 .
“Money being fungible, it’s hard for policymakers to require a fee to come out of profits and not be passed on to consumers, at least where one is not dealing with a regulated public utility,” J. Mark Iwry, who served as senior adviser to the Treasury Secretary and the department’s deputy assistant secretary for Retirement and Health Policy within the Obama administration, told IBT. “How much they can pass on to consumers is ultimately a matter of economics and a function of the operations of the market.”
‘This Is Going To Make You A Lot Of Money, So We’d Like You To Kick Some Of That Back’
As officials ironed out the ACA in 2009, they planned on hitting three industries — drug makers, health insurers and medical device manufacturers — with yearly fees to help support Obamacare financially in return for the business boost the sectors would get with Americans’ greater access to coverage. The portion a company would pay depended on its market share, a detail intended to keep small companies from going bankrupt as larger ones comfortably took the blow.
The health insurance industry’s initial required payment, for the 2014 calendar year, was $8 billion. The total has since swelled to $11.3 billion in both 2015 and 2016, and, without the suspension,  would have grown to $13.9 billion this year. For pharmaceutical companies, the total started at $2.5 billion in 2011 and  has gradually increased to $4 billion since then.
President Barack Obama held a rally celebrating the passage and signing into law of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act bill while at the Interior Department in Washington, D.C., March 23, 2010. Photo: Reuters
Medical device makers originally would’ve paid $4 billion at the outset, but, according to a 2014  study of that part of the health care legislation by the Indiana Law Journal, the fee dropped to $2 billion, then “ evolved into an excise tax after much lobbying by the largest medical device manufacturers who claimed it was unfair.”
“Upon rejection of the annual fee,” the study noted, “Congress originally set the excise tax rate at 2.9 percent, but again under lobbyist pressure, Congress reduced it to the 2.3 percent.” The medical device makers would thus be charged with providing Obamacare with $29 billion in support over the decade spanning 2013 to 2022 — about $5 billion less than the pharmaceutical companies would collectively pay, and  less than a third owed by the health insurance industry, over the same period.
Regardless of what device manufacturers paid, the disparity between what insurers and drug makers contributed was substantial, as Rick Newman of U.S. News and World Report  pointed out at the time, with the pharmaceutical industry contributing far less than their share of the three sectors’ collective revenues. The pharmaceutical industry also enjoys profit margins of, for some firms,  upwards of 30 or 40 percent; for medical device makers, that number is closer to 10 or 15 percent, and for insurers, it’s generally in the single digits.
Kristine Grow, the senior vice president for communications at America’s Health Insurance Plans Inc., the leading industry lobbyist, told IBT that while she did not wish to comment on the ACA fees shouldered by other sectors, she “will point out that pharmaceutical companies have much higher profit margins.”
But drug makers also didn’t receive nearly as much windfall as insurers in the wake of the ACA’s enactment, according to Jonathan Gruber, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor and former health care policy technical consultant for both President Barack Obama and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney.
Obamacare consultant Jonathan Gruber (R) listened to then-Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Marilyn Tavenner, now the CEO and president of America's Health Insurance Plans, during testimony before a House Oversight and Government Reform hearing on "Examining Obama Transparency Failures" in Washington, D.C., Dec. 9, 2014.  Photo: Reuters
“On one hand, they are more profitable. On the other hand, they’ve seen the least gains from this law,” Gruber, known for his staunch defense of Obamacare, said of pharmaceutical firms. Referring to the health insurance sector, he added, “It’s like, this is going to make you a lot of money, so we’d like you to kick some of that back.”
‘The Money Has To Come From Somewhere’
To kick back those billions, health insurance firms have adjusted their offerings to policyholders, as a 2013  report by the consultancy Milliman Inc. predicted, and are largely expected to do so again when the fee returns in 2018. A more recent  analysis conducted by the management consulting firm Oliver Wyman, and, it’s worth noting, commissioned by UnitedHealth Group, predicted that the fee will result in a nearly 3 percent rise in premiums each year after 2018, with individuals facing yearly increases of between $165 and $500, depending on their coverage. Others, like Congress’ Joint Committee on Taxation, have  estimated annual premium increases of between 2 and 2.5 percent.
The ACA includes a provision to keep insurers from jacking up the annual premiums they charge. Known as the  Medical Loss Ratio, it mandates that companies spend 80 percent of premium incomes on improving quality and providing better care for policyholders — something Grow, of AHIP, was quick to point out. Only a fifth can be used for marketing, administrative costs and profits. For insurers selling group policies to companies with 50 employees or more, that ratio changes, with at least 85 percent set aside for care and quality and 15 percent allowed for profits and expenses that directly benefit the insurance company.
AHIP, the insurance industry lobbyist, has said the provision is “penalizing” insurers by misunderstanding the relationship between a company’s Medical Loss Ratio and the value of its plans to its customers. AHIP has also led the campaign against the annual health insurer fee.
The organization paid lobbyists close to $1.5 million during the third quarter to lobby Congress, the White House and various executive agencies on “issues relating to the annual fee on health insurance providers” and “issues related to medical loss ratios,” among other policy areas, according to federal lobbying  forms. It’s been lobbying on MLR since 2009 and the annual fee since at least 2011, spending upwards of $2 million in some three-month periods, federal lobbying records show.
In a July  letter to Senate Finance Committee Chair Orrin Hatch (R-UT), AHIP’s president and CEO, Marilyn Tavenner, who served as Centers for Medicare and Medicaid administrator from 2011 to 2015, thanked him for “helping to approve a one-year suspension of this tax for 2017” and told him the fee “has raised the cost of health insurance premiums by more than $100 billion.”
“That is why repealing this costly tax is so important,” Tavenner wrote, citing drops in certain types of coverage between 2008 and 2015. “We urge you and the Congress to fully repeal this tax so that millions of hard-working Americans can see lower premiums.”
In an “issue brief” on AHIP’s website, the group describes the fee as “a tax that will exceed $156 billion over the next 10 years (2017-2026) on families, small businesses, seniors, states and taxpayers, in what is essentially a sales tax on health insurance coverage.”
“Right now, health plans are finalizing their products for 2018 ahead of state and federal filing deadlines. If repeal or suspension of the tax for 2018 is not included in a legislative package before those filing deadlines, these 2018 products will have to factor in the cost of the health insurance tax,” the issue brief continues. “It is important for Congress to take swift action to suspend the health insurance tax into 2018 and beyond to continue to improve the affordability of health insurance coverage for millions of consumers.”
When asked whether AHIP’s  members — which include Anthem, Cigna, Humana, Molina, Kaiser Permanente and a dozen state companies of the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association — could absorb the costs of the fee elsewhere, Grow told IBT “that’s not how a tax works,” and that insurers must price it in like any company would a sales tax.
As Kent Smetters, a Wharton business economics and public policy professor, told IBT, the level of competition within the health insurance industry lent firms little space to take the hit themselves. With greater competition, he noted, existing price mark-ups tend to be smaller, which “implies more pass-through” of the fee expense to policyholders.
“There is not much the government can do to prevent pass-through unless they want providers to go bankrupt,” Smetters said. “Insurers will typically pass it on. Competition forces them to do so because they have low margins — currently negative for many of them.”
Still, he added, with a ballooning government deficit, “the money has to come from somewhere.”
Indeed, without the annual fee, government revenues would take a multi-billion-dollar hit. The Joint Committee on Taxation  estimated that, if the annual fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers were struck down as part of a general repeal of the ACA, the loss of government revenue would total $24.8 billion in the decade spanning 2017 to 2026. If the annual fee on health insurers were repealed, according to the committee, government revenue would drop $144.7 billion over the same period.  
‘A Lot Of Messaging’
Ezekiel Emanuel, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School, bioethicist and former Obama administration health care adviser, didn’t pull any punches when describing the insurance industry reaction to the fee.
“Insurance companies have been expert at blaming lots of stuff... on the ACA that have nothing to do with the ACA,” said Emanuel, who  reportedly advised the current administration on health care policy early this year.
Ezekiel Emanuel, a professor of Health Care Management at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, spoke at the Reuters Health Summit 2014 in Washington, D.C., April 1, 2014.  Photo: Reuters
Suggestions of raising premiums and cutting benefits in response to the fee were simply “a lot of messaging,” and curtailing the practice was a responsibility of state insurance commissioners rather than the federal government, he said.
In light of the House  passage of the fiscal year 2018 budget, which includes a provision allowing the House Budget Committee chair to revise the appropriations “for the budgetary effects of any bill… that repeals and replaces any provision of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,” and Congress’ repeated attempts to accomplish that feat, Emanuel was skeptical.
“If you open up renegotiations, you open up a can of worms,” said Emanuel, who has previously  written that low profit margins already leave health insurers with relatively little room to help cover the exorbitant costs of health care in the U.S. “You know, ‘Cut me, cut me!’ You’re not going to get a situation of more fairness.”
Gruber, the former technical consultant to Obama and Romney who’s now at MIT, echoed Emanuel’s point on messaging, noting that the insurers “could always raise premiums,” and that “the tax is an excuse.” And as the current administration and Congress work to reengineer U.S. health care policy, he said, they’ll still have to keep the government balance sheet in mind.
“The ACA had a balancing act,” Gruber said. He added, in reference to the fee, “If you don’t do it, the deficit goes up.”


On Monday morning, special prosecutor Robert Mueller brought the first charges in the Trump-Russia investigation,  indicting former Donald Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and his long-time top aide  Rick Gates, deputy campaign manager, on 12 counts of conspiracy, money laundering, failing to register as a foreign agent and false statements. Manafort laundered millions of dollars of undisclosed payments from the political party of pro-Russian former Ukrainian president Victor Yanukovich over several years.
A foreign policy adviser to the campaign, George Papodopoulous,  pled guilty to lying to the FBI about his contact with a Russian professor with ties to the Kremlin, according to a newly unsealed court document.
One of Trump’s best friends, billionaire Tom Barrack, is the person largely responsible for uniting Manafort and Gates with Trump.
The private equity and real estate investor has known Manafort for 40 years, and he  brought the now-indicted operative into the fold of the Trump campaign in 2016, hoping that Manafort could turn around Trump’s struggling campaign. Manafort chaired the Trump campaign from May through August of 2016 and ran delegate operations before and during the GOP convention to make sure the Party didn’t try to take away Trump’s nomination. Conversations between Trump and Manafort  continued after the president took office, according to CNN.
Gates was a senior campaign official, at one point becoming deputy campaign manager, who survived Manafort’s firing and maintained “a central role on Trump’s campaign and inaugural committee.”
‘Unfailingly Loyal’
Barrack is the chairman of private equity real estate firm Colony NorthStar and was worth  $1 billion as of 2013, according to Forbes. Described as  “unfailingly loyal” to Trump, his friendship with the president goes back three decades. The two met in the late 1980s while negotiating real estate deals, and Barrack went on to help save Trump’s real estate portfolio in 1994.
In June 2016, Barrack co-founded an outside super PAC, Rebuilding America Now, which raised $23 million from  wealthy conservatives such as Home Depot founder Bernard Marcus and businesswoman Linda McMahon, who was rewarded with a cabinet appointment as head of the Small Business Administration, and corporations hoping for favorable treatment from Trump including private prison company GEO Group. The PAC  spent $17 million against Hillary Clinton and $4 million in favor of Trump, according to public data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics.
Barrack earned himself a  speaking slot at the Republican National Convention in July 2016, having given  $415,000 to a joint fundraising committee that distributed it to the Trump campaign and to the Republican National Committee. Barrack has a history of  large donations to the Republican Party, although he’s also contributed to some Democrats — including Diane Feinstein, a senator from California, where Barrack lives — and party groups over the years.
As chairman of Trump’s inauguration committee, Barrack led the effort to raise over $100 million for the events from wealthy conservatives and businesses eager to curry favor with the incoming president.
After his huge fundraising efforts, Trump  offered Barrack the position of Treasury secretary, which he turned down, according to Barack, who wanted to stay, officially, outside the White House. As of August, Barrack was reportedly the front-runner to become the  ambassador to Mexico.
As president, Trump consults Barrack regularly, whom The Daily Beast describes as one of Trump’s “  top outside advisers.” Barrack was “poised to wield enormous influence in Trump's Washington as  the person perhaps closest to the new president outside of his immediate family,” CNN’s Teddy Schleifer wrote in mid-January. Barrack has made regular  visits, bringing along Gates, who reportedly began working directly for him after leaving America First Policies, a pro-Trump nonprofit formed after the election.
Barrack’s Right-Hand Man
Despite working closely with Manafort in the many criminal acts detailed in their indictment, Gates managed to stay on with the campaign. He worked under Barrack as “the No. 2 man” planning Trump January inauguration.
Once Trump became president, Gates joined the pro-Trump nonprofit, America First Policies, where he worked alongside the likes of Nick Ayers, now chief of staff to Mike Pence, and David Bossie, another former Trump deputy campaign manager who is president of Citizens United. Billionaire Trump backers Robert Mercer and his daughter, Rebekah, initially planned to finance the group. Because of the FBI investigation into Manafort, Gates stepped down from America First Policies in March.
America First Policies was created to support Trump’s agenda. In addition, it has disclosed  spending nearly $2 million on political races this year, opposing unsuccessful congressional candidate Democrat John Ossoff with $1.5 million in his Georgia special election, and supporting GOP Sen. Luther Strange in the Alabama Senate special election.
The indictments of Manafort and Gates, and Barrack’s very close relationship with Trump, raise questions as to whether, and how much, Barrack knew about the shady dealings of Trump campaign associates with Russia-aligned Ukrainians or Kremlin-linked Russians themselves.
 


JetBlue’s plan to generate more revenue by shrinking bathrooms backfired when the bathrooms began failing, according to the Los Angeles Times Saturday.
The company’s Chief Financial Officer Steve Priest announced the bathroom problems during an earnings call with industry analysts this week. The bathrooms were installed on 21 of JetBlue’s  A321 planes and the planes will all need to be taken in for maintenance to repair “design failures with the space-efficient lavatories.”
A spokesperson told the Los Angeles Times that the bathroom’s had alignment issues that led them to be out of service at points.
The bathrooms, Space Flex 2 lavatories, are built by French company Zodiac Aerospace. Traditional airplane lavatories are located on either side of the back of the plane in front of the kitchen where flight crew prepares food. The Space Flex bathrooms are squished together on one side of the plane behind the kitchen area.
Installing the newer, smaller bathrooms can squeeze 12 extra seats on to a plane and JetBlue foresaw the move as one that could lead to a $100-million increase in revenue.
Bathroom repairs began in September and JetBlue has managed to fix one-third of its planes. The company said it wants to fix the bathrooms on its A321 planes before it begins installing the bathrooms on its A320 planes.
“We’re doing this before we begin modifications on our A320s to avoid having to take aircraft out of service at a later date,” said Priest.


Southwest Airlines expanded its partnership with Warner Music Nashville (WMN) to bring music to the airline's amenities roster through the Live at 35 in-air concert series. This deal would allow Southwest Airlines to continue its famed in-flight pop-up shows, Billboard reported Thursday. 
“Southwest's Live at 35 concert series remains the same as it has since 2011," Alyssa Eliasen, a press representative for Southwest, told International Business Times Friday. "We will look to partner with Warner Music Nashville artists, along with artists from a variety of relationships, for our ongoing Live at 35 series."
Eliasen added, "The performances will remain as a surprise and delight event for our Customers on select flights throughout the year."
Launched as an experiment in 2011, the music series has become popular among passengers who are eager to see if their flight will be selected to view a free musical performance. Atlantic Records/WMN country artist Devin Dawson kicked off the new feature for passengers on a flight leaving Nashville for Philadelphia Sunday.
Dawson performed his debut single "All On Me," alongside a few other songs, for airline passengers to help celebrate WMN designating Southwest as its Airline of Record.
"I checked the "Sing ALL ON ME at 35,000 feet in the air" box off the bucket list. Thank you @SouthwestAir #liveat35," Dawson wrote in a tweet Thursday. 
I checked the “Sing ALL ON ME at 35,000 feet in the air” box off the bucket list. Thank you @SouthwestAir #liveat35 https://t.co/SCK1U1PQ0K pic.twitter.com/0lYoSd7frU
— Devin Dawson (@zdevin) October 26, 2017
"The Employees of Southwest Airlines are already a part of our extended family," Marieke Bianchi, vice president of marketing and strategic partnerships at WMN, said in a press release issued to IBT. "No airline is more accommodating to our artists' unique needs when traveling, whether it's helping them with their guitars and gear, service animals or frequent schedule changes."
Bianchi added, "We are thrilled to formalize this relationship and continue to develop unique ways to celebrate country music and the fans who support it."
Past performers have included The Strumbellas, NEEDTOBREATHE, The Black Cadillacs and Valerie June.
"At Southwest, we connect in a meaningful way with our Customers and Employees through music," Linda Rutherford, vice president & chief communications officer at Southwest Airlines, said in a press release issued to International Business Times. "With this partnership with Warner Music Nashville, we are excited to continue to offer new music experiences to our Customers, and provide WMN artists and fans our friendly and reliable Customer Service – complete with our promise that bags (and guitars) fly free."
Twitter users responded to the news with mixed feedback. Many users appeared excited for the new amenity to take flight, but there were others who didn't see the need for the entertainment feature. 
Man, it's bad enough when people sing in the subway. Now I gotta listen to some frustrated singer-songwriter on @SouthwestAir? NO! pic.twitter.com/052p8BBjnG
— jefeto (@jefetogreen) October 27, 2017
@Joe_Roberts01 My reaction when I see this... pic.twitter.com/P6qHLMDQmi
— Ned Konin (@gophillies17) October 27, 2017
That is so cool!!
— Danie̶lle̶ Jø |-/ (@danileannejo) October 27, 2017
pic.twitter.com/m4q66NKj0I
— OGBlack (@VAKnightStick) October 27, 2017
I would have loved to be on that flight!!!
— Jamie A. Hancock (@Jamar1131) October 26, 2017
Some Twitter users echoed the sentiment of one user, who wrote: "so, like, who asked for this??" Other commenters claimed to "love" the new airline feature.
Southwest Airlines, pictured on the tarmac at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport on September 19, 2016 in Phoenix, teamed up with Warner Music Nashville to create a in-air concert experience.  Photo: Getty Images


When  Vice President Mike Pence cast the tie-breaking vote in the Senate on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's rule against forced arbitration this week, he finished off a regulation loathed by banks and financial institutions. The rule, which ensured consumers could enter class action lawsuits to resolve disputes instead of being forced into private arbitration, applied only to providers of financial services. But the vote may be an opening salvo in a battle over forced arbitration, a practice used by American companies to deny their workers and customers access to the courts. Among those companies is the Trump Organization, currently led by Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr., and formerly led by President Donald Trump, who is expected to sign the bill.
Arbitration is the process by which two parties bring their conflict to a neutral arbitrator that decides how to resolve the issue. The process, which is secret and often mandated in employee contracts, prevents the conflict from going to the courts, where the discovery process would force the disclosure of company business. It’s not surprising then that employers, as well as banks and credit card issuers, prefer to use arbitration to settle disputes with workers and consumers. While one study found that just 2.1 percent of companies used arbitration in the early 1990s,  recent research has found that number has grown to more than half of all non-union employers, a development that has angered workers rights groups.
“Forced arbitration of workplace claims is anathema to our public justice system because it occurs in secret, private tribunals in the absence of accompanying legal safeguards,” the  National Employment Lawyers Association has said, decrying the process’s lack of a “written record of the arbitration proceedings, the right to appeal the arbitrator's decision if the law is not applied correctly, or other guarantees that ensure a fair process that exist in a court of law.”
Advocates of arbitration argue the process is more cost-effective than litigation and prevents lawyers from getting a large cut of any class action remedy. That line of argument has been made by the Trump Organization, which forces all employees, including gardeners, housekeepers and manicurists, to give up their right to litigation through arbitration agreements,  according to a CBS News report.
“Because it is faster, more cost effective and tends to level the playing field, it is commonplace for large companies like The Trump Organization to use arbitration as the preferred method for resolving disputes,” a Trump Organization spokesperson told CBS in August.
The Trump Organization agreement bars employees from going to the courts for resolution of issues related to “unpaid compensation, missed meal or rest breaks, wrongful termination, unfair competition, discrimination, harassment, retaliation,” according to CBS.
In recent years,  the courts have split on the question of whether employers can force employees into arbitration agreements, so the issue has been taken up by the Supreme Court. Earlier this month, the Court heard oral arguments in  Epic Systems V. Lewis, a case which will determine if the common arbitration requirement that employees waive their right to join class action lawsuits is legal under the National Labor Relations Act. One  observer of the oral arguments believed the Court seemed likely to side with employers.


The rise of artificial intelligence threatens to eliminate jobs once considered impossible to automate. One series of papers by Oxford researchers ranks jobs by their estimated susceptibility to automation. Among those most rated likely to vanish – because they involve work that AI can increasingly accomplish less expensively – are real estate brokers, insurance claims adjusters and sports referees. Could anything good come of mass unemployment?
History tells us that when technology squeezes people out of jobs, they revolt. Industrialization in 19th-century England, for example, gave rise to Luddite activism. Unfortunately, history also suggests that protests of the marginalized don’t solve the underlying problem. The British Army suppressed the Luddites; the government passed laws to protect factory equipment and industrialization marched on. As Marx went on to theorize, in a capitalist society, the government is co-opted by the wealthy classes.
What happens, though, when that skilled upper class is itself put out of a job? That’s the question that mass AI-based unemployment would pose. What would happen when well-educated lawyers, journalists, bureaucrats, corporate managers and other creative-class knowledge workers can’t find work? Could the rise of AI lead to a white-collar rebellion?
When I was a Ph.D. student in the mid-1990s working in a subfield of AI known as computer vision – the automated processing of imagery – I used to think that the grand challenge of the field was to develop software that could take an arbitrary image and output a text description of it. At the time, computers couldn’t tell if a photo contained a human face or a bowl of macaroni and cheese. It was a problem I didn’t think I would live to see solved.
Just two decades later, a combination of advances in hardware, big data, parallel processing and neural networks have made impressive headway. Not only are AI systems increasingly able to describe image content, they are gaining significant footholds in translating between languages, grading essays and composing music. Modern AI systems are already conducting financial analysis, writing news articles and identifying legal precedents.
Old ideas that computers can’t do certain human things – be creative, express emotion, empathize – are being tossed out one by one. A visceral way to feel AI’s looming approach to human intelligence is to view the output from Google’s DeepDream, in which a trained neural network run in reverse produces eerie, dream-like images that seem genuinely creative and uncomfortably human.
It’s hard to overstate what this and related advances portend. Even technologists who made fortunes paving the way for the AI future have begun to sound an alarm. Elon Musk, the CEO of Tesla, whose self-driving car technology includes plenty of AI, has called AI humanity’s “biggest existential threat.” Bill Gates seems to think the crisis is self-evident, saying he doesn’t “understand why some people are not concerned.” And if futurist Ray Kurzweil is right, by 2045, computer intelligence will match or exceed human abilities in every way – what he calls the “singularity.”
But the job apocalypse might have a silver lining. The Luddites of the 1800s were unsuccessful for a number of reasons: They were politically marginal. They were not well-organized. They misdiagnosed the problem as being either about the technology or their employers. And, at least in some tellings, they had little public support.
In contrast, those involved in a white-collar movement would have strong ties to influential people. They would organize effectively. They would understand the larger problem as an imperfect economic system whose pathologies technology merely amplifies. And, they would have the rhetorical skills to draw the sympathy of the public – who are likely to be themselves jobless, too.
Unlike other worker revolts, a white-collar rebellion could move the levers of power so as to uproot the underlying problem: a politico-economic system that concentrates wealth, increases inequality, protects corporations from public accountability and fails to separate wealth and state.
I expect the AI job takeover to pose a problem primarily because its benefits will go to the few who own the technology, while all the harm will fall on the rest of us. It is a political problem, not a technological one.
In my view, technology amplifies the inequities of capitalism. What AI will do is to turn nearly everyone into displaced workers, even some who were previously among the elite.
Kentaro Toyama is an Associate Professor, Technology and Global Development at the University of Michigan
Logo Photo: The Conversation


In a rare instance of one federal agency publicly attacking another, the U.S. Department of the Treasury issued an 18-page  report Monday  excoriating the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s proposed arbitration rule, which would prevent financial institutions from preventing class action lawsuits from customers via consumer contracts. In doing so, the department cited a paper co-authored by a George Mason University law professor who works for several campus centers heavily funded by the billionaire industrialist, free-market evangelist and far-right political donor Charles Koch.
At the root of the social change strategy of Koch and his younger brother David, who run a massive, private energy and materials conglomerate, is generously funding professors and programs that align with their libertarian beliefs and their business interests. Koch family foundations, primarily the Charles Koch Foundation (CKF), have donated over $200 million to hundreds of U.S. colleges and universities over the last several decades, usually targeted at free-market centers and programs. Since the 1970s, the Kochs’ have used academia to shape young minds and put out scholarly works backing their beliefs; funded think tanks to repackage this work into easily digestible policy proposals; and financed advocacy groups to popularize the proposals and pressure lawmakers to adopt them.
In many ways, the Koch strategy has been successful. More and more often, research from these Koch-backed programs makes its way into federal policymaking.
Just one day after Treasury’s report was released, the Senate narrowly  voted to strike down the rule, which took five years to create and would have gone into effect in 2018. Vice President Mike Pence, a  close Koch ally, cast the deciding vote to break a Senate deadlock. The House already voted down the arbitration rule this summer, and, as Trump is very likely to sign the bill, the rule will soon meet its end. That means corporations are free to force consumers into arbitration — settling a dispute privately without the right to sue a company in court, participate in a class-action lawsuit or appeal.
Many of the lawmakers who voted down the arbitration rule have received boosts from the Kochs and their political network, both from direct campaign donations and independent election spending.
After The Crash: Consumer Protection
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) was established as part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, which occurred largely because of predatory lending and risky trading by the financial industry. The bureau was created to assist victims of financial fraud and help enforce the Dodd-Frank measures put in place to help prevent another global recession. The CFPB has helped provide nearly $12 billion in consumer relief and saved consumers $16 billion in hidden credit card fees, but the GOP has been trying trying to dismantle the agency since it was created over most Republicans’ objections.
Wall Street is strongly opposed to the arbitration rule, estimating that it would cost firms billions of dollars, and the Treasury, now run by former Goldman Sachs executive Steve Mnuchin, echoed big financial firms’ concerns. The report questions the conclusions of a CFPB study on forced arbitration and alleges that the rule would “impose extraordinary costs” and constitute “a large wealth transfer to plaintiff’s attorneys.”
“The report by the Treasury Department rehashes industry arguments that were analyzed in depth and solidly refuted in the final rule,”  said Samuel Gilford, a spokesman for the CFPB. The bureau’s analysis “found that mandatory arbitration clauses allow companies to avoid accountability for breaking the law and cost consumers billions of dollars by blocking group lawsuits.”
Just seven weeks ago, credit rating agency Equifax revealed a massive data breach that potentially endangered private information of almost half of Americans. The company created a way for people to find out if their data had been compromised, but only after signing a statement that tucked a mandatory arbitration clause into the fine print. After considerable public backlash, Equifax removed the clause. As International Business Times reported, Equifax had  lobbied against the arbitration rule that was under consideration at the CFPB. Wells Fargo, one of the worst offenders in predatory lending, used forced arbitration to prevent costly lawsuits over its fraudulent practices.
In its negative assessment of the CFPB’s arbitration rule, the Treasury cites a  critique of the CFPB’s arbitration study that was published by two Koch-funded academic centers at George Mason University (GMU).
The Koch Connection
Charles and David run Koch Industries, the second-largest private company in the U.S., and head a giant, conservative political operation that rivals either of the two major American political parties in size. The Kochs, worth a combined $95 billion, are known for their network’s huge political spending operation, which almost entirely benefits Republicans.
Of their many businesses, the Kochs own three financial firms: Koch Financial Corporation, Koch Genesis Company and Oasis Capital Markets LP. In the 1980s, Koch Industries pioneered financial instruments for speculating on commodities like oil and natural gas, as Ralph Wilson, senior researcher with the activist group  UnKoch My Campus, documented in  a report. In the 1990s, Koch Industries teamed up with energy and trading company Enron to  lobby to deregulate oil speculation. In 2000, Texas Sen. Phil Gramm (R) tucked a lengthy amendment into the Commodity Futures Modernization Act, later known as the “Enron loophole,” which gave companies like Enron and Koch Industries access to unregulated energy trading in electricity markets. The act, signed by President Bill Clinton on his way out of office, led to unregulated trading of credit default swaps, a major cause of the financial meltdown.
Signs of the Koch Brothers held at a rally where protesters demand the LA Times not be sold to the Koch Brothers on May 23, 2013 in Beverly Hills, California. Photo: JOE KLAMAR/AFP/Getty Images
At the time, Sen. Gramm’s wife, Wendy, was on the board of Enron and led the Regulatory Studies Program at GMU’s Mercatus Center, which got a major funding boost in the mid-1980s: Koch family foundations provided GMU with $30 million, much of it going to Mercatus. Enron had given campaign contributions to Sen. Gramm, and its chairman Kenneth Lay had donated to the Mercatus Center, as Jane Mayer noted in her book, Dark Money.
The Kochs have clearly gained from deregulated financial markets. Dodd-Frank and its CFPB are a direct threat to Koch Industries’ investment strategy, and professors in Koch-funded academic programs and think tanks have been churning out literature in favor of market deregulation.
Todd Zywicki, whose paper Treasury referenced, is a prime example. “Zywicki has been among the most outspoken scholars against the CFPB, serving as a model of Koch's weaponized academics, housed in Koch's Mercatus Center at George Mason University,” Wilson told IBT.
‘Involved In All Sort Of Ways With The Koch Foundation’
Zywicki is a law professor at the Antonin Scalia School of Law, which was enhanced and renamed with a  $10 million donation from the Charles Koch Foundation and an anonymous $20 million donation. He was formerly the executive director of the school’s Law and Economics Center, a recipient of Koch funds with which he is still affiliated. Also on Zywicki’s long list of leadership roles are his positions as senior scholar at the Mercatus Center, Senior Fellow at Mercatus’ F.A. Hayek Program for Advanced Study in Philosophy, Politics and Economics, and trustee of GMU’s Institute for Humane Studies (IHS), another recipient of huge amounts of Koch funding. In 2009, IHS awarded Zywicki with the Charles G. Koch Outstanding IHS Alum Award. As a student at Dartmouth, Clemson and the University of Virginia from 1986 to 1993, Zywicki “benefited from IHS programs.”
Since 1985, the Koch family has lavished GMU with  more than $100 million in donations, including $34 million to IHS. In 2015 alone, the Charles Koch Foundation gave the university $18 million.
Not only has Zywicki benefited from the Kochs’ academic funding and supported their agenda, he’s gone to bat for them directly in the public sphere,  defending the Kochs and their donations for outlets including  National Review. In one piece, Zywicki  admits, “I’m involved in all sorts of way [sic] with the Koch Foundation and many organizations that it supports. I count as friends many people at the Koch Foundation and even some at Koch Industries.” Despite the anti-regulatory output of Koch-sponsored academia, Zywicki writes that the idea that the Koch’s “philanthropy in support of free market institutions is motivated by their crude self-interest is simply — to put it bluntly — asinine.”
One of the first Koch-backed on-campus think tanks, the Mercatus Center, was originally founded under a different name by Richard Fink at Rutgers. He moved the center to GMU in 1980, and it became the Mercatus Center in 1999.  Charles Koch is a current board member. Fink became one of the Kochs’ closest allies, heading various aspects of Koch Industries and sitting on the boards of several Koch family foundations, a political nonprofit,  Mercatus and IHS.
In 2014, a Charles Koch Foundation official called Mercatus “critical” for advancing policy priorities. Another official said that Mercatus is “the ‘largest collection’ of ‘free-market faculty’ at any university in the world.”
Mercatus scholars have often influenced federal policy. The Mercatus Center has shown up more than  100 times in the congressional record and committee reports. Zywicki has a long list of  congressional testimonies on issues including consumer protection, bankruptcy and commercial real estate lending. As Lee Fang  wrote for The Nation, Zywicki was also a member of a consulting firm that has clients including Visa and Bank of America. A debt-relief company accused by the CFPB of deceiving consumers and charging illegal fees hired his firm at $500-per-hour, but Zywicki failed to disclose this or other conflicts of interest during his testimonies or in his articles critical of the bureau.
In 2015, former congressman Tom Price (R-GA), who recently resigned as head of Health and Human Services because of expensive private jet travel on the taxpayer dime, sponsored  legislation that cited Mercatus research. Rep. Mike Enzi (R-WY), cited the same research in  another bill. The two congressmen, both of whom collected campaign donations from the Koch Industries PAC, teamed up to  oust the director of the Congressional Budget Office, replacing him with  Keith Hall, a senior research fellow at Mercatus.
Treasury: Let The Market Regulate Itself
The Treasury report refers to Zywicki’s CFPB critique, co-authored with University of Virginia law professor Jason Scott Johnston, when alleging that the bureau did not adequately consider the consumer benefits of “market-based provider responses to consumer complaints.” Citing the Mercatus publication, the Treasury implies that the free market will sort out consumer disputes on its own.
“Scholars and commenters have suggested that aggrieved consumers would be more likely to change providers than to call a lawyer over a small-dollar dispute — and that financial institutions respond in kind by waiving various fees upon complaint instead of losing business or defending in arbitration.”
The case of Koch-backed research influencing the Treasury Department demonstrates the extent to which an extremely wealthy, politically active family can help shape federal policy that affects hundreds of millions of Americans. Despite the Kochs’ refusal to directly support Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, decades of funding conservative economists and law professors, think tanks and political groups has paid off in a White House stocked with Koch-linked officials and a corporate-friendly administration.


Vice President Mike Pence this week cast the  deciding vote to kill a federal rule protecting consumers' right to file class action lawsuits -- delivering a big win for a financial industry trade association that has been directly lobbying him on the issue, according to documents reviewed by International Business Times. In the lead up to the Republican’s tie-breaking vote, the American Financial Services Association said Pence’s office requested ideas about how to defang the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which had originally created the rule.
Earlier this year, the CFPB finalized its  rule -- first proposed under the Obama administration -- to prohibit financial firms from requiring customers to relinquish their rights to file consumer class action lawsuits. At the time, the agency said its research showed that these “pre-dispute arbitration agreements are being widely used to prevent consumers from seeking relief from legal violations.”
Throughout 2017, financial giants mounted a campaign to rescind the rule. As part of that pushback, AFSA -- which  describes itself as “the primary trade association for the consumer credit industry” -- delivered a nine-point regulatory reform plan to Pence's top economist Mark Calabria, who was appointed to his position in the vice president’s office from a job at the libertarian  Cato Foundation.
In its  letter, AFSA noted that in a meeting with Pence’s office weeks after he assumed office, the vice president’s advisers had specifically asked the group to provide “reforms that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could implement quickly to reduce unnecessary burdens on financial institutions.” AFSA’s blueprint pressed Pence to push for a moratorium on the CFPB’s consumer complaint database; rescind orders that “direct banks and nonbanks to ensure that their service providers are in compliance with applicable laws”; and terminate the rule that outlaws financial institutions from requiring customers to agree to forced arbitration clauses that block them from joining class action lawsuits.
“The CFPB should not finalize the proposed arbitration rule that would prohibit the use of class action waivers,” the group wrote to Calabria, echoing its separate  2016 letter to federal regulators demanding they back off the rule. “The CFPB’s own study shows that arbitration is inexpensive, fast, and beneficial to consumers.”
Less than seven months after AFSA met with Pence's office, the Republican vice president followed through on the group’s recommendations, casting the decisive Senate vote killing the CFPB arbitration rule.
Before Pence’s tie-breaking vote, federal records show, AFSA directly lobbied Pence on a host of issues, including the issue of arbitration. In all,  the  records  show the group directly lobbying Pence on arbitration during the first three quarters of the year, spending $375,000 in total on all its efforts to influence lawmakers.
Pence’s vote was no surprise -- he has been  outspoken in his support of Republican efforts to dismantle reforms passed in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. Earlier this year, his economist, Calabria,  declared that “Since so much of the Obama-era financial regulation was by guidance -- and, I would say, regulation by enforcement -- that part of the Obama era can be easily erased once we have new regulators in place.”
Pence's support for deregulation has coincided with his reliance on the financial industry as a significant source of campaign cash. During his time in Congress, he  raised  more  than  $250,000 from donors in the banking and lending industries, according to data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics. He raised an additional  $261,000 during his campaigns for governor, according to data from the National Institute on Money In State Politics.


Coffeehouse chain Starbucks on Thursday added the ominously named Zombie Frappuccino to its menu through Oct. 31. The drink is inspired by a holiday favorite treat of caramel-dipped apples. 
The green and purple Halloween-inspired drinks are sold in the U.S. and Canada and have a tart green apple flavor.
To little surprise, the drink has generated mixed reviews. 
Got our hands on the new #ZombieFrappuccino from @Starbucks! pic.twitter.com/ULklC6DFBK
— Villainous Media (@VillainousMedia) October 26, 2017
When you make a special trip to try the #ZombieFrappuccino only to find you don't like it. #bringbackthefrappula pic.twitter.com/ibQi6m2WSk
— Danielle Ledbetter (@DanielleWFXL) October 26, 2017
As an FYI, the #ZombieFrappuccino isn't that great and you really shouldn't waste your time on it. Far better ones available. Sorry!
— SN Kurse _ (@SNKurse) October 26, 2017
I did end up trying the #ZombieFrappuccino ...I didn't like it. I thought caramel apples were sweet, not sour. :/
— SP__KY TIDDY (@LilithFlorian) October 26, 2017
Some Twitter users were a bit more forgiving.
Doesn't taste too bad. It probably won't last long. #zombiefrappuccino pic.twitter.com/NeOew3BwTU
— Nancy _ (@DeadmanPunk) October 26, 2017
#ZombieFrappuccino - crazy sweet. Not bad. Just crazy sickly sweet. pic.twitter.com/Kzw6YUM5H8
— Michelle Philippi (@TheTweetsOfMP) October 26, 2017
Several others provided positive feedback.
Zombie Frappucino _ much better than the Unicorn *limited time only* #starbucks #zombiefrappuccino pic.twitter.com/MpBsybb4NF
— AriCarrasquel (@ariccr) October 25, 2017
Got mine this morning. Yummy brains! #zombiefrappuccino pic.twitter.com/7PMs5qmJAt
— Sean Andre (@sandre217) October 26, 2017
Trying the #zombiefrappuccino at #Starbucks. I love it!! https://t.co/rDbxKHRp2N pic.twitter.com/AdBfypXfEZ
— Mouse Magic (@MouseMagicJJ) October 26, 2017
Just got my #ZombieFrappuccino @Starbucks ! I must say it’s very good - like an apple _ flavored vanilla shake _ #zombie #Halloween ___ pic.twitter.com/etTIOaBqnP
— Laura Madsen (@TheLauraMadsen) October 26, 2017
Others poked fun at Starbucks' new drink.
#zombiefrappuccino kind of looks like the unicorn one lol pic.twitter.com/kqItjA0r9F
— JAY___ (@amjay718) October 26, 2017
A millennial who supports Trump is described as a #zombiefrappuccino
— Steve Redmond (@sjredmond) October 26, 2017
y’all say a prayer for starbucks baristas today __#zombiefrappuccino
— obi wan caitnobi (@CaitlinTyreee) October 26, 2017
No, no, no! Bad @Starbucks, bad. Go to your room and think about what you did. #ZombieFrappuccino pic.twitter.com/2ckF7QD4Rf
— Russell Scibetti (@rscibetti) October 26, 2017
There has even been feedback on YouTube, including a review made by Angie Eats It All.  "Oh boy, not such a good first impression — I got to be honest. I expected it to be a super sour and tart apple, it's not. It's a mild apple flavor."
YouTuber Maxwell Glick said "the taste is really not that bad" and pointed out that it contains "a lot of sugar, for sure."
"When brainstorming a new Frappuccino flavor for this Halloween, we started by thinking about a Halloween party and monster mash," Jennica Robinson, a member of the Starbucks beverage development team, said in a news release Thursday. "We had already invited Frankenstein and vampires to the party, so we came up with another monster that could join the bash.
"We thought about what you'd serve at a Halloween party, and we settled on dipped caramel apples. It has a tart green apple favor balanced with a smooth, sweet caramel."
Starbucks is no stranger to experimenting with the atypical coffee drink, including the widely discussed Unicorn Frappuccino. The blended crème drink, which debuted in April, was panned by many customers for being too tart and sugary. Starbucks' marketing tactics for the colorful drink still proved to be successful.
One method of the Unicorn Frappuccino's success was the use of social media.
"National Unicorn Day was celebrated on April 9th, which caused hundreds of trending hashtags announcing #NationalUnicornDay," Heather DeSantis, a Public Relations specialist, told Forbes in April. "It is not confirmed that Starbucks capitalized on this national awareness day — but honestly, there is no way this could be a coincidence.
"People were still obsessing over unicorns, so when Starbucks announced their new drink, people were foaming at the mouth to get in on the unicorn action."
Like the Zombie Frappuccino, social media users shared their thoughts on the drink as soon as it debuted. The buzz ultimately led to a spike in sales, which Business Insider cited as producing "increased checks from regulars, but also opened up a new audience for Starbucks." 
Starbucks, pictured January 22, 2015 in San Francisco, unveiled it's new Halloween-inspired frappuccino to consumers Thursday.  Photo: Getty Images


Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis once famously called the states “laboratories” of government, because they allow residents and their representatives to experiment with policies before they are adopted, or rejected, by the federal government. The results of these experiments are often cited during debates over federal policy, like the tax reform debate that is currently consuming Washington.
As tax reform moves forward in Congress, and Republicans insist that massive tax cuts will spur  economic growth without increasing the deficit, a study released Thursday examines the economic performance of our laboratories. In comparing states with no income taxes to states that tax the rich heavily, the study’s authors found the zero income tax states are producing poorer returns than the heavily taxed ones — and putting more of a tax burden on the poor.
Researchers at the non-partisan and non-profit Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy compared the nine states without personal income taxes, which include Florida, Texas and Washington, to the nine states with the highest top marginal tax rates over the last decade, which include California, New York and Oregon.
They found the states with the highest top tax rates (which had an average top tax rate of 10.01 percent) outperformed the states without income taxes in per capita GDP growth, 25.8 percent to 17.4 percent between 2006 and 2016. The highly taxed states also generated slightly higher levels of per capita personal income growth, disposable personal income growth and personal consumption growth, as well as prime age employment, a measure of the job market that, unlike the traditional unemployment rate, includes people who have stopped looking for work.
“Over the last decade, economic growth in the states without income taxes has lagged behind growth in the states with the highest top personal income taxes,” wrote the study’s authors, Carl Davis and Nick Buffie. “While this finding does not indicate that higher income tax rates necessarily cause economic growth, it does call into question the notion that cutting or abandoning state income taxes leads to a clear improvement in state economies.”
The study is a rebuttal to a series of papers called “Rich States, Poor States” published over the last decade by the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC), a coalition of state legislators and corporations that has long advocated for lower taxes, fewer regulations, and, in recent years, a  new Constitutional convention designed to create  a new Constitution containing strict limits on federal spending.

Those papers were authored by economist and Reagan administration veteran Arthur Laffer, who created the theoretical “Laffer Curve ” based on the relationship between tax rates and tax revenue that gave birth to Reagonomics. Not surprisingly, Laffer’s ALEC papers show how states with zero tax rates have greater growth in personal income, payroll employment and tax revenues between 2005 and 2015.
But Davis and Buffie point out that Laffer uses total, not per capita, economic indicators. By using per capita numbers, Davis and Buffie demonstrate how the increases Laffer touts are actually a product of population increases, increases which the researchers argue are part of a larger migration and birth pattern that are unrelated to tax rates.
Of course, Davis and Buffie admit they could not control for the nearly endless variables that exist between state economies, including a state’s dominant industries, natural resources, tourism industry, federal spending, geography and climate. And perhaps unsurprisingly, given the geographic clustering of more liberal, pro-tax political attitudes, the nine states with high taxes were located in the Northeast and West Coast, with the exception of Minnesota. The no-tax states were more diverse geographically, with New Hampshire, Tennessee and Florida on the East Coast, and Alaska and Washington on the West Coast.
But wherever the states are located, what the study’s calculations lay bare is the difference between the tax rates paid by the rich and poor in the no-tax states (the study’s authors didn’t examine the middle class).
States with no income taxes must generate revenue in other ways, which usually mean higher sales taxes, for example. Since these taxes are not progressive, like income taxes, they shift the tax burden from the rich to the poor.
For the bottom 20 percent of taxpayers, the effective local and state tax rate — or the rate that actually gets paid -- is 10.7 percent on average in no-tax states, slightly higher than the 10 percent effective rate paid by the bottom fifth in the nine high-taxed states. Not a huge difference. But the divide between what the richest people pay between the two groups of states is significant. The top one percent of earners in the no-tax states pay an effective tax rate of just 2.2 percent, while in the nine high-rate states they pay 7.4 percent.
The study’s authors don’t comment on the fact that the bottom fifth of taxpayers pay higher rates than the top one percent in both state groups.
Taxpayers living in states with income taxes can deduct their state and local taxes on their federal taxes as part of the SALT deduction.  Congress is currently debating eliminating or changing that deduction, which costs the federal government an estimated  $100 billion a year.


A deal last week that gave $300 million to relatively unknown Whitefish Energy Holdings to help Puerto Rico rebuild its electrical grid raised some eyebrows.  Puerto Rico Gov. Ricardo Rosselló announced Tuesday night the deal would be scrutinized. The U.S. House of Representatives will also take a look at the contract.
Whitefish Energy is a company started only two years ago and has only two employees, and was seen as an odd choice to take on such a monumental task as helping to rebuild Puerto Rico’s decimated power grid. Over 75 percent of the country is still without power after Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico last month. 
The fact that company is based in Whitefish, Montana, the hometown of Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke who knows the owner, Andy Techmanski also raised questions.
Puerto Rico’s state-owned Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (Prepa) inked the deal with Whitefish to restore three to four transmission lines or more than 100 miles of Prepa’s 2,500 miles of lines, according to NPR Tuesday. The bill would be footed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
The contract is 300 times the company’s annual revenue of $1 million.
“It is concerning that the task of rebuilding Puerto Rico's energy grid — the biggest infrastructural rebuilt in the United States since Hurricane Katrina - is being contracted solely with Whitefish Energy,” said Florida Rep. Darren Soto to the BBC Wednesday. 
Soto, a Democrat, said he will be requesting an investigation from the Department of the Interior's Inspector General.
The House Committee on Natural Resources said it will also examine the deal.
“The size and unknown details of this contract raises numerous questions,” said Parish Braden, a committee spokesman to NPR. “This is one of many things the committee is taking a close look at as it continues to work with the resident commissioner, governor's office, and oversight board to ensure Puerto Rico's recovery is robust, effective and sustained.”
In cash-strapped Puerto Rico, every dollar counts. The grid was in poor shape even before Hurricane Maria and Prepa declared bankruptcy in July. Puerto Rico could run out of money as early as the end of October, according to the Washington Post.
Typically after a disaster utility companies will work other public utilities in mutual aid, instead of contracting out to private companies. Prepa is part of the American Public Power Association (APPA), a non-profit that represents public utility companies. APPA helped coordinate efforts in Florida and Texas to get help from other public utility companies.
Prepa did not reach out to APPA for a mutual aid.
UTIER, the union that represents Puerto Rican electrical workers were dismayed at the price the outside labor Whitefish subcontracted out would cost.
“We need support and help, but under these conditions it is impossible and questionable. Who allowed this?” the group tweeted Tuesday. 
Necesitamos apoyo y ayuda pero bajo estas condiciones es imposible y cuestionable. Quien permitió esto? @AEEONLINE @ricardorossello pic.twitter.com/1gLHbBFmF4
— UTIER (@utier) October 24, 2017


American Airlines (NASDAQ: AAL) was the target of a NAACP travel advisory issued Tuesday night, the organization advised black passengers to try and avoid the airline.
In a statement, the NAACP pointed to perceived discrimination.
“The NAACP for several months now has been monitoring a pattern of disturbing incidents reported by African-American passengers, specific to American Airlines,” said the NAACP in their warning. “In light of these confrontations, we have today taken the action of issuing national advisory alerting travelers—especially African Americans—to exercise caution, in that booking and boarding flights on American Airlines could subject them disrespectful, discriminatory or unsafe conditions.”
The group listed several recent incidents with the airline in their travel warning, involving the mistreatment of black fliers. The listed offenses mostly involve people being removed from flights.
I mean, NAACP might as well warn black folks about LIVING in AMERICA not just flying on American Airlines.
— Baratunde (@baratunde) October 25, 2017
American Airlines called the advisory “disappointing.”
“Our team members, a diverse community of gate agents, pilots, and flight attendants, are proud to serve customers of all backgrounds,” said an American Airlines in a statement to CNN.
NACCP leadership stated they wanted to have a dialogue with the company.
“The growing list of incidents suggesting racial bias reflects an unacceptable corporate culture and involves behavior that cannot be dismissed as normal or random.  We expect an audience with the leadership of American Airlines to air these grievances and to spur corrective action.  Until these and other concerns are addressed, this national travel advisory will stand,” said Derrick Johnson, President and CEO of the NAACP in their statement.
In August, the NAACP issued a similar travel warning for the state of Missouri. It was the first travel advisory they had issued for a state. They cited higher incidents of black drivers getting pulled over and a new law passed in the state that limited discrimination lawsuits.
Civil rights organizations will often release travel advisories as a way to draw attention to organizations and issues as much as it is a practical warning.
American Airlines has not yet responded to International Business Time’s request for comment.


Silicon Valley giants have been slowly increasing their spending in the nation’s capital. Third-quarter lobbying reports released in the past week show Google, Facebook and Amazon spent a combined $12.6 million on lobbying from the beginning of July to the end of October.
Google spent $5.2 million on lobbying last quarter, a nine percent increase over last year. That included paying 24 different firms to lobby on Capitol Hill, and deploying another 10 of its own in-house lobbyists to engage Congress on everything from human trafficking to tax reform to “small business advertising issues.” Facebook lobbying is up 41 percent over last year’s third quarter. Amazon spent $3.4 million, more than it has ever spent in a single quarter on lobbying,  according to the Washington Post.
Those figures might not represent a huge amount of money compared to the value of those companies, but they do represent a large outlay relative to what companies and trade groups regularly spend on influencing Washington. The top three spenders on lobbying in the U.S. last year, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Realtors and Blue Cross Blue Shield, spent a similar amount last quarter: a combined total of $15 million.
Silicon Valley has long been associated with a libertarian ethos, a spirit that has been reciprocated by a laissez faire attitude from the nation’s lawmakers. But growing political spending by the companies, increasing congressional scrutiny and a backlash against Big Tech seem to indicate that era of benign neglect is over.
While Silicon Valley has found itself  deflecting criticism over Russia’s effort to weaponize its platforms,  criticism of  big tech’s power over our data, our economy and our politics has reached a fever pitch.
The most comprehensive criticism of Big Tech so far is  World Without Mind  by Atlantic staff writer and former New Republic editor Franklin Foer. Published last month, the book is a polemic against the concentrated power of Big Tech generally, and Facebook, Google and Amazon specifically. International Business Times talked to Foer Monday about Silicon Valley’s influence in Washington, our outdated antitrust laws and the need to resurrect the anti-monopoly tradition in American politics.
The following interview has been lightly edited for clarity and length. 
What scares you about Silicon Valley?
They have so insinuated themselves in our lives, in our markets and in our democracy. They have this tremendous power to pick winners and pick losers. Whatever they deem to be important is the thing that surfaces at the top of their feeds and search results, at the top of their store. We've always had tools, and technology has always been one of the things that defines us as human beings. But when we merge with these machines, we're merging with a different type of machine. These are intellectual machines that kind of shape our reality. We'll soon be inhabiting their virtual realities. And the problem is we aren't just merging with machines, we're merging with the companies that run those machines.
What should be done?
I think the broad thing that I would like to see is some sort of comprehensive data protection law. So much of the competitive advantage of these companies rests on their ability to amass more data than their competitors. And the fact that Facebook has so much data, and Google has so much data, it helps give them their lock over the advertising business.
We have a grand anti-monopoly tradition in our country. And we haven't updated it to take into account these companies. But there is such a long, important tradition in trying to limit the power of companies within the communications and information realm.
How are the big Silicon Valley companies monopolies, and how have they managed to escape antitrust action?
Well, first of all there's nothing illegal with being a monopoly in our country. You have to be shown to be an abusive monopoly for there to be an antitrust investigation. And part of the thing that makes these companies so different, and in a lot of ways so amazing, is that they offer their products for free or for very cheap. So consumer welfare is the primary paradigm that we have for evaluating monopolies. And these companies aren't so damaging to consumer welfare as defined by the antitrust code. Which isn't to say that there are not competition issues that these companies face. With the Europeans investigating Google, I think what they're essentially saying is that Google has abused its market, its power over markets, to give itself an unfair advantage. But that translates into a complaint pretty effectively in their context, it's less compelling in the context of American antitrust laws.
Europe has approached regulating these companies differently than the U.S. Is there anything we can learn and apply from the way Europe has looked at these companies?
There's two things really. The first is that the Europeans care more about privacy right now than we do. That's been one of their dominant complaints with these companies. The U.S. doesn't even have a data protection law. We have laws that protect health information or financial information but nothing that protects data per se, so I think there is something to be gleaned from that. But also if you look at the way the European Union has gone after Google, it’s pretty clear that they are starting to come to terms with some sort of way to separate the search engine from the ad sales part of their business. It seems like they are groping toward a soft way of breaking up the company, which I think is pretty interesting.
In an ideal world, would you want to see Google, Amazon and Facebook broken up? Or is that sort of fighting the last war, in the sense that maybe that's an old way of looking at antitrust. Does that sort of logic still apply, the idea that we could break up a company?
For sure. I don't see why not. What would be the issue there?
I'm just thinking that when we broke up Ma Bell, for example, you had different regional businesses. But if you break up Facebook, you’ve destroyed the whole utility of Facebook, which is that everyone's on it.
But the idea of breaking it up doesn't necessarily mean breaking up the core network. It might mean applying a solution that's similar to the one the Europeans have applied to Google. So that somehow you change its relationship to ad sales, or force it to be a bit more of a common carrier.
I don't think we've gotten to the point where the thinking is advanced enough to really start this talk about compelling remedies. We're more in the position right now of diagnosing the problem. I think people are starting to sketch out the remedies. We can talk about it in a very theoretical sort of way, but I would just caution anyone to say something like "it's impossible to break these companies up."
You're right, we're probably just applying a past template. If we analyzed these companies and their structure, there would be ways to break them up without taking a sledgehammer and smashing them up into a million pieces. There are probably more subtle things that can be done that constitute breaking them up, but not in the Ma Bell style.
Author Franklin Foer Photo: Penguin Press
It does seem people are starting to question the power of these companies. Obviously the Russian meddling has drawn a lot of the attention. But do you think people are starting to wake up to the threat of big tech?
I do think they are waking up to the sense that these companies have too much power. Really, it's a question about the power in a democracy, and also the economy. I think that beginning with the election, I think people diagnosed that the underlying health of American democracy has shifted. And so, Facebook is the first test case of whether the political system really is turning. And it does seem to be turning.
What company do you see as the greatest threat?
I tend to place Facebook at the top of the list, just because they've done so much to quickly debase the quality of information that goes to citizens and the impact of that on our democracy has registered almost instantaneously.
This quarter’s lobbying reports just came out, and they show that Amazon, Facebook and Google are spending more and more money in Washington. I think there's a popular perception that Silicon Valley has been pretty separate from Washington, they have sort of done their own thing and Washington has let them do their own thing. But you show in your book, Google specifically has been a player in Washington for awhile now. How did that happen?
Google I think has the longest deepest history in Washington. They fought a kind of pitched battle in Europe and I think have the greatest sense of their underlying vulnerabilities. So they've invested the most heavily. They were involved in these epic fights over net neutrality, and intellectual property. And also, they were in China, which was a highly politicized issue. So in a way I think they have the most political experience out of the big tech firms.
While he was still in the White House,   Steve Bannon wanted to treat Google and Facebook as public utilities. Do you agree with that?
I don't actually agree with that. If we say they are utilities and we regulate them in that sort of way, it gives the state way too much power over them. It also just seems highly unimaginative to me, that we need to assume that their can only be one social media network or one search engine or one retail store. I think that the more American approach is try to use our power to stimulate competition, rather than just accept their size as a given.
But there is something totally fascinating happen on the political spectrum right now, where you have both the left and the right being divided over the question of how to respond to these companies. And the fascinating thing is that even the center is gravitating toward antitrust in the form of  No Labels, where Bill Kristol and Bill Galston have been pushing for the government to do something about the big tech companies.
You've written about   Amazon's power. I'm wondering what you thought as you watched these cities   submit their proposals for Amazon’s second headquarters . What has your takeaway been from watching that process?
There's this sense of desperation, this willingness to give anything to get Amazon. And there's a long history of that. Amazon has managed to always extract a whole lot out of states and localities in terms of tax breaks and subsidies in order to build warehouses.This is not really a new strategy for them. This is something that they've always done.
We're facing these mega questions about the future of work, and we see that Amazon is a crucial factor in the  retail apocalypse that's happening. So if you're a jurisdiction and you're unsure about jobs, and Amazon comes in and is promising 10,000 new jobs, that's a pretty good bet for your city. But I would say, these jurisdictions don’t seem to be really doing cost-benefit analyses. They're not really adding up the gain versus the long-term cost of just subsidizing a major corporation.
There is kind of a competition issue here too, which is that Amazon's size begets more size. Amazon, because it’s so big and so prestigious, is able to leverage its reputation to get even more advantage over its competitors.
Where has the Left been on all of this? That's the group that has traditionally opposed the concentration of corporate power.
I think it's just slowly dawned on people that this is a problem. So much of the internet era was defined by tumult. We had this sense that companies rose and fell very quickly. We were just slow to acknowledge that there was a stable constellation of major powers in the tech field. Now it's kind of become undeniable.
And also, what you're getting at, which is in my book, is that the tech companies aligned themselves with the Left. And Barack Obama really closely associated himself with Facebook and Google. And so, I think there was a natural inclination on the Left to view these companies as their friends.
That leads me to ask too, obviously these companies are very powerful, but the counter argument is that if they have aligned with the left how powerful can they really be? We have Trump and we have a Republican government right now. Same thing on net neutrality, it seems like as powerful as these companies are they can’t seem to beat the old telecom giants on net neutrality.
As we saw with Facebook, it's not like these companies were sitting around rooting for Hillary Clinton, they just wanted to make a lot of money, no matter the consequences. And then on net neutrality, the Trump administration installed people in the FEC who had an ideological bent. And there's nothing much they could do about that.
Universal basic income is an idea that seems to have some cache in Silicon Valley. But it seems to me that concept is based on the the belief that eliminating most jobs is inevitable, and that it's not even worth considering whether we should do that, or attempt to do that. When you hear that discussion about universal basic income, what does that tell you about the worldview of Silicon Valley?
It shows a narcissism that's embedded in this belief that they can engineer a world in which universal basic income will be enough to carry us through. It's almost the ultimate proposition in social engineering. And like, so much else, it’s a rational solution that doesn't actually understand human beings. They just can't comprehend the idea that work is central to dignity. And there's this almost insulting assumption that most people would rather not do their jobs.
There's gotta be a way to manage technology where we can both allow it to progress without just giving it free reign. Is there a middle ground between embracing the inevitability of technology and being a luddite?
Of course. Of course. Think about automobiles. When automobiles were created they were incredibly efficient means of getting human beings from point A to point B. But a lot of people got killed because there were no rules. So we created speed limits and stop signs and safety belts and fuel efficiency standards. There is no reason that these companies, and these technologies, should be immune from rules. We can  harness them for human beings. Nobody is saying "throw your phone in the sea." To betray opposition to these companies as luddite is to concede that any criticism of them is an instance of wanting to suppress innovation, which is ridiculous.
You mentioned a data protection agency. Can you describe what that would be and what actions it would take?
It's not a totally novel concept. There are actually data protection agencies in lots of european countries that try to adjudicate complaints that people have with the big companies and try to help people fight to protect their data. But underlying it all, I really think we need a new paradigm for thinking about data. In the book I talked about how we need a paradigm that treats data as something closer to the environment, where we create a whole set of rules that govern how data can be exploited by these companies, and also insists that these companies be held to a very high standard in their exploitation of data.
Is there any particular law or fix that you would implement now?
I think what needs to happen very quickly is countervailing pressure. I look at what London has done with Uber, and I think that that's actually an important start. So many of these companies have existed in a bubble where they've been beyond criticism. Forcing Zuckerberg to come testify before the Senate would be, in the short term, an incredibly important thing that would maybe rattle the cult of personality that he has within his own company and apply pressure on their system in a very, very visible way. They would have to answer questions from angry grandstanding politicians. So much of the problem is there's no counterweight right now.
Silicon Valley, and Google in particular, hire engineers for jobs that traditionally might go to other disciplines, like finance. As we move forward, and the social implications of this technology becomes more obvious and there's more pushback, I wonder if these companies will start to move away from a strictly engineering mindset.
In the end, computer science is too important to be left to the computer scientists. Some of the systems that have been created may work efficiently and beautifully and logically, but there is very little understanding of ethics or politics. We need to treat human beings as more than the sum of their data. And that will require a really profound paradigm shift within these companies.


The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) is a divisive topic for many New Yorkers as the public transit system faces ongoing problems. The conversation appeared to reach a boiling point this week after a photo of a man sleeping under chairs in a subway car shifted blame for inadequate policing to Mayor Bill de Blasio.
The  New York Post posted the photo of the sleeping man Saturday and reported that 3 train riders were “oblivious” to man’s presence. Both a high-ranking MTA official and Gov. Andrew Cuomo on Monday slammed de Blasio, who they said should be doing more to police the city’s subway lines and more effectively assist its homeless population.
“The fact is that since 1995 the NYPD has been the police force charged with enforcement in the subway system,” Chairman of the MTA Joe Lhota said in a statement. “The MTA board gave Mayor [Rudy] Giuliani the authority to consolidate the Transit Police within the NYPD, giving the City primary jurisdiction. That’s a fact.”
Another example of a pol speaking about homeless folks w/o speaking to them 1st. People want housing, not shelters.https://t.co/BEEGDQKx7q
&mdash; Josh Dean (@_JoshDean) October 23, 2017
Lhota said that the NYPD “needs to enhance its homeless outreach efforts in the subways,” adding that the MTA was “again are asking the NYPD to step up their presence and increase enforcement and the city must stop running from its responsibility.”
Cuomo, speaking at a press conference Monday, said no one is benefited from allowing homeless individuals to sleep on trains and echoed Lhota’s sentiment, the  New York Post reported. He added that the city’s homeless population should instead be directed to safe shelters.
“It is a distortion to say we’re letting homeless people sleep on subway cars and in stations because we care about the homeless,” he said. “If you care about the homeless, put them in a safe, clean, decent shelter.”
For his part,  de Blasio expressed concern about the photo and said Sunday that it was “not acceptable for people to sleep on a subway train like that” and promised more stringent enforcement.
“A case like that would be enforceable and we’ll enforce it. We’ll put whatever personnel we need on to stop something like that from happening,” he said. He said police could use “discretion” as to whether or not to arrest individuals for such misconduct.
According to the MTA’s  code of conduct, commuters may not “sleep or doze where such activity may be hazardous to such person or to others or may interfere with the operation of the Authority's transit system or the comfort of its passengers.”


The last six months of the year have seen a surge in lobbying activity on the National Flood Insurance Program, a nearly $25-billion-indebted federal safety net for buildings whose flood risks are too costly for private insurers that was up for reauthorization in early September. On Sept. 8, many of the lobbyists won a temporary victory when President Donald Trump  signed congressional legislation kicking the NFIP expiration date from Sept. 30 to Dec. 30, and the new reauthorization deadline to Dec. 8.
In the second quarter, the usual entities lobbying on the program, mainly representatives of the insurance industry, were joined by a crowd of new or long-absent filers, close to a quarter of which were “banks and other non-insurance financial interests,” according to a Bloomberg BNA  analysis. In the third quarter of 2017, as Hurricanes Irma and Harvey barreled into the Southeast and the reauthorization deadline approached, many of those financial interests were back, and for good reason. The NFIP, which requires homeowners with federally-backed mortgages in certain high-risk flood zones to purchase flood insurance and subsidizes about a fifth of those otherwise potentially cost-prohibitive insurance policies, is one of the last remaining barriers to a disaster for the high-value coastal real estate market.
Making matters worse, compliance rates for homeowners in flood-prone areas who are required to get insurance are dangerously low, leaving the borrowers at risk of major losses and leaving the banks liable for penalties for failing to enforce the insurance mandate — something many financial institutions and groups would like changed.
Bank of America Corp., which entered the fray this year after previously explicitly lobbying on the program back in 2012, reported holding “discussions related to the reauthorization of the National Flood Insurance Program” with both houses of Congress, according to federal lobbying  documents. JPMorgan Chase & Co., which until the second quarter of 2017 hadn't named the NFIP in its lobbying forms since early 2013, said in a third quarter filing that it advocated for “reauthorization of the National Flood Insurance Program” before Congress, the White House and the office of Vice President Mike Pence. Until the second quarter of 2017, Wells Fargo & Co. had named the program only once in its filings, in 2016; in forms for the second and third quarters of this year, it named “issues pertaining to the reauthorization of the National Flood Insurance Program” and a related bill. In the same two quarters, Citigroup Inc., which appeared to have not expressly lobbied on the program before, reported pushing for “NFIP reauthorization.” 
The Independent Community Bankers of America — a trade group that, until the second quarter of this year, hadn’t specifically lobbied on the program since mid-2015 — advocated for its interests in a litany of flood insurance bills, including the  National Flood Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2017, before Congress and various federal agencies during the three months that ended in September, according to its third-quarter  filing. The list goes on.
The banks aren’t alone. They’re part of a chorus of voices advocating for reform of a program that transfers much of the cost of insuring against the ballooning risk of catastrophic flood damage to taxpayers. And, like homeowners on the coasts, banks have a lot to lose with the loss of the NFIP.
People walked past an abandoned car after the area was inundated with flooding from Hurricane Harvey in Houston, Texas, Aug. 29, 2017. Photo: Getty Images
Although only a fifth of NFIP policyholders received insurance premium subsidies in 2013, those policyholders faced annual premium increases of  between 18 and 25 percent, depending on the type of borrower. The change was a result of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012, which extended NFIP while seeking to adjust the program’s subsidies so that they might more accurately reflect flood risk. By redrawing the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s flood maps, it also “grandfathered” some property owners into higher-risk zones with new flood protection requirements and premium rates, prompting immediate backlash.
A Boston woman, for example, saw her annual premium  jump from $3,000 to $68,000, because her home wasn’t elevated far enough above high tide. In a 2013 op-ed for his local paper, one Louisiana resident called the redrawing of maps and subsequent premium spikes “an illegal taking of property” complete with a “lack of due process.” In 2014, when lobbying on the NFIP also increased significantly, Congress  repealed portions of Biggert-Waters.
Total coverage from NFIP rose from $50 billion in 1978 to a peak of $1.3 trillion in 2013, down slightly to $1.25 trillion last year, according to  data from FEMA. Over the same period, the number of policies has grown from 1.4 million to  nearly 5.1 million — down from a high of 5.7 million in 2009 — according to the agency. In July, the most recent month for which FEMA has  NFIP coverage statistics, the total coverage stood at $1.23 trillion, with more than  4.9 million policies. That translates to plenty of mortgages spread among  major lenders like Wells Fargo, Bank of America, Citi and JPMorgan Chase, all of which paid lobbyists to monitor or advocate for changes or reauthorization of NFIP in the second and third quarters of 2017.
‘Millions And Even Billions Of Dollars Of Collateral At Risk’
To banks, a loss of government-subsidized flood insurance in a high-risk area, coupled with a destructive hurricane, is “probably a rounding error in their bottom line,” J. Scott Holladay, an assistant professor at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville who has studied the economics of NFIP, told International Business Times. Still, given the sheer number of policies covered by NFIP and the widespread, simultaneous destruction that comes with increasingly frequent storms, he said, banks certainly have reason to worry about collateral for interest-earning mortgages they service. Small community banks and local branches of big banks in flood-prone municipalities are especially vulnerable, he noted.
“They’re exposed to risk because they have millions and even billions of dollars in collateral at risk,” Holladay said. And since “a whole neighborhood could be wiped out, … the risks are really concentrated. Community banks in those areas could see a big loss.”
That potential loss is made bigger, he said, by the disproportionately high values of NFIP-subsidized coastal homes. Their reduced insurance premiums, a far leap from accurately representing the risk of flood damage, are actually artificially boosting their values, research has shown.
In a 2007  report, the Congressional Budget Office found that coastal properties whose flood insurance had been subsidized by the NFIP exhibited market values far higher than the national average, a disparity the CBO attributed to the general desirability of a waterfront home. But, compared to coastal and inland homes in general, the value difference was magnified among properties with NFIP subsidies, with coastal homes having a average value 86 percent higher than their inland counterparts. Many of the waterfront properties, the study noted, were “nonprincipal residences,” or vacation homes. And the fact of being a stone’s throw from the shore wasn’t the only thing lifting their values.
“Some or all of the value of the subsidy available on coverage for a given property is likely to be capitalized into the property’s value,” the CBO report said. “Thus, when a subsidized property is sold, the buyer essentially pays for some or all of the subsidy’s value upfront, through a higher purchase price, thus reducing or eliminating the net gain.”
Flooding caused by Hurricane Irma was photographed from a Marine helicopter accompanying President Donald Trump as he flew over storm damage near Fort Myers, Florida, Sept. 14, 2017.  Photo: Reuters
Those property owners may have further benefited from a negative relationship between the values of homes with NFIP-subsidized insurance and their premium payments — or, conversely, a positive relationship between the price tag on those homes and the sizes of their subsidies — as described in a 2015 University of Massachusetts - Dartmouth  study of the program.
“What we ultimately have with coastal properties is, on average, high market value homes that are increasingly finding themselves in risky situations,” Chad McGuire, a University of Massachusetts - Dartmouth public policy professor and one of the authors of the study, noted. If the mortgage issuer finds itself “overexposed” to those risks, he added, ensuring the NFIP’s continuity becomes “a measure of protection.”
Ten years after the aforementioned CBO report, the office revisited the program, and found that those relatively expensive coastal homes were responsible for a disproportionate amount of the NFIP’s budget shortfalls as well. The program suffered a $1.4 billion shortfall in 2016, according to a new CBO  report released in September. Yet premiums from inland properties amounted to a surplus for those areas over the same period; by contrast, premiums minus claims in coastal properties, which constituted 10 percent of counties covered by NFIP but three-quarters of its policies, resulted in a $1.5 billion loss.
Banks, insurers and their  representative  groups on Capitol Hill are advocating for FEMA to make it easier for private insurers to offer coverage for lower-risk zones currently covered by NFIP as an alternative to homeowners. But as the 2017 CBO report noted, “if the private market was able to compete for the NFIP’s lower-cost policies — that is, those for which the NFIP’s premiums are (or would be) large relative to their expected claims — the NFIP could be left with relatively high-cost policies.”
Using data from 5 million National Flood Insurance Program policies in 48 states and Washington D.C. as of 2016, the Congressional Budget Office found that coastal properties with insurance subsidized by the program accounted for a disproportionate amount of the its shortfalls. Photo: Congressional Budget Office, using data from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Guy Carpenter and Company, and Risk Management Solutions
Take away the subsidies inflating the values of coastal homes and the government safety net helping to insure their losses, and the next Harvey or Irma could be a sobering prospect for mortgage lenders. That risk is spread outward when banks transfer mortgages to other banks or sell federally-backed mortgages to government-sponsored enterprises, or GSEs, like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which then transfer them to the secondary market as investments.  
“They immediately sell the mortgage to Fannie and Freddie. They shift the risk,” said McGuire, pointing out that the banks get paid interest for servicing the mortgage. “Who bails out Fannie and Freddie? The taxpayers.”
When asked about the allocations of their mortgages in high flood risk areas and those with NFIP-subsidized insurance, JPMorgan, Citigroup and Bank of America, some of the largest mortgage servicers lobbying the federal government on the NFIP, declined to answer. Tom Goyda, a Wells Fargo spokesman, said approximately 4 percent of the $1.6 trillion in residential mortgages serviced by the bank were for properties in high-risk areas where FEMA required flood insurance as part of the NFIP, but was unable to disclose the portion sold to GSEs or transferred elsewhere.
‘Not A Lot Of Compliance’ Despite Flood Insurance Requirement For Risky Borrowers
Whether the NFIP is reauthorized by the new December deadline or not, the banks still face substantial risk in the event of a hurricane, because compliance with FEMA’s mandate that homeowners in especially flood-prone areas buy flood insurance is just slightly over half as of August 2015, according to an agency  presentation. Florida and Texas hovered slightly above the national average, each with around 57 percent of residents in flood risk zones complying.
Using data spanning the period between 2000 and 2009, a 2011  study from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School pegged the compliance rate at a higher 61 percent, but found that homeowners in risky zones were increasingly likely to let their coverage lapse as the years went by.
“Of the 841,000 new policies entering the NFIP in 2001, only 73.2 percent… were still in force one year later,” the researchers wrote. “After two years, only 49.5 percent of the original 2001 policies were still in place. By 2009... only 19.6 percent of them were still in place.”
The study authors also expressed concern that “mortgages are often transferred to other banks (and then to the secondary market) in non-flood-prone regions of the country, where there is less awareness of either the flood risk or the requirement that homeowners may be required to have this coverage.”
The mortgage lenders and GSEs are responsible for keeping track of this compliance, and the lenders can be penalized if they let the borrowers go uninsured. But Carolyn Kousky, the director of policy research and engagement at Wharton’s Risk Center, said her impression was that the banks hadn’t faced many fines, despite “most estimates” indicating that “there’s not a lot of compliance.”
“As mortgages are bought and sold, there’s not a lot of enforcement through the life of the mortgage,” Kousky said. She added that, although flood-related defaults aren’t incredibly high, “a lot of people seem to be scratching their heads about why banks aren’t that concerned with enforcing disaster insurance.”
Lloyd Dixon, the director of the RAND Center for Catastrophic Risk Management and Compensation, said financial institutions have a “thorough process” for making sure their borrowers comply, and said larger banks were better at it than smaller ones. But ultimately, he said, the stakes for monitoring compliance are high.
“If there isn’t flood insurance and big losses happen, there is a fallout that could be bad for the banks and their equities and collateral,” Dixon said.
Financial industry groups, such as the American Bankers Association,  want to both strengthen the insurance mandate for residents in high-risk zones and remove some of the burden of enforcing that mandate from the banks’ shoulders.
Goyda, of Wells Fargo, said the bank has “a very thorough process to assess when insurance is required, to determine if coverage is in place and to ensure that coverage is obtained, when necessary.” GSEs have also  said their mortgage loans have required coverage. JPMorgan, Citi and Bank of America did not respond to questions about their high-risk borrowers’ compliance with the flood insurance mandate.
As McGuire, the University of Massachusetts professor, noted, “shoring up this enforcement can be beneficial when it ensures NFIP coverage exists,” as “with NFIP coverage there is a clear opportunity for federal disaster relief funds as well.”
“So that means [there is] opportunity for insurance and disaster coverage to mitigate risk of loss,” he said. “This makes the benefit-cost calculation move toward a net benefit, from a business decision standpoint.”
After Superstorm Sandy, a family worked to clean the mud and flood debris out of their home in the New Dorp Beach neighborhood in the Staten Island borough of New York, Nov. 1, 2012.  Photo: Reuters/Lucas Jackson
A New Mortgage Crisis On The Coasts
Compounding all of these problems is the fact that flood risks aren’t going away. As global temperatures and sea levels continue to rise, destructive storms will only grow more damaging and frequent, as they  already have been. Which leads to another problem for banks that service mortgages for waterfront real estate: Holding property in those high-risk areas is becoming virtually untenable, and as those homeowners make their exodus — as is already the case — the values of those properties will drop precipitously. In fact, many have  warned of an impending housing market crash on the nation’s coasts. And the only thing standing in the way of that potential mortgage crisis may just be the NFIP.  
While median home prices in low-risk zones have risen 29.7 percent in the past 10 years, those of homes in high-risk zones have fallen 4.4 percent over the same timeframe, the New York Times reported, in a  story ominously titled “Perils of Climate Change Could Swamp Coastal Real Estate.” That wouldn’t be such bad news for mortgage lenders if coastal real estate represented a small fraction of total property value, but that’s not the case. More than a third of total taxable property value in the U.S., worth $1.4 trillion, sits an eighth of a mile or less from a saltwater beach, according to a Reuters  analysis.   
“The risk will rise as sea levels rise, and when that happens, you’d expect your property value to fall,” said Dixon, of the RAND Center. Even for those who do comply with FEMA’s insurance requirement, he said, the policyholder can collect the claim and leave, but even if the structure is gone or uninhabitable, “the property stays there,” and may even hold negative value, depending on the damage. “At some point, the property becomes worthless.”


A freshman Michigan state representative introduced a sweeping bill last week that would ban any city and town in the state from using public funds to provide municipal broadband service — publicly owned internet infrastructure. An International Business Times review of state campaign finance and lobbying records found that the representative’s campaign was heavily financed by telecommunications companies and trade associations. She also dined with trade association lobbyists in the months leading up to introducing the bill.
Rep. Michele Hoitenga, who is chair of the Michigan House's Communications and Technology Committee, introduced the bill, HB 5099, on October 12. The bill says that a city or town “shall not use any federal, state, or local funds or loans to pay for the cost of providing qualified internet service,” effectively banning municipal broadband outright. However, it  provides an exception for public-private partnerships.
Hoitenga did not respond to multiple requests for comment from IBT regarding the legislation she sponsored.
Telecommunications companies have made fighting municipal broadband a priority in recent years, as high profile networks such as  one in Chattanooga, Tennessee, proved a viable alternative to internet infrastructure being dominated by a handful of companies in any given region. There are currently  twenty states that have legislation outright blocking or obstructing the establishment of municipal broadband networks and lobbyists for telecommunications companies regularly descend upon state legislatures that attempt to create a foothold for municipal broadband, as  they did in Alabama earlier this year.
Hoitenga, who was previously mayor of a small town in Michigan, largely self-financed her campaign for the state legislature with $25,000 of her own money. However,  campaign finance records reviewed by IBT show that two of her largest campaign contributors are AT&T Michigan and the Telecommunications Association of Michigan (TAM): AT&T gave her campaign $1,500 while TAM provided her with $3,500 — large amounts for a first term state representative. The Michigan Cable Telecommunications Association — a separate entity from TAM — gave Hoitenga’s campaign $1,000.
According to  state lobbying records reviewed by IBT, Hoitenga met and dined with TAM lobbyists during the first half of the year. Michigan’s lobbying disclosures are filed every six months, so it is currently unknown if TAM lobbyists have met with Hoitenga since June. The $142.82 spent to take Hoitenga out for a meal appears to be the only food and beverage expense TAM has disclosed in conjunction with its lobbying  since 2001, as far back as online lobbying records go.
Several TAM lobbyists did not respond to requests for comment for this article.
"What we are seeing in Michigan is a continuation of bills trying to stop municipal broadband around the country,” Christopher Mitchell, director of the Community Broadband Networks Initiative at the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, told IBT. “There are tremendous areas in Michigan that are not very well connected, areas that are just being left behind. Trying to stop municipal broadband is just crazy as a political priority.”
Critics of the bill have been alarmed by an apparent lack of technical competency on the part of Hoitenga, especially given her role as chair of the technology committee. The draft of the bill she submitted defines “qualified internet service” as “10 Mbps upstream and 1 Mbps downstream” which is the inverse of the normal 10 Mbps down/1 Mbps up formulation, as downstream speeds tend to be faster than upstream speeds.
Last month, Hoitenga posted a message on Twitter thanking Jim Murray, the president of AT&T Michigan, for the company’s charitable support of schoolchildren in her district. AT&T’s sizable campaign contribution to Hoitenga and opposition to municipal broadband raises questions about how close Hoitenga is to a company courting her on specific policy positions. (AT&T is also pushing for HB 5098, also introduced by Hoitenga, which would reduce certain fees and regulations telecommunications companies face when relocating facilities.)
A tweet from Rep. Michele Hoitenga's account thanking AT&T Michigan and its president, Jim Murray, for their charitable donation. Hoitenga deleted the tweet following IBT questions about relationships with lobbyists. Photo: IBT
After IBT sent Hoitenga questions about that tweet, the representative made her Twitter account private and deleted the tweet thanking AT&T.
In August, residents of the town of Lyndon, Michigan voted overwhelmingly to build its own municipal fiber network, after  failing to convince private ISPs to invest in the community of fewer than 3,000 residents. Hoitenga’s bill would explicitly prevent networks such as Lyndon’s from being built.
Michigan’s House Communications and Technology committee is likely to hear the bill in the coming months.


Every day there’s more news about the inevitable arrival of autonomous vehicles. At the same time, more people are using ride-hailing and ride-sharing apps, and the percentage of teens getting their driver’s license continues to decline.
Given these technologies and social changes, it’s worth asking: Should Americans stop owning cars?
We’ve conducted an analysis of the all-in cost of car ownership, and we found that mobility services such as ride-hailing and ride-sharing apps – which few people today would consider their main mode of transportation – will likely provide a compelling economic option for a significant portion of Americans. In fact, if the full cost of ownership is accounted for, we found that potentially one-quarter of the entire U.S. driving population might be better off using ride services versus owning a car.
America’s love affair with the car and individual car ownership took off after World War II, aided by inexpensive fuel, a rising consumer class and a vast national network of highways. A new generation of young professionals moved away from the urban core to the suburbs and abandoned mass transit for transportation enabled by personal car ownership.
This shift transformed the modern American landscape, triggered a new approach to city planning and enabled urban sprawl. Cities that blossomed before WWII – New York and Boston, for example – already had and continue to use their mass transit systems. By contrast, cities whose growth mostly occurred in a post-war boom like Los Angeles, Atlanta, Houston and Denver were built and effectively designed around car ownership. It’s still typical for an American family to buy a house that has a large garage to store cars.
But for many people, the 1950s concept of driving as an expression of personal liberty has been replaced by the brutal reality that driving is often a tedious chore. With an average price of US$35,000 apiece in the U.S., cars are used about 4 percent of the time, during which drivers are often subjected to congested traffic.
On its face, spending so much money for an appliance that starts losing value immediately, takes up vast amount of our free time and is rarely used seems ridiculous. Is it time to consider a whole new approach to personal transportation?
To answer this question, we built a comprehensive calculator that includes the costs of car ownership and compares it with an alternative of using mobility services, such as ride-hailing and ride-sharing apps, full-time to replace personal car ownership. The results might surprise you.
The costs of traditional car ownership go far beyond the price tag: There is also interest paid on car loans, insurance, taxes, fuel and maintenance. Some expenses are non-obvious, such as parking, property taxes and construction costs for home garages, and the value of our time.
The value of an individual’s time – that is, the dollars per hour you would assign to the time you spend driving – is one of the most important factors in our calculations.
The average American spends 335 hours annually behind the wheel driving over 13,000 miles. Add in the hours we spend maintaining, cleaning and managing our cars, and it becomes clear that America’s focus on personal car ownership is costing us a significant amount of time, arguably our most precious asset.
How much would you pay to avoid the stress of driving around town? How much would you pay to use that time more efficiently, such as catching up on email, reading a book or taking a nap? What if you could do work-related tasks while riding? Some professions are more suited to using time riding in a productive way: It’s probably easier for a lawyer to clock billable hours while riding to work than a plumber, for example.
When these costs are included, mobility services might be the economically preferable option. To be clear, this analysis is focused on full replacement of personal car ownership in which an individual would shift to using ride services for all trips, rather than purchase a new vehicle.
The decision for owning a vehicle or using mobility services is unique to every individual. If you purchase a highly efficient vehicle for less than $25,000 and drive it more than 15,000 miles per year until it falls apart, then you should definitely own a car if your goal is to save money.
But, if you drive less than 10,000 miles per year, face long waits in traffic, or place a high value on your time that would otherwise be spent driving, our calculations show that mobility services might be the cheaper option. Geography can also play a role – it’s not a coincidence that there have historically been so many taxi cabs in New York City, where the high cost of parking and slow pace of traffic consume time and money.
The rise of autonomous vehicles used for carpooling and ride-sharing services could make mobility services even more compelling, particularly when you consider the economics from the service provider’s perspective.
Assume for a moment that you operate a fleet of vehicles that provide mobility services. Let’s also assume you can purchase the vehicles in bulk for $20,000 apiece and that they will operate full-time for five years (the average age of a New York City taxi was 3.6 years in 2015). The median annual pay for a taxi driver is approximately $25,000. This means that it will cost you $145,000 to purchase the car and pay a driver over five years of operations (ignoring fuel, maintenance, registration and other miscellaneous operating expenses).
Using common accounting practices, we calculated that if you could buy an autonomous vehicle for less than $114,000, a service provider would be better off never hiring a driver.
For the average customer, a price tag of $114,000 is unimaginably high for a car. But, for a company like Uber that might someday operate a fleet of autonomous vehicles, a price tag north of $100,000 might look like gold when compared with paying drivers, a major contributor to operating cost.
As the price for autonomous vehicles goes down, the cost of delivering ride services goes lower. That means more consumers are more likely to use them, expanding the overall market.
Uber, Alphabet and many of the automotive companies understand this. It’s one of many reasons why there is an epic race to capture market share and eventually be the first to deliver fully autonomous vehicles.
On the other hand, if the price of autonomous vehicles falls far enough, maybe individuals will buy their own and recapture the time they currently spend driving themselves, obviating some of the value of mobility services.
But, another question remains: Do Americans really want to give up their cars? Even if mobility services with carpooling and automation are a less expensive choice, the service might still not be adopted quickly since people purchase cars for many reasons beyond simply price (for example, they buy cars for convenience, status, fun, identity and so forth).
For many decades, the car has been a critical part of the American culture, often used as a tool to flaunt wealth and showcase the unique personalities of the drivers. Will Americans want to ride in cookie-cutter cars that are part of a larger automated fleet? Will they trade off the idea of car ownership as an extension of identity to gain back some of their free time?
Some trends do appear to be working in favor of increased use of mobility services. As the United States, and the world more broadly, continues to adopt ever greater levels of digital communication, more people will be able to complete work while on the go. And, the movement toward cities during the past decades has resulted in denser urban centers, increasing traffic congestion and making the case for alternatives to traditional car ownership.
Even changes in how different generations consume goods and services might be playing a role. Millennials have shown tepid interest in following in the footsteps of prior generations when it comes to car ownership. It will be interesting to observe whether Generation Y shows more desire for cars as they begin to enter parenthood and push toward suburbs in pursuit of affordable housing.
How the transition will play out is still unclear. If we were to postulate, it seems the most likely outcome is that the future transportation system will be a mix of personal car ownership and mobility services, using both systems as complementary. If more people use carpooling services in particular, these complementary systems of personal car ownership, mobility services and public transportation might make our roads and cities cleaner, faster and more affordable.
In addition to common mobility services today, Uber and Lyft might soon be joined in force by microtransit operators, like Ford’s Chariot shuttle service.
As mobility services become more mature, we will likely see new solutions emerge to make it even more convenient to meet specific needs, such as transporting youths, the elderly or disabled people, and even assist in disaster recovery efforts. The increased level of service could create a virtuous cycle that reinforces the value of mobility services, producing greater adoption, which further lowers costs and leads to even greater adoption. When it’s all said and done, the ease and economic benefits mean that the transition to mobility services might take place faster than we think.
F. Todd Davidson is a Research Associate at the Energy Institute at the University of Texas at Austin. Michael E. Webber is a Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Deputy Director of the Energy Institute at the University of Texas at Austin.
Researcher Zhenhong Lin, Ph.D., from the Oak Ridge National Laboratory contributed to the research in this article. Gordon Tsai of the University of Texas also contributed.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


A world without cash seems wonderful at first glance since it is convenient and fast. You don’t need to withdraw dollars or euros ahead of time. You don’t have to worry about money being lost or stolen. Paying for things with your phone is a breeze.
Many countries around the world are steadily shifting away from cash. Canada, the United Kingdom and Sweden have already largely embraced a cashless society. The U.S. is also steadily making the move, with people holding smaller amounts of cash.
However, the recent string of natural disasters and security breaches at major financial entities exposes a huge flaw in this trend: When the power goes out, telephone lines shut down or account information is stolen, it is impossible to use ATMs, credit or debit cards or mobile payments – no matter how rich you are.
In other words, giving up cash increases the chance of the kind of economic catastrophe that results when people can no longer easily trade for the goods they need and want. The solution to this national security issue is simple: bring back the currently maligned large denomination bills like the $500, which was discontinued in 1969.
Recently, some prominent economists have suggested countries should move to a cashless society, with actions like eliminating the $100 bill.
Kenneth Rogoff, a Harvard professor who was also chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, wrote in the Wall Street Journal that going cashless reduces crime by ensuring tax cheats, drug lords, gangs and terrorists cannot easily fund their activities.
If only small bills are allowed, then people making illegal payments need briefcases stacked with huge numbers of small denomination bills like $5 and $10s. This is much more difficult than discreetly using a small envelope filled with a few very high value notes.
Some countries have eliminated high value notes to reduce corruption.India in 2016 eliminated the 500-rupee (about $7.69) and 1,000-rupee notes for this reason before bringing in new denominations.
Larry Summers, an economist who was also president of Harvard and a Treasury secretary, also argued for eliminating both the $100 bill and €500 note (about $592) from circulation. A few months after his recommendation, the European Central Bank decided to stop issuing the large bills by the end of 2018 in an attempt to reduce corruption and terrorism. The Wall Street Journal reports, however, that there is no move yet to kill off Ben Franklin and his $100 note.
While eliminating high value notes does make illegal transactions harder, it also introduces new risks. A cashless society that solely uses credit cards, debit cards and electronic transfers is dependent on a complex network to replace physical money. This network requires three things to work all the time.
First, there always has to be electricity to power the computers and network storage. Second, communication between all parts of the network needs to be available. Finally, the network has to be secure, so only authorized money transactions occur.
All three of these fundamental requirements for a cashless society have broken down recently in dramatic fashion.
Hurricanes Irma and Maria devastated Puerto Rico in September. Many weeks later, less than 20 percent of the electricity has been restored, and no one really knows when the rest of the island will regain power. Because the electricity has been cut off to almost all cities and towns, the entire island has reverted to a economy based on cash, which is in very short supply. Credit and debit cards can’t be used because there is no way to process transactions and no power to run credit card terminals and readers.
Wildfires are currently ravaging Northern California. One of the problems caused by the fires is that the flames have destroyed numerous cell towers. When the phone network goes down, it is impossible both to reach loved ones and for credit and debit card readers to connect to the network. Without a connection, those without cash can’t buy fuel to flee, pay hotels for temporary shelter or purchase food.
Finally, we’ve recently learned how unsecure the network that processes transactions and protects our financial data has become. As most people do not possess piles of coins or bills anymore, our money consists of entries in bank and brokerage databases. If those entries change or disappear, people’s wealth vanishes, too.
The Pentagon is trying to ensure that cyberattacks cannot disrupt the financial system. Nevertheless, the capabilities of rogue actors, like North Korea, are increasing. It has even been implicated in stealing millionsfrom a Taiwanese bank.
The recent breach of Equifax’s database and hacks at numerous otherfinancial institutions show security is a major problem.
These events show just how precarious the three pillars of a cashless society are and how quickly they can falter. When this network breaks down, people who do not have cash are forced to barter. Bartering is devastating for an economy, in part because it needs a “double coincidence of wants.”
A double coincidence means your desire to trade something has to happen or coincide at the exact same moment someone else wants what you are offering – and has something you want as well. Moreover, few people in a modern economy own many goods or can provide services that are useful for bartering. When a natural disaster or war strikes, no one wants to barter for collections of antique dolls, baseball cards or china.
When it works, a cashless society is wonderful. I enjoy not having to carry or worry about cash when I travel. The networks, when they work, are amazing. I have checked my bank balance on the edge of a desert in Botswana using an ATM and paid my taxes from a cell phone in Tokyo.
However, a cashless society means a country’s economy is vulnerable to anything that causes a long-term disruption in power, communications or security. And those threats are rising. The number of natural disasters striking the U.S. is increasing, and wars are no longer being fought using just conventional weapons. Today the computers that control a countryare playing a much bigger role.
Shifting to a cashless economy makes a country more vulnerable to both disasters and wars. National defense is not only about boots, guns and bullets. It is about keeping the economy running at all times. Cash can ensure the economy won’t collapse in an emergency, since people with cash are still able to buy and sell.
The solution is simple. Governments need to bring back higher value notes like $500 bills. There clearly are negatives to bringing back large bills, which make it easier for crime and corruption to flourish. I believe, however, that the positives outweigh the negatives, particularly the usefulness of cash during disasters.
Whether governments bring back larger bills or not, store some cash at home in case of emergency. When disaster is about to strike and it is time to flee, having cash in your wallet or purse can make the difference. Cash gives you purchasing power when everything else fails.
Jay L. Zagorsky is an economist and research scientist at The Ohio State University
Logo Photo: The Conversation


The embattled amusement park chain SeaWorld will lay off 350 workers citing declining attendance.
SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment (NYSE: SEAS) announced Wednesday that it will be laying off employees and leaving open jobs unfilled at their SeaWorld entities in Orlando, Florida and San Diego, in addition to administrative roles in their corporate offices.
The company maintains 12 amusement parks, only three of which are SeaWorlds.
“It is an unfortunate, but necessary, consequence of the restructuring that some positions will be lost,” said spokeswoman Aimée Jeansonne Becka in a statement.
SeaWorld’s attendance was down 4 percent from last year, around 353,000 fewer people attended the park at the beginning go last year over this year, according to an August earnings report. The company blame “perception issues.”
The sign at the entrance to SeaWorld February 24, 2010 in Orlando, Florida.  Photo: Matt Stroshane/GETTY
“We do not take this task lightly,” the statement continued. “We remain committed to creating world-class guest experiences, providing comprehensively for the care of all our animals, and continuing our company’s focus on stranded marine animal rescue and ocean conservation initiatives.”
The decline in attendance was mostly concentrated in the Orlando and San Diego locations of SeaWorld. The third SeaWorld is located in San Antonio.
A 2013 documentary “Blackfish” helped surface some of SeaWorld’s “perception issues.” The film focused on an orca whale held in captivity by SeaWorld and criticized keeping the animals in captivity. One orca whale featured in the film, Tilikum, killed its trainer, Dawn Brancheau, in 2010 in Orlando. Hers was the third death associated with the whale.
Orca shows and branding are synonymous with SeaWorld. After the film, the company saw a precipitous drop in profits.
The San Diego location of SeaWorld stopped doing orca shows in 2016, and the company said it will follow suit at its other locations in the future.
It was rumored earlier this month by the New York Times that Merlin Entertainments (LN: MERL), a U.K.-based amusement park company might be interested in purchasing two parks from SeaWorld, the more ride-based Busch Gardens theme parks in Virginia and Florida.


A family of 11 were forced to sit next to a pool of vomit because Jet2 said it would cause a 12-hour delay if they cleaned it up, The Sun reported Wednesday. The airline carrier also did not want to refund the passenger the cost of her July Mediterranean getaway, which set her family back more than $10,000. The 4-hour flight was traveling from Paphos, Cyprus to Manchester.
When International Business Times contacted Jet2 for comment, they didn’t respond to a question about reimbursement. Instead, they provided a statement from the company’s spokesperson that said: “We would like to apologies for this isolated incident. Our cabin crew did their best to clean the affected area during the time the aircraft was on the ground in Paphos, ensuring that the flight was not delayed, for the convenience of all customers on board.”
But the apology seemingly didn’t do much to help passenger Keeley Casewell and her family.
“My family were on row 19 and the sick had spread to under my six-year-old daughter's seat. The sick was just covered with tissue and they were piled quite high over it,” the traveler told The Sun. “I couldn't see any clear attempts to clean it up properly. I asked the air hostess if she could move our seats but she just said no. I do understand that there may have been nowhere to move me to but she could have explained that.”
A family of 11 was forced to sit near vomit on a Jet2 flight. Photo: Getty Images
Casewell continued, saying not only were they uncomfortable, they were hungry. “All together my family spent around £8,000 [$10,000] on the whole holiday so you'd think that we would receive better service. You wouldn't expect there to be sick underneath your seat on any flight,” she said. “My kids were completely put off their food, they were crying because of the smell and because they were so hungry. They had to hold their noses throughout the flight. We had to leave our hotel at seven in the morning and the breakfast there didn't start until half an hour later so we told the kids we would get something at the airport.”
The family didn’t eat earlier because they planned to purchase food on the flight. “The food at the airport wasn't great so I thought we'd buy something on the plane but the kids couldn't stomach eating anything. We were on the plane for four hours and the smell was just getting worse… I know that passengers can't control it if they feel sick but surely the staff should have the facilities they need to clean it up,” she said.
While the crew apparently tried to clean up the mess, they didn’t do it properly.
“The attendants said that they had tried to clean it up with the salts but you could tell they hadn't,” Casewell explained to The Sun. “There were huge clumps of it on the floor still. My partner even offered to clean it up for them but they wouldn't let him. I was told that if they had to clean it up there would have been a 12-hour delay, to be honest I'd rather have had the delay.”
Aside from being gross, siting near vomit could have caused someone to get sick.
“It could have been a sickness bug so someone on the plane could have become ill from it,” the passenger said. “It's a very closed environment on the plane so there could have been all sorts of germs floating around. The air hostess told me that it wasn't a sickness bug as she had been told by the person who was sick.”
Follow me on Twitter @mariamzzarella


Most people who dream of being entrepreneurs or a force for positive change in the world would perhaps envy Elon Musk for his achievements since he left PayPal. He started Tesla (and SolarCity, now a Tesla subsidiary) to electrify the automotive (and power storage) industry, and SpaceX changed the way we look at rocket launches (now we look at rocket landings too).
While Musk has founded Neuralink to develop an interface that connects the human brain with computers and also created the hyperloop concept — giving it away for use by anyone who wants to — to change urban transport, he has another venture with the same aim. The Boring Company digs tunnels which Musk says will bypass the traffic congestion in urban areas. And the company’s latest offering are hats.
Musk announced Tuesday the sale of what he called “the world’s most boring hat” on Twitter, with a link to the company’s website where the one-size-fits-all hats retail for $20, shipping and taxes included.

There was speculation among his followers on Twitter why the company was selling the hats. Of course, someone asked Musk if selling merchandise was how he planned to fund the Boring Company, instead of going to the stock market.

For $20 a hat, it may be a long time before Musk raises enough money to meet the financial needs of the Boring Company, but Musk seems to be quite taken with hats in general. In a photograph he resurfaced late Wednesday, one he originally shared on Twitter in May, Musk, 17 at the time, is seen wearing two hats — at the same time, one over the other — holding a hammer.

The Boring Company hats, though, seem to be doing brisk business, about 4,000 of them selling in just one day. And that, even before the company has anything tangible to show for itself, which is perhaps an indication of how many people believe Musk to get things right.
To add incentive to the sale of the hats, Musk even announced an incentive for the buyer of the 5,000th hat (which, by the way, would mean $100,000 worth of hat sales, possible in just about two days — no small feat).

The company’s second boring machine, which will be its real business eventually, is “almost ready,” Musk said, and also announced its name — Line-Storm — after a poem by Robert Frost.

The first tunneling machine was named Godot, in honor of the tragicomic play “Waiting for Godot” by Samuel Beckett.
Keeping up with news about names, Musk also revealed Wednesday that the name for his tunneling venture itself was the brainchild of actress Talulah Riley, who is currently playing the character of Angela on HBO’s “Westworld.”

Riley graciously took credit.

Musk also credited director JJ Abrams for creating the logo of the company, which features on the hats.



In New York City last week, Vice President Mike Pence asked billionaire David Koch and around 100 other wealthy, conservative political donors for help in supporting a Republican tax plan. Since the plan would overwhelmingly benefit the richest Americans — like those he was addressing — Pence probably didn’t need to do much persuading.
“To get this tax cut across the line, to give the American people the tax relief that they need, we need every ounce of your energy and enthusiasm,” Pence  told the Republican mega-donors who make up part of the powerful, right-wing political donor network headed by David Koch and his brother Charles, who together run a giant industrial conglomerate and are worth a combined $96.8 billion, according to Forbes. The Koch brothers, whose political operation rivals either of the two major parties, are libertarians and fiercely oppose taxation and government regulation.
One of the Kochs’ primary political advocacy groups, Americans for Prosperity, has already spent millions on a campaign urging GOP lawmakers to pass sweeping tax cuts. The group has, since this summer, planned  events in 36 states,  launched ads targeting Democratic incumbents in swing states, dispersed activists door-to-door and had its donors call Republican legislators.
As a private company — the second-largest in the U.S. — Koch Industries is not required to report its financial information in the states, but it likely pays a large amount in federal taxes simply because of the size of the corporation: It boasts over $100 billion in revenue per year. However, a 2016 study by a liberal super PAC claimed that Koch Industries own  610 subsidiaries located in 17 global tax havens. And an International Consortium of Investigative Journalists  investigation in late 2014 claimed that Koch Industries created a complex tax scheme in Luxembourg that may have significantly decreased its U.S. taxes.
The Koch machine already helped  kill a proposed border adjustment tax, which would have taxed companies’ domestic sales and imports. Despite this victory, the Kochs want further tax cuts. President Donald Trump’s tax proposal would move the corporate tax rate down to 20 percent, although this move may not affect a company like Koch Industries, which may already pay a lower effective rate. The plan would reduce the estate tax and eliminate the alternative minimum tax, likely saving the brothers billions of dollars in personal and family taxes.
Help From The Kochs
Many top White House officials have  ties to the Koch brothers, further magnifying their influence on federal policy-making, and chief among their allies is Pence.
The New York gathering on Oct. 13 marked the first time that Pence has addressed Koch donors since becoming vice president, but it was by no means his first encounter with the group. In fact, Pence owes much of his political career to the Kochs.
In her latest  revelatory article for The New Yorker, investigative reporter Jane Mayer details the career of Pence, honing in on his extremist views on women and LGBTQ issues, his political failures as Indiana governor and his close ties to the Koch network. These connections date back more than 25 years ago.
In 1991, after losing back-to-back Indiana congressional races, Mike Pence was offered a job as president of a small, free-market think tank, the Indiana Policy Review Foundation (IPRF). One of two adjunct scholars at the foundation was Cecil Bohanon, who has a history of financial connections to tobacco industry front groups.
While Bohanon became a  Koch-funded professor at Indiana’s Ball State University, Pence is one of the Kochs’ favorite politicians. His ascent through the Indiana governor’s mansion and into the White House was heavily assisted by the Kochs.
In the early 1990s, Pence likely wasn’t on the Koch brothers’ radar, but by running IPRF, he was already linked to them financially. The foundation was established in 1989 to be a state version of the Heritage Foundation, a powerful, Washington, D.C.-based rightwing think tank that has been  funded in part by Koch family foundations since before Pence took the reins at IPRF. At a 2008 Heritage Foundation event, Pence  said, “I was part of, what we called the seed corn Heritage Foundation was spreading around the country in the state think tank movement. [IPRF was] very much...a homage to Policy Review Magazine of Heritage, and we modeled on the state level what Heritage had done before.”
Like Heritage, IPRF joined the State Policy Network, a web of conservative nonprofits that counts many Koch-backed groups as members and is  heavily funded by the Donors Capital Fund, which the Kochs support. Donors to IPRF are difficult to find, because as a nonprofit it is not required to disclose its donors, but ConservativeTransparency.org documents more recent donations from Donors Capital Fund and the Roe Foundation, created by Thomas Roe, the founding chairman of the State Policy Network and an early funder of the Heritage Foundation.
David Koch gives a thumbs-up during the Defending the American Dream Summit at the Washington Convention Center November 4, 2011 in Washington, D.C. The conservative political summit is organized by Americans for Prosperity, which was founded with the support of Koch and his brother Charles. Photo: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
Getting The Kochs’ Blessing
Pence first went to Washington in 2001, when he became an Indiana U.S. representative, having run on  a platform that opposed “any effort to recognize homosexuals as a discrete and insular minority entitled to the protection of anti-discrimination laws.” The Kochs are not religious and rarely address social issues. But when he arrived on Capitol Hill, Pence’s experience in the think tank and media worlds “really equipped him to defend and explain an argument in a full-throated way,” Kellyanne Conway, a current counselor to President Donald Trump whose polling firm has contracted with Americans for Prosperity and the Heritage Foundation, told Mayer.
It wasn’t until 2009, when Pence fully demonstrated his value to Koch Industries’ profits, that the company and its bosses, began to fund his political efforts directly. That year, as a congressman, Pence signed a Koch-backed pledge opposing any government funding for limiting carbon pollution, which would cost Koch Industries’ oil and gas refining businesses and coal-fired power plants an enormous amount of money. Pence championed the issue, urging other members of Congress to sign the pledge and making speeches against a cap-and-trade bill that was under consideration.
A few months later, Pence’s chief of staff Marc Short, whose wife worked for the Charles Koch Foundation at the time, introduced him to the Koch network by securing him a speaking slot at a Koch donor summit, not unlike the 2017 New York gathering.
After Pence’s anti-carbon tax campaign, “he was the Kochs’ guy, and they’ve been showering him with money ever since,” Scott Peterson, executive director of the environmental watchdog group the Checks and Balances Project,  told Mayer.
Not long after Pence’s speech to Koch donors, as he ran for re-election in 2010, Koch Industries’ corporate political action committee chipped in  $10,000 to his campaign, according to data compiled by the National Institute on Money in State Politics. The following year, as Pence was beginning his campaign for Indiana governor, the company itself gave $10,000 to his effort. In the same election cycle, David Koch personally donated  $200,000 to his successful campaign.
In 2013 Americans for Prosperity launched a major, expensive campaign across Indiana to rally support for Gov. Pence’s tax cut plan, which the Indiana legislature did not initially endorse. Further into his term, after signing an unpopular anti-LGBTQ bill and contributing to an HIV outbreak by helping close five Planned Parenthood clinics that offered HIV testing, Pence faced a close re-election race. David Koch gave  $100,000 to Pence’s gubernatorial re-election campaign in late 2015, and Koch Industries had previously contributed roughly $4,600. Koch Industries was the largest 2016 donor to the Republican Governors Association, giving more than $2 million, and the RGA in turn spent  $3 million on Pence’s re-election campaign.
In part because of Pence’s close connections to wealthy donors in the Koch network, the governor made it onto Trump’s ticket. After working for Pence, the former chief of staff Short went on to take a leading role in the Kochs’ political operation. Now he is the White House legislative affairs director. At least four other Pence staffers went on to work for either Koch Industries or Koch-backed political groups.
With the Kochs’ influence on the White House and on the Republican-controlled Congress stronger than ever, it’s hard to imagine the GOP passing tax reform — or any significant legislation — without the brothers’ seal of approval.


A Boston mother claims she and her baby were kicked off an American Airlines flight from Atlanta to New York after asking that her stroller be returned following a cancellation. The incident reportedly occurred following an air traffic control delay of more than five hours.
Briana Williams, 24, explained the story to the New York Daily News in an article published Wednesday. She claimed that the Aug. 21 incident escalated after she refused to leave the aircraft without her stroller after the airline canceled her flight. After police became involved, Williams claims she and her 4-month-old daughter were forced to sleep in the airport overnight to await another flight rather than board an earlier replacement flight with her fellow passengers.
The airline confirmed the incident in a statement to International Business Times.
“The flight to New York LaGuardia (LGA) canceled, and all passengers were requested to deplane. At that time, Ms. Williams refused to deplane with all other passengers, and law enforcement was requested,” the airline told IBT. “At the gate, later that evening, the flight was reinstated, but would fly to New York John F. Kennedy (JFK). It was determined by our team members to be in the best interest of everyone involved that she be rebooked on the next flight to New York (LGA) the next morning.”
Williams, a Harvard Law student, told the Daily News about the incident after learning about a similar story involving American Airlines and New York activist Tamika Mallory, who like Williams is black.
Williams plans to pursue legal action for the alleged mistreatment by the airline. During the incident, during which she claimed the pilot became “very disgruntled and aggressive,” Williams said she remained calm.
“The pilot put me in a potentially dangerous situation with law enforcement as a young, black woman, saying that I was a ‘threat,’” she said. “This type of rhetoric paralyzes the African-American community, and I want to ensure that policies are put in place that regulate the pilot’s discretionary abilities.”
The airline told IBT that it does “not tolerate discrimination of any kind.”
“From the team members we hire to the customers we serve, inclusion and diversity is a way of life at American,” American Airlines said. “Every day, our team members work to make American a place where people of all generations, races, ethnicities, genders, sexual orientations, religious affiliations and backgrounds feel welcome and valued.
“All of our team members — which includes our gate agents, pilots and flight attendants — are proud to serve customers of all backgrounds and we are committed to providing a positive, safe travel experience for everyone who flies with us.”
Williams was offered 25,000 travel points worth of round-trip flights but told the Daily News she declined the offer.
“This type of unregulated discretion is a segue into discriminatory policy,” Williams said.
A woman claims she and her baby were kicked off an American Airlines after she asked that her stroller be returned. In this photo, an American Airlines jet is seen in the air preparing to land September 3, 2004 at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport in Rosemont, Illinois.  Photo: Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images


Two Chicago aviation security officers involved in the highly publicized removal of Dr. David Dao from a United Airlines flight in April have been fired, according to a new report. The officers were seen in the viral video footage dragging Dao down the aisle of the aircraft after he refused to deboard an overbooked flight.
In addition to the dismissal of the two officers, two other officers were given five-day suspensions, the  Chicago Sun-Times reported Tuesday. Both officers filed grievances, with one suspension reduced to two days, while the other was later withdrawn before the officer resigned.
Dao, 69, was dragged and bloodied during the altercation. After refusing to leave his seat, Dao was forcefully removed and dragged off the plane. He suffered a concussion, a broken nose and two chipped teeth. He also reportedly required surgery for a sinus problem.
The handling of the incident received widespread condemnation and raised questions about passengers' rights in cases that involve overbooked flights. 
The disciplinary action was recommended by Inspector General Joe Ferguson in his quarterly report, in which he stated that one officer “escalated a non-threatening situation into a physically violent one by forcefully removing a passenger from the aircraft.” Two other officers were accused of omitting or fabricating information contained in their reports of the incident.
Thomas Demetrio, Dao’s lawyer, issued a  statement Tuesday applauding United Airlines for its “acceptance of corporate accountability” but added that it was “not a day of celebration for Dr. Dao, who is neither vindictive nor happy about Mr. Ferguson’s findings.”
“There is a lesson to be learned here for police officers at all levels. Do not state something that is clearly contrary to video viewed by the world,” Demetrio said. “But for the video, the filed report stating that only ‘minimal’ force was used would have been unnoticed. Simply put, don’t make stuff up. Also, the Inspector General’s report should become the poster child for why passengers should always maintain the right to videotape mistreatment of all kinds. Our cellphones are the best deterrent to ensure mistreatment becomes a rarity.”
Dao reached a settlement for an undisclosed amount in April. James Goodnow, an attorney with the Chicago-based Lamber-Goodnow Injury Law Team at Fennemore Craig, told International Business Times at the time that he believed Dao would receive “millions” in the settlement.
Two officers have been fired over their treatment of Dr. David Dao on a United Airlines flight in April. In this photo, a United Airlines jet retracts its wheels as it aborts a landing attempt May 27, 2005 at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago, Illinois. Travelers are heading into the skies ahead of the Memorial Day weekend. Photo: Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images


United Airlines is being sued by a man who claims his drunk seatmate urinated during the flight — and that the carrier made him sit in the soaked seat for the remainder of the trip, according to a lawsuit filed in a New Jersey court Wednesday.
Daniel Card was flying from Los Angeles International Airport to Newark Liberty Airport June 12 when the alleged incident occurred. The intoxicated man was not named in the suit.
“The passenger seated in 24E was heavily intoxicated prior to entering the flight, and had fallen into a drunken stupor sitting next to Card,” the lawsuit claims. “While sitting next to the intoxicated passenger, Card noticed that a powerful odor of alcohol was emanating from the passenger’s breath and body.”
He urinated in his seat before the plane took off.
“As the flight was getting ready to take off, the passenger seated in 24E took out his penis and aimed it at Card and proceeded to urinate all over Card’s leg, while Card was confined to his seat due to an imminent departure of the flight,” the document says. “Upon being soaked in the passenger’s urine, Card further noticed that the odor of the urine also emitted a powerful scent of alcohol.”
United Airlines forced a passenger to remain in his seat, even though his seatmate urinated on his leg, a lawsuit claims.  Photo: Getty Images
Card was unable to wake the passenger and United staff did not help Card until he repeatedly asked to be moved from his seat, but was “forced to endure the remainder of the flight to Newark, New Jersey while remaining in his urine drenched clothing.”
United did not change the plane’s route, which resulted in the risked health and safety of Card and the other passengers on the flight, according to the suit. Card contacted his father, who then contacted authorities.
“Upon information and belief, but for Card and/or his father contacting law enforcement, no one would have intervened to contacted law enforcement,” the lawsuit says.
The passenger in 24E did not remember urinating on his seatmate, he said during an interview with the FBI. He admitted to having four drinks at the airport, which led the lawsuit to claim the passenger was “allowed to be seated on a flight while in an intoxicated state by United personnel” even though it “posed a serious health and safety risk to himself and to others, including Card.”
Card is suing the airline for emotional distress, breach of contract, assault and negligence.
“We have not yet been served with this suit and due to the pending litigation involved in this matter, we’re unable to provide further comment,” United Airlines said in a statement to Fox News Tuesday.
United Airlines forced a passenger to remain in his seat, even though his seatmate urinated on his leg, a lawsuit claims.  Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @mariamzzarella


A family has claimed Delta Air Lines refused to help find their dog after it escaped the tarmac of Tampa International Airport. Brady, a 4-year-old hound mix, chewed its transport crate and ran away.
The dog was being flown from Tampa to Bermuda to reunite with her family, who recently moved there. The incident took place when the dog was being loaded onto a Delta plane. The dog has not been found since it escaped last week. 
“Brady is part of our family,” her owner, William Gideon, told People magazine. “We are sick about this. We’re worried, we’re devastated. We haven’t slept much, we can’t think of anything else. All we want is for Brady to be found and come back to our family."
Gideon said that Brady was handled by a company that specializes in transporting animals and they brought her to the airport. “There were no problems at first,” Gideon said. “But when she got to Tampa International, Brady chewed through the crate and ran off the tarmac.”
“I assumed that Delta and the Tampa International Airport had a protocol for when things like this happen,” he added. “But they really haven’t done anything. They basically say that this is my problem, not theirs.” 
Gideon said that he was concerned about the well-being of his pet as there was blood on the crate. “I’m worried because Brady is hurt,” he went on saying. “It’s a nightmare for us all, to think about her out there, lost and alone and hurt.”
While blaming the airport, Gideon said that Gideon said that authorities told him there was no surveillance footage of the cargo area.
In a statement to CBS-affiliated television station WTSP, Delta Air Lines said: "Delta and animal control continue the search for a dog that was being loaded onto a flight to Tampa when it bit through the transfer kennel and ran into a heavily wooded area near the airport. We are in direct contact with the pet’s owner."
There have been several instances in the past when airlines have been criticized over its handling of pets.
In May, a Minnesota woman claims Delta Airlines held her 8-month-old German Shepherd captive for 33 hours, refusing to release him until she forked over $3,000.
In August, United Airlines was slammed after a Houston family blamed the airline for the death of their 5-year-old dog, who was put in the cargo hold of a plane that was delayed at the airport in Houston. United Airlines had the worst record in pet deaths among airlines in the U.S. in 2016.
“It’s tragic,” Daphna Nachminovitch, a PETA representative said of the United Airlines incident. “Our hearts go out to the family and obviously the dog.”
Delta Air Lines had five animal deaths and five injuries in 2016, the second-highest rate of animal death and injury among the top seven domestic airlines.


Toys “R” Us announced in September it filed for bankruptcy in the face of declines in revenue, given the price competition from online retailers and its inability to service debt. While the company’s North American business is in the doldrums, it seems to be doing quite well in Asia, where a report Tuesday claimed it was considering a $2 billion initial public offering (IPO).
The Asian subsidiary, Toys “R” Us Asia, was set up in 1986, and the parent company holds about 85 percent stake in it, the rest owned by the Fung Group, a holding company owned privately by Hong Kong businessmen brothers, Victor and William Fung. The report by Bloomberg, citing unnamed sources familiar with the matter, said both companies were in discussions “with investment banks to study the feasibility of listing the Asian business on the Hong Kong bourse.” A successful listing could value the subsidiary at about $2 billion.
The bankruptcy filing in September included some North American subsidies of the company, but not the Asian business. However, it could still complicate matters for an IPO, with investors likely being more jittery about putting money in a company whose parent is under bankruptcy protection. The company’s current owners, however, stand to win back at least some of their losses in the event of a successful IPO.
There has been increasing focus on the Asia-Pacific market by the company, where it is seeing growth enough to help offset poor sales in the United States and Europe. It recently merged its Japan business with the one that operated stores in China and Southeast Asia. Earlier in October, Toys “R” Us also opened its first store in India — in Bangalore — which is seeing about 15-20 percent annual growth in the toys retail sector. In the next 6 months, the company plans to open two more stores in the country.
Meanwhile, Toys “R” Us continues to face problems in other parts of the world, such as in the United Kingdom, where its suppliers have stopped shipments to the company over fears of losses, stemming from the parent company’s bankruptcy filing. Even though the company said at the time of the filing that its U.K. business would run as usual, the Sunday Telegraph reported two suppliers — Worlds Apart and Tutti Bambini — had stopped deliveries to the company. Toys “R” Us also confirmed the report, calling the two vendors “part of a small number of suppliers” who had taken such an action.
Toys “R” Us is owned by KKR, Bain Capital and Vornado Realty Trust, which acquired the company in 2005 for $7.5 billion. KKR and Vornado value the company at nothing, having written down their investment to zero.


Martha Stewart Collection Whiteware cake knife and server sets sold at Macy’s have been recalled after reports of lacerations resulting from handles of both products breaking while in use. In at least one instance, a cut from a broken handle required stitches.
The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission last week advised anyone who purchased the set to  immediately cease using the products and contact Macy’s for a refund. According to the CPSC, lacerations suffered by users occurred after breaks where the blades met textured ceramic handles on both products, which each measured approximately 11 inches. Four such cases were reported to Macy’s.
“In cooperation with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Macy's is recalling the Martha Stewart Collection Whiteware cake knife and server sets, announced on Oct. 13,” the company told International Business Times in a statement. “The handles on the knife and server can break during use, posing a laceration hazard.”
The sets were available for purchase at Macy’s locations nationwide, online and at Military Exchanges between January 2014 and July 2017, CPSC said. Customers who contact the respective retailer at which the set was purchased can expect a full refund. The sets were sold at Macy’s for $25 and at Military Exchanges for $15.
Packaging for the products included the UPC 608356963330 and Product ID PRCDCKSRVR. An estimated 18,900 of the sets were sold.
Another product from the Martha Stewart Collection collection was recalled in December of 2015, when the CPSC received seven reports of metal discs that covered the collection’s frying pan rivets popping off and causing minor injuries. Injuries reported during use included bruises, burns and welts, according to a  recall notice at the time.
Martha Stewart Collection® Whiteware cake knife and server sets sold at Macy’s have been recalled after reports of lacerations resulting from handles of both products breaking while in use. Photo: CPSC


A woman from Canada has slammed British Airways after she and her 7-year-old daughter were bitten by bed bugs during one of its flights. Photos of the woman's and her daughter's bed bug bites were shared by media outlets. 
The woman, identified as Heather Szilagyi, claimed that she and her daughter were traveling on a flight from Vancouver to London when she noticed the bugs crawling over her seat. The bugs reportedly came out from behind her in-flight TV frames and food tray during the journey.
"It was about half-an-hour to an hour into the flight I saw one. It was coming out of the back of the TV screen," Szilagyi told the Sun. "Our food came out and I went to put the tray down on my lap. I saw what was maybe a flax seed - but it started moving - it was a bug.
Despite raising the issue with the cabin crew, she, her fiancé Eric Neilson and her daughter Molly Reid, 7. The bed bug bites left her and her daughter with several painful lumps that had turned red.
Szilagyi told the Sun that the experience on board the British Airways plane ruined their trip after they spent hours washing clothes and tending to their sores.
"Once we got to the Airbnb that we were staying in, we went to sleep. My daughter had a few bites on her thighs but when she woke up she was covered, she had them all over. It was just so bad and awful, my daughter was bleeding," Szilagyi said.
While mentioning about the reason for making her story public, she said: "We just want to make sure that airplane is taken care of and so we just want to make sure that we have a flight tomorrow morning, and we have to get back into another BA flight.
"We just want to get on a plane that doesn't have fabric seats, or maybe another partner airline," she added.
A British Airways spokesman reportedly said that incidents involving bed bugs are very rare, but do happen "occasionally" and the airline deals with such cases very seriously. The spokesman also said the airline has apologized to Szilagyi, Neilson and her daughter for the trouble.
"We have said sorry to our customers for their experience," the spokesman said. "British Airways operates more than 280,000 flights every year, and reports of bed bugs on board are extremely rare. Nevertheless, we are vigilant and continually monitor our aircraft. "
"The presence of bed bugs is an issue faced occasionally by hotels and airlines all over the world," he added.
This is not the first time British Airways has faced such an accusation. Last year, the grounded a 787 fight after the bed bugs and their eggs had been discovered on-board plane following repeated complaints from passengers. 
In September last year, a British Airways passenger claimed to have been bitten repeatedly on-board his flight from Heathrow to Boston.


New York activist Tamika Mallory has accused American Airlines of removing her from a flight in Miami after a pilot got into an argument with her following her seat assignment dispute. 
Mallory, a co-chair of the Women’s March on Washington, had an argument with a gate agent. A pilot later followed her to scold her over her earlier dispute and summoned her from her seat and kicked her off the flight, New York Daily News reported Sunday. 
“It definitely was white male aggression. I was singled out, I was disrespected, and he was trying to intimidate me. I was discriminated against,” she said.
In a statement, American Airlines spokesman Joshua Freed said:"Our team does not tolerate discrimination of any kind. We take these allegations seriously, and we are in the process of reaching out to our colleagues in Miami, as well as Ms. Mallory, to obtain additional information on what transpired during the boarding process."
Mallory accused the airline of racism as she wrote on her Twitter: "I get kicked off a flight for #FlyingWhileBlack, then am told I probably deserved it, or I must be lying. Because no one trusts black women."


Mallory was in Miami for the Revolt Music Conference and had planned to attend the wedding of Rev. Al Sharpton’s daughter Sunday afternoon, which she missed. 
The argument with the gate agent started after Mallory arrived at Miami International Airport and used an airport kiosk to change from a middle to an aisle seat but when her new ticket was issued she was put back in the middle seat. 


Mallory, who is active in movements for gun control and civil, asked an agent why and said the employee’s response was “nasty” and “disrespectful.” After the argument, Mallory thought the issue was over until a pilot who had overheard the end of the exchange stopped her.
The pilot reportedly told her the airline worker had “nothing to do” with her seat getting changed and that she was the one who behaved disrespectfully.
“Then he said to me, ‘Can you get on this flight? Are you going to be a problem on this flight?’ I said ‘No, I’m not. Actually, I’m fine. But I will write my complaint down,” Mallory said. “He looked at me and said, ‘You’re going to get yourself a one-way ticket off this plane.’”
Mallory was allowed onto the flight and settled into her middle seat, but an announcement requested that she come to the front of the plane. When she did, the pilot pointed at her and said, “Her, off.”
“I began to express my outrage,” Mallory said. “Then I asked why I was being removed. I asked why was this happening to me. I told him I felt completely disrespected. I began to weep.”
No one offered an explanation, but the cops soon arrived and Mallory left the plane. A person she was traveling with, who had remained in his seat until she was summoned to the front of the plane, was also removed.
“Doesn't matter how much we do and how hard we fight, white men are allowed to treat black women like s---,” Mallory wrote on Twitter after the incident. “Other ppl stand by and watch it happen because it doesn't affect them. If I have to fight alone, @AmericanAir will NEVER GET AWAY W/ THIS.”
After her tweet, Mallory said a representative arrived to rebook her on a flight Sunday evening — but still never explained why she was removed from the flight. 


During the presidential campaign, Donald Trump promised to boost the economy both by  cutting taxes and investing more money in infrastructure.
Usually, however, politicians and policymakers have favored one type of stimulus over the other. Conservatives like tax cuts, while liberals favor more spending.
In the Trump administration, tax cuts appear to have won the argument for now. Republicans  unveiled the blueprint of a major tax overhaul, which White House officials predict will boost economic growth to more than 3 percent a year. In the meantime, infrastructure investment remains on the back-burner.
Did they make the right choice pushing for tax cuts before infrastructure spending? Are tax cuts more likely than new spending to prod companies to produce more, encourage more consumer spending and grow the economy at a faster rate?
Or put another way, which provides the biggest bang for the buck?
British economist John Maynard Keynes was the first to suggest in the 1930s that an economy’s ills could be traced to the misalignment of what he called aggregate demand, which is made up of consumption, investment, government spending and net exports. So if there’s trouble in the economy, a government could try to move the needle by spending more (or less) money or by adjusting tax rates to spur consumers or businesses to buy more (or less) stuff.
For decades, from the 1940s through the 1970s, the U.S. mainly relied on manipulating government expenditures rather than tax cuts to goose the economy. Many politicians and academics interpreted Keynes to favor government spending as the best way to right the economic ship, but he also suggested tax policy could do the job of boosting demand.
In the past few decades, however, beginning with President Ronald Reagan and the advent of supply-side economics in the 1980s, governments have increasingly toyed with tax cuts to change aggregate demand in part because they are more likely to have an immediate effect on consumer and business expectations and incentives.
The question of whether tax cuts or spending has a greater economic impact – as well as the inverse – remains a major subject of discussion among economists and policymakers. With the help of my graduate students in a finance class I taught for three decades, I have tried to help shine some light on the answer.
The following analysis grew out of a series of research projects assigned to them in the past several years. Putting them together produced some insight on the questions I raised at the outset.
To compare the effects on the economy of increases in regular government spending with those of tax cuts, we compiled data on gross domestic product, government expenditures and average tax rates for households divided into five different income groups, or quintiles, from 1968 to 2010. We did that because a tax cut for someone who’s rich will be different than one for someone who spends most of what she earns. While the former might invest the extra cash, the latter is more likely to spend it, immediately stimulating the economy.
We focused on the middle three income groups because incomes among the top 20 percent are too disparate and the tax rate for the bottom is close to zero, making them very hard to measure.
We then tried to determine how much each variable – spending and tax rates of each quintile – correlated to a change in GDP. Our findings showed that US$1 in tax cuts for individuals making $20,001 to $61,500 a year in 2010 dollars (the second and third quintiles) was correlated with an increase in GDP more than double that of a rise in spending by the same amount. A tax cut for those in the fourth quintile earning $61,501 to $100,029 didn’t have as great effect but still correlated with a boost in GDP 1.4 times that of new spending.
These results are consistent with those conducted by economists David and Christine Romer in their study on the economic impact of changes in taxation, which also found that tax cuts correlated with more growth than spending increases.
So do these results answer our original question and show that tax cuts are always better?
Not exactly, although these results should appeal most to those who champion tax cuts for the middle class. For too long, ideology has dominated this debate and obscured the real answer if the goal is stronger economic growth: an appropriate mix of the two, well-tailored tax cuts for middle-income earners and effective government spending.
In addition, our analysis represents a relatively simplified take on a complicated topic. The last word on how tax cuts affect economic growth has yet to be written.
The real advantage of tax cuts is that they’re quick – taxpayers immediately have more money in their paychecks and companies often begin investing before the cuts have taken effect – while the impact of infrastructure or other spending takes much longer, even years, to work its way through the economy. But they both have their place in good economic policy.
Very often those advocating significant tax cuts claim that the cuts will pay for themselves in terms of ultimate tax revenues. That, of course, is an empirical issue but it misses the point. No one ever claims that expenditure increases pay for themselves (in terms of future tax revenues). The relevant point is how much does each encourage economic growth.
Dale O. Cloninger is a Professor Emeritus of Economics & Finance at the University of Houston-Clear Lake.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article here.
Logo Photo: Conversation


After Stephen Paddock opened fire on Las Vegas concertgoers on Oct. 1, many people responded with calls for more gun control to help prevent mass shootings and the routine violence ravaging U.S. neighborhoods.
But besides a rare consensus on restricting the availability of so-called bump stocks, which Paddock used to enable his dozen semi-automatic rifles to fire like machine guns, it’s unclear if anything meaningful will come of it.
If advocates for reform despair after such a tragedy, I can understand. The politics seem intractable right now. It’s easy to feel powerless.
But what I’ve learned from a decade of studying the history of the arms trade has convinced me that the American public has more power over the gun business than most people realize.
The U.S. arms industry’s close alliance with the government is as old as the country itself, beginning with the American Revolution.
Forced to rely on foreign weapons during the war, President George Washington wanted to ensure that the new republic had its own arms industry. Inspired by European practice, he and his successors built public arsenals for the production of firearms in Springfield and Harper’s Ferry. They also began doling out lucrative arms contracts to private manufacturers such as Simeon North, the first official U.S. pistol maker, and Eli Whitney, inventor of the cotton gin.
The government provided crucial startup funds, steady contracts, tariffs against foreign manufactures, robust patent laws, and patterns, tools and know-how from federal arsenals.
The War of 1812, perpetual conflicts with Native Americans and the U.S.-Mexican War all fed the industry’s growth. By the early 1850s, the United States was emerging as a world-class arms producer. Now-iconic American companies like those started by Eliphalet Remington and Samuel Colt began to acquire international reputations. Even the mighty gun-making center of Great Britain started emulating the American system of interchangeable parts and mechanized production.
The Civil War supercharged America’s burgeoning gun industry.
The Union poured huge sums of money into arms procurement, which manufacturers then invested in new capacity and infrastructure. By 1865, for example, Remington had made nearly US$3 million producing firearms for the Union. The Confederacy, with its weak industrial base, had to import the vast majority of its weapons.
The war’s end meant a collapse in demand and bankruptcy for several gun makers. Those that prospered afterward, such as Colt, Remington and Winchester, did so by securing contracts from foreign governments and hitching their domestic marketing to the brutal romance of the American West.
While peace deprived gun makers of government money for a time, it delivered a windfall to well capitalized dealers. That’s because within five years of Robert E. Lee’s surrender at Appomattox, the War Department had decommissioned most of its guns and auctioned off some 1,340,000 to private arms dealers, such as Schuyler, Hartley and Graham. The Western Hemisphere’s largest private arms dealer at the time, the company scooped up warehouses full of cut-rate army muskets and rifles and made fortunes reselling them at home and abroad.
By the late 19th century, America’s increasingly aggressive role in the world insured steady business for the country’s gun makers.
The Spanish American War brought a new wave of contracts, as did both World Wars, Korea, Vietnam, Afghanistan, Iraq and the dozens of smaller conflicts that the U.S. waged around the globe in the 20th and early 21st century. As the U.S. built up the world’s most powerful military and established bases across the globe, the size of the contracts soared.
Consider Sig Sauer, the New Hampshire arms producer that made the MCX rifle used in the Orlando Pulse nightclub massacre. In addition to arming nearly a third of the country’s law enforcement, it recently won the coveted contract for the Army’s new standard pistol, ultimately worth $350 million to $580 million.
Colt might best illustrate the importance of public money for prominent civilian arms manufacturers. Maker of scores of iconic guns for the civilian market, including the AR-15 carbine used in the 1996 massacre that prompted Australia to enact its famously sweeping gun restrictions, Colt has also relied heavily on government contracts since the 19th century. The Vietnam War initiated a long era of making M16s for the military, and the company continued to land contracts as American war-making shifted from southeast Asia to the Middle East. But Colt’s reliance on government was so great that it filed for bankruptcy in 2015, in part because it had lost the military contract for the M4 rifle two years earlier.
Overall, gun makers relied on government contracts for about 40 percentof their revenues in 2012.
Competition for contracts spurred manufacturers to make lethal innovations, such as handguns with magazines that hold 12 or 15 rounds rather than seven. Absent regulation, these innovations show up in gun enthusiast periodicals, sporting goods stores and emergency rooms.
So how has the industry managed to avoid more significant regulation, especially given the public anger and calls for legislation that follow horrific massacres like the one in Las Vegas?
Given their historic dependence on U.S. taxpayers, one might think that small arms makers would have been compelled to make meaningful concessions in such moments. But that seldom happens, thanks in large part to the National Rifle Association, a complicated yet invaluable industry partner.
Prior to the 1930s, meaningful firearms regulations came from state and local governments. There was little significant federal regulation until 1934, when Congress – spurred by the bloody “Tommy gun era” – debated the National Firearms Act.
The NRA, founded in 1871 as an organization focused on hunting and marksmanship, rallied its members to defeat the most important component of that bill: a tax meant to make it far more difficult to purchase handguns. Again in 1968, the NRA ensured Lyndon Johnson’s Gun Control Act wouldn’t include licensing and registrationrequirements.
In 1989, it helped delay and water down the Brady Act, which mandated background checks for arms purchased from federally licensed dealers. In 1996 the NRA engineered a virtual ban on federal funding for research into gun violence. In 2000, the group led a successful boycott of a gun maker that cooperated with the Clinton administration on gun safety measures. And it scored another big victory in 2005, by limiting the industry’s liability to gun-related lawsuits.
Most recently, the gun lobby has succeeded by promoting an ingenious illusion. It has framed government as the enemy of the gun business rather than its indispensable historic patron, convincing millions of American consumers that the state may at any moment stop them from buying guns or even try to confiscate them.
Hence the jump in the shares of gun makers following last week’s slaughter in Las Vegas. Investors know they have little to fear from new regulation and expect sales to rise anyway.
So with the help of the NRA’s magic, major arms manufacturers have for decades thwarted regulations that majorities of Americans support.
Yet almost never does this political activity seem to jeopardize access to lucrative government contracts.
Americans interested in reform might reflect on that fact. They might start asking their representatives where they get their guns. It isn’t just the military and scores of federal agencies. States, counties and local governments buy plenty of guns, too.
For example, Smith & Wesson is well into a five-year contract to supply handguns to the Los Angeles Police Department, the second-largest in the country. In 2016 the company contributed $500,000 (more than any other company) to a get-out-the-vote operation designed to defeat candidates who favor tougher gun laws.
Do taxpayers in L.A. – or the rest of the country – realize they are indirectly subsidizing the gun lobby’s campaign against regulation?
Brian DeLay is an associate professor of history at the University of California, Berkeley.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article here.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Elon Musk has a plan, and it’s about as audacious as they come. Not content with living on our pale blue dot, Musk and his company SpaceX want to colonize Mars, fast. They say they’ll send a duo of supply ships to the red planet within five years. By 2024, they’re aiming to send the first humans. From there they have visions of building a space port, a city and, ultimately, a planet they’d like to “geoengineer” to be as welcoming as a second Earth.
If he succeeds, Musk could thoroughly transform our relationship with our solar system, inspiring a new generation of scientists and engineers along the way. But between here and success, Musk and SpaceX will need to traverse an unbelievably complex risk landscape.
Many will be technical. The rocket that’s going to take Musk’s colonizers to Mars (code named the “BFR” – no prizes for guessing what that stands for) hasn’t even been built yet. No one knows what hidden hurdles will emerge as testing begins. Musk does have a habit of successfully solving complex engineering problems though; and despite the mountainous technical challenges SpaceX faces, there’s a fair chance they’ll succeed.
As a scholar of risk innovation, what I’m not sure about is how SpaceX will handle some of the less obvious social and political hurdles they face. To give Elon Musk a bit of a head start, here are some of the obstacles I think he should have on his mission-to-Mars checklist.
Imagine there was once life on Mars, but in our haste to set up shop there, we obliterate any trace of its existence. Or imagine that harmful organisms exist on Mars and spacecraft inadvertently bring them back to Earth.
These are scenarios that keep astrobiologists and planetary protection specialists awake at night. They’ve led to unbelievably stringent international policies around what can and cannot be done on government-sponsored space missions.
Yet Musk’s plans threaten to throw the rule book on planetary protection out the window. As a private company SpaceX isn’t directly bound by international planetary protection policies. And while some governments could wrap the company up in space bureaucracy, they’ll find it hard to impose the same levels of hoop-jumping that NASA missions, for instance, currently need to navigate.
It’s conceivable (but extremely unlikely) that a laissez-faire attitude toward interplanetary contamination could lead to Martian bugs invading Earth. The bigger risk is stymying our chances of ever discovering whether life existed on Mars before human beings and their grubby microbiomes get there. And the last thing Musk needs is a whole community of disgruntled astrobiologists baying for his blood as he tramples over their turf and robs them of their dreams.
Musk’s long-term vision is to terraform Mars – reengineer our neighboring planet as “a nice place to be” – and allow humans to become a multi-planetary species. Sounds awesome – but not to everyone. I’d wager there will be some people sufficiently appalled by the idea that they decide to take illegal action to interfere with it.
The mythology surrounding ecoterrorism makes it hard to pin down how much of it actually happens. But there certainly are individuals and groups like the Earth Liberation Front willing to flout the law in their quest to preserve pristine wildernesses. It’s a fair bet there will be people similarly willing to take extreme action to stop the pristine wilderness of Mars being desecrated by humans.
How this might play out is anyone’s guess, although science fiction novels like Kim Stanley Robinson’s “Mars Trilogy” give an interesting glimpse into what could transpire once we get there. More likely, SpaceX will need to be on the lookout for saboteurs crippling their operations before leaving Earth.
Back in the days before private companies were allowed to send rockets into space, international agreements were signed that set out who could do what outside the Earth’s atmosphere. Under the United Nations Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, for instance, states agreed to explore space for the benefit of all humankind, not place weapons of mass destruction on celestial bodies and avoid harmful contamination.
That was back in 1967, four years before Elon Musk was born. With the emergence of ambitious private space companies like SpaceX, Blue Origin and others, though, who’s allowed to do what in the solar system is less clear. It’s good news for companies like SpaceX – at least in the short term. But this uncertainty is eventually going to crystallize into enforceable space policies, laws and regulations that apply to everyone. And when it does, Musk needs to make sure he’s not left out in the cold.
This is of course policy, not politics. But there are powerful players in the global space policy arena. If they’re rubbed the wrong way, it’ll be politics that determines how resulting policies affect SpaceX.
Perhaps the biggest danger is that Musk’s vision of colonizing Mars looks too much like a disposable Earth philosophy – we’ve messed up this planet, so time to move on to the next. Of course, this idea may not factor into Musk’s motivation, but in the world of climate change mitigation and adaptation, perceptions matter. The optics of moving to a new planet to escape the mess we’ve made here is not a scenario that’s likely to win too many friends amongst those trying to ensure Earth remains habitable. And these factions wield considerable social and economic power – enough to cause problems for SpaceX if they decide to mobilize over this.
There is another risk here too, thanks to a proposed terrestrial use of SpaceX’s BFR as a hyperfast transport between cities on Earth. Musk has recently titillated tech watchers with plans to use commercial rocket flights to make any city on Earth less than an hour’s travel from any other. This is part of a larger plan to make the BFR profitable, and help cover the costs of planetary exploration. It’s a crazy idea – that just might work. But what about the environmental impact?
Even though the BFR will spew out tons of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide, the impacts may not be much greater than current global air travel (depending how many flights end up happening). And there’s always the dream of creating the fuel – methane and oxygen – using solar power and atmospheric gases. The BFR could even conceivably be carbon-neutral one day.
But at a time when humanity should be doing everything in our power to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, the optics aren’t great. And this could well lead to a damaging backlash before rocket-commuting even gets off the ground.
Sixty years ago, the Soviet Union launched Sputnik, the world’s first artificial satellite – and changed the world. It was the dawn of the space age, forcing nations to rethink their technical education programs and inspiring a generation of scientists and engineers.
We may well be standing at a similar technological tipping point as researchers develop the vision and technologies that could launch humanity into the solar system. But for this to be a new generation’s Sputnik moment, we’ll need to be smart in navigating the many social and political hurdles between where we are now and where we could be.
These nontechnical hurdles come down to whether society writ large grants SpaceX and Elon Musk the freedom to boldly go where no one has gone before. It’s tempting to think of planetary entrepreneurialism as simply getting the technology right and finding a way to pay for it. But if enough people feel SpaceX is threatening what they value (such as the environment – here or there), or disadvantaging them in some way (for example, by allowing rich people to move to another planet and abandoning the rest of us here), they’ll make life difficult for the company.
This is where Musk and SpaceX need to be as socially adept as they are technically talented. Discounting these hidden hurdles could spell disaster for Elon Musk’s Mars in the long run. Engaging with them up front could lead to the first people living and thriving on another planet in my lifetime.
Andrew Maynard, Director, Risk Innovation Lab, Arizona State University
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article here.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Apple recently announced the launch of its iPhone 8 and iPhone X, which come with sleek, new features. Apple also hopes to start a new community around the iPhones. Ahead of the launch, Angela Ahrendts, head of retail at Apple, said their stores will be called “Town Squares,” and would double as public spaces, complete with outdoor plazas, indoor forums and boardrooms.
The much-anticipated product launch was followed by millions who watched the event via livestream and on internet forums, blogs and in the news media.
I, too, was among them.
So, what draws people to these phones? Surely, it is not just the groundbreaking design or the connection with a community. As a minister, psychotherapist and scholar studying our relationship with hand-held devices, I believe there is much more going on.
In fact, I’d argue, as I do in my book “Growing Down: Theology and Human Nature in the Virtual Age,” the phones tap into our basic yearnings as humans.
Here are my three reasons why we love our phones.
Our sense of self is shaped while we are still in the womb. The development of the self, however, accelerates after birth. A newborn, first and foremost, attaches herself to the primary caregiver and later to things – acquiring what has been called an “extended self.”
The leading 20th-century American psychologist William James was among the first to argue for an extended self. In his “Principles of Psychology,” James defined the self as “the sum total of all that a man can call his, not only his body and his psychic powers, but his clothes and his house, his wife and children.” Losing any of this extended self, which could include money or another prized object, as he explained, could lead to a sense of great loss. In early childhood, for example, babies and toddlers cry if they suddenly lose their pacifier or favorite soft toy, objects that become part of their extended selves.
Phones, I argue, play a similar role. It is not uncommon for me to feel a sudden onset of anxiety should I drop my phone or am unable to find it. In my experience, many individuals feel the same way. It is also reflected in how often many of us check our devices.
Psychologist Larry Rosen and his colleagues at California State University found that 51 percent of individuals born in the 1980s and 1990s experienced moderate to high levels of anxiety when they were kept from checking in with their devices for more than 15 minutes. Interestingly, the percentage drops slightly – to 42 percent – for those born between 1965 and 1979.
This is primarily because they came into being during a time where hand-held technologies were only beginning to make their entry. For this group, phones became part of their extended self only as late teens or as young adults.
Not just extended selves, smartphones in particular, with their games, apps and notifications, have become an essential aspect of our sense of self.
And here’s how:
Drawing on psychodynamic theory, which holds that childhood experiences shape personality, I argue that our relationship with technology mirrors the environment our parents created in caring for us. This environment, as British psychiatrist Donald W. Winnicott writes, functions around touch, a keen awareness of what the infant needs, and establishing and maintaining eye contact.
In the same way, we, as adults, reexperience touching and belonging through our phones. Technology affords a space where the self can be satisfied, play and feel alive – a space previously provided by caregivers.
When we hold our phones, it reminds us of moments of intimacy – whether from our childhood or from our adult life. The brain chemical dopamine and love hormone oxytocin, which play a role in the addiction “high,” kick in. These chemicals also create a sense of belonging and attachment.
Holding our phone has the same effect as when a parent looks lovingly at her child or when two lovers gaze into each other’s eyes. In the words of Apple executive Philip Schiller: The iPhone X “learns who you are.”
Theological reflection also supports what we have learned about dopamine and oxytocin. The Judeo-Christian tradition, for example, identifies God as an intimate God who seeks face time and creates caring environments. In Bible, Numbers 6:24-26, we read:
“The Lord bless you and protect you. The Lord make his face shine on you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his face to you and grant you peace.”
3. Fulfills need to produce and reproduce
Anthropologist Michael Taussig reminds us that it is in our “second nature to copy, imitate, make models, [and] explore difference” as we try to become a better or different self.
Phones help us do that. We take pictures, manipulate images, join discussions, curate a selfie and reach out to others. By texting back and forth, we weave together a conversation. Through searching, we become knowledgeable (even if we lack wisdom). Thus, we join ancestors who painted on cave walls and told stories around fires.
It should not come as a surprise then that smartphones currently account for 46 percent of all internet use. This is expected to grow to 75 percent by 2021. We are destined, it seems, to live with our phones in hand.
Living with technology
Having said this, sometimes, however, I would argue, we need to show up in person and make a difference.
We can be disappointed if we limit our spaces and relationships to small screens or to “town squares.” We need intimate relationships where we give and receive touch, where we gaze into someone’s eyes. We also need spaces – some will be online – where deep connections can be made, where we can rest, play and discover.
So, as some of us head over to the Town Square to purchase the latest iPhone or venture online, it would be best to remember the dictum of historian of technology Melvin Kranzberg: “Technology is neither good nor bad; nor is it neutral.”
Jaco J. Hamman is an associate professor of Religion, Psychology, and Culture at Vanderbilt University
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article here.
Logo Photo: Conversation


Few holidays draw as much superstition around the paranormal as Friday the 13th — particularly in the rare occasion that it falls in October, thereby preceding Halloween. Perhaps this was why the internet was pleased to have discovered a Helsinki-bound plane with the flight number 666 — the infamous Number of the Beast described in the New Testament's Book of Revelations — departing on the purported unlucky day.
A screen grab of the flight was posted by Sweden-based air traffic tracker Flightradar24, which tweeted: “Flight 666 on #FridayThe13th is now en route to #HEL.”
Flight 666 on #FridayThe13th is now en route to #HEL#AY666 pic.twitter.com/AmdHWn1gU6
&mdash; Flightradar24 (@flightradar24) October 13, 2017

Indeed,  FlightView confirmed that Finnair (AY) 666 departed Copenhagen Airport (CPH) and landed at Helsinki Airport (HEL) roughly two hours later. Getting in on the fun, the Helsinki Airport later responded to a second Flightradar24 tweet asking the airport if the plane would be landing at Gate 13.
“Hi there! We have something better in opur [  sic ] mind: our heavy metal themed bus will give one HEL of a ride for #AY666 passengers!” the airport wrote, sharing an image of a bus that read “Hard Rockin’ HEL.”
Hi there! We have something better in opur mind: our heavy metal themed bus will give one HEL of a ride for #AY666 passengers! pic.twitter.com/Ai8FVqv4qq
&mdash; Helsinki Airport (@HelsinkiAirport) October 13, 2017

The airport later tweeted: “#AY666 arrived in HEL! Luckily we managed to get the gate arrival in the end, and as we do things double-well here, the gate is 13+13=26!”
Finnair  shared a statement on Twitter that this week’s Flight 666 to Helsinki would be its last after having flown 15 flights in 11 years with the devil’s number on a Friday the 13th. The airline said the change was the result of new flight numbers, and the flight from Copenhagen to Helsinki will in the future be Flight 954.
“Farewell to Finnair AY666,” wrote the airline, “but remember, we still have a flight from SIN to HEL.”


In the days after Oct. 1, when a gunman at the Las Vegas Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino opened fire on a crowd of concert-goers, killing 58 people and wounding hundreds more, the share price of MGM Resorts International, which owns the Mandalay,  tanked. The company  has assisted victims’ families with their travel needs and canceled shows at its Vegas venues, and it’s already facing at least one  lawsuit. Legal experts  say there are surely more to come. Put simply, the attack, while horrifying at its core, is costing MGM a lot of money.
In the past few years, as the frequency of mass shootings has ticked upward, a market for insurance that covers the commercial fallout in the wake of such tragedies — such as lawsuits, funerals, public relations cleanup and loss of business — has materialized in North America and Western Europe, but predominantly in the U.S. And, though little data or research exists on what is still a relatively new insurance product, it can be a very lucrative venture, experts told International Business Times.  
The damage potential associated with mass shootings — stemming from not only casualties and structural harm, but decreased business due to brand stigma — is enormous. Add to that the tendency for media coverage of the events to lend the appearance of a spike in prevalence, and the result is a heightened demand for active shooter insurance from companies big and small, said insurance agents who spoke with IBT. Each new tragic event brings a fresh surge of demand. But the rare and terrifying nature of shooting events can create a disconnect between how necessary these insurance policies appear and how useful they actually are, leaving insurers with wide profit margins and virtually no claims to pay, experts told IBT.
“Any one single incident is a tragedy. But compare that to the number of possibilities, the millions of events that could occur,” University of Connecticut School of Law professor Peter Kochenburger said, pointing to the numerous concerts, sports games and other public events that take place across the country each day. But what matters to policyholders is not so much frequency as fear: “If you could sell shark bite insurance, you could probably make a lot of money.”
And because victims and their families can always sue for negligence, alleging that more could’ve been done, insurers have an incentive to focus predominantly on the response to a tragedy rather than what can seem like a futile prevention effort. As Paul Marshall, the managing director of the underwriter McGowan Program Administrators, which offers active shooter insurance, put it to IBT, “You can’t prevent crazy.”
Krystle Egemba of Las Vegas held a candle during a vigil marking the one-week anniversary of the Oct. 1 mass shooting in Las Vegas, Oct. 8, 2017.  Photo: Reuters
Terrorism Insurance: Active Shooter’s Not-So-Distant Cousin
It’s unclear whether MGM Resorts has insurance to cover mass violence that hasn’t been designated a terrorist act by the federal government;  an MGM spokesperson did not answer questions from IBT on the subject of the company’s coverage. But, according to its most recent annual  financial statement, MGM, unlike some of its main competitors, has “‘all risk’ property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism).”
That’s likely thanks in part to a federal program created in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks, when sellers of terrorism insurance either pulled out of the market, fearing they could face the same market-destabilizing  $40 billion in costs (in 2001 dollars) that followed 9/11, or raised their coverage costs to levels unaffordable for most corporations. The program, called the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, or TRIA, originally enacted as a temporary measure in 2002, mandated that all property and casualty insurers offer terrorism coverage, and provided them with federal reinsurance for attack-related commercial losses of up to $100 billion. (After Congress reauthorized it in 2015, it became the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act, or TRIPA.) This model, according to a Congressional Budget Office  report on TRIA from 2015, “left taxpayers bearing most of the catastrophic risk.”
When Congress skirted reauthorization of TRIA at the end of 2014, before ultimately renewing it the following January,  some worried that Super Bowl XLIX would be canceled without the government’s terror-insurance safety net. In 2013, after all, the Boston Marathon bombings, which were not classified as terrorism,  sparked interest in such insurance coverage.
Still, despite the wave of anxiety that follows instances of mass violence in the U.S., the CBO noted that, as of January 2015, the federal government had paid no TRIA claims. Because later terror attacks in  San Bernardino, California, and  Orlando, Florida, in 2015 and 2016, respectively, likely did not meet the Treasury’s $5 million damages threshold to trigger TRIA, it’s unlikely that the government has paid any claims since. (The Treasury Department did not respond to IBT’s questions about TRIA claims.) Meanwhile, the program has cost the government  less than $1 million annually in administrative costs and netted the insurance industry $4.6 billion per year in commercial premiums for federally-insured, practically risk-free coverage, experts at the libertarian Rand Institute  calculated in 2014. Those figures have led some to  argue that TRIA is no more than a subsidy for insurers and should be outright abolished.
The Las Vegas attack has not been characterized as a terrorist act, drawing criticism from some terrorism experts and skeptics who say  the color of the assailant’s skin may have been the deciding factor. Without the designation, MGM — or rather, its insurers — won’t qualify for help from the federal government through TRIA.



Enter active shooter insurance.
‘Plenty Of Incentive To Create A Fear’
Between 2000 and 2006, there was an average of 6.4 mass shootings each year in the U.S., according to a  study by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Between 2007 and 2013, that number jumped to 16.4. In 2014 and 2015, that average rose once more, to 20 incidents annually, the FBI found in a later  study, which noted that a full 70 percent of those events took place in “a commerce/business or educational environment.” But in contrast to the market’s response to 9/11, the supply of insurance policies for these events has been on the rise over the past several years, as the trade publication Insurance Journal  has  reported.
The increase in availability is a response to an upswing in demand, underwriters and insurance agents told IBT. According to John Eltham, who heads North America business for Miller Insurance Services LLP, a Lloyd’s of London broker, the rise in policies sought by businesses has led the coverage to broaden beyond gun violence to all manner of attacks, including those with knives and bombs, under the new category of “active assailant.”
Many of the insurers leading the way in the active shooter market  did the same within the market for terrorism insurance — namely, American International Group Inc., or AIG, and Lloyd’s of London, which counts Miller as a broker, London-based specialist insurer Beazley Group as a syndicate and Atlanta-based Southern Insurance Underwriters Inc. as a binding authority coverholder.
Though AIG did not comment for this article, it certainly has been an early pioneer in the market for active shooter insurance policies. The company helped crisis management consultancy Marsh Risk Management Research develop  two  guidebooks on “addressing the risk of an active shooter” in the summer of 2014, hosted a webcast on “active shooter” for the industry publication Business Insurance in March 2013 and, around the same time, produced a  brochure specifically identifying Las Vegas venues as high-risk clientele when it comes to violent incidents. At the bottom of its Hospitality and Leisure policy page, AIG offers a variety of advisory pamphlets on handling an active shooter event, courtesy of the New York Police Department, Department of Homeland Security and others.

In terms of demand, Paul Marshall, the McGowan Program Administrators managing director, said he used to receive one inquiry per month about active shooter insurance; now he receives 10 to 40 each week. His clients, he said, include a pride parade, a national political party convention organizer and a concert organizer. Kerri O’Dwyer, a political violence underwriter at Beazley, whose team focuses on everything from civil war and a “coup d’etat” to “riots, strikes” and “malicious damage,” said her unit was at first “ binding a handful of risks per month, and now we’re binding, what? Fifteen to 20 per month.” She added that Beazley has been quoting as many as 10 policies daily, compared to one per day at the outset, in 2016. Southern Insurance Underwriters Senior Vice President Hugh Nelson said that while demand for his firm’s policies has been flat, he’s “seen big companies give lip service to getting it.”
As Nelson  told the Insurance Journal in March, demand tends to rise after a deadly shooting incident, and his company has, in the past year, expanded both beyond educational institutions and firearms to cover a range of venues and weapons. Eltham, of Miller, said he’d already noticed an increase in demand immediately after the events in Las Vegas. The president and co-founder of McKinney, Texas-based GDP Advisors LLC, which also administers active shooter coverage and did not respond to interview requests from IBT,  told the Journal in August 2016, “Sadly, active shooter incidents are the next cyber.”
But both the insurance industry — and the media, for what it’s worth — may be inflating the appearance of risk, said Kochenburger, the University of Connecticut professor.
“Cyber risk is everywhere, same thing as employee lawsuits against employers,” he told IBT, adding that the apparent dangers of an active shooter incident are often “greatly exaggerated.”
“To compare these risks against active shooter risks — well, to say it’s inaccurate is an understatement.”
Smaller mom-and-pop companies without the resources to analyze their own probability of facing an attack, Kochenburger said, could end up overpaying for what they believe to be a very real and imminent danger.
“One way you can make a lot of money in insurance is if the policyholders really overestimate the risk. Then you could have a very profitable insurance company,” he said. Mass shootings and other random violence is “not a silly concern. However unlikely it is that the event will occur, there’s been an increase… The question is how necessary or important [insurance coverage] is.”
George Mocsary, an assistant professor at the Southern Illinois University School of Law, echoed Kochenburger’s argument that mass shootings are far rarer than they might appear from news coverage, and that it pays to play on those worries.
“There’s plenty of incentive to create a fear to get active shooter insurance,” Mocsary said. For example, if a customer at a tech store is purchasing a TV, he said, “the salesman scares you about how your TV can break.”
It’s clear that active shooter insurers and underwriters, or at least their marketing teams, are aware of such tactics.
GDP Advisors’ Active Shooter Insurance Program  webpage, for instance, features a harrowing graphic of an individual entering what appears to be a restaurant or hotel lobby, a handgun at their side. The text overlay reads, “How to minimize the damage from an unthinkable act” and, “Since 2013, there have been at least 156 school shootings in America — an average of nearly one a week.” GDP Advisors  launched its active shooter coverage in July 2016.
GDP Advisors LLC, which did not respond to requests for interviews from IBT, advertises the dangers of a mass shooting and the need to insure against related losses on its website.  Photo: GDP Advisors LLC
McGowan Program Administrators, in a brochure on its own active shooter program, obtained by IBT, said “the numbers as of November 10, 2016 are a bit staggering,” and that, “unfortunately, by the time you begin and end this article the numbers are likely to be outdated just as quickly.”
“Despite security measures, by design and necessity these places remain very open places. The reality of the needs of these buildings directly oppose much of what the security measures look to achieve,” the pamphlet, which included graphics of bullet-pocked glass and frightening newsprint headlines, continues. “Organizations have been successfully sued for negligent security.”
McGowan Program Administrators, an underwriter offering active shooter insurance, offers pamphlets detailing the rise of mass shootings and the risks to commercial businesses. Photo: McGowan Program Administrators
In its advisory brochure on active shooter insurance programs, McGowan Program Administrators, an underwriter, cites news coverage and statistics on the uptick in mass shootings as reasons businesses need to obtain coverage.  Photo: McGowan Program Administrators
Marshall defended the use of chilling ads as a tool for raising awareness.
“Mass shootings and recent public attacks make security upgrades and purchasing adequate insurance a priority (and should be legally required like auto insurance),” he wrote in an email, citing an internet article on “powerful social issue ads that’ll make you stop and think.”
‘My Prediction Is It’s Virtually All Profits Right Now’
According to O’Dwyer, the popularity of this new insurance coverage skews American. Beazley, she said, offers this coverage in the U.S., Canada and Western Europe, but three quarters of demand for its active shooter insurance comes from the U.S., compared to 20 percent for Canada and 5 percent for Western Europe.
“It’s more to do with [the fact that] that’s where we offered our education programs,” she said. Beazley pushed its education program hardest in the U.S., she added, since the frequency of major non-terrorist shootings is higher.
American gun politics aside, the frequency is still so low that active shooter insurance policies come with fat profit margins, according to experts.
“At this point, my prediction is it’s virtually all profits right now, because the events are so sporadic that they’re just not hitting the insured population yet,” said Adam Scales, a Rutgers University law professor who specializes in insurance. “You’re not talking, probably, about significant exposure by the insurance agency.”
Because the cost of adequately covering an active shooter incident — for instance, with a $5 million policy — is cost-prohibitive for most businesses, Scales added, companies will resort to purchasing cheaper policies in the $250,000 range that won’t give them much of a cushion, and won’t hurt the insurer, if a claim is paid.
“I would wonder why you would even buy it,” he said, adding that such coverage is “not economically valuable” to the policyholders.
For insurers and underwriters, though, there is economic value, Kochenburger noted.
“It is a for-profit market,” he said. “If they’re not making a profit, they’re not going to cover it.”
Marshall defended the industry’s corporate ethics. 
“We feel we’ve been responsible… If we collected $10 million in premiums, we’re going to assume that we’re going to be paying out a large portion of that in claims,” he said. “Time will tell. We want to insure responsibly. We’ve not had a claim, but we’re insuring risks similar to ones that have had claims.”
Negligence: ‘You Can Always Allege It’
One of the benefits of insurance coverage is the monetary incentive to minimize risks as much as possible, because doing do minimizes the cost of insurance. Kochenburger compared the active shooter preparation and prevention effort to buying smoke detectors or storm shutters when getting a quote for home insurance. Mocsary suggested the purchase of metal detectors might bring down a company’s premiums by way of lowering its active shooter risks.
But attempts at prevention can only go so far.
“To the extent that you can reduce the [likelihood of the] acts of someone who’d do this — they can’t address the psychological issues, gun control — they can’t do anything about that,” Kochenburger said.
Marshall said something similar.
“Some of the prevention experts may not like me, because this event at the Mandalay — there’s no way you could’ve prevented this. You can’t prevent crazy,” he said. Marshall’s ratio of focus on post-event remediation versus prevention and preparation is 80 percent versus 20 percent, he told IBT. “You have to understand that you really won’t be able to stop this event… I think it may be leading to a false sense of security. Kind of like a tornado, or your house getting burned down.”
Both O’Dwyer and Nelson said the divide was closer to 50-50.
To Mocsary, buying an active shooter policy simply meant “buying legal representation,” because of the lawsuits sure to come in the weeks after an instance of violence inside a theater, stadium, hotel or other business. O’Dwyer emphasized the importance of the public relations response that comes with Beazley’s policy.
“What you say in that first few minutes and hours, that will stay with you forever,” she said.
Nelson, of Southern Insurance Underwriters, pointed to the constant threat of negligence lawsuits, no matter how much companies prepare.
“You always allege it,” he said.
On the other hand, Scales, the Rutgers professor, said that standard commercial general liability insurance policies, akin to MGM’s “all risk” policy, cover litigation already, rendering the extra layer provided by active shooter insurance pointless.
In Vegas, one victim is testing that assertion with a lawsuit alleging that MGM failed to notice the massive stockpile of weapons the assailant had lugged up to his 32nd-floor suite.
“How did the hotel not know about that? Why wasn’t that a red flag?” Michelle Tuegel, an attorney for the victim,  told the Las Vegas Review-Journal. The lawsuit, depending on its outcome, could inform standards of corporate liability following a mass shooting and define the need for active shooter insurance in the future. As Tuegel put it, the legal action was aimed at companies “who have a responsibility to keep the people who are on their properties at their events safe.”
Update (10/16/2017, 11:05 AM): This post has been updated to clarify the relationship between Lloyd's of London and several other insurance firms.


Xu Jiayin, founder of Evergrande Group — one of the most aggressive property developers in China — has become the country's richest man, according to a survey released Thursday by The Hurun Report, which tracks wealth in the country.
Jiayin, 59, also known as Hui Ka Yan, surpassed real estate and entertainment magnate Wang Jianlin off the top of China’s rich list to become the country’s wealthiest man. 
Jiayin's wealth quadrupled to US$ 43 billion in 2017, according to The Hurun Report. The report's list of wealthy people in China points toward a dynamic economy fueled by consumption and appetite for real estate. Both these aspects are contributing to the growth of the country where traditional engines of manufacturing and expenditure on government projects are gradually losing power, The New York Times reported.
“The top 10 on our rich list had a year like they’ve never had for 10 years,” said Rupert Hoogewerf, Hurun’s chairman, according to the publication. 
Evergrande, Jiayin's company, is the nation's largest property group by sales and China's booming property market has helped accelerate its growth further, according to a report published by Fortune.
However, Evergrande's business is built on a huge pile of debt, which was almost $50 billion at the end of 2016, raising concerns if the firm could sustain its growth. Rating agency Fitch said in a report earlier this year that Jiayin's company's high-interest expenses and payouts to shareholders would prove a hindrance in the reduction of the firm's debt, CNN reported.
In fact, Jiayin has also been compared to the U.S. President and former business tycoon, Donald Trump, who also built his fortune on a real estate business under huge debt. Evergrande — said to be China’s second-most indebted company — is aiming to reduce its net debt ratio to around 70 percent by June 2020 from 240 percent, according to a report published by ShanghaiDaily.com.
Evergrande was founded by Jiayin in 1996 and he listed it in Hong Kong in 2009. Known for developing thousands of middle-class homes in China, it grabbed headlines in 2010 when it bought main soccer club in its hometown of Guangzhou for $15 million, reports said.
Jiayin was born in 1958 in the Taikang County of China and completed his graduation from Wuhan University of Science & Technology, Hubei, Wuhan, from where he obtained a degree in metallurgy in the year 1982. He received an honorary Ph.D. in 2008 from the University of West Alabama.
Apart from the real estate business, Jiayin is also involved in other activities. For example, he is one of the top philanthropists in China. In 2011, the real estate magnate donated $62 million and received the National Model Worker honor by the State Department. Recently, he also announced donation worth $100 million for funding a scholarship at a university in Beijing.
Currently, he serves as the vice president of China Real Estate Association, China Entrepreneur Association, and the Chinese Enterprise Association. While CREA is a peak association authorized by the Ministry of Construction of China that has over 2,100 members, the Chinese Enterprise Association "was formed in 1998 in Philadelphia by a group of Christians to respond to the needs of many young Chinese professionals and entrepreneurs who like to establish themselves at their present position and eventually extend their services to China," according to its official website. Further, the establishment of China Entrepreneur Association in February 1999, marked a milestone in the development of Chinese enterprises in Singapore, the official website says. 


This story was produced by MapLight and published in partnership with the International Business Times.
Top Republican donors have been pressing the Environmental Protection Agency to move its regional headquarters from San Francisco to Phoenix.
Agency records show EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt hosted a May meeting to discuss “possible EPA restructure opportunities.” People attending included Foster Friess, a longtime Republican financier considering a run for U.S. Senate in Wyoming; Mike Ingram, an Arizona real estate developer and Trump supporter; Tim Bidwill, the son of a prominent Arizona GOP donor who owns the city’s professional football franchise; Hunter Moorhead, a Washington, D.C.-based lobbyist whose clients have included the National Rifle Association and Koch Industries; an Arizona Department of Transportation official; and executives from the Greater Phoenix Economic Council
Although Friess told MapLight he was “was in and out in a number of meetings” that day, he said the meeting shown on Pruitt’s calendar involved a pitch to move the EPA’s regional headquarters from San Francisco to Phoenix. The office has more than 700 employees in California, Arizona, Nevada, and Hawaii. Friess said moving the office would save money for taxpayers, since commercial rents are significantly higher in San Francisco than Phoenix.
Pruitt’s calendar, published last week by the New York Times, highlights the influence wielded by top GOP donors in the still-young Trump administration. The agency records show Pruitt also met with an executive from an Israeli water company at the behest of GOP mega-donor Sheldon Adelson, and conferred with Marc Goldman, a Florida-based investor who sits with Adelson on the Republican Jewish Coalition's board of directors.
The EPA said it hasn’t set aside money in the budget year that began Oct. 1 to move the regional headquarters out of San Francisco. “Anyone that takes time to read President Trump’s budget will realize that no money is allocated to close down regional EPA offices,” said Jahan Wilcox, an agency spokesman. 
Adelson, a casino magnate, and his wife gave $20 million last year to Future45, a super PAC that spent more than $24 million to help Trump defeat Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. They also donated $492,000 to Trump Victory, a joint fundraising committee benefiting the Trump campaign, the Republican National Committee, and state parties. Adelson contributed $5 million to Trump’s inaugural committee in December.
Friess, who’s known for boosting Rick Santorum’s 2012 presidential campaign, donated $100,000 to Trump Victory in 2016 before describing him as the “less flawed” of the two major-party presidential candidates. Ingram chairs the real estate company El Dorado Holdings, one of Arizona’s largest private landowners. He is also a co-owner of the Arizona Diamondbacks baseball franchise and gave $10,000 to Trump Victory.
After the election, Ingram gave $15,500 to Trump’s Make America Great Again Committee, which raises money for Trump’s 2020 campaign and the RNC. In late December, he was listed as a co-chair in an event invitation from the Opening Day Foundation, a Texas-based nonprofit.
Las Vegas Sands Corp. Chairman and CEO Sheldon Adelson on Oct. 1, 2014 in Las Vegas, Nevada.  Photo: Ethan Miller/Getty Images
Trump’s adult sons, Eric and Donald, Jr., were named as honorary co-chairmen in the invitation, which presented donors an “opportunity to play a significant role as our family commemorates the inauguration of our father, friend and President Donald J. Trump.” The invitation said the Opening Day Foundation would donate all net proceeds from the event to conservation charities.
Although the foundation initially listed Trump’s sons as directors in its Texas corporate registration filing, a Trump spokesperson said that the event details had not been approved by the president’s family. The organization filed new paperwork two days later removing them from its board.
The EPA also is considering a plan to combine its Chicago office with the Kansas City regional headquarters. Officials said in April that no decision had been made. The Chicago office has come under fire for its handling of the Flint water crisis.


Marijuana sales in Colorado hit $1 billion in a record eight months, according to data analysis from the Denver Post’s weed site, The Cannabist Tuesday. This is the second year in a row that the industry has made $1 billion in sales.
Last year it took ten months to hit the $1 billion mark in combined recreational and medical marijuana sales. Colorado legalized recreational marijuana in 2012 and sales began in January of 2014.
The 2014 sales of marijuana were $699,198,805 and the 2015 sales were $996,184,788. Last year Colorado sales of Marijuana hit just above $1.3 billion.
As of August last year, marijuana sales hovered around $846 million, meaning that sales are up 21 percent this year.
Big money for retailers also means big money for the state.
Colorado will pull in around $137 million in taxes and fees from the marijuana industry. A new law increased the tax on recreational marijuana to 15 percent from 10 percent in July. The law also exempted recreational marijuana accessories from the standard 2.9 percent sales tax. Medical marijuana accessories are still subject to that tax.
Economists expect the market's growth to slow as more states get in on the action.
Nevada began selling recreational marijuana in July and in its first month sold $27.1 million worth of weed, according to the Reno Gazette-Journal. That’s a faster first month than Colorado, Washington, and Oregon.
Marijuana sales in Oregon last year are estimated to have been around $241 million, according to the Register-Guard. 


As fires ripped through California’s Napa, Sonoma and Mendocino Counties this week, some of the regions most prominent wineries have been affected by the flames. Some 17 fires spread across Northern California this week, burning more than 115,000 acres and putting many wineries in danger of destruction.
Napa Valley Vinters and Sonoma County Vinters were updated by hundreds of the wineries regarding their status in the wake of the fires It appeared at least four wineries in Napa County were significantly or completely destroyed, while at least one in Sonoma County suffered a total loss, CNBC reported.
In Napa, the Signorello winery appeared to be largely destroyed, according to SF Gate. Proprietor Ray Signorello, who also lives on the property, said he planned to rebuild.
A flame from an open gas line illuminates grape vines in a vineyard during the Nuns fire in Glen Ellen, California, Oct. 9, 2017. Photo: Getty Images
“It’s like getting punched in the stomach,” Signorello’s sommelier Ronald Plunkett told CNBC Tuesday, noting that the winery’s Chardonnay vines were 38 years old. “This is devastating to us because this is kind of our home.”
White Rock Vineyards was also damaged significantly and was “likely lost,” employees told SF Gate. Other wineries in the county, like William Hill and Stags’ Leap, appeared to have been damaged as well, though the full extent was not yet clear.
In Sonoma County, the Paradise Ridge winery had completely burned down. 
“We are heartbroken to share the news that our winery was burned down this morning,” Paradise Ridge wrote on its Facebook page Monday alongside photos of the entirely decimated vineyard and facility.
Nicholson Ranch, Chateau St. Jean, Mayo Family Wineries and Gundlach Bundschu Winery appeared to have escaped the worst of the damage.
Mendocino County’s Frey Vineyards Winery and Oster Wine Cellars both appeared to have been largely destroyed by the fires. 
At least 15 people have been killed as a result of the fires, though Sonoma County Sheriff Rob Giordano said he expected that number to rise in the coming days. More than 1,500 structures were destroyed, while some 20,000 people were evacuated from their homes in the path of the flames that seared through 115,000 acres of land. Sonoma County authorities said they received somewhere around 200 missing persons reports.
The main building at Paras Vinyards burns in the Mount Veeder area of Napa in California, Oct. 10, 2017.  Photo: Getty Images


The principal of a law firm involved in fending off a criminal investigation into a Trump Organization project gave $10,000 to Manhattan district attorney Cyrus Vance amid the probe, according to campaign finance records reviewed by International Business Times. The money from Elkan Abramowitz, which had not previously been reported, was in addition to a separate campaign donation to Vance from Trump attorney Mark Kasowitz. After the money flowed to Vance, the Democratic DA overruled his prosecutors and declined to file charges against Ivanka Trump, Donald Trump, Jr. and others involved in the controversial Trump SoHo project.
The disclosures are the fourth in a week showing that Vance received campaign donations from law firms whose clients had potential cases before his office. IBT previously reported that Vance declined to prosecute Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein and received $182,000 from partners at the law firm of Weinstein’s long-time attorney. IBT also reported that Vance received more than $42,000 from lawyers at a criminal defense firm whose clients received plea deals from Vance’s office that let them avoid prison, including another high profile sexual assault case.
Scrutiny of Vance’s campaign was first kicked off by a report by ProPublica, WNYC and The New Yorker, which revealed that Vance declined to file charges against the Trump Organization over its SoHo project after Vance received a $25,000 donation from Trump attorney Mark Kasowitz. The story noted that Vance’s former employer, Morvillo Abramowitz Grand Iason & Anello PC, was one of the firms involved on the defense side of the potential case, which revolved around allegations that investors were misled about the project and its finances.
The allegations were investigated by Vance’s office from 2010 to 2012. A further IBT review of Vance’s campaign finance found that on March 24, 2011 — between the opening of the investigation and the closing of the investigation — Abramowitz gave $10,000 to Vance’s campaign, which was the single largest Abramowitz donation disclosed in state records. In all, Abramowitz has donated more than $26,450 to Vance’s campaigns since 2008 -- making Vance the largest recipient of Abramowitz donations, according to state records. 
Abramowitz is a power player in New York politics; he recently served as a criminal defense attorney for New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo during a federal corruption probe launched by former U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.
Vance returned Kasowitz’s donation —  and the ProPublica report said Vance asserts that is “standard practice when a donor has a case before his office.” Vance’s office has also previously told IBT that all contributions are vetted for potential conflicts of interest.
However, there is no record that shows Vance returned Abramowitz’s $10,000 contribution that came during the DA’s investigation into the Trump Organization — despite Abramowitz’s firm being involved with the defense team. According to the DA’s office, Paul Grand, a principal of Morvillo Abramowitz, represented Rodrigo Nino, the CEO of Prodigy Network, which was the selling agent for the Trump SoHo units.
“Kasowitz's initial contribution was returned to avoid the appearance of conflict as DA Vance said [to WNYC], not because there was a conflict,” Joan Vollero, communications direct for the Manhattan District Attorney’s office, told IBT over email. “If there had been a conflict with the other donation you listed [Abramowitz’s], it would have been flagged and returned in the same way. This multi-step vetting process is more rigorous than what is required, and consistent with other prosecutor's offices.”
Paul Grand and Morvillo Abramowitz did not respond to a request for comment from IBT.
Vollero explained that the office did not consider Abramowitz's donation a conflict of interest because he did not personally represent any clients before the DA's office at the time. She told IBT over email that the DA's campaign finance vetting committee does not consider a contribution from the principal of a firm that has a client under investigation by the DA's office to constitute a conflict.
The New York Times has reported that Paul Grand -- the Morvillo Abramowitz lawyer who worked on the Trump defense team -- did not meet directly with Vance about the case.


Fashion Designer Donna Karan is taking heat for calling Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein wonderful, a comment she later walked back. Weinstein was the subject of a New York Times investigation that surfaced years of allegations of sexual harassment.
Karan spoke about Weinstein on the red carpet of the CineFashion Film Awards in Los Angeles, Sunday.
“I think they’re wonderful people. Harvey has done some amazing things,” said Karan to the Times about Harvey and his wife Georgina Chapman who is a designer herself.
Karan also suggested that the way women dress may invite harassment.
“What are we asking? Are we asking for it? By presenting all the sensuality and all the sexuality? What are we throwing out to our children today? About how to dance, how to perform and what to wear? How much should they show?,” asked Karan. “I don’t think it’s only Harvey Weinstein. I don’t think we’re only looking at him. I think we’re looking at a world much deeper than him. I think he’s being looked at now as a symbol.”
In a statement provided to the Times from Karan’s publicists, she walked her statements back.
“My statements were taken out of context and do not represent how I feel about the current situation concerning Harvey Weinstein,” read the statement. “I believe that sexual harassment is NOT acceptable and this is an issue that MUST be addressed once and for all regardless of the individual. I am truly sorry to anyone that I offended and everyone that has ever been a victim.”
Weinstein was fired from the Weinstein Company Sunday, a movie production company he co-founded with his brother. The company removed him after the Times story. Several prominent Hollywood figures, are beginning to condemn Weinstein for his alleged actions.
Karan, despite backtracking on her original comments, has been sharply criticized for what she said.
To @dkny How many seventeen year olds have you dressed like they are, in your words, "asking for it "? https://t.co/oYyO9tfFKz pic.twitter.com/Fck0h5m13R
— Anthony Bourdain (@Bourdain) October 10, 2017
Donna Karan you are a DEPLORABLE Aiding and abetting is a moral crime. You are scum in a fancy dress pic.twitter.com/Vze7lnpdvj
— rose mcgowan (@rosemcgowan) October 10, 2017
Thanks, Donna Karan, for the life lesson: dress like a woman and you can be sexually harassed by a pig. #stoptalking #findbetterfriends
— Katie Phang (@KatiePhang) October 10, 2017
Donna Karan Spring 2018 Collection pic.twitter.com/iVWHU1VoI0
— Lincoln's Bible (@LincolnsBible) October 10, 2017
The comment section of Donna Karan New York, one of the designer's lines are full of vitriol as well.



Beauty supply giant Dove has apologized and said it "missed the mark in representing women of color thoughtfully," after it released a Facebook advertisement many social media users deemed racially insensitive.
The ad, posted on Friday, featured an African-American woman in a brown shirt taking off her top to reveal a white woman in a light-coloured shirt. Another image showed a white woman removing her shirt, revealing a woman who appeared to be of Asian descent.
Dove apologised for &#39;racist&#39; Facebook advert showing a black woman turning white after using @Dove lotion. pic.twitter.com/NGXyhnGuBZ
&mdash; Habeeb Akande (@Habeeb_Akande) October 8, 2017
On Saturday, Dove, which is owned by Dutch-British consumer goods company Unilever, released a statement via its official Twitter account, apologizing for the advertisement.
"An image we recently posted on Facebook missed the mark in representing women of color thoughtfully," the statement read. "We deeply regret the offense it caused."
An image we recently posted on Facebook missed the mark in representing women of color thoughtfully. We deeply regret the offense it caused.
&mdash; Dove (@Dove) October 7, 2017
After the soap company removed the ad, it issued an apology on Facebook, saying that the feedback it received will be considered in subsequent advertisements  
"Dove is committed to representing the beauty of diversity. In an image we posted this week, we missed the mark in thoughtfully representing women of color and we deeply regret the offense that it has caused. The feedback that has been shared is important to us and we’ll use it to guide us in the future," the statement read.
Despite having apologized and removed the ad, Dove set the internet ablaze. After the advertisement sparked a debate about racial sensitivity, many took to social media and chastised the beauty brand, even threatening to stop purchasing its products.
Dove said &quot;we missed the mark&quot;... man, y&#39;all missed the mark, get set, and go!
&mdash; laire (@laire) October 8, 2017
Any black business sell soap?? Dove made it clear they only want white ppl using their products, I&#39;m cool with that
&mdash; Sad Pitt (@Bbillions) October 8, 2017
Really @Dove ?? Now I can&#39;t patronize you anymore#iSeeWhatYoureImplying pic.twitter.com/M5McMLbCD2
&mdash; Jonica Booth (@Blu1x) October 8, 2017
Welp, looks like I’ve purchased my last pack of @Dove soap. #BoycottDove pic.twitter.com/zzcCVdTu4W
&mdash; Tiffany M. Graves (@tiffmgraves) October 8, 2017
Some users suggested that the company had a history of racially insensitive advertisements.  
Okay, Dove...One racist ad makes you suspect.Two racist ads makes you kinda guilty. pic.twitter.com/hAwNCN84h2
&mdash; Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) October 8, 2017
It’s not a new thing. They know what they are doing. pic.twitter.com/w1caubZsEV
&mdash; Complexion Magazine (@ComplexionMag) October 8, 2017
the racist dove ad is a continuation of a long history of racist soap advertising pic.twitter.com/nO7iDT7dxH
&mdash; /kaw·reɪdʒ/ (@kawrage) October 8, 2017
Definitely missed the mark there @DoveFYI Dark skin IS NORMAL pic.twitter.com/lUD9OJR46f
&mdash; Stacey B (@_StaceyBaptiste) October 8, 2017
A complete historical view is always important. #Dove pic.twitter.com/1vAxvGy0bh
&mdash; Kristina Chäadé Dove (@KristinaCDove) October 8, 2017
Dove is a Unilever brand. Unilever has multiple brands that have skin-whitening ranges, worth $billions in annual revenue.This is PR. https://t.co/atulOGkFzR
&mdash; Briganvenutius (@JordanLM__) October 8, 2017
Here is another! Y’all literally could’ve googled “racist soap ads” and it would show you ones just like yours. This is not ok pic.twitter.com/iJoEBR4TU4
&mdash; George M Johnson (@IamGMJohnson) October 8, 2017
Screenshots of the advertisement were circulated by American makeup artist Naomi Leann Blake, which went viral and was re-posted over a thousand times on Facebook and Twitter.
"So I'm scrolling through Facebook and this is the #dove ad that comes up.... ok so what am I looking at," she captioned the photo.
Some Facebook users seemed to be spilt on the subject.
"This is gross. You think people of color can just wash away their melanin and become white? What were you going for, exactly? Your creative director should be fired," Angela Reinders wrote on Facebook.
"I think they meant it's for all skin types... it went from black to white to another race," said one Facebook user.
"The third woman is definitely not white but this was a bad deliverance of the message that all can use the soap," posted another.
This isn’t the first time Dove received backlash after releasing ads deemed racially insensitive. In 2011, an ad sparked controversy after it showed three women with different skin tones in front of a wall marked "before and "after."
You have done it in the past._ pic.twitter.com/qaGG10bePw
&mdash; Nonhlanhla Mabhena (@N0n0zA) October 7, 2017
The woman in front of the "before" section had a darker skin tone, the woman in the middle was slightly lighter and the woman in front of the "after" sign was white. After the ad received criticism, Dove released a statement looking to clarify its objective.
"The ad is intended to illustrate the benefits of using Dove VisibleCare Body Wash, by making skin visibly more beautiful in just one week. All three women are intended to demonstrate the "after" product benefit. We do not condone any activity or imagery that intentionally insults any audience," the statement read.


Delta Air Lines announced Thursday that it will allow customers to treat themselves to a complimentary glass of Prosecco in-flight. The introduction of Avissi Prosecco will now be available to passengers on all international flights. It has not been confirmed as to whether this deal will eventually extend to flights in the United States. 
Customers of age have always had the option of choosing between beer, spirits, white wine and red wine in-flight. Prosecco, however, was only recently served to those seated in the aircraft's first-class section for free. All passengers flying internationally, even those seated in coach, will now be able to reap the benefits of the newly enhanced alcoholic beverage list that will include the popular fizzy drink.  
"Sparkling wine is often the first choice for a celebration and we know how special it is for people to jet off on a trip so we wanted to bring the celebration to them," Lisa Bauer, Delta's Vice President of On-Board Services, said in a press release Thursday. "Offering complimentary chef-curated food and drinks throughout the flight is one of the things that sets Delta apart and we’re upping the ante again with our mini bottles of Prosecco."
Passengers seated in Delta One, the airline's premium cabin for business class customers, will pair fall-inspired flavors with a selection of wines by Delta's Master Sommelier. The airline's sommelier reportedly tasted more than 1,300 wines to create a selective list that pairs well with the customer's in-flight experience. 
A representative for Delta Air Lines did not immediately return International Business Times' request for comment. 
Delta announced in May that it would begin serving complimentary Prosecco to fliers seated in the aircraft's first-class. Customers seated in the main cabin could order a glass of Avissi or La Marca Prosecco, but they would have to fork out $9 to do so. The deal, which began June 1, was a part of the airline's "industry-leading culinary strategy." 
"The airline is committed to offering an ever-changing variety of fresh, local and seasonal food and beverage options to enhance the on-board customer experience," the airline wrote in a May press release. 
This deal may not be directly available to Delta customers flying in the U.S., but it will be accessible through flights heading to Europe from John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) in New York, for example. 
Delta's complimentary Prosecco deal comes on the heels of the airline's free in-flight text messaging offer. Passengers will be able to use iMessage, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger to send texts in-flight.
"We know many of Delta's customers want or need to stay connected in the air and on the ground, which is why we're investing in an easy, free way to send and receive messages inflight through some of the most popular global platforms," Tim Mapes, Delta's Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, said in a September press release . "Coupled with our investments in seat-back screens, free entertainment and High-Speed Wi-Fi, free messaging is one more way customers can choose how to make the most of their time on Delta flights."
Delta is the first U.S. airline to offer passengers in-flight texting capabilities. Free mobile messaging was made available on all Gogo-enabled Delta flights October 1, including aircraft's that have two or more cabins. The service, however, will not allow passengers to send text or video messages at this time. 
Delta Air Lines, pictured Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on July 14, 2016, will now offer airline passengers free Prosecco.  Photo: Getty Images


