
A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are flat after Monday's losses. We get August new home sales and consumer confidence numbers this morning.
OBAMACARE REPLACEMENT
-Senator Susan Collins says she will vote no on the Graham-Cassidy Obamacare replacement bill, meaning it will likely not pass.
PUERTO RICO EMERGENCY
-The rescue effort is picking up on Puerto Rico as power, food, and water are still scarce. President Trump is also reminding the country that Puerto Rico still has massive debts.


The Federal Reserve's plan to methodically raise short-term interest rates over the next couple years may not boost bank shares, contrary to popular belief, and could instead hurt the group's profitability as it flattens the so-called yield curve, Deutsche Bank said.
Analyst Matt O'Connor downgraded shares of JPMorgan and regional bank PNC Financial late Monday to hold from buy for this reason. The yield curve is the difference between short term and long-term rates in the Treasury market and often runs parallel to the margin banks make on their loans.
"We continue to believe the yield curve will flatten as the Fed continues to boost short term rates, the unwind of the Fed's bond book isn't likely to meaningfully impact the demand/supply of those assets, and economic growth seems unlikely to significantly accelerate (for a sustained period)," wrote O'Connor. "In this environment, net interest income growth is likely to slow and credit costs may begin to inch up."
JPMorgan shares rose more than 40 percent the last 12 months, more than the 33 percent gain for the Financial Select SPDR, as CEO Jamie Dimon guided the bank through a difficult trading environment on Wall Street. Bank shares have perked up again recently as the Fed indicated a December hike was likely and traders bet the move would boost both short term and long term rates, making the industry's lending portfolios more profitable. Deutsche Bank disagrees, apparently.
JPMorgan fell slightly in premarket trading following the Deutsche call.
"Increased competition in investment banking/trading may erode some of JPM's recent gains," wrote the analyst. "Post crisis (including in recent years), JPM has gained large market share across its investment bank (IB fees, FICC and EQ trading). However, the competitive landscape seems to have increased and even JPM mgmt (at its 2017 investor day) has acknowledged it will be difficult to maintain share."
PNC has done even better than JPMorgan, up 52 percent in one year. But that run has made the Pittsburgh-based bank too expensive.
"PNC shares now trade at 14.4 times 2018 consensus or a 10% premium to the Large Regional peer group. This compares to a 5% discount on average over both the historical 25-year and 5-year time horizon. Some premium is warranted in our view given the positives noted above, but further multiple expansion seems harder to argue for and we're less positive on Large Regional banks in general given concerns surrounding a flatter yield curve," stated the note.
Deutsche still thinks factors such as loosening regulation and M&A activity can help the financial sector, but it favors "turnaround" stories such as Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo than the sector leaders. O'Connor also has a buy rating on Morgan Stanley.


Large-cap technology shares including the FANG basket crushed the market this year and drove hedge fund performance. But with the technology stalwarts faltering, what does that mean for the stock market?
"Some FANG stocks such as Amazon and Google/Alphabet have seen weakness before but usually it's been company-specific and not broad-based. Typically, Facebook and Netflix have held firm. Not today. Something looks to have changed," Fred Hickey, editor of High Tech Strategist, wrote in an email Monday.Facebook shares declined 4.5 percent on Monday, its worst day since November. The drop followed the disclosure last week that the social media company will share information with Congress about suspected Russian-linked election ads.
Netflix shares fell 4.7 percent on Monday after a report that 21st Century Fox is adding more inventory to its FX+ streaming service. Investors may be concerned that content owners are pulling more content from the streaming giant.
It's not just FANG — Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet. Apple has lost approximately $50 billion in market value since the company announced its latest line of products on Sept. 12 as investors worry over the strength of the new iPhone models' "super cycle."
Hickey believes it is not just fundamental news driving the sector lower, but it could be a reaction to the Federal Reserve's announcement Wednesday to roll off its $4.5 trillion balance sheet.
"When the QEs were announced by the Fed, stocks jumped across the board before the actual buying occurred. We may be seeing the reverse happen following Wednesday's Fed meeting when they announced QT [quantitative tapering]," he wrote.
So what does a falling technology sector mean for the S&P 500?
Using Kensho, a hedge fund analytics tool, we looked at what happens to the market during periods when the Technology Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLK) fell 5 percent or more in one month since the beginning of the bull market.

Since March 2009, a weak month for the technology sector is generally bad news for the market, according to Kensho. The study found the S&P 500 declined 17 times out of 18 instances the fund fell 5 percent or more in one month.
Bottom line: When tech stocks are falling, it's been nearly impossible during this bull market for the S&P 500 to post a gain without them participating.
Technology shares, along with industrial and consumer discretionary stocks, share the highest correlation with the market.

Despite the recent declines, the FANG stocks are still doing well on a year-to-date basis with Facebook up 42 percent, Amazon up 25 percent, Netflix up 44 percent and Alphabet up 18 percent through Monday versus the S&P 500's 12 percent return.
However, the big tech gains may be a sign of earlier excessive risk-taking by investors, which could mean a large reversal when the tide turns.


Oh man, it's happening again. Oil is rallying, and so are oil stocks. Both are up about 10 percent in a month.
And almost no one thinks it will last.
Here's the story this time: Oil supply is tightening. OPEC compliance with production levels has increased. The shale guys have increased activity, but not as much as some feared, and demand numbers have been steadily on the increase.
The result: a big oil rally, with Anadarko, Marathon, Hess, Devon, and Apache up double digits this month, and even Exxon and Chevron up 6 percent and 9 percent, respectively, both among the leaders of the Dow Jones industrial average for the month
Refiners like Holly, Valero and Phillips 66 have hit new highs as well.
We'll see. The whole energy story this year follows one heartbreak after another, and investors don't want anything to do with this sector.
Who could blame them? On at least three occasions, investors have had their heads handed to them, and we may now have a fourth heartbreak. Let me explain.
The first big energy rally occurred at the election, when energy stocks climbed 10 percent into the first weeks of December. The sector was far better than the 5 percent rally in the S&P 500 at the time.
But oil stocks were already off their highs as we entered the new year. They dropped steadily for the first two months of the year and accelerated their decline when oil dropped below $50 in March. They fell 12 percent from their highs, giving back all their postelection gains. That was the first heartbreak.
The second began when oil rallied in late March, going to almost $54 by mid-April, and investors again began buying oil stocks, pushing them up 6 percent in a month.
But it didn't last — oil resumed its slide and was again below $45 by early May and down to $42 in late June. The Energy Select Sector SPDR, the XLE, went almost straight down, losing 12 percent.
Then came the third heartbreak. A six-week rally took oil to $50 by early August, and oil stocks rose 6 percent, but again they gave it all back when oil dropped into the mid-$40s.
You'd think everyone would give up by now. But oil rallied 10 percent this month to its highest level since April, and we get the biggest oil stock rally of the year. The XLE is up 10 percent in a little more than a month.
Is the fourth heartbreak coming? Who knows. Looks to me like it's a rally based on fundamentals — so far. Investor sentiment is about as bad as you could ask for. There's little money in the sector, and that is certainly a plus. The energy weighting in the S&P 500 is 7 percent. It hasn't been that low in more than a decade.
So once again, the analysts are saying, you have some fundamental improvement, and you've got a lot of cheap stocks here. Anyone interested?
Anyone?


There's one classic market theory that could predict exactly when the next correction will occur.
Todd Gordon, founder of TradingAnalysis.com, says that the "Elliott wave" theory shows that while the S&P 500 has more room to rally, it will ultimately fall once it reaches a certain level. The framework, invented by Ralph Nelson Elliott, posits that each bull market rally goes through five different "waves" before a pullback occurs, with the first, third, and fifth waves moving upward while pullbacks happen in the second and fourth waves.
According to Gordon, the market is currently in that fifth and final upward wave. While the S&P 500 continues to climb, as it did in the first and third waves, once it finishes its current "trend channel," the market will begin to fall.
"At the current angle of ascent, I'm not calling a top [in the short term]," he said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "We could have a bit more of a rally, potentially reaching the 3,000 mark in the S&P 500."

That would represent a 20 percent rise from Monday's closing price.
Once the S&P does reach 3,000 the index could be set to come crashing down to 1,800, Gordon said. That would represent a 40 percent drop from those peaks.

"I think we stay long for now, but we need to be very aware that we are in distribution phase for this massive five-wave stock market rally," Gordon said.
The S&P 500 fell modestly Monday, dragged down by a drop in big tech stocks.
Disclaimer


As the Senate tries yet again to repeal and replace Obamacare and President Donald Trump tweet-blasts the National Football League, CNBC's Jim Cramer wonders who wants tax reform less.
"The White House seems like it still hasn't figured out what rates it wants, let alone what could possibly pass. They might as well be working from two different countries to solve the tax issue, and it's incredibly clear that Congress can't possibly tackle two things at once," the "Mad Money" host said on Monday. "Getting tax reform done in September turns out to be a pipe dream."
Cramer said it would be "fanciful" to think that the so-called Big Six — House Speaker Paul Ryan, Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn — could agree on much in the way of taxes.
Even as Republicans reportedly plan to release a tax reform framework this week, still-unresolved between the six leaders of the GOP-led tax overhaul are matters of expensing, effective tax rates for the country's richest households and how to fund the cuts.
Cramer likened the Republicans' situation to the Obama administration's efforts to reform the tax system. As long as former President Barack Obama pushed an issue on which all Republicans and a few Democrats didn't agree, any related legislation became a non-starter.
Now, all Democrats and a few Republicans don't agree on either health care or tax policy, a recipe for disaster when it comes to reform, the "Mad Money" host said.
"You simply can't pass a major piece of legislation in this country unless both the president and Congress are focused on it," Cramer said. "Right now, it feels like nobody's focused on tax reform, with the president more concerned about the national anthem, the NFL, and the ratings for football games."

Cramer pointed to the irony of CNN hosting a debate on health care reform Monday evening at the same time as the Cardinals-Cowboys football game.
More people will be focused on the players who kneel during the national anthem or get criticized by outspoken Cowboys owner Jerry Jones than on the problems Republicans are grappling with when it comes to health care, Cramer said.
"So September comes to a close and nothing of substance has been done in Washington," Cramer said. "It's the ultimate do-nothing Congress, and now we've also got a do-nothing White House, at least until the president stops acting like a sports talk radio personality. In short, if you were hoping for tax reform from this government, all I can say is don't hold your breath."


Sometimes, there are days like Monday, when CNBC's Jim Cramer sees the stock market's "rocket ships" fly too close to the sun.
"We actually had two rocket ships at work today: FANG and 'Rocket Man' himself, Kim Jong-Un, a nuclear menace who's now become the short-sellers' best friend, this time with his pronouncement that our flyovers of North Korea amount to a declaration of war," the "Mad Money" host said.
While FANG, Cramer's acronym for the stocks of Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google, now Alphabet, may have fallen out of favor with investors for climbing too much of late, some more uncommon stocks started to rally ahead of North Korea's latest statements.
For example, General Motors, an inexpensive stock that was hit hard in August by falling sales, rose to new highs today after Deutsche Bank analysts raised the stock's rating to "buy" from "hold," citing the automaker's highly competitive position in the development of self-driving cars.
Cramer found that the market, in turning away from the high-flying tech stocks for fear of overvaluation, is seeking out undervalued names like General Motors instead.
"The contrast was stark between the cheap stocks that managed to work their way higher [on Monday] and the more expensive stocks that got pulled back to earth by the gravitational pull of this high-valuation sell-off," he said. "Each winner has an individual reason for winning. All the losers suffered a uniform fate regardless of the news flow."
Market-watchers could argue that shares of Verizon and AT&T gained momentum on Monday because of their large dividends, which would provide investors with a stable income in the face of geopolitical turmoil.
But with T-Mobile and Sprint in talks to merge, a combination that would create three large telecom companies instead of four, phone bills could rise, meaning Verizon and AT&T could stand to make more money, Cramer said.
The "Mad Money" host also turned to the widely disliked retail sector, in which many players are struggling to stay afloat as online giants like Amazon encroach on brick-and-mortar business.
"Consider a stock like TJX [Companies], which soared today simply because it's been too unloved. Why not? Sometimes an unloved stock can become loved if it surprises to the upside, and that's exactly what one of my favorite analysts, Matthew Boss of JPMorgan, says will happen when TJX reports, which is why it's one of my charitable trust's biggest positions," Cramer said.
As for the day's losers, Cramer figured the negativity was mostly relative. Facebook's involvement in Congress' investigation into the 2016 election could have been enough for some investors to want to sell, he said. Amazon regularly comes under fire for being overvalued. Netflix's valuation is difficult to pinpoint and often in the eye of the beholder.
"If you look through the old news clips, they're filled with premature obituaries of FANG. Every one has been incredibly cogent. Every one's been wrong," Cramer said. "That's why I like to keep one foot in the rocket ship and another on earth."
Cramer added that when his favorite high-flyers get pummeled, he often finds them more attractive than when they rally to the stratosphere.
"Today was all about profit-taking in the winners and a love of the losers and I don't think that much more," the "Mad Money" host said. "Own some of both in a portfolio that's diversified not just by sector, but by riskiness, and I think you'll do just fine."


Move over David Bowie. The brothers who brought the world Eminem are trying to cash in by selling up to $50 million shares in a startup that makes money off the hip-hop artist's music collection, including  "Lose Yourself" and "The Real Slim Shady."
The startup, Royalty Flow, filed an offering at the Securities and Exchange Commission on Monday, outlining plans for a "mini-IPO."
Royalty Flow is selling a little more than 3.3 million shares to the public for $15 each, with a minimum investment of $2,250. It also aims to list on the Nasdaq. It will use the proceeds from the IPO to buy as much as 25 percent of Eminem music royalty rights from Jeff and Mark Bass, the Detroit-area producers who took on Eminem in his early days. Eventually the company plans to acquire more royalty rights.
The IPO could net the Bass brothers as much as $18.7 million.
"The music industry is booming," said Mike Smith, the CEO of Royalty Exchange, the company that is rolling out Royalty Flow, in an interview on CNBC's "Closing Bell." "Unfortunately for investors there aren't very  many ways they can participate directly in this. So that's why we're doing this. To give people direct exposure."
It would be just the latest example of a crowdfunded IPO under five-year-old rules allowing small companies to raise capital from regular investors. Prior to these rules, startups and young companies looking for money had to shop themselves around to private funds or affluent individuals who met certain income and net worth criteria.
Chicken Soup for the Soul Entertainment listed on Nasdaq last month after its own $30 million crowdfunded IPO, which it billed as the largest yet.
David Bowie turned heads on Wall Street 20 years ago when he packaged up rights to some 300 of his recordings and sold them in a $55 million bond to Prudential Insurance Company of America. The "Bowie bond" paid a 7.9 percent annual rate over 10 years backed by the income from his royalties and record sales.
It was the first in what was to become one of the stranger corners of finance, where bankers managed to create bonds and other securities for a host of cash-generating businesses, including billboard rentals, film libraries and restaurant franchises, selling them to specialty hedge funds and other professional investors.
The Royalty Flow IPO could be the first music royalty-backed security open directly to ordinary people on an exchange. But the music streaming company Spotify is exploring a direct listing, which could come later this year or early next year.
Royalty Flow is calling itself an emerging growth company. Its plan to focus on music rights that generate 8 percent to 16 percent annual returns and eventually branch out to movie, television and trademark rights. It will pay investors dividends based on those returns.
Eminem, whose real name is Marshall Mathers, sold over 172 million records worldwide. The royalties earned by the portion of his catalog being acquired grew 43 percent from 2015 to 2016, according to the offering document. Streaming was 46 percent of royalties earned last year.


Shares of offshore drilling and services companies surged on Monday after UBS upgraded several stocks in the space and as oil prices hit multi-month highs.
Transocean's stock jumped 7 percent to nearly $10. Shares of Diamond Offshore were up about 6.5 percent, above $14 share. Noble Corporation rose 10.8 percent to trade above $4.50. Ensco International cracked $5.50 per share, up 6.9 percent. Rowan Companies tacked on 3.4 percent to trade at nearly $12.
UBS raised its price targets for offshore drilling equipment providers, pointing to signs of improving demand for oil rigs and stabilization in the sector. The bank's view that oil prices will normalize in 2020 and 2021, as well as measures taken to push out debt payments, bolsters the case for the companies, analysts said in a research note released on Monday.
"We conservatively assumed oil prices in the high-$50's to low-$60's by 2020 (below UBS estimate of $67/bbl WTI). However, if oil prices retrench to below $50/bbl and remain at those levels into 2020 financial risk exists given levered balance sheets," UBS said.
On Monday, Brent crude prices rose above $58 to the highest level in more than two years, while U.S. crude topped $51 a barrel for the first time in four months.
UBS sees utilization for drill ships and jack-up rigs improving slightly next year, followed by greater demand growth in 2019 and 2020. Three years of weak oil prices have weighed on demand for offshore drilling services.
Steady utilization rates and growing rig demand for existing wells are offsetting the expiration of long-term contracts, the bank said.
"However, for the sector to truly tighten exploration (or greenfield) drilling would need to return which would only begin to occur with oil prices in the high-$50 to low-$60s," the analysts wrote.
UBS raised its forecasts for 2018 earnings before certain expenses in the space by about 25 percent. While the new stock price targets are still below recent 52-week highs, UBS analysts said they believe there is 15 percent to 60 percent upside to those targets.
Shares of offshore drillers were down about 80 percent from highs reached in 2013 and 2014, but have risen about 25 percent from those lows in the last month, UBS noted.


Gold surged Monday after North Korea's foreign minister accused President Donald Trump of declaring war.

Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters in New York the alleged declaration gives North Korea the right to strike back. Actions could include shooting down U.S. bombers, he said, even when they are not inside the North Korean airspace.
Gold futures for December delivery rose 1.09 percent on the news at $1,311.70 an ounce following the foreign minister's comments. They were trading down by about 0.05 percent beforehand.


The price of bitcoin rose sharply on Monday with its price spiking up 7 percent midday, according to CoinDesk market data.
The price of the cryptocurrency is up nearly 300 percent year to date.

Bitcoin is still under the $4,000 level, which it broke through after JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon said on Sept. 12 that the cryptocurrency is a "fraud" that will eventually blow up.
In addition, recent reports said regulators in China have ordered bitcoin exchanges to close hurt the digital currency's price.
"In my opinion, the markets overreacted to the China news. In the short term, it was bad news, but long term the fundamentals are unchanged," William Mougayar, author of "The Business Blockchain," wrote in an email.
-CNBC's Evelyn Cheng contributed to this report



Here's a bright and booming sector within retail.
Off-price retailers — TJ Maxx owner TJX, Ross Stores and Burlington — are expected to see incremental sales growth of $18 billion to $19 billion by 2021, according to JPMorgan. And that boost will primarily stem from the demise of department store chains, analyst Matthew Boss wrote in a Monday note to clients.
"We expect off-price will be the primary beneficiary of this brick & mortar sales volume up for grabs and benefit from the plethora of close-out merchandise for several years," Boss said.
And when it comes to the growing threat of Amazon, the Street shouldn't be worried about off-price players losing market share, Boss added.
Shares of Ross Stores were climbing more than 3 percent Monday, following JPMorgan's report.
TJX's stock was up more than 1 percent, while shares of Burlington were up close to 2.5 percent on the day. Burlington has been the biggest gainer of the three of late, having climbed more than 8 percent in 2017.
Here's the argument for off-price retail: Amazon's encroachment into the apparel industry more closely resembles a full-price department store, instead of a Ross or TJ Maxx model, JPMorgan's Boss said. He cited the internet giant's Prime Wardrobe pricing structure as an example, saying the fashion focus at Amazon instead looks to mirror companies like Macy's and J.C. Penney.
Since 2011, department stores have lost roughly $25 billion in sales on a combined basis, and are on pace to lose another $22 billion in sales over the next five years, should the downward trend continue, JPMorgan found.
Off-price retailers, on the other hand, have gained $14 billion since 2011, the firm said.
JPMorgan has upgraded Ross Stores to overweight, giving the stock a fresh price target of $74 per share, up from $65. The stock was trading near $63 per share Monday morning.
An important point to also be made is just how difficult the off-price model — offering a treasure-hunt type experience — would be for Amazon to copy online, Boss emphasized in his report. He cites "high barriers to entry" to tapping into the concept successfully.
"The model is difficult to replicate with over 1,000 buyers worldwide currently sourcing from 18,000 vendors in 100+ countries," he said.
Ross Stores' management team has also stepped up defending its turf.
"If I was Amazon, I don't think I'd be looking at the off-price space as my big opportunity," Ross Stores chief operating officer, Michael O'Sullivan, said at an investor conference earlier this month.
"I think within the world of retail, especially given the economics ... I don't think off-price is really the place where I'd focus my energy," O'Sullivan added about Amazon. "Doing a treasure hunt online is much more hit or miss, because you are not actually seeing — or you're seeing it, you're just not experiencing the product in a same way that you would if you were in a store."
Amazon didn't immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
At a time when many retailers are shuttering stores to get back to a "healthy" footprint, off-price companies have plans to open more doors in the years ahead. TJX even recently rolled out an entirely new nameplate, Homesense, in the United States.
JPMorgan has called out Ross' long-term store target of 2,500 locations as being "conservative."
"The growth runway for ROST is well beyond 10 years," he said, adding that — based on meetings with Ross' management team — JPMorgan believes real estate landlords are more willing to partner with Ross today, especially given the "fall-out" in the sporting goods and office space.
Ross Stores, TJX and Burlington are each forecasting same-store sales growth to close out the year — not something many retailers can promise in such a volatile market today.


Shares in meal kit delivery service Blue Apron rose 3 percent Monday after an upgraded 'buy' rating from Guggenheim.
Blue Apron leads the meal kit delivery service sector, which the rating firm estimates will grow at a rate of 25 percent to $10 billion in the next 3 years, according to a note released Monday.
Blue Apron controls approximately 20 percent of the market share for the sector, the note said.
"Given their proof of concept and evolving management strategy, we think they can effectively compete and sustain the brand's leadership position," Guggenheim said.
Before the open Monday shares of Blue Apron were trading around $5.34.



General Motors' strong competitive position in autonomous vehicle (AV) technology is widely underestimated by investors, according to a Wall Street firm.
Deutsche Bank raised its rating on the automaker's shares to buy from hold, saying the company will attain a large market share of the new AV market.
"GM's AV's will be ready for commercial deployment, without human drivers, much sooner than widely expected (within quarters, not years), and potentially years ahead of competitors," analyst Rod Lache wrote in a note to clients Sunday. "We believe that businesses built off of this platform will ramp much faster than is widely expected. A fast ramp could perpetuate sustainable advantages. And we believe that this will be material, even to a company of GM's size."
Shares of General Motors, incorporated in 1908, are up 13 percent year to date through Friday compared with the S&P 500's 12 percent return. Lache raised his price target for General Motors shares to $51 from $36, representing 29 percent upside from Friday's close.
The analyst has just a hold rating on the more popular car of the future play on Wall Street, Tesla.
Lache estimates up to 60 percent of U.S. households in cities may find it better to use autonomous vehicle services instead of owning a car. He forecasts more than 2 percent of U.S. miles driven in 2025 will be through "autonomous on demand mobility" offerings, then rising to 10 percent share by 2030.
Lache believes General Motors can attain 17.5 percent share of the market. He cited how the company has said the autonomous vehicle and mobility business could be a potential $7 trillion global market.
"This is a massive market opportunity," he wrote. "The monetization model is recurring in nature (vs. the transactional/cyclical model that automakers live in today), and likely to receive a healthy valuation."
The analyst predicts General Motors' autonomous vehicle could be deployed within the next six quarters.
"GM management believes that their AV's, which are being tested in some of the most complex urban environments (the City of San Francisco), will be ready for commercial deployment much sooner than is widely expected," Lache wrote.
General Motors shares rose 2.9 percent shortly after Monday's market open.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


Apple investors are now suffering from an unusual condition: loss of money.
After surging as much as 42 percent from the end of 2016 to the beginning of September, Apple has seen a bracing series of losses. The stock slid 5 percent last week alone, for its worst weekly performance in more than a year.
Recent concerns have revolved around Apple's new iPhone 8 and iPhone X products, which were unveiled on Sept. 12. Mild reviews for the iPhone 8 and talk of short lines for the product appear to have taken some wind out of the stock's sails.
Yet Wall Street analysts, always a group somewhat predisposed toward looking on the bright side, say the lack of enthusiasm could actually be a bullish indicator.
"Any Weakness for Early Sales of iPhone 8 Could Be a Case of 'Short-term Pain for Long-Term Gain,'" Piper Jaffray analyst Michael Olson advised in a Friday note. He explained that "potential buyers may wait for iPhone X," and that since the X will tend to be about $250 more expensive than the 8, "a mix shift toward iPhone X, even to the detriment of near-term iPhone 8 units, is positive for Apple."


The market is chugging its way into the last week of September — noted, as we know, for being the worst month of the year historically but now shaping up as just another notch in the bull market's belt.
The Dow has managed to squeak out another 1.7 percent gain that has taken the year-do-date surge to better than 13 percent.
Politics likely will be a big market influence in the days ahead, with a major congressional initiative expected this week.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
General Motors – Deutsche Bank upgraded the automaker's stock to "buy" from "hold," saying GM is poised to benefit from a much-faster-than-expected commercial deployment of autonomous vehicles. The firm also said the potential valuation of GM's mobility business is "too big to ignore."
Facebook — The social media giant dropped plans to issue a new class of shares that would allow founder Mark Zuckerberg to keep voting control and fund Facebook's philanthropy efforts. Zuckerberg said the value of Facebook's stock has grown sufficiently since the original proposal to accomplish both of those goals and that he has withdrawn the proposal.
Procter & Gamble – Trian Fund Management sent another letter to P&G shareholders, once again urging them to vote for the election of Trian's Nelson Peltz to the company's board.
Genuine Parts – The autoparts company is buying Alliance Automotive Group, Europe's second-largest distributor of vehicle parts, from private-equity funds managed by Blackstone and Alliances' co-founders. The deal is valued at $2 billion, including repayment of Alliance's outstanding debt.
General Electric – GE sold its Industrial Solutions unit to Swiss power grid maker ABB for $2.6 billion.
Walt Disney – Disney threatened to pull its programming from Altice's Optimum service if the two sides can't reach a new deal before the end of the month.
ADP – ADP is in the news again, as the proxy fight between the payroll processing company and hedge fund manager Bill Ackman continues. Ackman is now targeting retail investors in his efforts to get himself and two associates elected to ADP's board.
Unilever – The consumer products company struck a deal to buy Korean skin-care firm Carver Korea for $2.7 billion. Carver Korea is currently owned by Bain Capital and Goldman Sachs, which bought the company a little over a year ago.
Shake Shack, Chipotle, Wingstop – The restaurant chains may be added to Amazon.com's Amazon Restaurants delivery service through its partnership with mobile ordering and pay platform Olo, according to a Bloomberg report.
Ross Stores – The discount retailer was upgraded to "overweight" from "neutral" at JPMorgan Chase, with the price target increased to $74 per share from $65. JPM said it came away from a meeting with management feeling more positive about the off-price retail sector.
Transocean — Transocean was upgraded to "buy" from "neutral" at UBS, which expects the oilfield services company's business to improve in the medium term.
AIG — AIG will remain under federal supervision for now, according to The Wall Street Journal. That follows a meeting of U.S. officials Friday to discuss the insurer's future. AIG will continue to carry the "systemically important" label, which subjects it to extra scrutiny. Separately, AIG announced changes to its organizational structure that eliminates its Commercial and Consumer segments. It will transition to General Insurance and Life & Retirement segments, as well as a standalone technology-enabled platform.
Blue Apron – Guggenheim began coverage on the meal kit maker with a "buy" rating, saying the company participates in a high growth category and is likely to be able to sustain its competitive advantage.
Under Armour – The athletic apparel maker's stock was upgraded to "overweight" from "sector weight" at KeyBanc, saying Under Armour should benefit from the addition of a new chief operating officer as well as a renewed focus on improving its financial performance.
Quest Diagnostics – The medical lab operator's stock was downgraded to "market perform" from "outperform", noting that the new payment rates released by the federal Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services are close to its "worst case scenario".
Colgate-Palmolive – The consumer products maker was upgraded to "overweight" from "equal-weight" at Morgan Stanley, which increased the price target to $84 per share from $75. Morgan Stanley said current valuation provides a "rare opportunity" to buy a well-positioned business compared to less attractive peers.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are a bit down after last week's net gains for the major indices.
-Violent crime rose in the U.S. in 2016 for the second straight year.
OBAMACARE REPLACEMENT
-The GOP has made funding revisions to the Graham-Cassidy Obamacare replacement bill that sweeten the deal for some holdout Republican senators. A Senate committee hearing on the bill is set for today.





Index funds have eased much of the decision-making process of investing, except when it comes to selecting your strategy.
When financial advisor Tim Courtney evaluated a prospective client's portfolio last year, he found the entire savings was placed in a myriad of different index funds. A good sign — had they not all tracked the same large U.S. company indexes.
If an economic headwind came blowing through large-cap stocks, the client's entire portfolio would suffer, because each investment would "behave very similarly," said Courtney, who is CIO of Exencial Wealth Advisors.
Courtney's client sought the comfort of index funds but failed to realize that by investing entirely in U.S. large-cap companies, she inherently made a call on the market: that the only safe haven was in large American stocks.
As investors flood index funds with new investments, they're taught that it's the passive strategy that will perform long-term. And it's true; passive index funds outperform most active managers over a 10-year period. But that doesn't mean you're not making investing decisions.
When you first pick your funds, you're making a call on the market or having your internal biases play a role in the index you choose. This leaves you susceptible to common oversights.


Unless you're born with a silver spoon in your mouth, accruing wealth doesn't come easily, which is why CNBC's Jim Cramer is so passionate about helping investors find a viable financial strategy.
"Thanks to the magic of compounding, the earlier in your life you start investing in the market, the bigger your long-term gains can be," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer is confident that even if an investor does not have a high-paying job, as long as he saves a decent chunk of his paycheck and invests it wisely each year, he can grow his wealth and become financially independent, at the very least.
In fact, when the "Mad Money" host researched the S&P 500 going all the way back to 1928, the average annual return through the end of 2014 was about 10 percent, including dividends.
"Show me an asset class with a better average return. You can't do it! Stocks aren't just the best game in town, they are really the only game in town if your goal is to grow your wealth," Cramer said.
The 10 percent average return on the S&P 500 may not seem impressive at first, despite the fact that it is more than double what one can expect from a 30-year Treasury bond and much more than what a certificate of deposit from a bank pays.
However, if you understand the magic of compounding, the gain is impressive. For instance, if $100 is invested in the S&P 500 and it gains 10 percent in a year, that will generate $110, after another year it's $121 and after a third year it's $133.
The gains will continue to grow, because each year, money is made from the previous year's profits. With that 10 percent average annual return, an investor can double his money in about seven years, Cramer said.
"The magic of compounding works best the younger you are because that means you have more time for your money to grow," Cramer said.
For instance, if a 22-year-old is just entering the workforce, she has more than 40 years before she retires. She can invest $10,000 in an S&P index fund right now with the anticipation that the next 40 years will not be too different from the last 40 years.
In that case, if the average return remains at 10 percent, in 40 years that $10,000 investment will be worth more than $450,000. Making that money did not require any stock picking, trading or even research on individual companies.
"All you have to do after you initially save that money is let it sit on the sidelines, ideally in a 401(k) plan or an IRA so that you don't' have to pay capital gains or dividend taxes on your gains," Cramer said, with reference to Individual Retirement Accounts.
The same logic can be applied to those in different age groups, but the "Mad Money" host insists that it is best to start early to get the biggest bang for your buck.


A global investor group on Friday called for an independent investigation into a cyber breach at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and urged the regulator to delay new data-gathering rules until it could assure investors that its computer systems were secure.
Wall Street's top regulator came under fire on Thursday after admitting hackers had breached its database of corporate announcements in 2016 and might have used it for insider trading.
The Investment Company Institute (ICI), which represents over 95 million U.S. shareholders, wants the SEC to clear up concerns about its cyber defenses before requiring funds to submit monthly performance data to the regulator, Paul Schott Stevens, the group's chief executive, told Reuters in a phone interview.
"What the SEC breach now makes very clear is precisely what we were concerned about - that market-sensitive information of that nature can be exploited to the disadvantage of millions and millions of investors," Stevens said.
ICI, whose members hold $20 trillion plus in assets, has raised concerns about how the SEC safeguarded industry data it gathers since 2015.
"I'm certain there will be a full inquiry by the Government of Accountability Office — and there should be, so we understand exactly what happened here," Stevens said.
In a July report, the Government Accountability Office (GAO), a congressional watchdog, criticized the SEC for failing to fully protect its computer networks from cyber attacks and recommended a slew of improvements. Some of recommendations it had made in previous reports had still not been implemented, it noted.
Former SEC Chair Mary Jo White, in office when the hack occurred, told Reuters in 2016 that cyber security posed the biggest risk to the U.S. financial system.
Her successor, Jay Clayton, uncovered the full extent of the hack after launching a review of the SEC's cyber security standards earlier this year.
"Some recommendations the GAO made haven't yet been implemented. There's obviously a failure here of some kind. That's why we're so glad Chairman Clayton has moved to address this," said Stevens.
The SEC declined to comment.
New reporting rules which start to come into force in December would require funds for the first time to confidentially file complete monthly portfolio holdings with the SEC, data which the ICI has said could easily be used for insider trading if obtained by hackers.
"Until that information security environment has been established, funds should continue to collect data quarterly, not monthly information, as quarterly data is not nearly as sensitive," said Stevens.
The SEC disclosure came two weeks after credit-reporting company Equifax said a breach had exposed sensitive personal of data up to 143 million U.S. customers. This followed last years cyber attack on SWIFT, the global bank messaging system.
Stevens said rules governing the disclosure of such breaches should be tighter for both public and private organizations.
"That disclosure obligation fixes the mind on need to fix the breach in the first instance."


Jim Cramer has not recommended bonds ever since the 2008 financial crisis because interest rates have been so low.
But that does not mean that there is not a place for bonds in a portfolio. In fact, he says they play an essential role in investing, especially as investors get older.
"In general, for the last few years, even when the stock market has been getting absolutely pounded, bonds simply haven't represented very good values versus equities," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer has always had the notion that excessive prudence can be one of the most reckless strategies of all. If too much money is invested in safe, risk-free U.S. Treasury bonds, that basically insures a very low return on an investment. So, for those who want to grow their capital, stocks are the only game in town.
Stocks are a tool to make money, Cramer said, and bonds are for capital preservation — for protecting money and providing a small, steady return that can offset the impact of inflation.
"Depending on how old you are, there is a huge difference in how you should approach the very idea of putting your money in bonds," Cramer said.
Cramer believes many financial experts tell their clients to own bonds a lot earlier in their lifetime than when is really necessary. An investor will likely not get rich from only owning Treasury bonds.
So for investors under 35 who own a bunch of bonds with the idea that they will slowly make money, Cramer thinks they are being too cautious.
Even in a 401(k) or an Individual Retirement Account, Cramer recommends that younger investors weigh their investments very heavily toward stocks, particularly because these types of accounts will allow investors to avoid capital gains or dividend taxes. That means gains can compound, tax-free, year after year.
However, as investors grow older, owning Treasury bonds becomes absolutely essential because bonds are simply safer. So, once investors have used the stock market to make themselves financially independent, they should put more money into U.S. Treasuries for protection.
How much of a retirement portfolio should be kept in bonds versus stocks? Cramer broke it down by age:
"You're going to be living off your investments for the rest of your life, so some part of your portfolio should always be trying to create more wealth in case you live longer than you expect and need more money to support yourself," Cramer said.
So, for younger investors, Cramer says putting money into bonds is a "fool's game." But as one grows older, that bond exposure should grow. This will ensure that the wealth generated from stocks is protected against the volatility of the stock market.


Digital currency trading is exploding and daily volume could "soon" surpass that of Apple, according to a strategist closely followed by hedge funds.
"Cryptocurrency trading volume is now more than of $3bn/day on average, and will likely soon surpass that of the world's most liquid stock: Apple ($4bn/day),"Jens Nordvig, founder and CEO of Exante Data, said in a note Friday.
Nordvig said global daily trading volume between the two largest digital currencies, bitcoin and ethereum, into traditional currencies has multiplied eight times in the last year.

Bitcoin has surged this year, briefly increasing fivefold before tumbling amid a Chinese crackdown on digital currencies and criticism from JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon this month. Bitcoin traded slightly lower near $3,524 midday Friday, but it is still up about 260 percent for the year, according to CoinDesk.
Many digital currency enthusiasts have noted that bitcoin is a way for new investors to access the growing number of digital currencies. Industry website CoinMarketCap lists more than 350 cryptocurrencies with a market value of more than $1 million each.
The total market value of all digital currencies was $121 billion Friday, according to CoinMarketCap.
Bitcoin price year to date

Source: CoinDesk

Ethereum traded mildly lower near $256, but was still more than 2,500 percent higher for the year, according to CoinDesk.
While digital currency trading volume has taken off, average daily trading volume in U.S. stocks fell in August to its lowest in three years, according to market researcher Tabb Group.
That said, Nordvig is still cautious on the often volatile digital currencies.
"We do not believe that one can predict with confidence at this point that any given cryptocurrency will continue to thrive and gain status as an alternative to traditional currencies in the long term," Nordvig said. "But we look forward to using the information from an increasingly active cryptocurrency market in our tracking of global capital flows, when appropriate."



The power of Facebook advertising — let's say they can identify 2 billion people around the world based on 200 points of data, which allows them to offer advertisers the holy grail of targeting. Now companies know exactly who is seeing their ads — only the "right" potential consumers. This is unheard of in the history of the world.
Facebook's shareholders have been rightfully rewarded for the company's marketing prowess. It now sports a market capitalization of $500 billion – the only two companies worth more are Apple and Microsoft. Exxon, J&J, Google, JP Morgan, Berkshire – they're all worth less.
So it is true that Facebook has an amazing marketing product and it is also true that the world now fully appreciates this fact.
But what if not everyone agrees to play along? What if this ability to micro-target every living human being to the degree of 200 individual data points is not okay anymore? For example, what if a foreign government — say, Germany — decides that 200 data points is too much information for Facebook to collect and make available about their citizens to advertisers? What if Germany says, "You know what? This is not okay. From now on, you can only utilize 100 of those 200 data points. We don't want our sovereign citizens targeted to that degree by anyone — dishwashing detergent firms, political parties, special interest groups — it's too much influence."
Now what if this happens, and Facebook acquiesces so as to stay out of court, and then a month later Japan says they'd like the same thing? And then the Netherlands? And then the state of Florida? And then the city of Las Vegas? And so on? What if the world begins to make the decision that no entity — corporate or otherwise — ought to have the sort of broad, unchecked free reign that Facebook (and to a lesser extent, Google) has enjoyed over the last few years?
Does Facebook face them all down, one after another, to preserve their advertising technology advantage? Or do they willfully comply and water down their programs? In either case, could this conceivably be a positive for shareholders of Facebook stock?
I can't imagine how.
Can you?
Now you might be saying, "That's not realistic! No one is going to require Facebook to become less good at what they do!"
You'd be wrong. This is absolutely within the realm of possibility, historically speaking. They did it to Microsoft twenty years ago and it's taken the company approximately this entire span of time since to recover. They did it to AT&T back in the day, the irony being that shareholders made a lot more money once all of the component spin-off subsidiaries were given to them. They did it to John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil, even though it took almost twenty years to make it through the courts. By the time they were done with him, it was almost like a relief.
Governments that feel threatened or genuinely fear for the safety and/or competitive position of their constituents will absolutely take action if they feel the need to. Uber must now negotiate with the city of London in order to keep operating there beyond the end of September. They'll probably get to stay, but not without concessions. Might some of those concessions include a lightening up of the company's competitive advantages over the black car taxi system that's long held sway in that city?
This week Facebook announced that it will make public all of the ads purchased by Russian interests during the 2016 elections. That's a start. But the bigger question should not be about the content of the ads or the purported sponsors. It should be about how it can be possible that ads like these can be so lethally effective. The answer, of course, is that Facebook has a one-of-a-kind delivery method to ensure direct hits. How will that sit with Congress when they begin to get their heads around this concept. I am convinced that, for the most part, they are until now completely clueless.
If a government decides that there is a such thing as too much influence being held by a corporation, technology giant or otherwise, there is a risk to its shareholders. We do not live and work in some sort of utopian paradise where all progress is universally celebrated and allowed, unmolested, to do what it will, to whom it will, with what information it pleases.
And I'm not sure how many fishing trips and RV rides Mark Zuckerberg has the time to go on, around the world, in order to preserve the company's monopoly on our collective attention.
This commentary was originally published on TheReformedBroker.com.
Josh Brown is the creator of The Reformed Broker blog, CEO of Ritholtz Wealth Management and a regular on CNBC"s "Halftime Report." Follow him on Twitter @reformedbroker.
For more insight from CNBC contributors, follow 

@CNBCopinion

 on Twitter.


Billionaire venture capitalist Jim Breyer is still bullish on large technology stocks in the U.S. and China for the next decade.
CNBC's Mike Santoli spoke with Breyer in an exclusive interview for CNBC PRO on the sidelines of the Delivering Alpha conference in New York last week. Santoli asked the technology investor about his outlook for the industry.
"Five years ago, at Delivering Alpha, I mentioned that Facebook, Apple, Netflix, Google, and the Chinese internet companies were exceptional five-year investments. I still believe that," he said.
Breyer includes Apple in his FANG acronym basket, which is slightly different from the FANG list of Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Alphabet (formerly known as Google) created and popularized by CNBC's Jim Cramer.
The investor is also optimistic on the large Chinese internet companies he calls the "BAT" stocks, which includes Baidu, Alibaba and Tencent. He explained why his FANG and BAT stocks will continue to thrive.
"The FANG plus BAT companies over a five- to 10-year period, from here, I think as a basket, will continue to perform extremely well. They are founder-driven, they are hiring some of the best AI talent in the world, both in the U.S. companies and China," the investor said.
Breyer is the founder and CEO of Breyer Capital, a global venture capital firm based in Menlo Park, California. He has been an investor in more than 40 consumer internet/technology companies that have completed successful public offerings or mergers, including Facebook, Etsy and Marvel Entertainment.
See here 
 for the full CNBC PRO report and the interview video.


Closely followed trader Art Cashin told CNBC on Friday that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un will be in "big trouble" without China's financial backing.
On Thursday, Reuters reported that China's central bank has told banks to stop doing business with North Korea amid U.S. concerns that Beijing has not been tough enough about Pyongyang's repeated nuclear tests.
"If (China) follows through on what they did that could be a game changer," said Cashin, UBS director of floor operations at the New York Stock Exchange.
"There have been about four or five Chinese banks that have been carrying North Korea. And, if they stop, then (Kim) is going to be in really big trouble," Cashin added in an interview on "Squawk on the Street." "If Chinese banks stop helping them out, they're going to be in dire straits."
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross echoed Cashin's read on China's banking directive regarding North Korea.
Beijing "sent a message to North Korea that China is not being as supportive of them as it had been," Ross told CNBC on Friday, adding it's "a very welcome move" in conjunction with new U.S. efforts to halt funding for Pyongyang's missile program.
"A lot of the goods going into North Korea have been in support of the missile program and the nuclear program. If we can cut off their ability to import those things that would be very good," he said.
Before joining the Trump administration, Ross amassed a net worth of about $2.5 billion by investing in distressed assets.


Tiffany's sales problems are not likely to be fixed anytime soon, according to a top Wall Street firm.
Goldman Sachs lowered its rating for Tiffany shares to neutral from buy, predicting difficulties in the company's higher-end luxury goods segment even though new management is working to revive revenue growth.
"We remain constructive that new leadership and product initiatives set the stage for accelerating top-line growth over time," analyst Lindsay Drucker Mann wrote in a note to clients Friday. "However, fresh weakness in Tiffany's highest price point categories leaves us concerned that the turnaround timeline is pushed further out."
Tiffany's comparable sales growth in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions declined 1 percent and 7 percent, respectively, in the second quarter of this year "despite easy multi-year comparisons." The company reported an overall comparable sales decline of 2 percent in the July quarter.
The analyst noted weakness in Tiffany's higher-priced categories, including engagement, wedding, high, fine and solitaire jewelry even though it has improved results in lower-priced designer and fashion categories. "Tiffany has improved its lower price point Designer and Fashion offering, but we are concerned that stabilizing high-end categories will be more challenging."
Drucker Mann lowered her Tiffany price target to $94, which is 5 percent higher than Thursday's closing price. Her previous price target was $106.
Without a solid rebound in revenue, "We see limited room for multiple expansion from here," she wrote.
Tiffany shares are up 16 percent year to date through Thursday versus the S&P 500's 12 percent gain. Its stock fell 3 percent shortly after the opening of trading Friday after the report.
The company did not immediately respond to a request for comment.



Apple's rollout of two major new iPhone models this year will pay dividends for the company, according to one Wall Street firm.
Piper Jaffray reiterated its overweight rating and raised its price target for the smartphone maker, predicting Apple's more expensive iPhone offerings will boost its earnings.
Michael Olson, analyst at Piper, raised his price target for Apple shares to $196, which is 28 percent higher than Thursday's closing level. His old target was $190.
The higher-priced iPhone 8 and iPhone X should raise Apple's average selling price overall, Olson wrote in a note to clients Friday. "We recommend owning Apple on potential for a strong overall iPhone cycle, rising ASPs and a favorable services revenue trajectory."
Despite recent weakness this month, Apple is still one of the market's best-performing large-cap stocks so far this year. Its shares have rallied 32 percent through Thursday versus the S&P 500's 12 percent gain.
"If iPhone 8 is weak, it sounds crazy, but that can actually be a good thing because it means iPhone X could be stronger," Olson said on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "That would just be a positive mix shift for Apple as it shifts toward higher priced models."
The analyst estimates Apple's fiscal 2018 iPhone ASP will be $710 versus the $696 Wall Street consensus. As a result, he raised his estimate for the company's fiscal 2018 earnings per share to $11.11 from $10.68 compared with the $10.89 Street average.
"We believe the changes in iPhone X (vs. previous iPhone models), to both form and function, will be a catalyst to drive many new & existing iPhone users to consider an iPhone later this year," he wrote.
The iPhone X will be available on Nov. 3 at a base model price of $999.


Amazon bought grocery chain Whole Foods, and now it wants to work with more restaurants as it moves further into the food industry.
The internet giant has partnered with Olo, a New York-based food delivery service, to list Olo's clients on the Amazon Restaurants food delivery section of Amazon.com.
GrubHub, a rival Chicago-based restaurant takeout service, saw its shares fall more than 6 percent on the news, before regaining some ground to a drop of nearly 2 percent.
"Amazon's obsession with providing great customer and restaurant experience supports the evolving expectations and behaviors of today's consumer," said Noah Glass, CEO of Olo, about the deal.
Amazon Restaurants has integrated into Rails, Olo's application programming interface, which allows for restaurants to list their menus on third-party marketplaces.
Through the integration, Olo's restaurant partners will be featured on Amazon Restaurants, enabling orders through the delivery provider to go directly through a point-of-sale system.
Some of Olo's clients include Chipotle, Denny's, Shake Shack and Wingstop.
The goal of this partnership is to simplify the process for restaurants once customers' orders come in, while also allowing for companies to limit the amount of orders that they take during peak hours, Olo said in a press release.
"This integration will enable Amazon Restaurants to onboard new restaurants with ease, as well as quickly add more new choices and delivery options for customers," added Gus Lopez, general manager of Amazon Restaurants.
"We are excited to leverage Olo's digital ordering technology and continue rapidly growing our network of restaurants to give Amazon Prime members more options for fast delivery from their favorite brands," Lopez said.
GrubHub shares have been on a tear this year, up more than 35 percent in 2017. Last month, Yelp announced it was selling Eat24, its online food-ordering business, to GrubHub. The brands Seamless and MenuPages are also owned by GrubHub.
The race is on to get food delivered from popular restaurants to customers, and more quickly than ever before.


Finish Line shares rebounded Friday after tumbling more than 11 percent at one point in early trading.
The athletic footwear market became "much more promotional" in July and August, which pressured the retailer's second-quarter sales and gross margins, CEO Sam Sato told analysts and investors Friday. He said he expects Finish Line's sales and margin trends to remain difficult for the rest of the year, but said he's confident in the retailer's long-term strategies. Finish Lines shares were up more than 4 percent midafternoon Friday.
More than 70 percent of customer traffic has shifted to mobile, so Finish Line will focus on improving its digital capabilities, Sato said. Initiatives include making webpages load faster and allowing customers to return products directly from Finish Line's website.
Finish Line already offers an app, but Sato said it will be updated to include in-store beacon and geofencing technology, which will connect customers' digital and physical shopping experiences.
On the brick-and-mortar front, Finish Line has already started renovating stores to integrate technology. The company remodeled 10 stores during the quarter, Sato said. Going into the holiday season, that total will be around 90, said Chief Financial Officer Ed Wilhelm.
"While the retail environment remains challenging, particularly for athletic footwear, I am confident that the work we are doing to tightly control expenses and manage inventories, along with the initiative to drive traffic and conversion, will allow us to achieve our full-year guidance while also positioning the company for improved long-term results," Sato said.
Finish Line reported a comparable sales decline — concerning to analysts and investors — of 4.5 percent during the second quarter. The retailer said it continues to expect same-store sales to fall between 3 to 5 percent for both the third and fourth quarters of 2017.
Quarterly net income came in at $2.8 million, or 7 cents per share, down from $22.1 million, or 53 cents a share, one year ago.
Revenue was $469.4 million, a drop of 3.3 percent from last year.
As of Thursday's market close, Finish Line shares have fallen more than 60 percent over the past 12 months.
Earlier this year, the retailer's stock plummeted after it trimmed its outlook for the full year amid disappointing sales volume.
Around that same time, the CEO of rival Dick's Sporting Goods said that his sector of retail was in "panic mode." The remarks immediately sent shock waves across the broader sporting goods space.
Shares of other sporting goods stocks, including Under Armour, Nike, Foot Locker, Hibbett Sports and Big 5 Sporting Goods, have all taken hits over the past few weeks, as negative sentiment around the industry grows.
The threat of Amazon, which continues to make competitive price cuts and ink deals with certain athletic and apparel brands, remains on every company's mind.


The "Fast Money" traders shared their first moves for the market open.
Tim Seymour was a buyer of Anaradarko.
Brian Kelly was a seller of Tesla.
Dan Nathan was a buyer of Advanced Micro Devices.
Guy Adami was a buyer of Raytheon.
Trader disclosure: On    , the following stocks and commodities mentioned or intended to be mentioned on CNBC's "Fast Money" were owned by the "Fast Money" traders:  Tim Seymour is long AMZA, APC, BAC, C, CCJ, CLF, CMG, CSCO, DAL, DPZ, DVYE, EEM, EUFN, EWM, FB, FXI, GILD, GM, GOOGL, HAL, INTC, LOW, M, MAT, MCD, MOS, MPEL, RAI, RH, RL, SBUX, SQ, T, TWTR, UA, UAL, VALE, VIAB, VOD, VRX, XLE. Tim Seymour is short IWM, XRT, RACE, SPY.  Brian Kelly is long Bitcoin, Ethereum. Dan Nathan is long AMD, DIS, INTC, IPOA, M, NKE, T. Guy Adami is long CELG, EXAS, GDX, INTC, Guy Adami's wife, Linda Snow, works at Merck.


In over 30 years of investing, Jim Cramer has seen even the best investors shed tears after a market-wide decline.
To conquer a sell-off, Cramer said investors must first circle the wagons around the stocks in their portfolio that they really like, and leave the weak ones in the dust.
That means knowing the difference between a damaged stock and a damaged company when hunting for bargains during a sell-off.
"A correction is just a mega-sale on stocks, no different than what you might find on all kinds of things at your Sam's Club any day of the week," the "Mad Money" host said.
After those steps are covered, the time comes to get into the nitty-gritty of the specific types of stocks that Cramer scoops up during a downturn. The good news is that the more brutal the sell-off, the more attractive these stocks will look.
His first approach is to look for stocks that have pulled back from their highs during the sell-off. The new-high list is always a great place to start looking. Stocks on that list also tend to be expensive, which is why a big decline may present an opportunity.
Specifically, Cramer looks for stocks that were knocked off the new-high list and are trading a couple of percentage points down from their 52-week high. Those will be the money magnets of the market.
However, the "Mad Money" host warned that not all of them will be worth buying. Some may come off the list because they are damaged goods, so doing your homework is still important.
The second kind of stock that Cramer looks for during a major sell-off is the type with dividends that become more attractive as their share prices go lower. Just like the 52-week high list is useful for spotting potential buys, a shopping list of stocks to buy if only their dividends were a little higher can also come in handy during a downturn.
But what does a market correction have to do with a dividend or yield?
When a market correction occurs, the price of the stock goes down and the yield goes up. Cramer loves it when a sell-off is so severe that an "accidental high-yielder" is created.
That refers to stocks that did not intend on being dividend plays, but fell so hard that the dividend yield suddenly became meaningful or a way for the stock to have a quick bounce back.
"I know dividend investing isn't sexy, but believe me when I tell you that nobody ever woke up unhappy the next morning after bringing home a stock with a big dividend," Cramer said.
So, for more conservative investors, Cramer recommends picking up stocks that will practically guarantee money accumulation. That is exactly what a dividend does.
In short, Cramer considers a sell-off as an opportunity to buy some of the best stocks out there, especially those that have just pulled off their highs, or those that garner fat yields thanks to the decline.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
T-Mobile — T-Mobile is close to agreeing to tentative terms on a deal to merge with its telecom peer, Sprint, Reuters reported on Friday. Japan's SoftBank, which controls Sprint, would reportedly own between 40 to 50 percent of the combined company. A deal is expected by the end of October, according to the sources who spoke to Reuters.
Apple — Apple's latest version of the iPhone, the iPhone 8, starts shipping on Friday. While some product reviewers have said they love the device, others are telling shoppers to hold off for the iPhone X. Apple's iPhone 8, the cheapest phone announced at the company's event on Sept. 12, has a sticker price of $699, about $50 over the last generation of iPhones.
Facebook — Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said on Thursday that the social media company will share information with Congress about suspected Russian-linked election ads. Earlier this month, Facebook released results of an investigation into the 2016 U.S. election. The investigation found about $100,000 in ad spending from June 2015 to May 2017, associated with roughly 3,000 ads believed to be from Russian profiles. Zuckerberg has said he instructed his staff to provide those ads to Congress.
Conagra — Orville Redenbacher's popcorn owner Conagra Brands is nearing a deal to buy Angie's Artisan treats, the maker of Angie's Boomchickapop popcorn. The potential deal comes as sales of big food companies have slowed, with their staples being replaced by fresher, healthier brands.
Hewlett Packard — Hewlett Packard Enterprise is planning to cut at least 5,000 workers, or about 10 percent of its staff, by the end of this year, according to reports. Most recently and under CEO Meg Whitman, the company has been streamlined, shedding much of its Chinese business and consulting division.
Tesla — Tesla will discontinue its cheapest Model S, the rear-wheel-drive 75, on Sunday. The carmaker first announced in July that it would discontinue the rear-wheel model. Tesla is shifting to an all-wheel-drive lineup for the Model S, to simplify its product offering.
Boeing — The trade dispute between Boeing and its Canadian rival, Bombardier, is heating up, with Boeing standing its ground. The two are battling over a potential defense sale worth about $5 billion. More details are slated to be revealed next week, when the U.S. Commerce Department issues its initial ruling on Sept. 26.
Wal-Mart — The big-box retailer has partnered with smart-lock maker August to test the in-home delivery of packages and groceries, directly to customers' refrigerators. Wal-Mart is currently running a pilot of the service in Silicon Valley with a small group of August Home customers. The move comes as retail rivals Amazon and Target are both beefing up their own delivery options for grocery items.
Finish Line — Shares of the athletic shoe and apparel retailer fell in premarket hours Friday, after Finish Line said comparable sales tumbled 4.5 percent during the second quarter. Finish Line's net income fell to $2.8 million, or 7 cents per share, from $22.1 million, or 53 cents a share, a year ago.


JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Jamie Dimon has laid into bitcoin and digital currencies once again, warning that governments will shut them down if they grow too large.
"Right now these crypto things are kind of a novelty. People think they're kind of neat. But the bigger they get, the more governments are going to close them down," Dimon said during an interview with CNBC-TV18 in New Delhi on Friday.
Dimon was concerned that with bitcoin, ethereum and various initial coin offerings (ICOs), there are now cryptocurrencies everywhere.
"It's creating something out of nothing that to me is worth nothing," he said. "It will end badly."
Dimon warned that governments will eventually crack down on cryptocurrencies and will attempt to control it by threatening anyone who buys or sells bitcoin with imprisonment, which would force digital currencies into becoming a black market.
These are the latest comments from Dimon attacking bitcoin. Earlier this month he called the cryptocurrency a "fraud.". His comments, along with several prominent hedge fund investors, came before a sharp sell-off in bitcoin. The price for one bitcoin fell from around $4,340 to as low as $2,981.05 in the days after his comments.
Bitcoin has since recovered to around $3,640.68, according to CoinDesk data. Despite this volatility, bitcoin's value has risen 264 percent this year.
Dimon's comments came under criticism from several bitcoin investors and experts.
"Comments like Jamie's show a failure to grasp the significance of the blockchain and the power of brand in a fundamental sea of change," said Scott Nelson, chairman and CEO of blockchain firm Sweetbridge, in an email to CNBC last week.
Meanwhile, a company called Blockswater has filed a market abuse complaint in Sweden against Dimon and JPMorgan. Blockswater claims Dimon deliberately spread false and misleading information, according to a report by City A.M. JPMorgan Chase declined to comment, the report said.


Jim Cramer's motto in a downturn is to buy broken stocks, not broken companies.
When the market undertakes huge losses, investors have an opportunity to buy good companies with stocks that have taken an unfair beating because of the market, the "Mad Money" host said.
There's a huge difference between a broken company and a broken stock, and being able to thrive in a sell-off requires knowing the difference.
That's why Cramer said the first thing to do amid a market-wide sell-off is look at the companies that caused it.
"If you're looking at a company that is part of the reason for a correction, you're looking at a broken company. Those are directly in the blast zone and certain to be obliterated," Cramer said.
For instance, in 2007, there were multiple sell-offs related to a weak real estate market, and tons of bad subprime and regular loans. Any entity that touched housing, mortgages or any kind of lending would have been considered a broken company.
Cramer also reminded investors that a company does not break just because its stock goes lower. Investors saw this in 2012 when domestic companies were brought down just because of turmoil in Europe.
How could a fast-casual Mexican chain like Chipotle take a hit because of Italian bonds? "Well, it happened," the "Mad Money" host said.
Stocks like Chipotle went down because all stocks were going down at the time, not because it had a connection to the sell-off.
"To put it another way, you don't want to buy the stocks that are leading the decline when you're looking for opportunity in a sell-off. You want to look for stocks in areas that are independent of what's ailing the market," Cramer said.
Once a company breaks, it is very difficult to put it back together again. The same goes for sectors, which control half of their stocks' movements.
In a sell-off, some stocks will have a clear reason for going lower, and others will just be sold off with everything else. The first stocks to be sold will be the broken companies — which Cramer says to avoid at all costs — and the second group will be the broken stocks. Those are the stocks to gobble up quickly if you want to take advantage of a correction, Cramer said.


The SEC disclosed on Wednesday that EDGAR, its corporate filing system, was hacked in 2016 and information was potentially used for illegal stock trades.
EDGAR is where Corporate America goes to file statements on their businesses. Brad Bondi, an attorney with Cahill Gordon and Reindel and former council at the SEC, called it "the Fort Knox" of the SEC. It's where the important stuff is stored: quarterly earnings reports, market-moving news, IPOs, mergers and acquisitions, it all goes into the EDGAR system, and is often filed before the news is made public.
I'll oversimplify this a bit with an example: suppose a company was going to announce that their fourth quarter earnings were going to be well below expectations due to some outside event. They have to notify the SEC of this, and they would do it through a filing in the EDGAR system.
Under some circumstances, they may file the report before it is actually released to the public.


The Federal Reserve announced on Wednesday that it would start to unwind its massive $4.6 trillion balance sheet, as it embarks on its long awaited plan to normalize monetary policy.
As the central bank of the United States, the Fed does not have to follow the normal rules generally applied to financial institutions and it is exempt from the requirements that virtually all other global central banks must adhere to. But what if it were required to act as a private financial institution and it was not immune to all normal rules of finance? How would it be evaluated?
My view is that it would be regarded as an insolvent savings and loan institution with a terribly mismatched balance sheet that was headed for meaningful trouble. The fact that this is ignored when reviewing the agency's policy initiatives is surprising and a serious mistake.
S&L characteristics
The savings and loan companies of old captured deposits from individuals and institutions. By law they could only invest this money in government backed securities and mortgages. By and large that is how the Fed's balance sheet is constructed. The latest numbers show that the FRB balance sheet has $4.5 trillion in assets. These assets are composed of $2.5 trillion in Treasury securities, $1.8 trillion in mortgage backed securities, and $0.2 trillion in other holdings like gold for example. This balance sheet in its broad form is very, very similar to an S&L.
Insolvent
One of the problems that the S&L's had was that they could not sell the mortgages that they held. Thus, they were insolvent. Well guess what? The Fed cannot sell it mortgage backed securities either.


The finance professor who correctly called the Dow Jones industrial average's surge to 20,000 said he expects stocks to jump even higher in the last 101 days of the year.
The Wharton School's Jeremy Siegel believes it'll have a lot to do with President Donald Trump's intention to get business-friendly reforms passed on Capitol Hill — not the latest Federal Reserve decision on interest rates or better-than-expected economic growth figures.
"I would say corporate tax reform could add another 10 percent to the market even this year," Siegel said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." A deal "looks very likely to get done."
It's the second time in less than 12 months that Siegel, a longtime bull, has made a bold market call. And it came on a day when the Dow and S&P 500 closed at record highs.
In the final weeks of 2016, Siegel argued that the blue chip stock index was very close to hitting the 20,000 milestone. It broke through that key psychological level on Jan. 25 and since then has soared more than 10 percent.
If Siegel is right this time, too, a 10 percent jump would put the Dow around 24,650 and the S&P 500 at 2,760 based on Wednesday's closes.
"There's new hope that taxes really have a chance to be done. I remained steadfast throughout some of the bleak days in the last few months when no one thought anything could be done," Siegel added.
"There's a little bit more optimism now. I think a corporate tax deal will be done, and I think that will be positive for the equity market," he said.


Closely followed trader Art Cashin warned on Thursday that the current Federal Reserve leadership will likely not be around next year and he doesn't think the central bank will implement three interest rate hikes in 2018.
On Wednesday, the Fed announced it will begin to roll off its $4.5 trillion balance sheet next month, but decided to hold interest rates steady.
The so-called dot plot, which provides the forecast of each policy panel member for the federal funds rate, projects one more rate hike this year and a total of three next year. The CME FedWatch tool on Thursday morning put the chances of a rate increase in December at about 70 percent.
"They're getting close to perfect. The Fed traditionally doesn't hike unless there is a 70 percent probability and we're getting awfully close to that," said Cashin, UBS director of floor operations at the New York Stock Exchange.
"For a year I've said I still have suspicions about December and I don't see any way they're doing three hikes next year. We've got to remember that we're going to have a bit of a different Fed when it comes to implementing this," he added in an interview on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street."
President Donald Trump has a chance to reshape the Fed. Janet Yellen's term as Fed chair ends in February. And, earlier this month Fed Vice Chairman Stanley Fischer said he would step down in mid-October for personal reasons, adding another vacancy.
Some speculated that Trump's top economic advisor, Gary Cohn, would assume the role as Fed chair. Cohn's chance reportedly fell after he criticized the president for his comments on a violent white nationalist rally Charlottesville, Virginia, last month.
"It's nice to know what the current Fed is thinking but they may not be around to make those decisions," Cashin said.
"There's an awful lot of variables out there," he added.
Regarding the market, Cashin said there is still hope that some of Trump's business-friendly proposals will make it through. "That we may see a tax cut, we may see some other things that may move the economy along," Cashin said.
"Stocks are going to keep living on whether they can get something done in Washington," he said.
Cashin said the recent slew of hurricanes may not be fully priced into the market, citing misfortunes such as Puerto Rico being completely without power after Hurricane Maria hit.
Lastly, he says to keep an eye on the U.S. dollar. "The dollar starts to strengthen appreciably. Will that affect the multinationals? What's going to happen to earnings?" Cashin said.


Warren Buffett is famously optimistic, but his view of the U.S. stock market long term is more conservative than it might suggest.
At a party for Forbes magazine's centennial earlier this week, Buffett said the Dow Jones industrial average will be over 1 million in 100 years, up from 22,397 currently (which is near a record, by the way).
The 87-year-old acknowledged there's a strong likelihood he won't be around to take a victory lap on his prediction, but he also said it isn't unreasonable.
"Whenever I hear people talk pessimistically about this country, I think they're out of their mind," Buffett, the chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, said Tuesday, as reported by Reuters.
He pointed out the Dow was at 81 a century ago. It was first created in the late 1890s to represent a basket of 30 big American companies.
But Buffett's value-investing fellow billionaire, Mario Gabelli, joked on Twitter about whether Buffett's normally sunny outlook had darkened given the numbers. "one million in one hundred years ...has Buffett turned bearish?" Gabelli said in a tweet Thursday.

Contacted for further comment, Gabelli left a voicemail for CNBC saying he was "just having some fun" with numbers, but added the roughly 3.9 percent compound annual growth rate needed to get from where the Dow is today to where Buffett predicts it will be in 2117 would be lower than the 5.5 percent CAGR from the beginning of the 20th century until now.
"Warren is always looking out long term," Gabelli said. "I'm assuming Warren was just having some fun."
Buffett spoke and performed on Tuesday at the Forbes party, noting that about 1,500 people had made the magazine's list of richest Americans (including himself).
"Being short America has been a loser's game. I predict to you it will continue to be a loser's game," he said. None of them, he said, had bet against U.S. growth. "It has been 241 years since Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence," Buffett said. "Being short America has been a loser's game. I predict to you it will continue to be a loser's game."


The Wells Fargo Investment Institute doesn't expect the S&P 500 to rise more than 2 percent over the next 15 months, according to the firm's 2018 year-end outlook released Thursday.
While some Wall Street strategists have included 2018 S&P targets in their equities notes, the Wells Fargo note marks the first major outlook report for next year.
Wells Fargo gave a range of 2,450 to 2,550 for the S&P next year, a decline of 2.3 percent or a rise of nearly 1.7 percent from Wednesday's record close of 2,508.24. The S&P 500 also hit an intraday high Wednesday of 2,508.85.
"The synchronized global recovery that took hold in 2017 should gain in 2018, though restrained by ongoing global headwinds from high debt, slow labor recoveries overseas and political uncertainties around the world," Wells Fargo's global investment strategy team wrote in a Monday note that was distributed to the media Thursday.
"We also anticipate that earnings gains will fuel moderately higher U.S. and international equity markets," the report said. The strategists added that since the U.S. economy is likely in the "final third" of expansion, investors must be particularly aware of risks.
In late August, the Wells Fargo Investment Institute raised its 2017 year-end target range by 70 points to 2,300 to 2,400. At the time, the increase still forecast, at best, a roughly 1 percent decline for the S&P.
Among 15 strategists surveyed by CNBC last year, Wells Fargo Investment Institute's Scott Wren came the closest to predicting where the S&P would end the year, albeit at a range. The middle of his target range was 2,240, and the S&P ended 2016 at 2,238.83.
— CNBC's Tom Franck contributed to this report.
Correction: This story has been updated to reflect the S&P 500 hit an intraday high Wednesday.


Famed short seller Jim Chanos is not a fan of the restaurant sector. As a result, he is shorting burger chain stocks.
CNBC's Mike Santoli spoke with Chanos in an exclusive interview for CNBC PRO 
 on the sidelines of the Delivering Alpha conference in New York last week. Santoli asked the hedge fund manager which areas of the market are attractive to bet against.
The "problem in the burger space, where we happen to have a number of shorts, is that the 800-pound Big Mac got better. McDonald's righted the ship and has now reinvested aggressively in its restaurants, in its franchisees and upping the game for everybody else," he said. The burger market "is a shrinking pie. When the big guy begins to take more of the shrinking pie that leaves a lot less for everybody else."
Shorting is a trading strategy that involves selling borrowed shares with a view that the stock will drop in value. The shares can be then be bought back later at a lower price and returned for a profit.
The investor did not specify which companies he is short. He did say his firm is not short McDonald's nor Shake Shack, but "everybody else pretty much is fair game" to bet against in the burger industry.

Chanos also explained why the restaurant industry's franchise business model is facing difficulties:
"Because you can only increase as a franchiser, your revenues by increasing units, increasing same-store sales for which you get royalties, or increasing your royalty rate. The restaurants are struggling so you can't increase the royalty rate. The reason why they are struggling is that same-store sales are declining, which means therefore to meet Wall Street's sometimes lofty goals you have to increase unit openings …. which exacerbates the [negative] trends."
Chanos is founder and managing partner of Kynikos Associates, one of the largest short selling investment firms in the world. He is lauded for his prescient negative calls on Enron and Tyco.
Click here for the full CNBC PRO report and the interview video 
.


Famed short-seller Jim Chanos shares his views on investing and betting against companies in an exclusive interview for CNBC PRO with Mike Santoli.  
On the healthcare and medical services industry: "We believe pretty strongly that a sea change is happening in the U.S. health-care system. That we are embarked upon the ending of health-care inflation," he said.
"The days of just raising prices aggressively is coming to an end ... We found a number of companies that are aggressively gaming the reimbursement system to the detriment of us tax payers.  I think those business models are going to be in a lot of trouble," the hedge fund manager added.
Chanos is founder and managing partner of Kynikos Associates, one of the largest short selling investment firms in the world. He is lauded for his prescient negative calls on Enron and Tyco.
The investor also discusses:
The interview is exclusively for CNBC PRO subscribers.


The stock of FedEx went on a wild ride after the shipping giant's Tuesday earnings report, but CNBC's Jim Cramer knew what was behind the move.
Even though the quarter was widely seen as weak and shares initially fell, the stock turned around and closed up 2 percent on Wednesday.
"It was a terrific moment to buy, and it was no wonder that the stock of FedEx finished up more than $4 bucks today. You see, there was actually no disappointment. If anything there was tremendous exuberance," the "Mad Money" host said.
Investors were initially worried about FedEx's European division being hacked, a $300 million problem that the company worked swiftly to fix. But Cramer said other, more powerful drivers overshadowed the cyberbreach.
"FedEx benefits from a robust global economy, where e-commerce from brick-and-mortar retailers is growing like a weed. One of the execs on the conference call, a fellow by the name of Rajesh Subramaniam, told us, and I quote, 'We are seeing the best year for global trade in years,'" Cramer said.
FedEx's management attributed the rapid growth to the expansion of manufacturing, particularly in the technology space. With plenty of forward-thinking initiatives underway, the company may quickly regain its place in Wall Street's good graces, Cramer said.
"In the end, regardless of the hack, this company is doing incredibly well and it's the logical play on worldwide growth," the "Mad Money" host concluded. "Yep, even after FedEx's run today and that amazing reversal, I think it's got a lot more upside."


As the stock of semiconductor manufacturer Nvidia tumbled in after-hours trading on news of a Tesla-AMD partnership focused on self-driving cars, CNBC's Jim Cramer had to figure out what to do next.
Shares of Nvidia hit an all-time high on Monday following several analyst upgrades that cited the company's promising position in the fields of artificial intelligence, gaming and data centers.
But with the stock now falling from its highs, Cramer wouldn't blame investors for feeling uneasy about what's next for Nvidia.
"Perhaps after its rally and this AMD news, the stock actually deserves to get punished. Perhaps this is just one more buying opportunity, though," the "Mad Money" host said. "You have to know what you're doing and what could happen to the stock."
So Cramer enlisted the help of technician Carolyn Boroden, the creator of FibonnacciQueen.com and one of Cramer's colleagues at RealMoney.com.
Boroden has a notable track record on predicting chipmakers' stock moves. In August, she said Nvidia's rally was far from over, predicting upside targets of $180 and $188 with a ceiling at $209.
So far, Nvidia's stock has followed Boroden's predicted path, which is based on Fibonacci ratios. She uses the medieval mathematical system to find the levels at which a given stock is likely to change its path based on past swings. She also uses it to find the dates when trajectory changes are the most likely to help investors find the best times to buy or sell.
With Boroden's methodology in mind, Cramer turned to the daily chart of Nvidia.

Boroden noticed that the stock has already made a 127.2 percent extension of its last swing. An extension, or how much lower a stock's current decline is than its previous one, tends to mark the end of a stock's rally, which means Nvidia could be due for a bigger pullback, Cramer said.
Moreover, Nvidia's longest rallies have lasted between 25 and 29 trading days, and Monday marked the most recent rally's 25th day. Cramer said the pullback may have already started given the negative action in Nvidia, which means its rally could be tapering out.
Boroden also found that Nvidia tends to lose momentum after running up anywhere from 35 to 42 points. The last time this happened, the stock got hit before restarting its climb.
Cramer doesn't necessarily think that pattern will repeat itself, but he thought it was worth noting that Nvidia's shares gained $38.29 from their low on August 11 to their high on Monday, putting it right in the range that indicates the rally may have run its course.
So while Cramer's charitable trust, which owns shares of Nvidia, isn't taking any action, Boroden would bless some profit-taking if the stock holds up its historical patterns and starts to decline.
And for investors who don't own Nvidia, they could be about to get a great buying opportunity in the next week or so, Cramer said.
"Here's the bottom line: I like Nvidia, but I love protecting your profits even more," Cramer said. "The charts, as interpreted by Carolyn Boroden, suggest that Nvidia could be due for a $10 to $30 pullback after its recent run, and if you're nimble, maybe you want to try to sidestep some of that decline. More important, if Nvidia is pulverized like that, well, maybe you get a chance to own a piece of this great semiconductor company with a remarkable number of strengths and very few weaknesses, even as this potential loss of the Tesla business to AMD could certainly be one of them."


With the cybersecurity breach at Equifax top of mind on Wall Street, Mimecast chief Peter Bauer said employees are just as critical as technological security when it comes to protecting digital information.
"Particularly with email security, attackers have figured out that the human sitting behind the computer is one of the weakest links," Bauer told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer in an exclusive interview on Wednesday. "And what an attacker is really interested in is can they get a hold of credentials, could they deploy malware on that person's machine, or could they get their help or cooperation in some way in launching an attack?"
Bauer is the co-founder, chairman, and CEO of Mimecast, a cloud-based company specializing in email cybersecurity and management.
Besides putting an emphasis on employee education, his company develops technology to track imperfections in emails that could indicate a potential hack.
"There's a large number of adversaries really interested in profiteering or sabotaging organizations digitally," Bauer said. "We see a lot of what one would call 'typo squatting,' where domains have been registered that look quite similar to a domain that you would expect, but it's actually not coming from the organization that you think it is."
Bauer said Mimecast talks to management teams daily to make them aware of the scope of cyberattacks worldwide. The company recently secured a number of clients and partnerships after McAfee spun off from Intel in April of this year.
But with the Equifax hack threatening the information of 143 million customers, Bauer said more companies are beginning to wake up to the significance of securing their systems.
"It really does raise the issue of how seriously are boards taking cybersecurity?" the CEO said.
And as cyberattacks surge worldwide, new regulations like the European Union's General Data Protection Rule are helping spread awareness to managements and boards, Bauer said.
"It's a never-ending story, because as we innovate and develop more and more digital technologies that the world becomes reliant on, so vulnerabilities happen right behind them as technology changes," the CEO said. "With new regulations like GDPR, for example, coming through in Europe, the size of the penalties to organizations is really significant. And so I think this is really raising the visibility for boards around cybersecurity."


In a stock market consumed by news from the Federal Reserve, CNBC's Jim Cramer was focused on three other events that were domino-like in how they toppled stocks.
"What were today's dominoes? Well, we got three of them: Apple, specifically issues with the Apple Watch, but also some concerns that the phone may not be that strong, General Mills in what I regard as a flabbergasting disappointment of an earnings report, and still one more miserable quarter from Bed Bath & Beyond," the "Mad Money" host said on Wednesday.
Apple's decline was caused by a potential glitch in the new Apple Watch. The Verge discovered that the device had some problems connecting to networks, which occasionally prevented users from making calls, sending texts or using Siri. Apple announced it was working on a fix.
Cramer figured that because the Apple Watch is much less important to the company than the iPhone, the connectivity issue would pass, even with a momentary stall in watch sales.
But Apple's decline caused a domino effect in a slew of its suppliers' stocks including Skyworks Solutions, Qorvo, Cirrus Logic, Texas Instruments, and Broadcom.
"My take? If you don't own any of these stocks, then I would start picking small at one of them into weakness," Cramer said. "You may not get an instant rally, especially if we keep hearing rumors about some sort of weakness in an Apple product line, but you're certainly getting a fabulous price break versus where they were a few weeks ago, and these stocks all get cheaper as they go down."
General Mills' earnings report, the second domino, also took down key grocery stocks after the company announced a 7 percent drop in cereal sales and double-digit declines in yogurt sales.
All together, General Mills' earnings declined by 9 percent, a stark difference from the positive picture management painted at a conference less than two weeks ago. Shares of Kellogg, Kraft Heinz, Campbell Soup, Conagra Brands, JM Smucker and Hershey fell in response.
But unlike the technology names, Cramer did not want to defend the consumer packaged foods names, which are all under pressure from the Amazon-Whole Foods entity, Wal-Mart and Kroger.
"They aren't exactly loved by millennials. And in many cases, their raw costs are going up while their sales are flat-lining or going down," Cramer added. "However, the packaged food stocks make excellent dominoes because they're very good at falling."
Finally, Bed Bath & Beyond's earnings report evidently told Cramer and others that the company hasn't been able to compose an Amazon-proof strategy.
The miss took down the stocks of Macy's, Kohl's, Target and Costco, all brick-and-mortar-based companies that investors fear are in the path of Amazon's retail domination.
So as the market frothed over the Fed's announcement that it would unravel its balance sheet but leave interest rates unchanged, Cramer maneuvered the falling dominoes to find the best investing strategy.
"When this market gets some bad news after its remarkable run, you have to break out the dominoes to explain the sector decline," Cramer said. "I wish I could tell you the game is now done for these given sectors and the damage contained. Usually, though, we get more than one day as analysts come out and start downgrading. I say if you own no tech stocks, take a stab at one of your favorites, but take a pass on the foods and the retailers because those dominoes actually deserve to fall."


Even if you're skeptical about cryptocurrencies, the ICO, or initial coin offering, has been one of the hottest trends in tech this year.
Startups that raised money through ICOs have accumulated a record $2.2 billion this year alone, according to Coinschedule.com.
Unlike a stock IPO, where companies sell shares, an ICO lets investors buy digital "coins" used on cryptocurrency platforms. Companies built on blockchain, a digital database for recording financial transactions, raise money by selling these tokens, which can be used to pay for goods and services on their platform or can be stashed away as an investment.
So what's causing the ICO craze this year?
Charles River Ventures' Rafael Corrales, an early investor in Blockchain, a bitcoin wallet maker with $70 million in funding, narrowed it down to three main drivers:
Corrales said the ICO space still has a lot of problems, like the lack of proper regulation. And he pointed out that the fact that startups are raising a lot of money at once, instead of in separate stages, like more traditional startups do, is concerning. Still, he expects the ICO craze to continue until some credible regulatory body like the SEC or IRS comes down hard on a select group of people that they will try to make an example of.
But in aggregate, he says the exuberance in the space is a good thing because it lays the groundwork for the industry to mature. And eventually, he hopes to see the next big tech company come out of this space, much like the 90's dot com bubble led to the creation of Google and Amazon, among others.
"It's just noisy right now because of a Cambrian explosion that's happening. But I do think there will be a handful of important companies and innovations that will come out of it," he said.


Guggenheim Partners chief investment officer Scott Minerd downplayed reports that there was upheaval at the firm, telling CNBC on Monday "there is no tumult."
Reports have included that Mark Walter was considering stepping down as CEO and that there was a power struggle between Walter and Minerd.
Minerd called the characterization of a power struggle "completely wrong" and said there is "no fighting" going on between the two.
He said Guggenheim is one of the fastest-growing asset management firms and because of that a lot of decisions need to be made.
"We are highly energetic internally. There's a very spirited debate on the things to do that are right and wrong. And I think people from the outside or even people on the inside can misunderstand that sometimes," he said in an interview with "Power Lunch."
In fact, Minerd said his relationship with Walter is probably better than it's ever been and that he's "highly supportive" of the CEO.
On Tuesday, the Financial Times reported that Walter's role was "hanging in the balance" amid a power struggle between Walter and Minerd.
Bloomberg News reported earlier Tuesday that Walter may step away from day-to-day management of Guggenheim, and The Wall Street Journal later reported on Tuesday that the billionaire has told colleagues he is considering stepping down as CEO.
A source told Reuters that at least one member of Guggenheim's board of directors has pressed Walter to leave the firm after he became the subject of news coverage. However, on Wednesday the board told employees the CEO has the full support of each and every one of its members, according to the Wall Street Journal.
Guggenheim Partners responded on Tuesday that Walter has no current plans to step down and is not being pushed out of the investment firm he helped found.
When asked if Walter planned to stick around, Minerd replied, "All of us have to make a decision someday about what our lives are and where we're going. Mark has not given any indication that he wants to leave at this time."


Warren Buffett may be famous for his investing skill, but his lounge act isn't bad, either.
He took to the stage as recently as Tuesday night, at the centennial party for Forbes magazine in New York, where he teamed up with Stevie Wonder to sing Billy Hill's 1936 classic "The Glory of Love."
Buffett likes the song, or at least knows all the words to it, because he also sang it and accompanied on the ukulele at another Forbes party a few years ago.  That duet was with Jon Bon Jovi, who played along on the guitar. "Groupies!" Buffett yelled to a laughing audience, "I've been waiting all my life."
Three years ago the Oracle of Omaha teamed up with Paul Anka to serenade Fortune magazine reporter Carol Loomis in a reworded rendition of Frank Sinatra's "My Way." And he played the ukulele and sang along with the Quebe Sisters at his annual meeting in 2008, with a version of "Red River Valley."
Buffett sang for CNN host Piers Morgan in 2013, admitting he never met Sinatra but he likes "My Way." He did forget some of the words that time.
He also accompanied himself on ukulele while singing the Coca-Cola song for a 100th birthday tribute to his favorite soft drink.


The giants of the internet economy are typically cast as the leading fetish objects for growth investors. But compared to the TAMP stocks, FANG looks a bit dull.
What's TAMP,  you ask? That would be Thermo Fisher Scientific, Agilent, Mettler-Toledo and PerkinElmer, just a few of the seldom-discussed names that have powered the obscure S&P 500's life sciences tools & services subsector to a 41 percent year-to-date gain.
By comparison, FANG – Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet – are up less than 36 percent this year on an equal-weighted basis.
The life sciences tools group — which also includes Illumina, Waters and Quintiles IMS — totals more than $170 billion in market value (about equal to the size of Intel). The companies fall within the health-care sector, but they neither discover cures nor deliver care. They provide lab equipment, testing supplies, analytical devices and services to the pharmaceutical and biotech industries, as well as some chemical and industrial customers.
Part of their appeal to investors in an aging and slow-growing world: They profit from the volume of new-drug investigations and lab tests, favorable demographics and the total amount of health care delivered globally but they don't have direct regulatory risk from drug-price controls or an Obamacare repeal.
It helps, too, that the companies generally are steady long-term performers that have done many bolt-on acquisitions in their chosen product areas and tend to convert mid-single-digit sales growth into low-double-digit per-share earnings expansion.
A strong and sustained rally in a cluster of stocks will always have a tidy fundamental story behind it, and here's the case for the lab-products names, according to analyst Paul Knight at Janney Montgomery Scott:
"Even with a sector showing strong performance in 2017, the fundamental backdrop for life science tools is becoming a 'Goldilocks' situation. Asia is the largest tools market and growth is in double digits, industrial demand is increasing with robust PMI indicators at seven-year highs, and currency tailwinds are developing."
S&P 500/Life Sciences Tools & Services versus S&P 500 (YTD)

Source: FactSet
More drug investigations and approved treatments, of increasing complexity, are expected. The booming field of immunotherapy development is a growth engine in itself, requiring complex material-handling and storage processes.
It all nets out to a dream growth-investor arrangement: Long-lived demographic forces, resistance to the economic cycle, stable business-to-business supply relationships, global distribution, and a "razors and blades" recurring-sales model.
The fact that these attributes have propelled such gaudy share-price gains, though, makes it worth asking whether professional investors are crowding into these names to hide from policy or macro threats that might, at some point, fade away.
In the current phase of the bull market, "reliable growth companies" that play a middleman role in de facto oligopolies have hogged a lot of the oxygen, at the expense of more cyclical plays, and especially consumer-facing companies whose moats are seen to be drying up.
Retail, media, branded-clothing and packaged-food stocks are suffering, as investors implicitly shun businesses that require consumers to make an active, conscious decision to spend on a product. Internet platforms, payment processors, aerospace, semiconductors and, yes, health-care tools companies have been enriched at their expense.
The result, for the life-sciences supply names, is valuations at the very high end of the stocks' own historical range. The TAMP stocks and their peers are now fetching between 20 and 40 times projected earnings for the coming year, compared to around 18 for the broader market. And, remember, these are companies generally growing not much faster than nominal world GDP, with admittedly attractive profit margins.
Technical analysts tend to love the group, identifying what look like sturdy long-term uptrends, even if some appear a bit stretched in the short term (note that the sector shed 1 percent on Tuesday in a largely flat market).
The risk to investors at these prices for the likes of Mettler-Toledo, PerkinElmer or Illumina is not that the companies stumble or laboratory volumes roll over. The stocks, instead, could be exposed to a change in investor preferences and outlook on the world.
If the bull market sputters, of course, it would not be kind to once-sleepy growth stocks at premium multiples. And if, instead, confidence grows in the economic-growth outlook and central banks do allow interest rates to rise, fewer investors might feel the need to hide in this corner of the health-care sector.
The question is not whether these are good businesses. They are. The riddle is always what assumptions motivated the last buyer of the stock of a fine business, and what price might be too high to pay for one.


It has been a good year for Johnson & Johnson shareholders, but now Goldman Sachs says investors should ring the register.
The firm on Wednesday lowered its rating for the company to sell from neutral, predicting the drugmaker's earnings growth will lag its peers during the next five years.
After the note, the stock was down 1.5 percent in early trading Wednesday.
"While JNJ's pharma division has improved and we expect accelerated growth in the near term, pressure on key franchises coupled with still slow growth of MD&D (Medical Devices & Diagnostics) and persistent pressure in consumer leaves JNJ with a below average long-term growth outlook that suggests valuation is stretched," analyst Jami Rubin wrote in a note to clients.
The company has outperformed the market this year with its shares up 17 percent through Tuesday compared with the S&P 500's 12 percent return.
Rubin predicts Johnson & Johnson will grow its earnings per share 7 percent annually during the next five years versus her 10 percent industry average forecast.
"JNJ lacks optionality for upside relative to the rest of our pharma coverage," she wrote. "The buy rated stocks in our coverage have fairly significant optionality up ahead. For instance, ABBV has a pipeline with potential for multiple best-in-class assets."
Rubin increased her price target for the company to $130 from $125, representing 4 percent downside from Tuesday's close.
"We are fully confident in our strategy to drive growth and to continue to create shareholder value in the near and long-term," said Ernie Knewitz, spokesman for Johnson & Johnson, in response to a request for comment.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


There has been a great deal of discussion concerning tax reform these days, and many people are putting tax planning on hold until they see what Congress is actually going to do. Since that could take a lot of time and we don't know if any changes will actually occur, it makes more sense to plan now and adjust later if the world changes. Focus on what you know and what you can control, and don't worry about any changes until they actually occur.



L Brands shares have plummeted this year due to sales declines and poor financial guidance. The disappointing results are likely to continue, according to one Wall Street firm.
After being wrong with its bullish call for L Brands all year, Cowen gave up Wednesday and lowered its rating to market perform from outperform. The firm cited increased competition in the intimate apparel industry.
"We hope Victoria's Secret can ... stimulate demand to drive store traffic, and gain share in lingerie & sport; however, we see risk to comp and margin if L Brands does not achieve elevated pricing," analyst Oliver Chen wrote in a note to clients.
"Victoria's Secret needs to rebalance the assortment in their core lingerie offering after the shift toward Bralettes & Sport last year pressured Average Unit Retail," he added.
L Brands is the owner of Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works. Its stock has underperformed the market this year with its shares down 40 percent through Tuesday, compared with the S&P 500's 12 percent return.
Chen said Victoria's Secret is losing market share to competitors like the American Eagle-owned Aerie brand, which grew its lingerie and bra sales by 26 percent in the second quarter. L Brands has reported sales declines in the last two quarters. Chen also mentioned the increasing sports bra competition from Nike and Under Armour.
The analyst lowered his price target for L Brands to $39 from $40, roughly even with Tuesday's $39.23 closing price.
"We believe LB is in the midst of transformational change, and we worry the stock and valuation could be sideways if risk to store traffic and bra pricing persists," he wrote.
L Brands did not immediately respond to a request for comment for this story.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.





Though hedge funds often signal a freewheeling, shoot-from-the-hip investment style, for the most part these investment vehicles aim to dampen volatility. They do it by using various strategies that are supposed to provide protection from market volatility and sometimes even positive returns during market declines.
"Someone who is concerned about the downside may want to allocate to hedge funds in case there is a big meltdown in the markets," said Tayfun Icten, an analyst with research firm Morningstar, who follows hedge funds.
But along with that important positive come a whole host of drawbacks. Which might make you think twice about hedge funds.
It also should be noted that the Securities and Exchange Commission requires individuals to qualify as accredited investors to use hedge funds. At a minimum, they must have annual income of $200,000 and net worth above $1 million.


Todd Gordon thinks the market rally is about to cool off, but he's got a way to play the S&P 500 in case that happens.
"Markets don't always go up or down," the TradingAnalysis.com founder said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." Sometimes "they go sideways, and you can actually use that sideways consolidation to your advantage."
On a chart of the S&P 500-tracking ETF (SPY), Gordon points out that just over a year ago, the market "settled down into a correction" that lasted about three months after a nice run-up in the early summer. Since the election, SPY has surged 17 percent, and the long run-up has Gordon suspecting that another slowdown to the rally is on the way.
"This sell-off into the election rally in November lasted approximately three months," said Gordon. "So we might be headed into a period of consolidation, and you can use the options market to your advantage and benefit from that."

To play such a consolidation, Gordon is using a "butterfly" options put spread. Such a trade involves selling two puts in the middle of the market's expected range, while buying one higher-strike put and one lower-strike put. The structure is designed to show maximum returns if the underlying stock or ETF is in the middle of the range upon expiration.
In this case, Gordon is selling two of the November monthly 250-strike puts, buying one November monthly 257-strike put, and buying one November monthly 243-strike put for a total cost of $2.50 per share, or $250 per options spread.
The way the trade is set up, Gordon would make a maximum profit of about $450 if the SPY closes at exactly $250 on the Nov. 17 expiration. But since the trade has two break-even points, at $254.50 and at $245.50, Gordon would make money so long as SPY closes within that range.
The maximum loss, on the other hand, is the $250 paid.
Since Gordon won't make the maximum profit unless SPY closes right at $250, the trader recommends getting out of the trade at a certain point.
"What I recommend you do is as you spend $250, once you start to get to $250 in profit, begin to take that trade off," he said. "Don't go for the home run and try and get that $250 pin at expiration."
As of early Wednesday, SPY was at $250.05, which is just below its all-time high of $250.32.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
FedEx: FedEx has lowered its 2018 earnings guidance to account for the impact of a cyberattack. The shipping company also said on Tuesday that Hurricane Harvey impacted its fiscal first-quarter results. FedEx now expects earnings of between $11.05 and $11.85 per share, below its previous projection for earnings of between $12 and $12.80 per share.
Adobe: Adobe Systems reported third-quarter earnings after the bell on Tuesday that topped Wall Street estimates. However, the marketing software firm delivered a mixed outlook, causing shares to dip after hours.
Bed Bath & Beyond:  Shares of Bed Bath & Beyond fell more than 14 percent in premarket trading, as the home goods retailer slashed its full year outlook on Tuesday and missed earnings estimates for the second quarter. Same-store sales — a metric closely watched by Wall Street for retail stocks — also came in lower than expected. Wal-Mart: The big-box retailer announced that this year it will be giving its existing employees the opportunity to work extra hours during the holiday season, rather than offering those hours to seasonal workers. "These extra hours will help staff traditional roles like cashier and stocker, and newly created technology-empowered positions such as personal shoppers and Pickup associates," said Judith McKenna, Walmart's chief operating officer. Meantime, retail rival Target is bringing 100,000 temporary workers on board ahead of the holidays.
Amazon: The internet giant is reportedly working on its first wearable device — a pair of "smart glasses," according to the Financial Times. The device would be capable of interacting with Amazon's Alexa, the report said, citing people familiar with the company's plans.
L Brands: L Brands, the parent company of Victoria's Secret, was downgraded by Cowen & Co., which cited "fundamental new competition in the sport bra market," among other obstacles in retail. Cowen analyst Oliver Chen said the company must add more digital components to its brick-and-mortar locations in order to "stimulate demand to drive store traffic."
Pfizer: Pfizer was upgraded to "overweight" from "equal-weight" at Morgan Stanley. The firm cited investors underappreciating the global prospects for Pfizer's "No. 1 growth driver," as it relates to breast cancer, and "M&A optionality." The prospect of U.S. tax reform offers additional optionality, Morgan Stanley analyst David Risinger said.
Mattel: The toymaker's stock is beginning to rebound after investors traded off shares ahead of Toys R Us — one of its biggest retail partners — filing for bankruptcy. Hasbro and Jakks Pacific are among some of the other vendors for Toys R Us that have watched their stocks tumble over the past few weeks. Now, though, with more certainty about Toys R Us' plans ahead of the holidays, toy manufacturers have less to worry about, analysts are saying.
WATCH: Fidelity: Watch the dots in today's Fed decision


Globetrotters, rejoice!
While the S&P 500 has performed well this year, with the index of U.S. large-cap stocks rising nearly 12 percent to hit a series of record highs, international equities have performed even better.
The popular iShares ETF tied to the MSCI EAFE index and known by its EFA ticker has surged almost 19 percent in 2017. The ETF tracks large stocks from developed markets outside the U.S. and Canada.
Its impressive performance comes after three-straight negative years. In fact, if the year closes with the EFA outpacing the S&P 500 ETF (SPY) by the current 6.8 points, the internationally focused ETF would have logged its most dramatic outperformance since 2006.
The 2017 run represents "a reversion to the mean," said Boris Schlossberg of BK Asset Management, referring to the supposed tendency of one year's underperformers to outperform, and vice versa.
"Whether this reversion to the mean continues? That answer, I think, is yes," Schlossberg added Tuesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "They are early on in the recovery cycle."
"I think the bet here is to go long ETA and short S&P, if you want to do a long-short trade," Schlossberg said.
While Craig Johnson, unlike Schlossberg, is bullish on U.S. stocks, the chief market technician at Piper Jaffray agrees that "I want to stay long the international socks, because I think that the outperformance is going to continue for a while longer."
This assessment is "just based on the charts," which show increasing momentum for the EFA, he said.
Within the ETF, the biggest country component is Japan, with a nearly 23 percent weighting, followed by the United Kingdom at 18 percent, France at 11 percent and Germany at 10 percent.


All major indexes are sitting at record highs, but for those looking for what could cause the next downdraft, one strategist says they are missing the big picture.
"I think if you talk to investors and you listen to the narrative, it's all about one macro risk point to another," Joe Zidle said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now.""Yet the markets climb higher and people are asking how can this be. Well the simple answer is we are seeing earnings reflate, not only in the U.S. but all around the world in a way that we haven't seen since the days prior to the credit bubble," which was followed by the financial crisis.
In other words, earnings are going to drive the market higher. Consequently, the Richard Bernstein Advisors portfolio strategist encourages investors to get into cyclical sectors like tech, financials and consumer discretionary given that he believes earnings are going through a reflation period. Cyclicals are the best bet in this type of environment, according to Zidle, because they are "most sensitive to changes in that profit cycle."
As a result, the strategist sees these cyclical sectors staying strong until the end of the year. So far, the tech sector has surged 22 percent in 2017, with financials picking up steam to rally more than 8 percent so far this year. Consumer discretionary stocks have also climbed almost 10 percent year to date.
Better-than-expected earnings are a big factor in the market rally this year. The S&P 500 is up about 12 percent, the Nasdaq has risen 20 percent and the Dow, which closed at another all-time high on Tuesday, has surged 13 percent.
Disclaimer



Cybersecurity, health of the global economy, energy price shock and terrorist attacks are some of the top risks that concern businesses and may threaten their ability to operate, according to results from a new survey by the World Economic Forum (WEF) published Wednesday.
The survey, conducted annually by the WEF's strategic partners Marsh & McLennan Companies and Zurich Insurance Group, highlighted the following ten risks that businesses are presently concerned about:
While concerns about the overall health of the global economy continue to dominate the list, the report found concerns around cybersecurity risks rising in importance.
"Business leaders in many of world's largest economies now rank cyber as their top risk," John Drzik, president of Marsh Global Risk & Digital, said in a press statement. "Companies need to rigorously analyze how these threats could impact their operations and take appropriate risk mitigation and resiliency measures."


Global asset prices are "possibly the most elevated" in history, Deutsche Bank strategists said in a sweeping new report about the frequency of financial crises and shocks throughout history.
This kind of "gross overvaluation in both equities and bonds" is of particular concern right now to Boris Schlossberg, managing director of foreign exchange strategy at BK Asset Management. He says investors may soon face an unexpected shock as central banks look to normalize monetary policy years after the financial crisis.
In one portion of the report, titled "The Next Financial Crisis," the strategists led by Jim Reid explained what they found to be historically "stretched" values in both equities and government bonds in a handful of global developed markets.
The report's authors examined stock valuations through an equal-weighted index of 15 developed markets' government bonds and 15 developed markets' equity markets from 1800 to the present. For government bonds, the strategists looked at where nominal yields are currently trading relative to history and arranged the data in percentiles. For stocks, current prices were compared with each respective country's nominal GDP.

Source: Deutsche Bank
Schlossberg said Deutsche Bank's conclusion is "extremely valid," and further, that the scenario in which both asset classes are highly overvalued is highly unusual.
"Typically you could have overvaluation in equities, or in bonds, but not both at the same time. It's almost like a historical unicorn event," he said Tuesday on "Trading Nation."
The fact that both are overvalued "may set investors up for a nasty shock," Schlossberg wrote to CNBC.
Schlossberg says the situation can be directly pinned on quantitative easing and other easy-money central bank policies.
Of course, the unwinding of the central bank's balance sheet, which was built up due to the Fed's attempt to bolster the economy in the wake of the financial crisis, is widely expected to be one of the key topics at the Federal Reserve's meeting this week.





Nike sneakers are piling up on retailers' shelves due to poor demand, according to one Wall Street firm.
Susquehanna lowered its rating for Nike shares to neutral from positive on Tuesday, citing increasing promotional activity for its shoes.
"The performance of key marquee basketball product has slowed, as Nike continues to barrage the market with launch product. Additionally, checks with industry sources indicate Nike continues to force premium wholesale accounts (tier zero accounts) to buy large allotments of in-line/tertiary product, compounding the oversupply issue," analyst Sam Poser wrote in a note to clients.
"We have no doubt that Nike management recognizes this and is in the process of correcting the inventory glut. However, oversupply, partially due to lack of innovation within the basketball category, is not something that will be corrected overnight."
Nike has underperformed the market this year with its shares up 5 percent through Monday, compared with the S&P 500's 12 percent return.
The analyst lowered his price target for Nike to $54 from $64, representing 1 percent upside from Monday's close.
Poser noted that Foot Locker's website revealed 60 percent to 70 percent of Nike's and the company's Jordan-branded basketball shoes are being discounted.
"Recent proprietary checks indicate an inordinate amount of signature basketball (KDs, Lebrons, Kobe) and, to a lesser extent, Jordan retro product is being sold at Nike Factory stores," he wrote. "Nike appears to have misjudged the appetite for some key marquee basketball product."
Nike did not immediately respond to a request for comment for this story.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


T-Mobile shares rallied more than 4 percent Tuesday after CNBC's David Faber reported that the telecom giant and Sprint were in advanced merger talks.
"This was a name that was long rumored [to be in] deal talks with Sprint," Dan Nathan of RiskReversal.com told CNBC's "Fast Money" on Monday. The rumor sent the options market into a frenzy this week, with one trader cashing in on Tuesday's report.
"Call volume exploded … [seeing] 10 times the average daily call volume [on Monday]," said Nathan.
In one eye-catching trade, there was an apparent purchase of 20,000 of the October 67.5-strike calls for 32 cents. Those calls have nearly tripled in value and are now worth $1 each. In just one day, that trader made more than $1.2 million in profit on the trade.

Looking at a chart of T-Mobile, Nathan noted that "the stock has cooled off, and if you look to the upside ... this [stock] could get going if that deal gets done sooner." T-Mobile shares are up more than 10 percent this year.
T-Mobile shares were trading at the $64.35 range midday Tuesday.





Amid devastating hurricanes, North Korean missile launches and political upheaval in Washington, equities in the U.S. simply keep jitterbugging their way toward fresh peaks. For 8½ years now, every dip has been followed by a push past the previous high.
Yet at some point, even as investors continue reaping the benefits of a market climb that's been fattening wallets and retirement accounts along the way, the party will come to an end. And if you haven't yet given thought to how a long-lasting stock slump could impact your nest egg, now's the time.
"The obvious is that the market will correct," said Greg Hammer, president of Hammer Financial Group in Schererville, Indiana. "It's just a matter of when and by how much."


The Federal Reserve is on the cusp of reversing the most ambitious monetary stimulus program in world history amid questions over how much impact it really delivered.
There's little question that the program, known as quantitative easing or "money printing," boosted the stock market. The three iterations of QE between November 2008 and October 2014 each saw big boosts to the market, with a cumulative S&P 500 gain from beginning to end, including the various down periods between each leg, of about 140 percent.
The economic impacts, though, are less clear.
For most of the period, GDP struggled to gain more than 2 percent. Wealth disparity grew, income gains were hard to come by and the Fed continually came up short on its inflation goal.
With the U.S. central bank likely to announce this week that it will start unwinding its $4.5 trillion balance sheet of bonds and other securities, much of which accumulated in the QE era, the debate about the program's impact continues.
In fact, one of the Fed's own economists recently penned a report indicating that QE has come up short of its goals.
"Evaluating the effects of monetary policy is difficult, even in the case of conventional interest rate policy,"  St. Louis Fed economist Stephen D. Williamson wrote. "With respect to QE, there are good reasons to be skeptical that it works as advertised, and some economists have made a good case that QE is actually detrimental."


Oil markets could receive another blow on Wednesday when the U.S. government reports oil stocks data that are expected to show a build in crude oil stocks, largely as a result of Hurricane Harvey damaging U.S. oil refineries in late August.
In a preview of the U.S. Energy Information Administration's (EIA) weekly oil stocks data, due on Wednesday, S&P Global Platts said the data was likely to show a build in U.S. crude stocks of 2.4 million barrels in the last week.
"An expected rebound in U.S. crude imports could have offset higher refinery utilization last week, likely leading to another build in crude stocks for the third straight reporting period," S&P Global Platts said in its preview released on Monday after carrying out a survey of analysts.
Over the two weeks ending September 8, crude stocks rose 10.5 million barrels, Geoffrey Craig, S&P Global Platts' oil futures editor noted, adding that most of the build was due to Hurricane Harvey's damaging oil refinery infrastructure and a lack of U.S. export capability due to the extreme weather.
"A major driver behind inventory movements since Hurricane Harvey has been U.S. Gulf Coast refinery utilization, which sunk to 60.7 percent the week ending September 8, down from 96 percent of capacity two weeks prior to that," Craig said, adding: "US inventory data will reflect post-Hurricane Harvey adjustments for another few weeks, at a minimum, as Gulf Coast refiners, terminals and ports continue the process of returning to normal."
Craig noted that although refineries were starting to return to normal, crude oil prices were likely to be suppressed by "an influx of U.S. crude imports that will probably materialize as tankers sitting in the Gulf of Mexico waiting for shut Texas refineries to reopen get to offload their cargoes."


T-Mobile and Sprint are in active talks about a merger, according to people close to the situation.
Both companies and their parents, Deutsche Telekom and Softbank, have been in frequent conversations about a stock-for-stock merger in which T-Mobile parent Deutsche Telekom would emerge as the majority owner.
People close to the situation stress that negotiators are still weeks away from finalizing a deal and believe the chances of reaching an agreement are not assured. The two sides have not yet set an exchange ratio for a deal, but are currently engaged in talks to hammer out a term sheet.
The companies declined to comment on the report.
T-Mobile and Sprint have had a seemingly endless dalliance over the years since Softbank took control of Sprint, pushed by the prospect of billions of dollars in cost synergies that a merger would bring. The last time the two companies held meaningful talks earlier this year, Softbank's Masayoshi Son indicated a willingness to sell Sprint to T-Mobile.
This time, given the all-stock nature contemplated, Softbank would emerge as a large minority holder in any combination. While T-Mobile CEO John Legere is expected to lead any combination that results from a merger, Son has made it clear he wants a say in how the company is run. That desire adds another layer of complexity to an already difficult transaction.
T-Mobile has not begun due diligence on Sprint, yet another step that could change current price expectations or the willingness to move forward.
The biggest issue is whether any merger between the No. 3 and No. 4 wireless carriers in the nation would be approved by antitrust regulators. The risk of rejection by the Department of Justice will play an important role in the final decision made by both sides as to whether they will proceed with a deal.
Given Softbank's high level of engagement on a Sprint-T-Mobile deal, its quixotic campaign to try to buy Charter Communications has slowed considerably. The effort is on hold. CNBC has reported it involved the creation of a new company infused with vast amounts of equity and debt to buy Charter at a premium and the 17 percent of Sprint that Softbank does not own. Dutch telecom company Altice has been actively soliciting funds to mount its own bid for Charter should Softbank make a move.


Apple's products are so good, they are apparently immune to the normal laws of economics.
Morgan Stanley on Tuesday raised its 12- to 18-month price target on Apple to $194 from $182, as the firm sees the higher prices as positive, not a negative like some other research firms on Wall Street.
"Innovation-led price increases historically boost, rather than hinder, Apple demand," wrote Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty in Tuesday's note to clients.
She explains further:
"Apple is an aspirational brand offering high quality, innovative products at a premium price. As a result, the company escapes the typical trend of declining prices that drive demand for other devices. In fact, demand for iPhone is directly correlated to the direction of ASPs - higher prices, higher demand and vice versa."
Her new price forecast represents 22 percent upside from Monday's close.  Apple's stock is 0.6 percent higher in premarket trading.
Huberty's raised her 2018 revenue forecast to $301 billion, 14 percent higher than the Wall Street consensus.
Morgan Stanley also noted the extreme loyalty of Apple customers, which is showing signs of increasing from already high levels.
"According to our April 2017 AlphaWise US Smartphone survey, Ninety-two percent of US iPhone users who plan to upgrade their phone in the next year plan to repurchase an iPhone, up from 86% the year before."
Apple last week announced its latest lineup of iPhone, iPad, and Apple Watch technology, which all include shiny new price tags. The highly-anticipated iPhone X, which introduces new face recognition technology in Apple's most expensive smartphone, will be sold for a $999, $50 more than Morgan Stanley estimated.
The shares have fallen in the wake of the new product announcements, in part over concern about the higher prices.


Shares of two big-name retailers on the comeback trail just got upgraded by Wall Street analysts.
Oppenheimer raised its rating on Michael Kors to outperform. The firm also hiked its price target on the stock to $55, which is 23 percent higher than Monday's $44.65 closing price.

Credit Suisse upgraded upgrade Gap to neutral from underperform. Its new price target on the stock is $30, just 7 percent higher than Monday's $27.90 closing price.
Both stocks have seen some life in the last three months. Kors shares are up 30 percent since June, while Gap shares have jumped 23 percent. By comparison, the S&P Retail Index is up just 2 percent in the last three months.
Oppenheimer's report upgrading Michael Kors is headlined "Retail turnaround just starting." The note said, "Margins seem to be finding the bottom, while sentiment is extremely negative." The analysts, Anna Andreeva and Samantha Lanman, also cite improvement at Jimmy Choo, a luxury shoe company Michael Kors is buying for $1.2 billion. Just Monday, shareholders of Jimmy Choo approved the sale.


Bridgewater Associates founder Ray Dalio said Tuesday he is not a believer in cryptocurrencies.
"Bitcoin today you can't make much transactions in it. You can't spend it very easily," Dalio said on CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"It's not an effective storehold of wealth because it has volatility to it, unlike gold," the hedge fund founder added. "Bitcoin is a highly speculative market. Bitcoin is a bubble."
The investor said there are two important facets to being considered a valid currency: ease of transactions as a medium of exchange and being a "storehold of wealth."
"It's a shame, it could be a currency. It could work conceptually, but the amount of speculation that is going on and the lack of transactions [hurts it]," he said.
Dalio wrote about his life lessons and the initial failures during his career in his book entitled "Principles: Life and Work," available on Tuesday.
His firm currently manages about $160 billion, according to its website.
Dalio's negative comments come a week after JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon also took a shot at bitcoin, saying the cryptocurrency "is a fraud."
"It's just not a real thing, eventually it will be closed," Dimon said at the Delivering Alpha conference presented by CNBC and Institutional Investor.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Equifax — The maligned credit reporting company's stock slipped 1.3 percent before the bell after it acknowledged that it faced another security issue earlier this year. On Sept. 7, Equifax reported a data breach that could affect 143 million U.S. consumers.
Tesla — Analysts at Jefferies initiated coverage of the stock with an "underperform" rating and a price target of $280 per share. That target represents a 27.3 percent downside potential from Monday's close of $385. Jefferies said in a note it expects losses to continue until 2020, adding Tesla still faces challenges in scaling its business.
Gap — The retailer's stock rose 2 percent in the premarket after analysts at Credit Suisse upgraded the stock to "neutral" from "underperform." They also raised their price target on Gap to $30 a share from $23. In a note, Credit Suisse cited the closing of about 200 "low-quality" stores, "an attractive valuation," and improvements in the company's supply chain.
AutoZone — AutoZone shares jumped 4 percent in the premarket after the company reported quarterly results that beat expectations. The company posted adjusted earnings per share of $15.18 on sales of $3.5 billion. Analysts polled by Reuters expected AutoZone to post a profit of $15.11 per share on revenue of $3.49 billion.
Michael Kors — Oppenheimer upgraded the stock to "outperform" and raised its price target $55 from $45 a share. "Margins seem to be finding the bottom, while sentiment is extremely negative," it said in a note.
Nike — The Dow component fell 1.5 percent before the bell after analysts at Susquehanna, lowered their rating to "neutral" from "positive." The analysts cited concerns that Nike's North America and Europe businesses are "decelerating as some key items, especially in the basketball category, have underperformed, leaving excess inventory in the marketplace."
Walgreens Boots Alliance, CVS — Analysts at RBC initiated both stocks with "outperform" ratings. For Walgreens, RBC said the company is primed for accelerating earnings growth as it "appears ready to harvest the rewards" of its efforts from the past two years. For CVS, RBC said the company is "at an inflection point in its corporate life cycle, as well as in the life cycle of the industry."
Kohl's — Kohl's said Tuesday it is offering free Amazon returns in 82 stores starting in October.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are mixed after Monday's gains. We get housing starts and import/export price data this morning while the two-day Fed meeting begins today.
STORM WATCH
-Hurricane Maria is now a potentially catastrophic Category 5 storm, bearing down on Puerto Rico. It could hit the island on Wednesday and be the most powerful storm to slam Puerto Rico in 85 years.
NORTH KOREA THREAT/DEFENSE
-President Trump will reportedly use the strongest possible terms to call for international cooperation on North Korea during his U.N. speech today.


While market prices suggest less certainty, 76 percent of respondents to the CNBC Fed Survey believe the central bank will hike interest rates in December.
Various market-based gauges put the probability at 43 to 55 percent. On average, respondents to the survey see two to three hikes next year, and the Fed is forecast to finish its rate hike cycle in the second quarter of 2019 at a 2.9 percent rate.
The outlook for the Fed has been clouded by its plans to reduce its $4.5 trillion balance sheet, likely as soon as next month, and by inflation running below its 2 percent target. Meanwhile, more Fed officials have grown concerned about the impact of low rates on markets.
"The Fed is confronting two very different sides of inflation. Asset prices are rising too rapidly, while prices of goods and services are climbing too slowly,'' wrote Lynn Reaser, the chief economist at Point Loma Nazarene University in response to the survey. "Monetary policymakers will need to choose a side and any decision will entail large risks."
All the 42 respondents to the survey, who include economists, fund managers and strategists, believe the Fed won't hike at the meeting that begins Tuesday, and 68 percent say the central bank will begin reducing its $4.5 trillion balance sheet by October.
The balance sheet runoff is forecast to take 4.4 years to wind down to around $2.5 trillion. Reducing the balance sheet is viewed as a slight negative for economic growth, a bit worse for stocks. But overall, expectations are for only modestly negative effects.
Survey respondents see only modest effects on growth this year and next from the recent hurricanes and actually have dialed in more growth than they have subtracted. GDP is forecast to grow 2.2 percent this year and 2.6 percent in 2018. Most participants lowered their outlook for growth from the storms this year but raised it for next year by a greater amount.
"The hurricanes will mask the underlying trend in the economy but the Fed members are likely to consider the net impacts to be positive and move ahead with the rate and balance sheet normalization process," said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors.
But some believe the Fed will be cautious this year. "The Fed wants to be careful when they begin the balance sheet normalization process and may not want to cloud the process with a December hike,'' wrote Mark Vitner, a managing director and senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities. "If they do not raise rates in December, we would expect more tightening in 2018. Our end point is the same regardless."
Overall, respondents think the Fed can let the economy run a bit hotter than it may believe. On average, the group said unemployment could shrink to 3.7 percent before sparking inflation. And 45 percent said they see little connection between unemployment and inflation, a relationship known as the Phillips curve — a principal way the Fed thinks about inflation: That is, low unemployment can drive up wages and inflation.
"The Phillips curve is dead," said Allen Sinai, chief global economist and strategist at Decision Economics, predicting "relatively low inflation for a long, long time because of technology."
The chance of recession is a relatively low 19 percent, down a bit from July, and protectionist trade policies are seen as the biggest threat to the U.S. economy followed by geopolitical risks.
Expectations for stock price gains this year and next continue to rise, with the S&P 500 forecast to hit 2,515 this year on average and 2,593 next year. It was around 2,500 in Tuesday's premarket. But the 10-year Treasury is forecast to end the year at just 2.42 percent, and not even hit 3 percent in 2018. It as at 2.218 percent early Tuesday.


Tesla's market-crushing performance this year will not last, according to one Wall Street firm.
Jefferies told its client to avoid the electric car maker's shares, saying the company's financial performance will be weak in the coming years.
"It is with a bit of a heavy heart that we initiate coverage of Tesla at underperform," analyst Philippe Houchois wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "Achievements to-date and vision are impressive, but we don't think Tesla's vertically integrated business model can be scaled up as profitably and quickly as consensus thinks and valuation multiples imply."
The analyst set a 12-month price target for Tesla shares at $280, representing 27 percent downside from Monday's close.
Houchois predicts Tesla will continue to lose money on an annual basis through 2019. He has "doubts about Tesla's ability to generate 30+% gross [profit] margin required to support its vertically integrated business model in distribution/supercharging."
The electric car maker's shares are outperforming the market this year, up 80 percent year to date through Monday compared with the S&P 500's 12 percent return.
"Given capital intensity, we don't think DCF [discounted cash flow] can justify the current valuation, let alone upside," he wrote. "We appreciate the growth upside from a brand whose reach goes well beyond auto markets and that valuing Tesla today assumes some form of 'steady-state' that is unlikely to happen anytime soon."
Tesla did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Its shares are down 2 percent in the Tuesday premarket session after the call.— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


Financials rallied back to their mid-August highs on Monday, and TradingAnalysis.com founder Todd Gordon says JPMorgan is one big bank that could see a bounce.
The basic call is pinned on what Gordon sees happening in the bond market.
"The financials are acting quite strong as bonds are threatening a breakdown, so you could find potentially higher rates," he explained Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
To illustrate his point, on a chart of TLT, the ETF that tracks long-term Treasury bonds, Gordon draws a line connecting TLT's lows over the past few months. The drop in TLT this month has Gordon predicting that the ETF could actually fall down back to that line at around $125.
"If you were to see a break [through $125], that is lower bonds, [it would mean] higher yields and that is going to give a much-needed boost to financials," he said.

What's more, the chart of the XLF financials-tracking ETF is showing bullish technical signs as well, according to Gordon. He points to an "inverse head and shoulders" pattern as proof that XLF could bounce back to its early August highs near $25.50.

A similar "inverse head and shoulders" pattern has also appeared in the chart of JPMorgan in particular, says Gordon, serving as one of the indicators that has the trader betting on a breakout for the bank. In addition, Gordon believes JPMorgan is completing another bullish pattern known as a "bull flag," which suggests to him that the bank stock will rally back to its previous August highs.
"It does look like we are breaking up through the $92 region, and we're going to go ahead for a retest of $95," he said.

Since Gordon sees JPMorgan bouncing 2 percent from Monday's levels, he is buying the October monthly 92-strike calls and selling the October monthly 95-strike calls for about $1.23, or $123 per options spread. If JPMorgan closes above $95 on Oct. 20 expiration, Gordon would make a maximum profit of about $177. But if JPMorgan were to close below $92, then he would lose the $123 he paid to make the trade.
In order to avoid such a loss, Gordon establishes a point to get out of the trade.
"The $1.23 that I just laid out in premium, if that gets cut in half to about 61 cents or 62 cents, [I'm going to] go ahead and cut the trade," said Gordon.
With Monday's rally in the financials, JPMorgan is up almost 8 percent year to date.
Disclaimer


Investors are seeking to raise more than $1 billion from seven initial public offerings this week, the most active week for IPOs since at least June. Three Chinese companies are set to debut, led by Best Inc., an Alibaba-backed logistics company initially seeking to raise $869 million, the biggest IPO of the quarter.
Overnight, it was reported that Best Inc. cut the deal size to $472.5 million at the midpoint, down from $869 million.
Next week will be strong as well, with two tech companies coming: Roku, which is seeking to raise $204 million at a valuation of $1.5 billion, and used-car service CarGurus (from the founder of TripAdvisor), seeking to raise at least $100 million with a likely valuation of roughly $1 billion.
It's happening again: the IPO market is heating up. It's happened a couple times in the last year, only to peter out. But with markets at new highs and recent IPOs performing well, the market is again opening up. Whether it lasts is still uncertain.
There's certainly no shortage of prospects: at least 150 tech unicorns (those companies with valuations over $1 billion) are waiting to go public.
The biggest deal this week — and the biggest IPO of the quarter — is Alibaba-backed Chinese logistics firm Best Inc, which will seek to begin trading at the NYSE on Wednesday. The delivery business is big in China, but Best is fifth in a very competitive market. It's still unprofitable, according to Renaissance Capital, and its competitor, ZTO Express, is not exactly offering great comfort. It went public in October 2016 at $19.50, and is now at $14.89 at the NYSE.
Also from China this week: Secoo Holding. Luxury goods is a hot space in China. Secoo makes a market for pre-owned luxury goods, a space that Alibaba and JD.com have also been trying to enter (read: serious competition). They'll be seeking to raise $106 million and are scheduled to begin trading Friday at the Nasdaq.
Rounding out the China offerings is biotech firm Zia Lab, seeking to raise $100 million.
Also scheduled to trade Wednesday at the NYSE is Despegar, an online travel company based in Buenos Aires. They're backed by Expedia, Tiger Global and General Atlantic (Expedia provides the hotel inventory outside of Latin America). Online travel in Latin America is highly fragmented, but they are a leader, with 11 percent market share.
Finally, it's been a miserable year for energy IPOs, as the market fizzled when oil collapsed in March. That's when Hess Mainstream, a master limited partnership (MLP) that owns oil and gas pipelines, went public.
No one has wanted much to do with energy stocks — IPOs or listed — since then.
But with oil near $50, it's time to try again. On Thursday, Oasis Midstream, a spinoff of Oasis Petroleum, will be the latest to try, seeking to raise $150 million at the NYSE. The attraction, as with most MLP's, is the juicy 7.5 percent yield. They own oil and natural gas pipelines primarily in the Williston Basin in eastern Montana, western North Dakota, South Dakota, and southern Saskatchewan
Why the sudden interest in IPOs? Two factors: markets are again at new highs, and investors have been encouraged by the after-market trading in IPOs that have gone public in the last year.
I know, Blue Apron and Snap have been failures. But Kathleen Smith, of IPO research firm Renaissance Capital, points out that those have been the exception to the rule. Her Renaissance Capital IPO ETF (IPO), a basket of the largest 60 most recent IPOs, is up 27 percent this year.
Many of those stocks have had big out-performance this year:
Recent Top IPO performers (YTD)
Ferrari (RACE) +89%
Square (SQ) +109%
First Data (FDC) +27%
Atlassian (TEAM) +50%
MGM Growth Properties (MGP) +21%
The message: while public investors drive a hard bargain and want initial prices as low as possible, investors have been rewarded. For every Blue Apron and Snap, there are more winners.
That is not lost on those seeking to come to market.


A fresh bout of volatility could be here for stocks, if history is any indication.
CNBC analysis using Kensho found that the S&P 500 has traded lower 70 percent of the time during the last two weeks of September since 1980. In that time, the index's average return has been negative 1.3 percent, the analysis found.

"The summer doldrums are coming to an end," said Ryan Detrick, senior market strategist at LPL Financial, in a phone interview with CNBC. "There's also a lot of book clearing ahead of the fourth quarter. The fourth quarter is the strongest one on average" for the S&P 500.
The S&P 500 is up 1.4 percent this month and currently sits at a record high. But there are reasons why September could still live up to its dreadful reputation in the stock market.
First, the Federal Reserve will likely start the process of unwinding its $4.5 trillion balance sheet after a two-day meeting this week.  The central bank accrued most of its massive portfolio during the financial crisis.
This will be the first time a central bank attempts an unwinding of this magnitude. In the past, smaller balance-sheet reductions have sparked recessions.
"This tightening cycle is about to ramp up with liquidity being drawn each and every month and by another higher increment after 3-month intervals until at some point $50 billion per month of liquidity will suddenly disappear," said Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group, in a note.
Boockvar also said he "will scream from some mountaintop ... that I was dead wrong" if the Fed pulls off its balance-sheet unwinding along with raising rates and the stock market keeps rising.
Another reason September could still be dangerous for investors is tension between the U.S. and North Korea.
Last week, the isolated Asian nation launched a missile that flew over Japan before landing in the sea. The launch took place after the U.N. Security Council unanimously imposed a ban on North Korea's textile exports and capped its crude oil imports.
"In an environment where markets have scarcely reacted to recent terrorist attacks, the recent string of North Korean news has captured investors' attention," said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at BMO Private Bank.
"The increased frequency, power and pretentiousness exhibited by these tests seem to confirm what governments have long feared: North Korea is closer than ever to its goal of building a military arsenal that can viably target both U.S. troops in Asia and the U.S. homeland," Ablin said.


Citron Research's Andrew Left, who gained notoriety for successful bets against companies such as Valeant Pharmaceuticals, called Ubiquiti Networks a "fraud" during a televised interview Monday.
"The word 'fraud' I use very judiciously,"  the short-seller said in an exclusive interview on CNBC's "Halftime Report."
"I think when you look at all these red flags it doesn't take a CFA, you don't have to go to a top business school, you sit down and read the Citron report, and you'll conclude, 'Oh my God, this company must be a fraud," he added.
The company makes wireless networking products. Its CEO is Robert Pera, majority owner of the Memphis Grizzlies.
Left said it will be interesting to see what happens next month when Pera has an option to buy the rest of the NBA team, which will require more due diligence on his company by the league.
"The more sunlight you put on a fraud, the more chance it has of being exposed," Left said.
Shares of Ubiquiti plunged 10 percent after the short seller released his bearish report on the company Monday morning.

"Citron believes Ubiquiti story is unraveling as we write," Left wrote on his Citron Research website. "The end is now for the Ubiquiti Fraud. What was once a company with unique products in a fragmented space has turned into a company that sells products in highly competitive markets where they are the last mover."
Pera replied to the earlier Citron tweet with his own, saying, "My apologies to those affected by these clowns."

When asked for official comment, Ubiquiti referred CNBC to the CEO's Twitter response. The company will have an investor update featuring Pera on Sept. 26.
Left also questioned the company's use of distributors in the report saying, "Ubiquiti's financials don't reconcile with its distributors." He said Morgan Stanley recently dropped research coverage of the company.
"Like many of the frauds that Citron has uncovered in the past, the cash balances claimed by Ubiquiti do not generate reconcilable interest income," he wrote.
When asked if he is short the stock by CNBC, Left replied in an email, "What do you think?"


McDonald's just had its worst week of the year, and a top technician says the charts point to more pain ahead.
The fast-food giant is one of the best-performing Dow stocks this year — soaring nearly 30 percent. Despite the strong performance this year, McDonald's has now fallen more than 2 percent from its recent high, hit on Sept. 11. It has lagged rivals such as Wendy's, Shake Shack and Chipotle, which were up 10 percent, 6 percent and 3 percent respectively during that time.
There was "bad action this week, and looks to me like it's the beginning of more bad action [for McDonald's]," Carter Worth of Cornerstone Macro said Friday on CNBC's "Options Action."

McDonald's has outperformed the S&P 500 and Russell 3000 restaurant index for the past three years, while "restaurants have been a real dud. You got three years, and you've got nothing to show for it," Worth said.
However, some of the laggards in the restaurant space are starting to show some life, and "McDonald's is giving way a little bit," Worth said.

Over the past year, "McDonald's is starting to hook down ever so slightly while the restaurants are starting to hook up. I'm going to make the bet that this is going to continue to happen," Worth said.
"My guess is that we're just going to check back to trend, so I want to fade McDonald's here. If I'm long, I want to take profits. If I'm a short-seller, I think you get a nice five to eight percent sell-off."
McDonald's was trading at the $157.41 range midday Monday.


The mining equipment market will grow next year, and that will boost Caterpillar's business, according to one Wall Street firm.
UBS raised its rating for Caterpillar shares to buy from neutral, citing positive results from the firm's survey of the industry's spending plans. The stock rose 2 percent to a record high after the UBS report.
We upgrade Caterpillar "to reflect our new evidence that a continuation of the earnings upcycle is ahead and that CAT's growing cash position will drive upside to earnings and returns as it gets deployed," analyst Steven Fisher wrote in a note to clients Monday. "Our UBS Evidence Lab Macro analysis suggests a re-acceleration of US private construction activity, and our UBS Evidence Lab survey indicates that mining capex should continue to improve in 2018."
Fisher raised his Caterpillar price target to $140 from $116, representing 15 percent upside from Friday's close.
Fisher said a UBS survey of 50 mining companies found that 60 percent intend to spend more next year for new mining equipment.
"UBS equipment rental surveys remain positive for business conditions and pricing," he wrote.
As a result, Fisher raised his 2018 earnings per share estimate for Caterpillar to $7.50 from $5.90. He also forecasts the company will generate nearly $10 billion of cash flow in total after capital expenditures and dividends from 2018 to 2020.
"We think the fundamental setup on the stock is as strong as it has been in several years. All its major segments are now growing," Fisher said in an interview on CNBC's "Power Lunch" Monday. "We've seen commodity prices that support [Caterpillar's] business remain stronger than expected."
Caterpillar stock is up 31 percent year to date through Friday versus the S&P 500's 12 percent return.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


Brad McMillan — who counsels independent financial advisors representing $114 billion in assets under management — told CNBC on Monday that the stock market is way overvalued.
"The market probably would have to drop somewhere between 30 and 40 percent to get to fair value, based on historical standards," said McMillan, chief investment officer at Massachusetts-based Commonwealth Financial Network.
The Dow Jones industrial average and the S&P 500 closed at record highs Friday. The Dow had its best week of the year. The Nasdaq hit a trading high during the session on Friday, but just missed ending at a record.
Part of McMillan's thesis is rooted in his belief that the lofty levels of the so-called FANG stocks — Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet — seem reminiscent of the dot-com bubble in the late 1990s.
"I've been saying for about the past year, this year looks a lot like 1999 to me,"  McMillan said on "Squawk Box." "If you look at the underlying economics [and] if look at the stock market, the similarities are remarkable."
The Nasdaq, which has numerous tech listings, accelerated to a multiyear rally all through 1999 and then peaked on March 10, 2000, at 5,132.52 during the trading session before closing that day at 5,048.62. The index then tanked over two years and subsequently languished. It took 15 years to get back over 5,000. The Nasdaq closed at 6,448 on Friday.
With that mind, McMillan said: "Take as much risk as you want now. But you should be aware that at some point the market is going to pull back."
But he said it's not going to happen right away. "Right now, a recession is a good ways away. And that's the engine for bear markets." A bear market is defined by a 20 percent decline from an index's recent peak.
The idea that tech stock valuations are approaching or eclipsing dot-com bubble levels is shared among other analysts on Wall Street.
However, McMillan's assertions that the overall stock market would be at fair value at prices as much as 40 percent lower than today appears to be an outlier.


In late February, early March, a debate developed concerning what factors actually drive bank stock prices. The vast majority in that debate argued that an increase in interest rates, positive stress tests, high levels of stock buybacks, easing banking regulations, and a strong bull market would continue to drive bank stock prices higher.
On the other side, a very small minority, including myself, argued forcefully that these factors were not the key to bank stock prices. The rally in these issues was over. The key would be the sale of high quality products. Translating this means that banks needed to sell more loans and those loans could not go bad.
Both sides in this argument obtained what they wanted. Every promise the bulls made about banking came true. My assumptions also came true. Loan volume continued to weaken and loan quality began to deteriorate.
The market made its judgment. Five of the six largest bank stocks fell in price from March 1 to the present. The XLF which monitors the price action of big financial institutions is down slightly or 1.9 percent. The KBW Nasdaq Bank Index, BKX which is a large index covering many more bank stocks, is down somewhat more or 5.6 percent. The S&P 500 is up 4.4 percent. The broader bank index has under performed the market by 10.0 percent.
So why were the banking bulls, to this point, so wrong?
Start with their view on interest rates; it simply made no sense. They argued that banks cannot make money when interest rates are low for long periods and that bank interest rate margins would be up sharply if the Fed raised rates. Yet from 2010 to 2016, interest rates were the lowest in recorded history and bank earnings went up in all but one of those years. Bank profits were at all-time record levels in 2013, 2015 and 2016.


Citron Research's Andrew Left, who gained notoriety for successful bets against companies such as Valeant Pharmaceuticals, on Monday posted a bearish report on Ubiquiti Networks.
Shares of Ubiquiti plunged 8 percent after the short seller released his report. The company makes wireless networking products and its CEO is Robert Pera, majority owner of the Memphis Grizzlies.

A company spokesperson officially declined to comment on the Citron report, but Pera replied to the Citron tweet with his own, saying, "My apologies to those affected by these clowns."

The short seller also questioned the company's use of distributors saying, "Ubiquiti's financials don't reconcile with its distributors." He also cited how Morgan Stanley recently dropped research coverage of the company.
"Like many of the frauds that Citron has uncovered in the past, the cash balances claimed by Ubiquiti do not generate reconcilable interest income," he wrote.
When asked if he is short the stock by CNBC, Left replied in an email, "What do you think?"


Cryptocurrencies are the new red state/blue state divide in America. StockTwits
There's one incredibly passionate group that believes in cryptocurrencies as the future of all money. There's another equally passionate group that thinks they're essentially a hoax.
They've also always been highly volatile, but last week took that to a whole new level.
At the start of last week, the total market capitalization for all cryptocurrencies tracked on coinmarketcap.com was $150 billion.
Then Jamie Dimon, CEO of JPMorgan Chase, took the stage at CNBC's Delivering Alpha conference on Wednesday and called bitcoin a "fraud worse than tulip bulbs." That set off an enormous correction across all these digital currencies. At one point early Friday morning, the total market cap of all cryptocurrencies had contracted to $98 billion. Bitcoin itself — at the lows — had dropped 40 percent from its all-time highs. Yet, by later Friday, the total market cap of all cryptocurrencies had recovered to $120 billion. (It recovered even more over the weekend.)
Here are some guideposts to keep in mind going into this week:
The bottom line here is that I believe the future value of cryptocurrencies will continue to shine through and emerge. However, we might just be at the beginning of a much bigger pullback. Proceed with caution.
Commentary by Eric Jackson. Sign up for Eric's monthly  Tech & Media Email. You can follow Eric on Twitter 
@ericjackson
.


Central banks may one day need to issue their own cryptocurrencies, the Bank for International Settlements said in its latest quarterly review.
"Whether or not a central bank should provide a digital alternative to cash is most pressing in countries, such as Sweden, where cash usage is rapidly declining," the Sunday report said. "But all central banks may eventually have to decide whether issuing retail or wholesale [central bank cryptocurrencies] makes sense in their own context."
The report's argument in favor of digital currencies comes from two needs: anonymity for consumers and efficiency for institutions.
Cryptocurrencies like bitcoin don't need a third party to validate transactions, which are essentially instantaneous and irrevocable due to the currencies' blockchain technology.
Forms of money from the past, present and possible future

Source: Bank for International Settlements
The report comes as regulators remain divided on whether to officially recognize digital currencies like bitcoin as currencies or commodities, and if the institutions consider such a designation valid at all.
The central banks of Russia, Singapore and some other countries have announced experiments with digital currencies, while some researchers have proposed central bank tokens such as Fedcoin, the report noted. The bank was also quick to point out that the Federal Reserve has not endorsed Fedcoin and no central bank has officially launched a retail or wholesale-use digital currency.
However, bitcoin's exponential surge from a few cents seven years ago to around $4,000 has caught the attention of Wall Street and now, the Bank for International Settlements' 14-page report chose to look at digital coins through four properties of money: issuer, form, accessibility and transfer mechanism.
The report then defined a central bank cryptocurrency as "an electronic form of central bank money that can be exchanged in a decentralised manner known as peer-to-peer, meaning that transactions occur directly between the payer and the payee without the need for a central intermediary."
Bitcoin jumped 10 percent Monday to above $4,000, its highest since Wednesday and up more than 300 percent for the year, according to CoinDesk. The digital currency hit a record high of $5,013.91 on Sept. 2 before plunging 41 percent to the lows of the month after Chinese authorities announced a ban on new token sales and major Chinese bitcoin exchanges said they would close by the end of September.
In late July, Bank of America Merrill Lynch commodity and derivatives strategist Francisco Blanch said in a sweeping report that bitcoin still faces many challenges in becoming a globally accepted currency. The "crucial hurdle" is whether major financial institutions will accept the digital currency as collateral, Blanch said then.
To be sure, extreme caution is warranted for central banks wading into cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin and ethereum, the most prominent digital currencies, have been very volatile and sometimes hit by major hacks.
"Some of the risks are currently hard to assess," the report said. "For instance, at present very little can be said about the cyber-resilience of [central bank cryptocurrencies], something not touched upon in this short feature."


Tesla is often tipped as one of the most disruptive companies in the world, but one investor is shorting the California-based electric car maker given its sales in comparison to BMW.
Patrick Armstrong, managing partner at Plurimi Investment Managers, told CNBC Monday that, "Tesla is obviously leading the charge with electronic, electric cars. Rightly so, that's where the industry is going."
But Armstrong's notes pointed out that while Tesla sold 47,000 electric cars through to June, BMW's sales of plug in cars were 50,000 through to July. "BMW is not getting credit," Armstrong said.
In addition, Tesla remains loss making despite a surge in second-quarter revenues, while BMW saw net profit rise 14 percent in the same time period. Armstrong said that Tesla's negative earnings were "hard to justify."
Adding to his rationale, Armstrong questioned whether Tesla would become "the Apple of electric cars," arguing that the Elon Musk-led company "isn't going to end up with a monopoly position, governments aren't going to allow that."
"Tesla is great for consumers because cars are priced in a non-profitable way, but that is not great for shareholders as it won't crowd out competition in this industry," unlike Amazon's trajectory in the retail space, he added in his note.
Short interest swirling around Tesla's stock has caught CEO Musk's attention previously. In June this year, he posted a series of tweets addressing the issue.

Tesla is expected to unveil a new electric truck offering in late October.
BMW, meanwhile, is aiming to mass produce electric cars by 2020, with 12 different models by 2025.
Armstrong was also downbeat on another major disruptor stock, this time in the entertainment industry. He was short on Netflix, but long on Disney, arguing that the latter company is set for a bumper 2019 with releases in major franchises such as Frozen, Indiana Jones and Star Wars.
Disclaimer: Plurimi Investment Managers holds short positions in Tesla and Netflix and long positions in BMW and Disney.


As the Fed starts unwinding the stimulus it provided to snap the economy back to life, two types of companies should benefit: banks and those with lower debt than their peers, according to a Goldman Sachs analysis.
Following its two-day meeting this week, the central bank is expected to announce that it will begin rolling off parts of its $4.5 trillion balance sheet. The term refers to the portfolio of mostly Treasurys and mortgage-backed securities, the bulk of which the Fed acquired in an effort to stimulate growth that had been stunted by the financial crisis.
No other central bank ever has undertaken a balance sheet reduction at this level. In the past, even smaller moves often have resulted in recession.
However, David Kostin, Goldman's chief equity strategist, thinks the market effect overall likely won't be dramatic, but the balance sheet operation will put upward pressure on rates, which in turn could take the shine off a stellar bull market rally this year.
"Given the well-choreographed and gradual adjustment, we expect that asset markets will avoid another 'taper tantrum,' the sharp and disruptive rise in yields that occurred in 2013," Kostin wrote in a note to clients.
The "tantrum" occurred after then-Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke warned that the central bank soon would be halting its monthly bond purchases that were seen as a key driver behind the postcrisis bull market run.
Indeed, the Fed did halt the program, known as quantitative easing, in October 2014, but the market effects have been minimal. Government bond yields have held lower and the stock market has continued to post solid gains.
If current Chair Janet Yellen has her way, the same thing will happen with the balance sheet rolloff. The plan is for the Fed to allow $10 billion of the monthly proceeds it gets from the portfolio to run off at first, increasing in $10 billion quarterly increments until the total reaches $50 billion.
When all is said and done, the balance sheet probably will maintain a level that most economists believe will be between $2 trillion and $3 trillion.
Kostin sees bank stocks, "which no longer carry their post-election policy premium" as beneficiaries from the higher rates. Bank stocks jumped after President Donald Trump's election in November, but have tailed off through the year and underperformed the broader market.
With both the Fed balance sheet operation in gear — probably beginning in October — and deregulation moves likely to come to fruition, that has renewed interest in bank stocks. The KBW Nasdaq Bank Index has jumped about 4.5 percent since Sept. 7.
"In addition to the macro tailwind of higher rates, banks should benefit from regulatory changes that are currently not reflected in share prices," Kostin said. "After outperforming their macro drivers on hopes of deregulation in late 2016, bank stocks have now given back all of their earlier 'policy premium,' making them a particularly appealing opportunity."
Losers in the environment ahead are likely to be "bond proxy" stocks like utilities and those with low volatility, he added. The low-vol stocks have been popular this year and carry higher valuations, making them less attractive.
While the balance sheet runoff has been well-telegraphed, the market remains confused about the future path of rate hikes. Just a few weeks ago, the market was certain the Fed wouldn't hike anymore this year and likely would forestall further increases until mid-2018 at the earliest.
However, a recent uptick in inflation signs has changed that, with the market now pricing in better-than-even chance of a move before the end of 2017. Goldman expects another hike this year, then three more in 2018, well ahead of current expectations from traders.


Nvidia shares are surging as Wall Street is growing more bullish on the company's artificial intelligence opportunity.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch raised its price target for the chipmaker to the second highest among analyst firms, citing the company's product leadership in the gaming, data center and AI markets.
The move came two days after Evercore ISI analyst C.J. Muse raised his price target to a Street-high price target on a similar thesis.
"Our positive view on Nvidia is based on its underappreciated transformation from a traditional PC graphics chip vendor, into a supplier into high end gaming, enterprise graphics, cloud, accelerated computing and automotive markets," analyst Vivek Arya wrote in a note to clients Sunday.
"Similar to other large successful tech industries, we expect the $30bn AI chip market to also feature one dominant supplier – we think NVDA."
Nvidia shares opened up 3 percent on Monday. The stock reached an all-time high on Friday, closing at $180.11.
Arya reiterated his buy and "top pick" ratings for Nvidia shares. He raised his price target for the stock to $210 from $185, representing 17 percent upside from Friday's close. He now has the second highest price target on the stock out of more than 30 analysts, according to FactSet. Evercore's Muse is the highest with a $250 12-month forecast.
Bank of America predicts data center capital spending will rise 21 percent in 2018 from an estimated 16.5 percent in 2017. Arya also said Google's AI product is a specialized chip compared with Nvidia's more general purpose processor, which is easier to program for different tasks.
"Incumbency matters and Nvidia has a much wider AI/machine learning ecosystem that will be tough to match," he wrote.
Nvidia's stock is up 187 percent in the past 12 months through Friday compared with the S&P 500's 17 percent gain. That performance ranks No. 1 in the entire S&P 500, according to FactSet.
"Separately we note NVDA's first mover advantage and growing influence in the multi trillion $ healthcare industry where AI/deep learning is being used for predictive analytics, image scanning and pathology assessments," the analyst wrote. "Indeed about 50% of submitted papers at last week's Medical Imaging Computing conference (MICCAI) were on deep learning."


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Nvidia —Analysts at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch raised the chipmaker's price target to $210 from $185 a share. Merrill noted it expects Nvidia's cloud capital expenses to grow by 31 percent in the second half on a year-over-year basis and "growing influence in the multi trillion$ health-care industry where AI/deep learning is being used for predictive analytics, image scanning and pathology assessments."
Orbital ATK — Defense giant Northrop Grumman is buying Orbital for $9.2 billion in cash and debt. Orbital shareholders will receive all-cash consideration of $134.50 a share, a 22 percent premium to its Friday close of $110.04. Orbital's stock soared nearly 20 percent in the premarket to $131.50.
Equifax — Shares of Equifax slipped nearly 2 percent before the bell, building on already steep losses after it reported a massive data breach on Sept. 7. Monday's move lower comes after the Financial Times reported that short-seller Carson Block was suing the company. In the suit, Block described Equifax's handling of the data breach as "abysmal."
Caterpillar — The Dow Jones industrial average component was upgraded to "buy" from "neutral" by analysts at UBS; it also raised its price target to $140 a share from $116. In a note to clients, UBS analysts said Caterpillar has "more room to run" as it sees "new evidence that a continuation of the earnings upcycle is ahead." UBS also expects Caterpillar to generate nearly $10 billion of cash flow after capital expenses and dividends between 2018 and 2020. Shares of Caterpillar rose 1.6 percent in the premarket.
Brooks Automation — Analysts at Needham lowered their rating on the stock to "hold" from "buy," saying growth in its key semiconductors business is "limited by slow sub-segment, resulting in largely inline performance." Brooks' shares declined 1.6 percent in the premarket.
Roku — Streaming entertainment company Roku expects to price 15.7 million shares of Class A common stock between $12 and $14 a share in its initial public offering, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are higher after record high closes for all three major indices Friday. The September Fed meeting begins Tuesday.
-Three quarters of the respondents in the CNBC global CFO survey say President Trump deserves at least some of the credit for the stock market rally.
STORM WATCH
-Hurricane Maria is barreling toward the already storm-battered Caribbean islands. And Jose is set to lash the mid-Atlanticand could hit as far north as the eastern end of Long Island.



Copper futures have risen nearly 18 percent this year, a run that Phil Streible, senior market strategist at RJO Futures, deemed "incredible." But after touching its highest level of the year last week, the metal is surely set to cool off, he said Friday in an interview. "If you're currently long copper, you might want to take those positions off and look to reallocate in other safe haven metals, like gold, silver, platinum, palladium. But the copper market, I think, has definitely peaked," Streible said on CNBC's "Trading Nation." In fact, copper just logged two straight weeks of declines; prior to that, the metal often seen as a rough gauge of global economic growth notched eight straight weeks of gains. Investors ought to keep an eye on Chinese economic growth, Streible said. China is one of the world's largest consumers of the industrial metal, and its prices can be vulnerable to economic reports out of the country. Two measures of growth missed this week; Chinese factory output fell below economists' expectations, as did fixed-asset investments. "Chinese economic data showed the lowest reading for industrial production, which dampens the [country's] demand outlook … also while most likely storm related, U.S. industrial production unexpectedly declined today as well," Streible wrote in an email to CNBC on Friday, referring to Federal Reserve data that reflected the first monthly decline since January. Traders' positioning in copper futures may also be signaling a bigger reversal ahead, if recent data published by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is any indication. "Short dollar, long metals, long gold, and long rates have been persistent trends in 2017, but all suffered a violent reversal at the same time around September 8th. CFTC data reveals that speculator positioning in copper, gold, Euro, and Canadian dollar FX futures was stretched," Pravit Chintawongvanich of Macro Risk Advisors wrote in a note to clients on Thursday. Copper traded slightly lower on Friday.


The price for the digital currency bitcoin is recovering after suffering a massive drop last week.
Bitcoin was trading at $3,964 Monday afternoon, according to CoinDesk, recovering 34 percent from Friday's low of $2,951.15, its lowest since early August.
Bitcoin lost about 14.7 percent last week, extending a sharp drop since briefly topping $5,000 in early September.
The recent fall was triggered by several factors. Some large bitcoin exchanges in China announced plans to close by the end of the month as China cracked down on digital currencies and banned any new initial coin offerings as a way of raising funds.
Bitcoin also took a hit last week after JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon criticized it as a fraud and compared the popularity of virtual currencies to the tulip bulb mania of the 17th century.
The bitcoin market is recovering because investors are getting over the initial shock and realizing that China no longer dominates the market.


As U.K. Prime Minster Theresa May prepares to relaunch her Brexit strategy, global banking bosses meeting nearly 7,000 miles away from London are drawing their own road maps in the event she fails.
"We are all planning for the worst, but hoping for the better," John McFarlane, chairman of Barclays told CNBC at the Singapore Summit.
Deutsche Bank CEO John Cryan agreed from the same event: "The more clarity we have, the earlier the better. That goes without saying. But I think, just on a contingency planning basis, it's right to think the worst."
The C-suite is staying tight lipped on the exact number of jobs slated to leave London.
"The truth of the matter is: We don't know. But it's not a big number," McFarlane said, while estimating around a hundred jobs. "The EU is about 10 percent of our total bank and, therefore, if we were moving all of it, then we would have to move the balance sheet. However, if wholesale activities can remain in London, we don't have to move the balance sheet and therefore, we don't have to move too many people," he explained.
Asked whether it was realistic that half of Deutsche Bank's London headcount was slated to move to Frankfurt, as widely reported, Cryan replied, "No I don't think so.
"Those estimates are difficult to gauge because the scenarios can be different," he added. "We're in a happier position because our capital and our bank are already German. So we can designate the London branch to something but only as a booking center."


With bond yields spending years barely hovering above zero in most developed markets, big money investors are having to get creative to find returns.
For many, that means taking their money to riskier assets. Here's what some of the biggest names in fixed-income investing had to say this week at Milken Institute events in Singapore:


More than three quarters of respondents to this quarter's CNBC Global CFO Council poll say President Donald Trump deserves at least some of the credit for the stock market's record run in 2017, with 17.1 percent saying he deserves "most of the credit."
The CNBC Global CFO Council represents some of the largest public and private companies in the world, collectively managing more than $4 trillion in market capitalization across a wide variety of sectors. The quarterly poll was conducted from Sept.5–13.


In the perennial race between active and passive investment management, there are signs of a shift. After several years of bringing up the rear, active performance has outpaced passive so far in 2017. Various factors suggest that it could stay out front for a few years.
This year has been the best for active fund performance since the bull market began, as it has bested passive more than half the time. About 54 percent of active managers have beaten their benchmarks overall so far in 2017; about 60 percent did so in July.
Meanwhile, though long-depressed inflows into active funds have shown new life recently (they had their best week in 30 months in July, taking in $3.5 billion), money keeps gushing into exchange-traded funds. (Vanguard investors in index funds and ETFs now own nearly 5 percent of the S&P 500.) Real dominance by active management would be marked by a reversal of this tide.
This won't happen, of course, until after active management has shown a sustained performance advantage.
Various considerations suggest the potential for this, including:
Past trends. Historically, active management's comebacks have been multiyear rather than single-year. Though passive has reigned supreme over the past six years, active won the race for six years in the 1990s and from 2001 to 2011. Just as passive management has done best in up markets, active's potential for superior performance tends to be higher in difficult markets. Thus, active did well in the difficult market of the mid-1990s, and passive took the lead during the tech boom late in that decade.
More from Active/Passive: The top 3 benefits of early market investing All-index portfolios battle stress, cut costs Some closed funds ready to reopen for business
Today's narrow bull market. When the bull's starting point is pegged to the ascent that followed the financial crisis of 2008, the current bull market is now nine years old, the longest since World War II (though the argument could be made that this bull is actually of shorter duration because the market didn't hit a new high until 2013). Regardless, those anticipating a new market cycle are more likely to be gratified with each passing month, as the price/earnings ratio of dominant names have risen to ethereal heights.
This market has a weakness that isn't acknowledged widely enough: It's being driven mainly by six large-cap stocks — Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Google and Johnson & Johnson (the Big Six.) When the market has gone up in the past couple years, much of the gain has been because one or more of these stocks has appreciated. As of early September, year to date, all of the stocks have had robust double-digit gains, with Facebook's shares appreciating nearly 48 percent and Apple's about 37 percent.
If these few bulls stop running and the herd doesn't find new leaders, this result could be an ensuing difficult market — the kind where active managers do best.
Increasing opportunities for contrarian managers. With huge investment from index funds and ETFs, the Big Six have amassed a collective market capitalization of $3.4 trillion — greater than the total value of the bottom 1,115 stocks in the S&P 1,500 — the lower large-cap companies. If the Big Six falter, money pouring into them will presumably find other places to go.
But even if this happens, empowering the bull market to continue, passive management's fixation on the S&P 500 will continue to provide increased opportunities for active managers seeking value opportunities among lower large-cap companies. And some of these 1,115 orphans are fairly attractive.


There's a lot of hurricane damage to come between the Fed and its next interest rate hike.
Hurricane Harvey has already heated up inflation, hit industrial production, and dampened retail sales, and that was just the late August data — before Hurricane Irma rampaged across Florida this month.
Economists expect the storms to shave a half percent or more off third quarter GDP and temporarily boost inflation, including higher gasoline prices and building materials costs. That makes whatever the Fed says about the impact of the two monster hurricanes in the coming week potentially more interesting than its expected announcement on how it will begin unwinding its massive $4.5 trillion balance sheet.
The Fed's meeting Tuesday and Wednesday is the highlight of the week ahead. There are also a few economic reports, including housing starts Tuesday and existing home sales Wednesday. Jobless claims Thursday should again be elevated, with the impact now of Hurricane Irma which caused the evacuation of Florida's coasts and other parts of the Southeast.
Economists expect the economic impact of the hurricanes to be temporary before a rebound as the damaged areas begin to rebuild.
For Fed watchers, the hurricanes have changed the dynamic in a number of ways. One is that the Fed could be more concerned about a weaker economy, particularly if there are further storms.


If investors only paid attention to the aggregate data released by the government, CNBC's Jim Cramer would imagine they'd be huge pessimists about the state of the economy.
"This morning we got retail sales numbers that were baffling. They were for the month of August and they fell by 0.2 percent. That's very subpar. Then the Federal Reserve issued an industrial production number that was clearly wanting. It was a 0.9 percent dip," the "Mad Money" host said. "But I've got to ask you a question: do these numbers really tell you the whole story?"
Instead, Cramer turned to business leaders for a more intimate take on the economy. Brad Jacobs, the CEO of XPO Logistics, told Cramer on Thursday that "industrial economy's back" and on the path to recovery.
Caterpillar, a massive manufacturer, announced earlier this week that the economic cycle was picking up, touting its global orders and climbing stock.
Other executives also said that both the industrial and retail sectors are accelerating, bucking the government's statistics that suggest they're more tepid.
"People remain endlessly skeptical that anything good can happen industrially both here [and] around the world. Yet Brixmor, Eaton, XPO Logistics, Caterpillar and United Technologies – a pretty diverse group – paint a very positive picture of what's really going on here," Cramer said. "So don't be baffled by the national retail sales or industrial production numbers. Be skeptical of them. There's a much better story out there if you just bother to look under the hood."


Investors may have grown hesitant about a merger between CBS Radio and Entercom Communications, but CNBC's Jim Cramer thinks they may have been wrong to worry.
The deal would combine the spun-off CBS Radio with Entercom, creating an entity that could reshape the U.S. radio industry. Entercom's stock surged over 10 percent when news of the deal broke in February, but it has since sold off, shedding almost $6.
"Clearly the market isn't as enthusiastic for this big radio tie-up as we first thought. But what if the market is misreading this CBS Radio deal?" the "Mad Money" host said. "It's a complex transaction. I think the negative sentiment here is giving you a fabulous buying opportunity."
The merger will happen via a Reverse Morris Trust, where one company (in this case, CBS) spins off part of its business in order to merge it with another, smaller company. The tax-free deal will give CBS majority control over the combined company, which will still be called Entercom.
In Cramer's eyes, this will be a monumental deal for Entercom. The new entity will preside over 244 radio stations across 47 U.S. markets.
"They'll be the No. 1 creator of local audio content in America. More important, they'll also have a gigantic sports business, broadcasting games from 45 professional teams [and] numerous college teams" on stations like New York's WFAN and Washington, D.C.'s 106.7, Cramer said.
The "new Entercom" will also become the United States' second-largest radio company by revenue with the best balance sheet in the industry, the "Mad Money" host said.
And while iHeartMedia, the industry's top player, is in danger of going bankrupt, Cramer said that the radio business has more potential to it than many investors might think.
After all, radio's penetration is widespread, with over 240 million weekly listeners. Entercom CEO David Field, who will continue to preside over the combined company, said that "radio reaches more Americans than any other entertainment medium" on the conference call about the merger.
"In short, while online competition's been devastating to television, radio is different because most people listen to radio in the car," Cramer said. "You can't play with your smartphone when you're driving — you need to keep your eyes on the road. All you can do is listen, which is why radio is still relevant."
Entercom's management expects the deal to be immediately additive to earnings and is experienced at integrating new acquisitions, having completed two deals in the last three years.
Entercom is also fairly small, with a $430 million market capitalization. But with CBS Radio's 100-plus stations, Entercom will soon be worth somewhere around $2 billion, a market cap more likely to draw deep-pocketed investors to the stock.
The new Entercom will also create a bustling live events business with some 4,500 live events a year. Cramer said this alone should make the stock a strong play on the rise of the experiential economy, one of his favorite trends.
Wall Street's main concern about the deal was how it was structured. Entercom will have to issue 105 million new shares, which isn't what the existing shareholders necessarily wanted.
"If you simply wanted to own a sedate, small-cap radio station with a nice dividend, well, things have suddenly gotten a lot more complicated," Cramer said. "Basically, Entercom is swapping out much of its shareholder base, and until the deal gets done, many new buyers, I think, are going to hold off on pulling the trigger."
Others worry about Entercom's recent performance, which included a notable earnings miss, but Cramer said he would give the company a pass given its impressive long-term performance.
"I say the negativity is misplaced and Entercom's stock is a bargain," Cramer said. "In fact, it may be one of the cheapest stocks in the entire market. Why? Because pf the complexity of the transaction and the perception that radio's dead. That's scaring people away. As long as there are cars with human drivers — and I know one day there might not be, but right now, there are — there will be radio, and Entercom could be the best way for institutional investors to profit from that longevity."


JPMorgan's top quant strategist backed his boss this week in bashing bitcoin, warning that the cryptocurrency is likely a "pyramid scheme."
Marko Kolanovic, the bank's global head of quantitative and derivatives strategy, said in a note on Wednesday that in addition to being volatile and difficult to value, "another worrying aspect of cryptocurrencies are some parallels to fraudulent pyramid schemes."
Bitcoin needs to be mined, or discovered, by people using computers to solve problems. Its murky origin raises questions, he said. "It is believed that an unknown person (or persons) known as 'Satoshi Nakamoto', before disappearing, mined the first 1-2 million coins or about 10 percent of the coins that will ever exist."
He added, "Mining becomes progressively more difficult, and eventually unprofitable."
Bitcoin surged more than 10 percent on Friday, but was still on track for a big weekly loss during a tumultuous period of trading.
Earlier this week, JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon called bitcoin a "fraud," saying that the cryptocurrency "won't end well." Dimon was speaking at the Delivering Alpha conference presented by CNBC and Institutional Investor.
Bitcoin plunged about 13 percent Thursday after one of the biggest exchanges in China said it will shut down its operation. BTC China said in a tweet Thursday that it will close down its operations by Sept. 30 as Chinese authorities crack down on cryptocurrencies.
But to be sure, many see bitcoin as a huge opportunity.
Former JPMorgan strategist Tom Lee said the cryptocurrency could surge another 600 percent in five years. "I unequivocally believe bitcoin is your best investment to the end of the year," the Fundstrat co-founder told CNBC, standing by similar remarks he made Aug. 9 on "Fast Money."
"It's not worth it to look at bitcoin two months, two weeks ahead," Lee argued, saying he still believes each bitcoin will be worth $25,000 in five years.
An unconvinced Kolanovic rattled off a number of risks. "There is no organized power behind this currency to e.g. ensure its long term viability, secure trade, enforce its acceptability for goods and services, or provide investor fraud protection," he said.
"If the use of cryptocurrencies were to increase to an extent that they start competing with traditional 'country' currencies they would be quickly regulated or outlawed."


With recent computer breaches of major companies such as Equifax dominating the news, one Wall Street firm predicts FedEx will suffer from the summer's cyberattack on its European business.
FedEx announced on June 28 its TNT Express subsidiary based in Europe was cyberattacked, which disrupted its operations and communications systems. The company said no data was breached, but the incident could have a material financial impact.
UBS lowered its rating for FedEx shares to neutral from buy, saying the company is facing market share losses in Europe due to the disruptions.
"We expect a combination of additional expense and lost revenue at TNT resulting from the cyber-attack to weigh on results throughout F2018," analyst Thomas Wadewitz wrote in a note to clients Friday.
"In addition, we do not yet have visibility to significant improvement in FDX's Ground margin which could provide an offset to the challenges at TNT."
The analyst cited how TNT had disruptions in their European service operations from June 28 to August 18. He noted the company "lost meaningful volumes in Express / Overnight area in particular" to other shipping competitors, according to his industry contacts.
"The TNT issues could indicate FDX may come in at the lower end of their [cost cutting] target or perhaps even below the low end (our F2020E now reflects about $1.0 bn of improvement)," he wrote.
FedEx did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Its shares traded roughly flat midday Friday after the report.
The delivery company's stock is up 15 percent year to date through Thursday versus the S&P 500's 11.5 percent return.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


It's going to take more than a double-digit percentage drop in a week to shake strategist Tom Lee's faith in the potential of bitcoin.
"I unequivocally believe bitcoin is your best investment to the end of the year," the Fundstrat co-founder told CNBC, standing by similar remarks he made Aug. 9 on "Fast Money."
He said on the program Thursday that bitcoin should be viewed as a store of value like gold was in the 1980s when some investors didn't trust dollars.
"It's not worth it to look at bitcoin two months, two weeks ahead," Lee argued, saying he still believes each bitcoin will be worth $25,000 in five years or about 600 percent higher than current levels.
In early trading on Friday, bitcoin fell below the $3,000 level before turning higher in volatile action. But the cryptocurrency was still about 15 percent lower for the entire week by midday.
In the past 12 months, bitcoin has spiked about 500 percent.
But China's recent crackdown on bitcoin exchanges there has created some forced selling, Lee said. But he stressed investors in the digital currency aren't strangers to these kinds of swings.
From mid-June to mid-July, bitcoin fell about 30 percent and then more than doubled to an all-time of over $4,900 at the beginning of September.
To critics, like JPMorgan Chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon, who've called bitcoin a fraud, Lee advised investors to be "on the other side, very strong."
On Tuesday, at the CNBC-Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha conference, Dimon called the digital currency a "fraud" and predicted governments will step in. "Wait until someone gets hurt. Wait until it's used for illicit purposes, which it's somewhat used for illicit purposes. They close it down. That's my point," Dimon said.
Lee also said bitcoin can't be in a "bubble," another assertion of bitcoin doubters, because so few people actually own it. "I think it's still very early stages."
"We have some data. There's only about 300,000 holders of at least $5,000 of bitcoin," he said. "That's like saying the iPhone was a bubble in 2007 four days into the sale because there were 500,000 iPhones sold."
Noted economist Mohamed El-Erian on Wednesday told "Squawk Box" that bitcoin is certainly a "disruptive" technology but won't see widespread use. "The current pricing assume massive adoption," Allianz's chief economic advisor and former Pimco chief said. That's the reason why he thinks bitcoin should be worth about half today's value.


Oracle was the worst-performing stock in the S&P 500 on Friday, tumbling more than 6 percent in its worst day in 4 years.
The company reported stronger-than-expected earnings on Thursday for the first quarter of its 2018 fiscal year, which ended on August 31. But the stock turned negative after the company gave guidance for the next quarter.
In terms of guidance, the company expects to bring in 64 cents to 68 cents in earnings per share and 2 to 4 percent revenue growth — with 39 to 42 percent cloud revenue growth — in constant currency for the second quarter of the 2018 fiscal year. Analysts were expecting 68 cents in earnings per share on $9.49 billion in revenue, according to Thomson Reuters. Immediately after Oracle CEO Safra Catz gave the guidance, the company's stock fell more than 5 percent below the closing price of $52.79 per share.
Immediately after Oracle CEO Safra Catz gave the guidance, the company's stock fell more than 5 percent below the closing price of $52.79 per share.
Revenue for the quarter was up 7 percent from last year. New software license revenue continued to decline; it was down 6 percent for the quarter, although it did surpass the FactSet analyst consensus, according to StreetAccount.
Cloud revenue for the quarter was up 51 percent year over year, according to today's earnings statement. Three months ago, Oracle executives said they expected cloud revenue to be up 48 to 52 percent year over year for the first quarter of the 2018 fiscal year. Cloud revenue slightly exceeded FactSet's analyst consensus, StreetAccount said.
Cloud has become so important to Oracle that the company has decided to only give top executives their performance options if Oracle "significantly grows its cloud business," according to a regulatory filing from earlier this month. That significant growth would require $20 billion in total cloud revenue, $10 billion in cloud software revenue, and $10 billion in cloud infrastructure and cloud platform revenue in a fiscal year.
Also, the profit margin for cloud software would have to exceed 80 percent. For this quarter, Oracle's cloud software margin came in at 67 percent when certain items are excluded.
In the cloud infrastructure market, Oracle lags behind Amazon, Microsoft and Alphabet. Oracle competes with a range of companies including Microsoft, Salesforce, SAP and Workday in cloud software.
Cloud infrastructure and platform revenue came in at $400 million. For the sake of comparison, Amazon's market-leading cloud infrastructure service produced $4.1 billion in revenue in the second quarter of this year.
Historically Oracle has made most of its money by selling software for on-premises data centers. At this point, the company "appears to be over the hump of its transition" to cloud software, Wedbush analysts Steve Koenig and Joseph Winn noted on Wednesday.
The company had $473 million in capital expenditures, which includes the cost of data center infrastructure to support Oracle cloud services. That figure was up 58 percent year over year.
In June Oracle said Bank of America will use some of its cloud applications.
As it reports earnings, the company is also preparing for its annual OpenWorld conference, which kicks off two and half weeks from now in San Francisco. Oracle board chairman and chief technology officer Larry Ellison said on Thursday's earnings call that the company will unveil service-level agreements that will guarantee cost savings for organizations that switch from Amazon's Redshift database service to Oracle's cloud database.
"There's no one left to buy," Ellison said in response to a question about what to expect from mergers and acquisitions going forward.
Oracle stock is up more than 28 percent since the beginning of the year.
— CNBC's Anita Balakrishnan contributed to this report.


Hurricanes Harvey and Irma may have faded from the sky, but you can count on them coming up again, this time in company conference calls.
All the big hurricanes live again in the quarters following their landfall in the U.S., according to a CNBC analysis of earnings calls transcripts over the past 12 years. Corporate executives blame the storms for lower-than-expected results, express support for those on the ground and cautiously report the pick-up in spending thanks to relief efforts. For the analysis, we focused on companies valued at $5 billion and more.
Generally, the costlier the hurricane, the more it's mentioned in subsequent calls. Hurricane Katrina, which devastated Louisiana in 2005, caused an estimated $133 billion in damages and was mentioned nearly 500 times in the ensuing quarters. Hurricane Sandy, which struck New York City in 2012 and caused major infrastructure damage across the Northeast, caused about $75 billion in damage and was mentioned over 400 times.


Marc "Dr. Doom" Faber said Friday the U.S. is no longer leading the pack and Asian and European stocks have relatively good value.
Faber, the editor and publisher of The Gloom, Boom & Doom Report, said European stocks, with the exception of the FTSE 100, have outperformed the U.S. and most Asian markets this year.
"So, we have had a shift in market leadership away from the U.S. to other markets," he said on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street." "And I think there is better value in Europe and still better value in Asia than in the U.S."
Prior to 2013 and 2014, Faber said he was bullish on U.S. stocks. But after that, he didn't see many opportunities in the United States and turned his eyes to Europe and Asia emerging markets.
Faber said he finds Japanese stocks particularly interesting because its corporate sector has been deleveraging. "Some Japanese companies are actually quite good value," he said.
"I personally prefer investments in Indochina, in Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Myanmar and also Laos," he said. "That is the region I think has enormous economic potential and there will be plenty of opportunities. But for institutional investors, the Japanese market offers in some sectors very good value."
European stocks declinedFriday after North Korea sent another missile over Japan into the Pacific. Still, European stocks hit their best week since July.
In the U.S., stocks rose to record levels Friday.


The big tech rally is starting to lose steam, according to trader Todd Gordon, who says that as a result, it's time to bet against the sector.
"We've been watching the tech sector underperform lately, and I think we're starting to carve out a top," the TradingAnalysis.com founder said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
To make his case, Gordon takes a look at a daily chart of the QQQ, the Nasdaq-100 tracking ETF. According to Gordon, the QQQ has been making what he calls an "ending diagonal." In other words, the ETF is making lower highs, and forming a sort of "consolidation wedge" that doesn't show much room to the upside.

In addition, Gordon notes that the QQQ's relative strength index is making lower highs, which suggests that the ETF is losing momentum.
"Basically you're losing a lot of upside price dynamic, meaning there's not a lot of enthusiasm on the upside," the trader explained.
Beneath the surface of the fund, Gordon points out that big tech names like Alphabet, Amazon and Apple are also off their highs. Even Facebook, says Gordon, has "double topped," which he takes as a bearish indicator that the stock will fall.
In order to position for a reversal in the big tech rally, Gordon is buying the Oct. 6 weekly 145-strike puts and selling the Oct. 6 weekly 143-strike puts for a total of 55 cents, or $55 per options spread.
The QQQ opened Friday trading at $145.56. The trade breaks even at $144.45, and if QQQ closes at or below $143 on Oct. 6 expiration, Gordon enjoys his maximum profit of $145. If the ETF closes above $145 on Oct. 6, the entire premium paid will be lost.
In order to reduce the chance of this happening, Gordon plans to exit the trade if QQQ climbs to $146.50, a "double top" level he sees on a 60-minute chart of the ETF.

While QQQ has dropped slightly in the past week, the ETF is still up about 23 percent year to date.


A casual observer may assume Bridgewater Associates founder Ray Dalio, who runs the world's largest hedge fund, only had a charmed investing career filled with success after success.
But that isn't the case, as the legendary investor explained in his upcoming book. He actually went broke eight years after he started his investment firm. Counterintuitively, this failure was the best thing that ever happened to him, he said.
In 1982, Dalio confidently predicted the global economy was headed toward a depression and he traded accordingly.
"I was dead wrong … The stock market began a big bull run, and over the next eighteen years the U.S. economy enjoyed the greatest noninflationary growth period in its history," he wrote in his book entitled "Principles: Life and Work," available on Tuesday.
"My experience over this period was like a series of blows to the head with a baseball bat. Being so wrong – and especially so publicly wrong – was incredibly humbling and cost me just about everything I had built at Bridgewater," he added.
Due to the losses, the investor was forced to lay off all of his employees and ask for money from his family.
"I'd lost so much money I couldn't afford to pay the people who worked with me. One by one, I had to let them go," he wrote. "To make ends meet, I even had to borrow $4,000 from my dad until we could sell our second car."
Dalio said he was too arrogant, overconfident and failed to do enough historical research, but the incident led to the self-improvement he needed to become successful:
"In retrospect, my crash [failure] was one of the best things that ever happened to me because it gave me the humility I needed to balance my aggressiveness. I learned a great fear of being wrong that shifted my mind-set from thinking 'I'm right' to asking myself 'How do I know I'm right?' And I saw clearly that the best way to answer this question is by finding other independent thinkers who are on the same mission as me and who see things differently from me. By engaging them in thoughtful disagreement, I'd be able to understand their reasoning and have them stress-test mine."
Failure was the key driver in developing a new perspective Dalio called being "radically open-minded" and helped turn Bridgewater into an idea meritocracy.
"I learned that failing is an essential step toward success, and that the key to success lies in knowing how to both strive for a lot and fail well," he wrote. "By failing well, I mean being able to experience painful failures that provide big learnings without failing badly enough to get knocked out of the game."





With Congress finally making at least halting progress toward tax reform, JPMorgan is advising clients to start preparing for the investing implications.
The firm believes that an initial draft on tax reform will be delivered, as promised, by Sept. 25 even though substantial differences still exist within the "Big Six" legislators working on the plan.
That draft "will help dimension the extent of the reform," Dubravko Lakos-Bujas, JPMorgan's head of U.S. equity strategy, said in a note. Following the draft, a budget resolution proposal is likely to be made public in mid-October.
"This will ultimately indicate the likelihood of a reform happening, how aggressive the proposed tax reform package will be and how it may be funded," Lakos-Bujas said. "Regardless, the proposal will bear a high degree of execution risk as Congress attempts to build broad-based consensus."


One Wall Street firm is getting even more excited about Nvidia, even after the stock's stunning triple-digit performance during the past year.
Evercore ISI raised its price target for the chipmaker to the highest among analyst firms, saying the company's products will dominate the artificial intelligence market.
"We hosted NVDA mgmt. (CEO, CFO and IR) on the road with investors over the last few days. … Our sense is management believes that investors still severely underestimates the impact of AI and the size of the potential market," analyst C.J. Muse wrote in a note to clients Friday. "We are only at the cusp of AI's growth potential and NVIDIA is creating THE AI computing industry standard."
Muse reiterated his outperform rating and raised his price target for Nvidia to $250 from $180, representing 48 percent upside from Thursday's close. He now has the highest price target on the stock out of more than 30 analysts, according to FactSet. Two other firms have the second highest forecast at $200.
Muse noted that the company spent more than $10 billion in research and development to build its CUDA software programming platform, which supports building AI software.
"NVDA has created an industry standard for AI systems that will be nearly impossible to replicate," he wrote.
Nvidia's stock is up 170 percent in the past 12 months through Thursday compared with the S&P 500's 16 percent gain. That performance ranks No. 1 in the entire S&P 500, according to FactSet.
"We believe the tremendous growth opportunities led by AI in the Data Center and Automotive verticals supports a clear path to $10 in earnings power over the next 3-5 years," the analyst wrote.
The company generated earnings per share of $2.57 in fiscal 2017.
Nvidia shares rose 4 percent Friday shortly after the market open.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Oracle — The business software giant reported adjusted quarterly profit of 62 cents per share, two cents a share above estimates. Revenue also came in above forecasts. Oracle's results were helped by a successful ramping up of its cloud-based business, however the stock is being pressured by a weaker-than-expected current-quarter forecast.
American Airlines, United Continental, Southwest Airlines – JPMorgan Chase downgraded American and United to "neutral," while upgrading Southwest to "overweight." The two downgrades are based on American and United's prospects given domestic pricing weakness and higher fuel costs, but JPMorgan also said Southwest's valuation is attractive at current levels.
Equifax – Democratic senators have introduced a bill that would stop credit reporting agencies from charging consumers for freezing credit file access, in the wake of the massive Equifax data breach.
Phillips 66 – Phillips 66 chartered a Marshall Islands-flagged ship to help meet fuel shortages resulting from Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. The energy producer took advantage of a temporary waiver of the Jones Act, which ordinarily requires the use of U.S.-flagged ships for transportation between U.S. coasts.
Macy's – Macy's will hire about 80,000 seasonal workers for the holidays, about 3,000 fewer than the retailer hired for the 2016 holiday season.
Alphabet – Alphabet may invest $1 billion in ride-sharing service Lyft, according to The Wall Street Journal. Separately, the Google parent responded to a gender discrimination lawsuit, saying it was reviewing the suit but disagrees with its allegations. The lawsuit had accused the company of discriminating against women in the areas of pay and promotions.
Carnival – The cruise line operator was downgraded to "neutral" from "outperform" at Credit Suisse, citing an uncertain outlook amid increasing threats to demand for cruises.
Henry Schein – The stock was upgraded to "overweight" from "neutral" at Piper Jaffray, which said that it thinks the threat of potential competition from Amazon is overdone. Henry Schein is a major provider of health care products and services to medical, dental, and veterinary offices.
Prologis – Prologis said its Florida properties had suffered no significant damage from Hurricane Irma. The real estate developer's statement follows a similar declaration from home builder Lennar on Thursday.
Genworth Financial – Genworth received approval from Virginia insurance officials to sell its insurance companies based in that state to China Oceanwide Holdings.
First Solar – The solar company's stock was upgraded to "buy" from "hold" at Deutsche Bank, which said its checks indicate that demand for solar modules is rising in the U.S. market and that prices are being driven higher.
Celgene – The drugmaker's stock was rated a "top pick" in new coverage at RBC Capital with a $176 price target, with RBC saying Celgene's growth prospects are being substantially undervalued relative to its peers.
Constellation Brands, Monster Beverage – Both companies are rated "outperform" in new coverage of the beverage industry at Macquarie Research. Macquarie said both companies own what it calls "passion brands" that have a long runway for growth.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are flat after Thursday's mixed close. There's a lot of economic data coming out this morning, including retail sales and industrial production.
LONDON ATTACK
-London police are calling an explosion aboard a tube train that left some people injured an act of terrorism. Details are still sketchy.
NORTH KOREA THREAT
-North Korea launched another missile test that passed over Japan and went further than its last test. The U.N. Security Council meets this afternoon to discuss a response. Secretary of State Tillerson is demanding that Russia and China take more direct action against North Korea.


CNBC's Jim Cramer is convinced that analysts who weren't thrilled about Apple's new iPhone release are missing something, and it may have something to do with age.
"I think one of the reasons why there was so little 'Wow, got to have it' about the new iPhone, at least among the analyst community, is that the analysts themselves might be too old to get their heads around the way younger people see these products. When new technology comes out, millennials, who tend to be too young to be senior analysts, are far more likely to figure out how to use them and how to adapt to them," the "Mad Money" host said.
Analyst reports from Credit Suisse, Canaccord Genuity, JPMorgan and Piper Jaffray were tepid, saying the product launch met expectations, while KeyBanc analysts were "disappointed" with the iPhone X.
But Cramer argued that younger people are likely to create buzz around new product features, download key apps and use the phones to engage with and document the experiential economy.
"If you're a baby boomer like me, then the best way to figure out what's happening or what's going to happen, especially when it comes to this kind of technology, is to watch what your own kids are doing," Cramer said.
For example, last week, Cramer's eldest daughter introduced him to Pokemon Go, a new mobile iteration of Niantic's hugely popular Pokemon game franchise.
The "Mad Money" host noticed three things when he played the game: first, it was a lot of fun. Second, it used a lot of the iPhone's battery. Third, it had a simple concept, reminding Cramer of games he used to play growing up.
"Playing Pokemon Go, I suddenly could envision a game that could talk to you in high resolution [and] allow you to communicate with others in real time with much more clever augmented realities. Those are not yet available, but these phones are coming closer and closer, and I want to see very much what the iPhone X can do along these lines," he said. "I know my kids will tell me much earlier than I will know myself."
Cramer's other daughter went on a cruise, to his surprise. While he is bullish on the cruise ship industry, he did not expect someone in her 20s to want to go on a cruise.
But the cruise had a millennial draw: It was themed around electronic dance music, or EDM.
"Cruises are fun, I get that," Cramer said. "More important, though, an EDM cruise is a chance to brand yourself via Instagram."
Boasting better cameras and resolution with nearly every model, iPhones help young people capture their experiences, Cramer said. The more photogenic the event, the better the photos, and the better the device, the more incentive millennials have to document their experiences.
"You think any of these post-50-year-old analysts get that?" Cramer said. "They don't see anything new because they don't understand how 20-somethings use technology to brand or even re-brand themselves. They don't understand silly games. They see everything as incremental. Younger people see everything as the ability to explore the seemingly un-explorable or re-create themselves to friends in a setting that's as compelling as a big-screen movie."
That's why some analysts wrote off the new iPhone as another "expected" move by Apple, Cramer said — they didn't realize that higher resolution, better battery life and improved photos would make the $999 special-edition phone worth the cost to younger buyers.
"One device can do hundreds of things that Wall Street analysts would never want to do or know about," Cramer said. "That's why it's 'Blah, blah, blah' instead of 'Wow.' That's why these analysts think the stock should be traded. And that's why they're wrong."


Brick-and-mortar retailers may be feeling the heat from Amazon, but CNBC's Jim Cramer is keen on one chain that's been thriving despite the online giant's domination: Best Buy.
"Five years ago, it looked like this electronics retailer was roadkill, and it was regularly dismissed as merely being a showroom for Amazon. Remember that? You'd go into Best Buy, you'd look at the televisions, computers [or] speakers, then you'd order them off the web for a lot less money. Then Hubert Joly took over as CEO in September of 2012, and ever since then, Best Buy has come roaring back, with the stock nearly quadrupling over five short years," the "Mad Money" host said.
The stock has been so strong that Cramer was surprised when Best Buy shares fell nearly 12 percent after its latest earnings report. Investors fled the stock after management issued some cautious commentary on the conference call, a reaction Cramer saw as overblown.
"Of course, Best Buy has already started bouncing back, but the stock is still down $5 from its highs and it's got a lot of big catalysts coming up in the next few weeks. That's why I think it's not too late to buy the stock of BBY," Cramer said.
Best Buy has gone through a major turnaround under its new CEO, improving the customer experience, expanding its digital presence, cutting costs and boosting the dividend.
But Cramer still felt the need to address the stock's plunge after earnings.
On Best Buy's conference call, management warned that analysts shouldn't get used to the retailer's 5.4 percent same-store sales number it posted in the second quarter.
Then, the company's chief financial officer, Corie Barry, used one of retail's biggest red-flag words, "competitive," or some variation, multiple times to describe gaming hardware sales, new product launches and fourth-quarter performance.
But Cramer said the CFO's commentary spooked analysts more than it should have.
"All that caution — 'competitive,' 'promotional,' 'competitive,' 'promotional,' 'competitive'  — it freaked people out, and investors sold the stock willy-nilly as they were worried that Best Buy was going to get slammed at the end of the year. Honestly, though, I think this was much ado about nothing," Cramer said. "We already knew that electronics, and gaming hardware in particular, was a competitive space. We already knew the holiday season can get really promotional. None of it was revelatory. The truth is, Best Buy's been competing and thriving for years now."
And with Best Buy's stock in the middle of its first major pullback since January 2015, Cramer said that the timing couldn't be better for investors to get into the stock.
Moreover, Best Buy is looking ahead to several catalysts, from its Investor Day on Tuesday to Apple's new iPhone hitting stores later this fall to an impending $2.2 billion share buyback.
"Here's the bottom line: when a high-quality stock gets marked down for the wrong reasons, you need to back up the truck. Make no mistake, Best Buy is high-quality, and while it's already started bouncing, I think BBY could have a lot more room to run," Cramer said.


As the Dow Jones average closed at a record high on Thursday, CNBC's Jim Cramer saw a forgotten sector getting a bit of unexpected love.
"Nothing gives you clues better than the stock market," the "Mad Money" host said. "Remember that peak auto thesis that autos were now headed [down]? Well, that's being disrupted by all those destroyed cars in the Houston area that are insured."
Nearly two weeks after flooding from Hurricane Harvey wreaked havoc on the Eastern coast of Texas, Cramer started seeing some of the most embattled auto stocks breaking out.
"Look at the stock of General Motors. It's finally breaking out. Do you know how many years that thing has been toiling in the House of Pain? That's those insurance checks. They're coming in. Look at the stock of auto parts maker Magna International," he said. "Morgan Stanley had the misfortune of downgrading this one right before the storm. Now it's hitting 52-week highs as the slowdown thesis for the auto industry is kaput and the parts industry is soaring."
But auto isn't the only sector turning around. Cramer also noticed health care stocks starting to come back to the fore and shared his cardinal rule for spotting market rotations.


As the Dow Jones average closed at a record high on Thursday, CNBC's Jim Cramer saw a forgotten sector getting a bit of unexpected love.
"This market's rotating into what's been left behind of late. That's healthy. Hey, you know what? It's health care. That's right, health care's catching up. How can you spot these rotations? It's simple. Let me give you my No. 1 rule of thumb for spotting rotations," the "Mad Money" host said. "First, you look up what stocks are rallying the most. You can look at percentage gains or big [basis] point gains. Then you see if there's any news or research behind the particular move that you're seeing. If there's nothing to it, if there's no obvious reason, then you know what you're witnessing? The beginning of a rotation."
Cramer pointed to the stock of Johnson & Johnson. Shares of the medical goods giant had been steady since their last real rally in February, but recently, they've been jumping higher.
"That's perfect. That's the first lead," Cramer said. "Big-time money managers don't want to buy stocks that have run. They want to buy stocks that are about to run."
Now, despite the lack of news fueling Johnson & Johnson's run, Cramer expects analysts covering the stock to step out tomorrow and reiterate their "buy" recommendations.
Analysts covering steady stocks like this one often wait for big moves to voice why they like or dislike their stocks even without clear catalysts, the "Mad Money" host explained.
And it's not just Johnson & Johnson. Cramer noticed the same thing with the stocks of Merck and Pfizer, two other big-name pharmaceuticals.
"But what, you're saying, is worth squawking about if there's really no reason for the J&J move? If you're saying that to yourself, you're a big silly, because something can always be ginned up," Cramer said.
For example, Johnson & Johnson analysts can point to the company's massive overseas sales, particularly in Europe, as cause for the stock's rise. They can cite currency fluctuations in their upgrades, Cramer said.
But the most important thing for investors to understand about rotations is that bulls in bears' clothing are always lurking, searching for areas of value they can recommend despite the news cycle.
"It doesn't take much to get a short-term rotation going, even if many of these moves might not have long-term staying power," Cramer said. "I'm not saying to relax and enjoy the ride, [but] the opposite — that's just complacency. I am staying to observe and understand, and then at least you can make sense of the action."


The Street is buzzing with speculation over what company may be the target for Social Capital Hedosophia, which raised $600 million in an IPO today at the NYSE.
Social Capital is a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC), set up to invest in technology companies that are not yet public. SPACs are based on a simple premise: investors are initially going in with a seasoned manager in an investment space (energy, tech, etc.) who will then have up to two years to buy one or more assets. The investors have the option of remaining in the investment or getting out and receiving their money back.
In this case the management team is led by Chamath Palihapitiya, one of the original members of Facebook's management team.
The issue now: what will he buy?
Palihapitiya, in an interview earlier on CNBC, said he was looking for only one company to buy, so there is considerable speculation on what might be in his crosshairs.
He gave us a clue by identifying the rough size of a target: "[T]hink about this as a merger of an entity that should be valued anywhere between $3 and call it $20 billion where that management stays in control..."
That is a wide range, but there are several tech "unicorns" that fall in the $3 billion to $20 billion range. Just in the $10 billion and below range there are several well-known names:


If rates continue to rise, the real estate sector could see pain ahead as rising yields may hit names in the sector often seen as fixed income proxies.
As yields bounce meaningfully from their recent 2017 lows, many noted the decline in utilities stocks, which also sport high yields and thus are seen as a potential replacement for bonds. But real estate investment trusts were just behind in performance, pointed out S&P Global portfolio manager Erin Gibbs.
Indeed, the real estate sector fell modestly this week as the yield on the U.S. 10-year Treasury rose. The utilities, consumer staples and real estate sectors are the only sectors in the red over the course of the last week.
If investors continue fleeing bonds, thus pushing rates higher, Gibbs wrote to CNBC in an email, REITs could fall out of favor for two principal reasons.
From an investor demand perspective, REITs offer relatively high dividend yields relative to the rest of the market, and those equity yields could be seen as less attractive as bond yields rise. And from an operations perspective, REITs themselves are often highly leveraged, since they are "borrowing money to finance developments," Gibbs wrote. "As rates increase REITS costs go up, making them less profitable."
When it comes to earnings growth expectations for the next year, the picture is relatively drab for the stocks. Earnings for 2018 have been reduced to "less than half what Wall Street expected in March," Gibbs wrote, with anticipated growth next year coming in a bit under 5 percent.
"Any indication from the Fed next week that a rate [hike] will likely happen in December could push REITs further down. We would be wary of entry point into the sector for the rest of the year," she said, adding that she would expect to see further underperformance from here.
The sector has risen 7.2 percent this year while the S&P 500 has risen 11.5 percent in the same time.
Disclaimer


The Federal Trade Commission said Thursday it is investigating the data breach at Equifax that exposed the personal information of 143 million people, and New York's Sen. Chuck Schumer said the company's CEO and board should be be held accountable.
"The FTC typically does not comment on open investigations," FTC spokesman Peter Kaplan said. "However in light of the intense public interest and the potential impact of this matter, I can confirm that FTC staff is investigating the Equifax data breach."
Equifax shares rebounded Thursday morning after plunging more than 8 percent in early trading. They have lost nearly a third of their value since Sept. 7, when the company reported the breach after market hours. The stock was last down slightly in midday trading.
Also Thursday, Senate Minority Leader Schumer called for Equifax executives to agree to testify in the Senate, to contact everyone affected by the breach, extend free credit monitoring and credit freezes to consumers for 10 years and remove mandatory arbitration clauses from its terms of use. If they can't agree to those conditions in the next week, he said, the CEO and the board should step down.
"If Equifax can't commit to them, their leadership is not up to the job and the entire leadership must be replaced," he said.
The credit reporting company said in an updated post on its website that the breach, which it identified internally in late-July and disclosed to the public last week, was the result of criminals exploiting a vulnerability in a website application called Apache Struts. "We continue to work with law enforcement as part of our criminal investigation," the company said.
The hack exposed names, Social Security numbers, birth dates, and other identifying information as well as credit card numbers.
Apache Struts is an open-source code used by companies to develop web applications and is used in Internet of Things devices for financial institutions, government organizations, technology service providers and telecommunications agencies.
A flaw was exposed in it several months ago, and the Apache Software Foundation issued a patch to fix it. On Thursday, the foundation said in a statement: "The Equifax data compromise was due to their failure to install the security updates in a timely manner."
Equifax did not return a call and e-mail for comment.
— With reporting by CNBC's Tom Franck
Note: Homeland Security Advisor Tom Bossert and Palo Alto Networks CEO Mark McLaughlin headline the Cambridge Cyber Summit on Oct.4 in Boston. Click here for more information and tickets.


Continental Resources Chairman and CEO Harold Hamm on Thursday fired back at renowned short-seller Jim Chanos after he revealed he is betting that shares of Hamm's Oklahoma-based drilling company will fall.
"Well, first of all, I can say almost, who is this guy?" Hamm told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street."
Hamm speculated that Chanos — who is known for shorting stocks, or betting that their price will decline — got caught on the wrong side of the trade and is trying to mitigate the damage by talking down shale oil drillers.
Company executives are held to a higher standard of honesty by the Securities and Exchange Commission than short-sellers like Chanos, Hamm claimed.
"For anyone to even put forth the suggestion that we haven't had great expansion and wealth creation in this industry with horizontal drilling and all the technology that's come about the last 10 years, I mean, it's totally ridiculous for anybody to make those types of statements," he said.
Chanos's investment firm, Kynikos Associates, did not return a request for comment.


If there is anyone out there who doesn't need affirmation from Wall Street analysts, it's the 87-year-old investing icon Warren Buffett.
But JPMorgan gave it to the "Oracle of Omaha" anyway Thursday, initiating coverage on Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate he's run for five decades, with an overweight rating.
Despite Berkshire being the sixth-largest company in the S&P 500 by market cap, there are just seven analysts covering the company, according to FactSet. This compares to the No. 5 most valuable company in the index, Amazon, which has 41 analyst ratings. Wall Street doesn't really bother to cover Buffett because of Berkshire's low relative trading volumes as Street research often gets paid from trading commissions.
"Berkshire is a collection of best-in-class businesses that range from insurance to railroads, utilities and manufacturing. The businesses benefit from best-in-class managements, unmatched balance sheet strength, and many of the companies have strong brands, scale or low-cost competitive advantages," analyst Sarah DeWitt wrote in a note to clients.
"Berkshire's largest businesses have meaningful structural advantages that we think will allow it to grow earnings and book value faster than overall equity markets over time," she added.
The analyst established a year-end 2018 price target of $210 for Berkshire Hathaway B shares, representing 17 percent upside from Wednesday's close. DeWitt has covered insurance companies for JPMorgan for nearly three years. It's unclear why the bank decided to put her on Berkshire this week.
But we know it's not to curry favor with Buffett, who is already a big fan of the bank and its CEO Jamie Dimon.
DeWitt predicts the company will report 17 percent earnings-per-share growth in 2018 and 9 percent earnings-per-share growth in 2019. She cited how Berkshire has $86 billion in cash, which can be used for future acquisitions.
"Berkshire's balance sheet strength is a significant competitive advantage, and its liquidity position is the highest ever," she wrote. "Our estimates could have upside if Berkshire can deploy record levels of cash for acquisitions."
The analyst also mentioned Berkshire utility executive Greg Abel is currently the "most likely" successor to replace Warren Buffett as CEO of the company.
"We think Greg Abel would be a strong allocator of capital and the earning power of the underlying businesses would remain strong," she wrote.


"Age is just a state of mind" is a laugh line in the geezer comedy "The Expendables" and a wan Hallmark-card slogan. But it also captures the sentiment of an investment scene dominated by talk of the "aging bull market" in stocks.
At 8½ years since the prior bear market ended in March 2009, this advance in equities is now the second oldest on record without at least a 20 percent drop in the S&P 500.
And the appreciation in prices across asset classes has most investors talking about "high valuations" today and "muted returns" in years to come, given the "late-cycle environment." These were themes running through Tuesday's Delivering Alpha conference presented by CNBC and Institutional Investor.
Long-tenured hedge fund manager Leon Cooperman of Omega Advisors called the stock market "fully or fairly" valued, dependent on 4-5 percent earnings growth plus dividends in coming years.
But, he added, "the conditions that normally lead to significant market decline are either not present or not forecastable," including an oncoming recession, a hostile Fed, dangerous inflation, investor exuberance, speculative valuations or a geopolitical shock.
When asked about the Massachusetts Pension Reserves Investment Management fund's 7.5-percent annual return target, its chief investment officer, Michael Trotsky, said:
"I've been very clear when it comes to my constituents, in that for the next five to seven years I don't think our portfolio is likely to return that. It's a bit hypocritical because for the past three and five years, we've returned over that. But I view it as kind of borrowing from the future. We've all talked about equity valuations in particular being fair. You can argue whether they are overpriced or underpriced, but everyone in the room can at least agree they are fairly valued. So it's going to be more difficult."
Credit hedge-fund founder Boaz Weinstein of Saba Capital, added: "The reward isn't there" in high-yield bonds — an asset class that often leads equity markets and is now widely owned by retail investors craving scarce income.
So, there's broad agreement that markets have been generous for a pretty long time and the trees are stripped of the low-hanging fruit.
Still, saying the bull market is getting on in years and might be slowing down doesn't mean it must end soon or is through having fun. Today's 70-year-olds have achieved the biblical life span, and when they were born in 1947, life expectancy for Americans was under 70 years. Yet a 70-year-old right now can expect to live 15 more years.
And for as old as this bull is, it has proceeded at a fairly measured pace. The S&P 500's annualized total return since the depressed March 9, 2009, launch point has been 17.5 percent — quite healthy but not particularly excessive by the historical standards of bull-market gains.
What's more, the current trailing 10-year annual return for the index — which stretches back to just before the 2007 precrisis peak — is only 7.6 percent. At previous major bull market peaks, this 10-year annual pace has routinely been above 15 percent.
An exception to this was the 2007 peak, when it was roughly the same as the current level. And it wouldn't take much upside from here to make that 10-year record look pretty good. If the S&P were to climb just another 10 percent in the next 18 months, the 10-year trailing return will exceed 15 percent by the time we hit the 10th anniversary of the 2009 bottom.
Everyone knows this math, and all investment professionals can see that stocks look rather rich by most fundamental measures, which is restraining their enthusiasm and making many reluctant buyers.
This week, Goldman Sachs strategist David Kostin felt moved to answer clients' constant calls for a market correction with the case for why one was unlikely (sturdy consumer trends and investors' own caution). The monthly Bank of America Merrill Lynch global fund manager survey showed above-average fund cash levels and the highest incidence of downside hedging in 14 months.
There aren't many conspicuous distortions or worrisome stresses in the capital markets at the moment. All asset classes appear similarly stretched in valuation — yet rationally valued in relation to one another.
This is a world of 1 percent Fed-determined short-term rates, 2 percent 10-year Treasury yields, a 2 percent S&P 500 dividend yield, 3 percent corporate bond yields, 4.5 percent "free cash flow" yield on stocks and 5.5 percent junk-bond yields. Not exciting, hard to get excited about, perhaps insufficiently compensating for risk. But nothing says it must end soon, or what will come along to disturb that arrangement of asset-class orbits.
Ed Clissold, chief U.S. strategist for Ned Davis Research, believes the "mid-cycle earnings recovery" we've seen this year presents a risk heading into 2018. Past cycles suggest these profit revivals peter out after about a year and stocks can struggle once earnings-growth rates peak.
Doug Ramsey, CIO of Leuthold Group, has been bullish since the early-2016 correction abated but remains wary of the market's staying power. "We believe this bull market still has legs … but so might the mini-correction that's hit mainly the secondary stocks so far," he wrote to clients last week, before the S&P 500 blipped to a slight new all-time high in recent days.
He grants that market uptrends don't expire based on the calendar, but suggests investors also are not entitled to generational advances of the '80s-'90s type.
"It's commonplace for stock market bulls to observe that cyclical 'bull markets don't die of old age.' Maybe not," Ramsey said. "But if age doesn't matter, will they also acknowledge that 'not all secular bulls last 18-20 years?' Very doubtful."
It's a debate we might be having for some time to come, as long as this bull keeps aging gracefully.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are flat after all three major indices posted record high closes Wednesday. This morning we get weekly jobless claims numbers and inflation data.
-The Bank of England held rates steady this morning but warned it may raise interest rates in the 'coming months.'
WASHINGTON NEGOTIATIONS
-Top Democrats say they've agreed to make a DACA deal with President Trump — without the border wall. But President Trump says he did not agree to anything that doesn't include the wall.


Wells Fargo is warning investors that the year's record market gains could soon start slipping away.
It's a situation prompting the firm to get "more aggressive" in its latest strategy to take risk off the table.
"We are not bullish on the stock market," Christopher Harvey, the firm's head of equity strategy, said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "We think that investors should start moving up the quality ladder."
According to Harvey, this year won't end the way it began with stocks ripping to new highs.
He expects the S&P 500 to drop about 1 percent this year from current levels. His year-end price target is 2,475.
"Hold on to your gains. You want to start protecting," he added. "We think the best of the stock market is behind us not in front of us."
Harvey predicts the stock market will further deteriorate into 2018. He doesn't see much that could catapult stocks to another banner year of double-digit gains.
"The problem is rates are lower, credit spreads are tighter and growth has been strong. What's the next act? And, we don't see the next act," cautioned Harvey. "As we look forward, we're thinking and looking at mid-single digit returns. And, if we go a lot higher from here, I think we're just stealing from tomorrow."
Despite his bearish view, he isn't avoiding stocks altogether. Harvey's goal is to play more for rotation and small, incremental gains.
"We think there are opportunities on an individual basis," he said. "We like staples over consumer discretionary. We like REITs over utilities. We like hardware over semiconductors."
Yet, there is something that could push Harvey back into bullish territory— one that has nothing to do with pro-business legislation such as tax cuts potentially coming out of Washington.
"What we want to see is a healthy repricing for risk. Something in or around 5 percent seems about right. We're not arguing that the fundamentals are bad," Harvey said. "What we're arguing is price isn't all that attractive for us. So, if we get a correction or we get a pullback on price, that would make us more excited."
For another view, see Second-longest bull market ever aging gracefully, but investors wonder how long it will last


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Lattice Semiconductor — President Donald Trump blocked the proposed acquisition of the chip maker by a China-backed private-equity fund. The fund had planned to buy Lattice for $1.3 billion.
Tenet Healthcare – Tenet has hired advisers to explore strategic options, including a potential sale, according to reports by The Wall Street Journal and Reuters. Sources say discussions are in early stages and there is no guarantee that the talks will result in a deal for the hospital operator.
Lennar – The homebuilder said its communities in areas impacted by Hurricanes Irma and Harvey did not incur any flood damage, despite representing about 40 percent of Lennar's homebuilding revenue. However, the company said about 120 new orders and delivers during the recently completed third quarter were impacted and about 700 delays will be seen in the current quarter.
Expedia – Expedia struck an alliance with British travel company Thomas Cook. Under terms of the deal, Expedia becomes Thomas Cook's preferred hotel provider for certain holiday sales.
Western Digital – Western Digital was accused by Toshiba of "persistently overstating" its rights regarding Toshiba's planned sale of its memory chip unit. Western Digital, which is Toshiba's partner in a Japan-based chip plant, is part of a group seeking to buy the unit, although Toshiba is now leaning towards another group involving Bain Capital, Apple, and others.
Amazon.com – Amazon is planning to build a one-million-square-foot warehouse near Mexico City, according to a Reuters report.
Tesla – The electric vehicle maker will unveil its planned semi-truck in late October, a month later than planned, according to a tweet by Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk.
Equifax - CEO Richard Smith is expected to testify before a House panel October 3 on the credit reporting agency's massive data breach. This comes as nearly 40 states join a probe of the breach, which may affect as many as 143 million Americans.
Barclays – Barclays won dismissal of a class action suit brought by investors who had bought the bank's stock ahead of the 2008 financial crisis. The suit had accused Barclays of hiding its exposure to risky debt.
eBay – The online marketplace was rated "buy" in new coverage at DA Davidson, with a $45 price target. The firm sees multiple paths for operating improvement and notes better search results on Google that drive users to eBay.
Ryder System – Ryder was upgraded to "overweight" from "sector weight" at KeyBanc, which said rental activity appears to be at the high end of seasonal variations.
United Natural Foods – United Natural reported quarterly profit of 72 cents per share, two cents above estimates, although revenue was slightly below forecasts. The company, which is the primary distributor for Whole Foods, also gave an upbeat forecast for the current fiscal year.


This has been a remarkably easy time to be a bull.
September is set to be the 11th straight month in which the S&P 500 has either risen, or has fallen by less than 0.1 percent. If stocks continue to act well in the second half of the month, that will make this the longest such streak for stocks in 58 years.
Going back to 1928, the S&P has only seen four prior streaks in which the index avoided posting a monthly drop of more than 0.1 percent in 11 or more straight months, according to a CNBC analysis of FactSet data. The most recent run was the longest ever, stretching from March 1958 to May 1959, before being broken with a 0.4 percent June decline.
Prior streaks went from 1953 to 1954, from 1949 to 1950, and from 1935 to 1936.
In a sense, the recent streak is emblematic of a markedly restrained level of stock market volatility. While it hasn't seen a monthly loss of more than 0.04 percent, the S&P 500 hasn't seen a monthly gain of more than 3.7 percent in the past year, either. Contrast that to the 1958 to 1959 period, when the S&P rose more than 4 percent in three separate months.
Interestingly, 1959 is notable to stock market historians as the year in which bond yields surprised many by breaking decisively above stock dividend yields. Richard Sylla, the Henry Kaufman professor of the history of financial institutions and markets at NYU's Stern School of Business, has pinned that shift on increasing public trust of corporate reporting, which spurred greater optimism about equities.
When asked about the recent streak, Boris Schlossberg of BK Asset Management commented Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation" that "it's definitely historically interesting" — but added that he certainly wouldn't make any investment decisions based on it.
"The stock market trades on forward guidance, and every day is independent of the day beforehand, so we really can't make any kind of investment conclusions from the fact that we've had very strong uptrends so far," Schlossberg said.


Professional investors are at their most pessimistic since before the election of President Donald Trump, despite a bull market that continues to roll along.
The Investors Intelligence survey, which gauges the sentiment of investing newsletter authors, showed bullishness at 47.1 percent, a decline of 2.4 percentage points from last week. That's the lowest level since just before Trump's win back in November and comes as bearishness has risen to 20.2 percent, which is a high since the election.
As recently as July the bulls were above 60 percent, with a 2017 peak of 63.1 in late February. Bearishness had been in a range between 16.5 percent and 18.3 percent for most of the year, but has moved out of that area.
The results come amid growing concern on Wall Street.
Hedge fund legend Julian Robertson called stocks a "bubble" during an appearance Tuesday at the Delivering Alpha conference presented by CNBC and Institutional Investor.
The switch in sentiment also comes as the S&P 500 has risen nearly 11.5 percent and has even managed to eke out a gain in September, historically the market's worst month. Stocks have pushed higher this year amid a backdrop of stronger corporate earnings, decent if still unspectacular economic fundamentals — and sentiment that Trump's policies would be market-friendly.


Now that Amazon officially owns Whole Foods Market, one top Wall Street firm predicts the internet giant expanding into the physical grocery store market will boost its other businesses.
Morgan Stanley reiterated its overweight rating for Amazon shares, saying millions of Whole Foods shoppers will likely sign up for Amazon Prime.
Amazon's "price cuts, Prime Now and other investment will pressure profitability, but we also see Whole Foods Market driving faster Prime sub growth," analyst Brian Nowak wrote in a note to clients Thursday.
Nowak reaffirmed his $1,150 price target for Amazon, representing 15 percent upside from Wednesday's close.
The analyst estimated 38 percent of Whole Foods customers, or about 5 million households, are not Amazon Prime subscribers.
"We expect Amazon to convert half of these shoppers between now and the end of 2019," he wrote. "We see AMZN's Prime member growth and engagement, Echo device sales, and consumer web traffic/interest driving solid top line trends and GMV [gross merchandise volume] per customer growth."
Nowak also predicts Whole Foods sales will grow by 12 percent annually through 2022. It will reach 3.3 percent market share of the US grocery market during the next five years from an estimated 2.1 percent at year end 2017, according to the analyst.
"Growth will come from new shopper growth, which we see inflecting from more competitive pricing and increased convenience," Nowak said.
Amazon is crushing the market so far this year. Its shares have risen 33 percent year to date through Wednesday versus the S&P 500's 12 percent return.


Retail stocks are slowly coming back after weeks in the doghouse, and CNBC's Jim Cramer wondered if one high-profile deal contributed to the bounce.
"Now that it looks like Nordstrom could soon be taken private by the Nordstrom family aided by the leveraged buyout guys at Leonard Green, will there be a re-valuation of all retailers in the stock market?" the "Mad Money" host asked.
But perhaps some retail stocks were already climbing. Two months ago, shares of Dollar Tree were $66. The stock has since climbed to $84, making Cramer question why Wall Street was so worried about Dollar Tree in the first place.
Or consider TJX Companies, one of Cramer's favorite retailers. The close-out merchandise seller's stock is still stuck in the low $70s after a good quarter with strong full-year guidance.
Cramer said TJX's new home furnishing initiative, HomeSense, paints a promising picture for the discount retailer's future.
"Given that it's opening another 100 HomeGoods stores, the company clearly expects no cannibalization. And it's not just a me-too Bed Bath & Beyond with cheaper stuff, either. It's better, with a quirky, general-store throwback feel," the "Mad Money" host said.
Target's stock has also been on the climb, helped by the retailer's announcement that it would hire 100,000 workers ahead of holiday season, up 40 percent from 2016.
"I wonder — I mean, honestly — could things be worse than last year or better?" Cramer said. "That's why this stock's extending its recent rally."
Cramer has also been pounding the table on Kohl's, a department store chain he considers to be an alternative strip mall play with true customer loyalty.
The "Mad Money" host liked Kohl's even before it partnered with Amazon to bring a "smarthome experience" to 10 of its stores, a win for the retailer in an environment largely stifled by Amazon.
"How could you not like a company with a monster buyback, huge customer retention, inexpensive prices, a newfound love of brands like Nike and Under Armour, as well as, well, let's just throw it in, a 6 percent yield?" Cramer said.
So as more and more retail stocks begin to claw their way back upward, Cramer's watching closely to see who makes it out on top.
"The most important takeaway is you've got to recognize what Leonard Green, very smart guys, recognized: retail's not going away, it's just going to different places," he said. "Those stores that can handle one less trip to the mall each month will make it. They will. They'll stay in business and they will see their stocks increase in value. Perhaps not as far as you'd like, but in many cases, certainly further than they've already gone. I can't believe that I like this group."


With Wall Street abuzz about Apple's new product launch, which included a new, high-end iPhone model, CNBC's Jim Cramer wanted to clear the air for those wondering if they should trade or invest in the tech giant's stock.
"Investing and trading require two very different mindsets. When you invest, you're going in for the long haul," the "Mad Money" host said, reflecting on his 21 years as both an investor and a trader. "You don't want to buy all at once. Instead, you buy gradually, in stages on the way down."
Trading is totally different. It's event-driven, meaning traders search for a catalyst in order to sell a given stock. Whether or not the catalyst works out in their favor, they end up selling the stock.
The second cardinal rule of trading is to not reach for a trade. Cramer called the traders who bought Apple in the days leading up to the launch "clowns" because they wrongly assumed one of three things would happen to the then-$162 stock.
First, they assumed that the iPhone X would be so great that it would shock people into buying the stock. Second, they assumed those people would buy them out of their positions. Third, they may have had no idea what they were doing.
"Any of those buyers are almost certain to be shaken out now, and that's the worst thing you can do as a trader," Cramer said. "You're at the mercy of everyone else in the market. Many of these people are now thinking, 'I'm an idiot, but you know what, I'll just own Apple for the long haul.'"
But that's the wrong strategy for a trader, because if Apple's stock declines, that trader will inevitably lose money, Cramer said. Traders should focus on not being shaken out instead.


The stunning stock rally for AMD shares in the past year is just the beginning of a bigger run, according to one Wall Street analyst.
Jefferies is bullish that the chip maker will be able to gain market share from Intel in the cloud computing server chip market.
"We hosted AMD CEO Lisa Su and SVP Ruth Cotter for investor meetings early this week. Management expressed confidence in its server MPU [micro processor unit], EPYC, its ability to reach its target gross margin model (40-44%), and its new desktop MPU products, Ryzen," semiconductor analyst Mark Lipacis wrote in a note to clients Wednesday.
AMD's stock is up nearly 115 percent in the past 12 months through midday Wednesday compared with the S&P 500's 17 percent gain. That performance ranks No. 3 in the entire S&P 500, according to FactSet.
Lipacis reiterated his buy rating for AMD stock and his $19 price target, representing 54.5 percent upside from Tuesday's close.
The analyst cited how Microsoft, Baidu and Tencent announced their intentions to use AMD's latest server chips in their cloud computing data centers. He predicts AMD's share of the server processor market will rise to 2 percent by year-end 2017 and 8 percent by year-end 2018 from nearly 0 percent today.
"We believe those share estimates could prove conservative. AMD's share goal in servers is double-digits," he wrote.
AMD management also said the digital currency mining market for its graphics cards will likely be more resilient than in previous cycles.
"Management did not comment on our attempt to quantify AMD's cryptocurrency sales last quarter, but was sympathetic our notion that the cryptocurrency risk is lower than 2014 due to the emergence of a commercial cryptocurrency mining market which appears more stable (and to which it sells crypto-specific GPUs directly)," he wrote.


President Donald Trump on Wednesday claimed rich Americans "will not be gaining at all" from the tax reform plan that Republicans hope to pass this year.
"I think the wealthy will be pretty much where they are. ... If they have to go higher, they'll go higher, frankly," the president said during an afternoon meeting with bipartisan members of Congress amid a recent string of outreach to Democrats.
GOP congressional leaders are working to draft tax legislation and aim to introduce it in the coming weeks. Overhauling the American tax system was a key goal of the Republican government when Trump won the White House and the GOP held both chambers of Congress last year.





Nordstrom shares opened 5 percent higher Wednesday after CNBC reported a Nordstrom family group was closing in on a deal with a private equity firm to help take the department store private.
Nordstrom family members were close to choosing Leonard Green & Partners to help fund a buyout of the eponymous department store, people familiar with the matter said Tuesday.Leonard Green would provide Nordstrom family members with roughly $1 billion in equity to help fund the deal, the sources said.
The family group, which owns 31.2 percent of the 116-year-old retailer, said in June it was looking to take Nordstrom private. It has since been looking for a private equity partner to help support the deal and also held talks with KKR and Apollo.
A deal between Nordstrom and Leonard Green has not been finalized, and other parties could make a move to disrupt the talks. It's also still possible talks could fall apart. The family group is already talking to banks about raising $7 billion to $8 billion in debt to finance the deal and is hoping to submit a formal bid in the next couple of weeks, the sources said. Nordstrom has appointed an independent special committee to evaluate the offer.
Nordstrom has a market capitalization of roughly $7.7 billion.Leonard Green has worked with Nordstrom before. The Los Angeles-based private equity firm has a stake in the British fast-fashion line Topshop, which has a partnership with the Seattle-based department store.
KKR and Apollo declined to comment. Nordstrom and Leonard Green didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
The Nordstrom family is hoping that as a private company, Nordstrom will be able to make investments that help it adapt to the changing retail landscape without worrying about short-term shareholder reaction.
On Monday, Nordstrom announced it will roll out stores without merchandise, similar to concepts offered by e-retailers such as Bonobos and Warby Parker. Its stock slid as much as 5.4 percent to $43.59 on the news.Other long-term initiatives for Nordstrom include investing in e-commerce, closing underperforming stores and investing in top locations, and expanding its successful discount shopping chain, Nordstrom Rack, according to a source familiar with the situation.
Still, a leveraged buyout of a department store is challenging in 2017. Several private equity backed-retailers have buckled under the weight of large debt loads that have hampered their ability to invest in e-commerce and adapt to the rapidly changing retail industry. Private equity-backed Payless ShoeSource and Gymboree filed for bankruptcy earlier this year, while Neiman Marcus is currently working with restructuring advisors.
Still, with the Nordstrom family likely to maintain control over the department store's operations, the potential deal to go private follows a different template than many of its peers. Nordstrom has long been viewed as the jewel of the department store industry, with an affordable high-end price point that puts it between midtier Macy's and exclusive Neiman Marcus.
The company was quick to spot shoppers shifting to off-price retailers like TJ Maxx and Marshall's and put its efforts behind Nordstrom Rack, its own take on the category. Its investment into e-commerce helped it buck the industry trend last quarter of same-store sales declines.
Still, like all of its peers, it has seen its stock fall this year as investors question whether department stores can compete as shopping habits change.
Analysts were quick to point out that Nordstrom's unique track record and significant family ownership are likely to keep any potential deal to go private the exception rather than the rule.
"The structural challenges for the traditional department stores are abundantly clear today," wrote Gordon Haskett analyst Chuck Grom. "We don't foresee anything similar transpiring at Macy's, Kohls, and/or JCPenney, particularly since family ownership is virtually nonexistent.
Nordstrom operates 356 stores, including 121 full-line stores in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Of those, 221 are Nordstrom Rack stores. Its Seattle flagship location, modeled after famous European department stores, has restaurants, bars and pop-up shops. Nordstrom is also working on a flagship location at 217 West 57th St., near Manhattan's Central Park.


One Wall Street analyst went against his bullish peers and was less than impressed with Apple's latest iPhone unveil.
The $999 price tag of Apple's iPhone X represents a "substantial increase that seems justifiable only for relatively rich people who care deeply about the appearance of their phone," wrote KeyBanc analyst Andy Hargreaves in a note Tuesday.
He noted that the smartphone is the most expensive mobile from Apple to date, about $300 more than the price of a new iPhone 8.
Hargreaves differs sharply with his analyst peers, who largely gushed over the more swanky model. Drexel Hamilton's Brian White wrote that "Apple took the iPhone franchise to a whole new level with the iPhone X," praising the company for its venture into the "ultra-luxury" smartphone market.
But the KeyBanc analyst has an even bigger reason for being cautious on Apple shares than whether or not targeting wealthier customers is a good idea.
"The lack of compelling features in the iPhone X also raises longer-term concerns about Apple's pricing power," he wrote. "The iPhone X suggests compelling new features may be difficult to come by going forward, which could imply a period of elongating average holding periods and falling ASPs after a peak in FY18."
But to be sure, Apple retains fierce brand loyalty as well as a strong hold on consumers through "network effects, content lock-up, and learned experience with iOS," Hargreaves acknowledged, an environment consumers would be hard-pressed to leave.
Apple shares were up nearly 40 percent this year into the release. However, the stock finished Tuesday down 0.4 percent following the announcement and fell another 1.5 percent in midmorning trading Wednesday as investors appeared to side more with Hargreaves than the majority of his peers.
The analyst has a sector weight rating on Apple.Correction: Apple's shares fell another 1.5 percent Wednesday. An earlier version misstated the day.


Shares of Dolby Laboratories popped on Wednesday after Apple revealed several new products featuring Dolby technology.
New Apple products, including the iPhone X and the new Apple TV 4K, will support video technology called Dolby Vision, Apple said on Tuesday at a big launch event in Cupertino, California. Apple said Dolby's technology will help the set-top box output the "highest resolution possible" and that it would make mobile content look "even more amazing." Dolby demonstrated the effect on its website.
Investors lapped up Apple's praise: Shares of Dolby's stock were up more than 9.5 percent on Wednesday, after rising 4.74 percent in Tuesday after-hours trading. More than 3.8 million Class A shares of Dolby changed hands on Wednesday, way above the 30-day average volume of about 439,000.
Analysts at Piper Jaffray called Apple's shout-outs "significant wins" for Dolby.
"The stock reacted favorably on the news and rightfully so," JPMorgan's Paul Coster wrote in a research note. "Apple's adoption of Vision on mobile may entice other [manufacturers] to follow suit."

— CNBC's Gina Francolla and John Melloy contributed to this report


The positive feelings driving strength in the stock market and the economy could disappear if any of the geopolitical trouble spots were to heat up, Starwood Capital's Barry Sternlicht said Wednesday.
He also cited the wranglings in Washington over tax reform as another layer of unpredictability.
"It feels like the ocean is full of money. But it feels like it could be yanked at any moment," the global investor and real estate specialist said on CNBC's "Squawk Box," citing North Korea or Syria as wildcards.
Whether President Donald Trump and GOP leaders on Capitol Hill can deliver on tax reform this year is also adding to uncertainty, said Sternlicht, co-founder, chairman and CEO of Starwood Capital, which has $55 billion in assets under management. And that uncertainty is manifesting itself in lower property transaction volumes as sellers wait to see if they might get to keep more of their capital gains a few months from now, he said.
Sternlicht said he's even put off projects within his own business for a quarter or so.
The White House and Republican House and Senate leaders are aiming to simplify and cut taxes on Americans and businesses by the end of the year.
"I think they will get something done. I just not don't think they'll get it done this year," Sternlicht said.
In a tweet Wednesday, Trump prodded lawmakers to "move fast" on taxes.

Sternlicht said he supports tax cut efforts but "you can't do tax reform in a tweet."
Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin on Tuesday made the case for tax changes, telling the CNBC-Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha conference that the administration is considering backdating tax reform to the beginning of 2017. Sternlicht said he was pleasantly "shocked" by the prospect of backdated tax cuts.
But the passage of tax reform depends on balancing the expected benefits to the economy and how to pay for it, he said.


Like it or not, the U.S. stock market has performed exceptionally well since President Donald Trump was elected.
The S&P 500 has added $2.04 trillion in market value since Trump's election last November through Monday, according to Howard Silverblatt, senior Index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices. The benchmark rose to a record on Monday and then another in early trading Tuesday.

The index initially soared after the election, in part, on hopes of tax reform from the new controversial new president. The U.S. has one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world and a reduction of that would bulk up companies' bottom lines.
One of the biggest beneficiaries from tax reform would be the information technology sector, the stalwart of the U.S. stock market since Nov. 8.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-The market is a bit lower Wednesday morning after Tuesday's gains brought the S&P and NASDAQ to record high closes.
-Mortgage applications rose nearly 10 percent last week on the lowest rates in almost a year.
CHIP DEAL
-Bain Capital and a group of other buyers including Apple have agreed to buy Toshiba's computer chip business for $18 billion.


JPMorgan believes investors should brace for volatility.
Anastasia Amoroso, global market strategist for JPMorgan Private Bank, sees it particularly affecting the bond market.
"I would consider positioning for a pickup in volatility in the fixed income markets or maybe even a pickup in rates. If we start to price in any progress on the tax-reform front, then we may have to price in an incrementally more hawkish Fed," Amoroso said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now." "Volatility in the fixed income markets has been very benign headed into this [Fed] meeting."
Volatility has been trading at historic lows. The CBOE volatility index sank to its lowest level ever on July 26. It has now traded under 10 on 56 occasions, including 38 this year.
"The market is focused on tax reform, but the market is not currently pricing in tax reform. We see that in rates," she said.
And, if rates go up, bonds generally sell-off.
Amoroso doubts the Fed will raise rates a third time this year when it meets next week. She speculates the Fed is taking a wait-and-see approach when it comes to whether the White House can successfully get a tax package through Congress.
"The window for tax reform is pretty limited because it's really between now and the end of December," Amoroso said. "As we get further into next year we start thinking about midterms," she added, referring the the 2018 elections. "You have to deliver sooner rather than later."


A weakening U.S. dollar is having a peculiar impact on stocks this year, specifically when it comes to the behavior of value and growth stocks, according to Tom Lee, founder and head of research at Fundstrat Global Advisors.
Since the mid-1990s, investors could practically "set their watch" to consistent relationships between value stocks, growth stocks and U.S. dollar strength, Lee wrote in a note to clients.
This relationship makes sense, as a weaker dollar is thought to benefit U.S. companies that export their goods or do business abroad (since each unit of foreign currency taken in will translate into more dollars). In addition, the dollar tends to rise when the U.S. economy is strengthening, and faster growth is more important for the economically sensitive value stocks.
But this year, he said, the relationship has all but unraveled.
When it came to buying value stocks in prior years, "it worked in almost every downturn in the dollar — and every time the dollar was strong, you wanted to be long growth. This year, we've had almost an 11 percent decline in the dollar, and growth stocks are massively outperforming value," Lee said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
So far this year, the greenback's value has tumbled more than 10 percent versus a basket of major currencies, and yet value stocks are underperforming. The S&P 500 value index is up 4.0 percent this year, while the S&P 500 growth index is up a whopping 17.5 percent.
This divergence between the dollar and the traditional growth-value relationship is likely to abate, Lee said; for that reason, he thinks that value stocks are a good pick now.
Specifically, Lee favors the value-heavy financials and energy sectors.
More broadly, the dollar's weakness has come amid an unusual macroeconomic backdrop for many different reasons. The dollar has slid in 2017 even as long-term interest rates and oil have both fallen as well, making this a "strange year" in Lee's view.


Bitcoin fell below $4,000 on Wednesday with negative comments from a major business leader about the cryptocurrency and the threat of a regulatory crackdown, unnerving investors.
The digital currency dropped as low as $3,766.36 on Wednesday and traded down 8.7 percent at $3,792.43 as of 11:03 a.m. in New York, according to data from industry website CoinDesk.
The move lower came a day after JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon called the cryptocurrency a "fraud," adding that "Someone is going to get killed."
"It's worse than tulip bulbs. It won't end well. Someone is going to get killed," Dimon said at a banking industry conference organized by Barclays. "Currencies have legal support. It will blow up."


The most anticipated consumer technology product event in years lived up to the hype, at least according to Wall Street.
Analysts are gushing with optimism over the potential upgrade cycle from Apple's new high-end $999 iPhone X and iPhone 8 models that were unveiled Tuesday. "Apple took the iPhone franchise to a whole new level with the iPhone X, pushing the company deep into the ultra-luxury smartphone market with the highest priced iPhone in the company's history," Drexel Hamilton's Brian White wrote in a note to clients Wednesday. "We walked away even more encouraged by this new iPhone cycle, Apple's future in AR [augmented reality] and the company's ability to distance itself from its competitors."Apple share prices were down 1 percent in early trading Wednesday, perhaps because much of the enthusiasm was already priced into the stock. The shares have rallied 39 percent year to date through Tuesday versus the S&P 500's 11.5 percent return.


CNBC's Jim Cramer sees far too many investors ignoring a simple formula that has kept him level-headed during his years on Wall Street.
"Newsflash: stocks, by and large, do get cheaper when they go lower. Call me captain obvious for pointing it out, but I think this commonsense wisdom often gets ignored when we're analyzing stocks on a day-to-day basis," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer was reminded of the phrase on Tuesday, when Apple launched an array of new products, including a special-edition iPhone X for the 10th anniversary of the first iPhone release.
He was amazed that he kept hearing people asking each other if they would upgrade and being receptive to the new model instead of balking at the $999 price tag.
"I haven't heard anyone say, 'Nah, I just bought the [iPhone] 7.' I'm either hearing, 'Yes, I'll upgrade,' or 'I hope someone will buy it for me,'" Cramer said. "That's incredible. That's what I call consumer product amore. It's the most beloved device I can remember."
But it wasn't that long ago when Apple shares took a nosedive from $131 in May 2015 to $92 in May 2016, and CEO Tim Cook came on "Mad Money" to clear the air about the stock market's premature assumptions about what turned out to be a successful product transition.
"In short, this was a stock that got cheaper as it went down, and if you bought it in the $90s after Cook spoke to us, well, you made a ton of money," Cramer said.
Other examples of this theory abound. The stock of United Technologies is down to $109 from $120 as of Tuesday's close because the defense contractor will acquire Rockwell Collins, an airplane component maker.
While the $23 billion price of the cash-and-stock deal is higher than Wall Street would like, Cramer compared it to when United Technologies bought Goodrich six years ago for $18 billion. Back then, the stock shed about 10 basis points in response. This time, it also shed about 10 points.
"Is it wrong to ask if history could be repeating itself?" Cramer wondered. "Here's my theory about United Technologies: as its stock has come down, wouldn't you know it? It's gotten cheaper. You might think that's so self-evident it's not even worth mentioning, but because of the decline, investors are running away from the stock, not towards it, as if United Technologies has somehow gotten more expensive. It hasn't, and I think we'll look back on this as a great buying opportunity."
Unfortunately, not every stock is beholden to this commonality. The stock of Macy's failed to price in the massive decline in retail from when it cost $60 a share through its decline. At $22 a share, Cramer thinks Macy's shares have finally baked in the weakness.
"Here's the bottom line, though: don't sneer at every stock that goes lower. Sometimes there's more pain ahead as stocks get even cheaper because of fear or ignorance, but remember the winners," Cramer said. "I think when you do, you'll look back and recall 'buy low, sell high.' Great investment strategy. Who would've thunk it?"


CNBC's Jim Cramer sees far too many investors ignoring a simple formula that has kept him level-headed during his years on Wall Street.
"Newsflash: stocks, by and large, do get cheaper when they go lower. Call me captain obvious for pointing it out, but I think this commonsense wisdom often gets ignored when we're analyzing stocks on a day-to-day basis," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer was reminded of the phrase on Tuesday, when Apple launched an array of new products, including a special-edition iPhone X for the 10th anniversary of the first iPhone release.
He was amazed that he kept hearing people asking each other if they would upgrade and being receptive to the new model instead of balking at the $999 price tag.
"I haven't heard anyone say, 'Nah, I just bought the [iPhone] 7.' I'm either hearing, 'Yes, I'll upgrade,' or 'I hope someone will buy it for me,'" Cramer said. "That's incredible. That's what I call consumer product amore. It's the most beloved device I can remember."
But it wasn't that long ago when Apple shares took a nosedive from $131 in May 2015 to $92 in May 2016, and CEO Tim Cook came on "Mad Money" to clear the air about the stock market's premature assumptions about what turned out to be a successful product transition.
"In short, this was a stock that got cheaper as it went down, and if you bought it in the $90s after Cook spoke to us, well, you made a ton of money," Cramer said.


Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is eager to complete tax reform this year, and while CNBC's Jim Cramer fully understands its benefits, he's not convinced it will happen.
"Look, I say this as a huge believer in both tax reform and President [Donald] Trump's economic team," the "Mad Money" host said.
Lower corporate taxes would push companies to repatriate their assets back to the United States, which they have been resisting because of high, noncompetitive U.S. tax rates. Domestic companies could then use that money to hire more people and expand business, thus growing the U.S. economy.
"However, as much as I love tax reform, I'm a realist," Cramer said. "Earlier this year, at the time of the inauguration, I could not have been more excited about the president's economic agenda. But not anymore. I know better now."
Mnuchin acknowledged at CNBC and the Institutional Investor's Delivering Alpha conference on Tuesday that Congress got sidetracked on health care reform.
Congress' disagreement over the border-adjustment tax, which would place a value-added tax on imported goods in order to fund the tax cuts, also stymied tax reform talks.
"Then this morning the Treasury secretary said he wants to change the taxation of pass-throughs, a type of business that could benefit from tax reform. The administration also wants to eliminate deductions for state and local income tax in order to pay for the plan," Cramer said. "Ugh. Here we go again."
Don't get Cramer wrong; he wants tax reform completed. But keeping it simple is the best way to get it done, and that's not what the "Mad Money" host sees congressional Republicans doing.
"Any kind of comprehensive reform, whether we're talking health care or immigration or taxes, always takes forever, always ends up being unpopular [and] usually ends up failing," he said. "But if you want something done, just do it. Give the middle class a tax cut. Give companies a tax holiday on the repatriation of overseas assets, and then watch the economy bloom."
Cramer suggested policymakers do the same thing with infrastructure and offer U.S. citizens savings bonds to fund repairs of crumbling roads, bridges and tunnels.
"We'll buy them. We'll do it because we're patriotic and we're practical," he said.
But if Congress is going to let lawmakers and interest groups and all the powers that be complicate what should be simple policy measures, Cramer said they should just forget about it.
"There was a time when I used to ask each executive who came on the show what they would do with the money they'll get from a lower corporate tax rate," Cramer said. "I don't even bother doing that any more. You know why? Because I don't want to waste your time. You've got other things to do. Doing it this way, going about it the way the White House is doing it right now, pretty much insures failure. The best is the enemy of the good. Memo to the GOP: stop trying to make tax reform perfect. Just get something passed. Let's get this done."


DoubleLine CEO Jeffrey Gundlach believes that the U.S. dollar has finally hit a bottom — at least for now.
The dollar index, which tracks the greenback against a basket of six major currencies, hit a more than 2-year low of 91.011 on Friday as investors worried about the short-term impact of Hurricane Irma and North Korean tensions on the U.S. economy.
"The dollar for the short term has bottomed," remarked Gundlach, saying the coming bounce could cause the dollar index to "grind" higher to the 96 or 97 level.
"But I don't think it's going to endure," he added, predicting the greenback "ultimately takes another leg down."
Gundlach's comments came during his Tuesday webcast for investors in one of his mutual funds, the Double Line Total Return Bond Fund.
As one of the few investors on Wall Street to accurately predict Donald Trump's election victory in 2016, Gundlach noted that the dollar originally rocketed upward following the election but has since fallen sharply off those highs.
Reiterating some of his previous concerns surrounding the market, he noted that now is not the time to be accruing risk.
"I think this a very poor time to be taking a lot of risk in bond funds," he said, specifically urging investors away from junk debt.
Gundlach also noted a drop in commercial and industrial loan growth as an area of concern for U.S. markets.
In the past, the Federal Reserve had already started to "ease interest rate conditions with this drop in loan growth of this magnitude ... But this time the Fed wants to raise rates," Gundlach said.
He noted that the success of equity market appears to be tied to a worldwide policy of quantitative easing by major central banks, making him anxious for future balance sheet rollbacks and the market next year.


The activist fund Marcato Capital, fresh off a proxy battle with Buffalo Wild Wings, has taken a stake in a construction equipment maker it says is  poised to grow after strategic re-positioning.
Mick McGuire of Marcato Capital talked about the stake at the Delivering Alpha conference in New York on Tuesday. Marcato began buying last year and has roughly 1.1 million shares of Terex Corp., according to its recent regulatory filing. It owns 6 percent of the company, McGuire said.
Shares of Terex rose 4 percent Tuesday, but were down 0.57 percent in after-market trading.
McGuire says the company's revenue should increase if expectations for economic growth come to fruition.
The activist fund recently came off a bitter proxy contest at restaurant group Buffalo Wild Wings, where it won three board seats and led to the resignation of CEO Sally Smith.
The conference is presented by CNBC and Institutional Investor.





Saba Capital's Boaz Weinstein said the high yield debt market is overvalued and as a result he is betting against the bonds of retailers and hospitals. "Let's unpack high yield … the reward isn't there" given the risk, Weinstein said at the Delivering Alpha Conference in New York on Tuesday, noting that smaller retail investors own more junk bonds than they ever have before.
Weinstein cited what happened during the energy industry's credit crisis in 2016. He noted the prices of some energy companies' bonds and equities both fell nearly 90 percent.
"There was no safety being in a debt instrument," he said.
While the hedge fund manager is short the debt of retailers and hospital firms, he is long the shares of the same companies due to relative valuation.
"Equity is at a much more rational price versus the credit," he said.
Weinstein is the founder and chief investment officer of Saba Capital Management, a $1.7 billion credit hedge fund based in New York City. Weinstein founded Saba in 2009 with a team that came from the Deutsche Bank proprietary credit trading group, which he started in 1998.
His comments came from the Delivering Alpha conference in New York, which is being presented by CNBC and Institutional Investor.



Starboard Value Jeffrey Smith pitched store-brand pharmaceutical company Perrigo as his best investment idea now, during a conference Tuesday.
In addition to Perrigo, Smith also advocated for Altaba, the former Yahoo, which he said will benefit from tax reform once it makes its way through Congress.
Perrigo makes versions of ibuprofen, liquid cold medicines and other products that fly under the name of retailers including CVS. The stock has fallen in recent years, but Smith said it presents strong value for investors.
"It's a beautiful business, and store-brand as a whole is actually a much larger business than any one brand," Smith said during the Delivering Alpha conference presented by CNBC and Institutional Investor in New York Tuesday.
Shares jumped more than 4 percent in morning trade.
Smith said that Perrigo also does not face the same online challenge from Amazon as many other retailers.
"While Amazon poses a real threat to many consumer companies, we actually believe it represents a very large opportunity for Perrigo, who is the store brand manufacturer," he said.
Smith is the CEO at Starboard Value. He is an activist investor and has been able to influence a number of companies by getting board members appointed. This year he placed five members on the board of Perrigo in addition to two new ones who came on late in 2016.
Earlier this year, he stressed the need for tax reform, particularly in allowing companies to bring back profits stored overseas at lower rates.
Smith said Altaba would be well-positioned to benefit once Congress agrees on a tax plan. In addition to repatriation, Republicans and the Trump administration are pushing for lower corporate and personal taxes.
This version clarifies an earlier accounting of the new board members at Perrigo.





Giving President Donald Trump credit for the strength of the U.S. stock market is a "stretch," hedge fund manager Jim Chanos said Tuesday.
Global equities are experiencing a "synchronized bull market," fueled by years of the easy money policies of world central banks, Chanos said on CNBC's "Fast Money Halftime Report."
"There's the general view that what's worked will continue to work," he argued. "To put it either pro or con on the basis of President Trump's policies is, at this point, a stretch."
To make his case, Chanos asked: Is Trump responsible for rallies in markets such as Mexico, too? Chanos has been critical of Trump in the past.
The bull market has been creating great opportunities for betting against companies, or shorting stocks, but the overall up-trend has made it tough, said Chanos.
"It's easier of course" to find short ideas, he said. "They just don't work."
Chanos' Kynikos Associates is one of the world's largest short sellers.
Short selling is a practice in which traders can bet against a company by selling shares they don't own and buying them back at a lower price.
Chanos said he's "passively" long the stock overall market and "short" individual companies, including Tesla, which he called a "cult stock."
He gained recognition for raising red flags with a prescient negative call on once high-flying Enron before the energy firm blew up in scandal.


Hedge fund king Ray Dalio said Tuesday it would be "terrible" if Gary Cohn would leave the White House, a move that could upset markets.
Speculation about Cohn's future has been rampant since he apparently has fallen out of favor with President Donald Trump. Cohn, the former chief operating officer at Goldman Sachs, is Trump's top economic advisor but recently criticized the president for his reaction to the racial violence in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Thought only a short time ago to be in line for the chair position at the Federal Reserve, there's increasing speculation that Cohn may be leaving the administration soon.
"In terms of my reaction, I would say if he was to leave it would be terrible," Dalio said at the "Delivering Alpha" conference presented by CNBC and Institutional Investor.
"It would also represent a challenge for the administration," he added. "It also becomes representative to what it would be like to be in the administration. It would be difficult to get quality [people] in the administration. ... I think it would be terrible if Gary left."
Cohn is currently helping usher Trump's tax reform plan through Congress. Earlier in the day, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said he and Cohn continue to work together with the hopes that a tax package can get done by the end of the year.
However, various reports indicate that Trump has frozen out Cohn. The New York Times on Monday reported that Trump does not make eye contact with Cohn when they are in a room together, a favorite tactic of the president to show displeasure.
The rift comes at what Dalio said is a critical time for the country. He compared the current economy to the situation in 1937, just as the U.S. was about to enter the second leg of the Great Depression.
The rise in populism is a common thread, Dalio said. While he had expressed hope for Trump, Dalio lately has been more critical.
Dalio has a book soon to be released called "Principles: Life & Work," which will lay out hundreds of ideas on which he has lived his life and operated in business. Dalio runs the largest hedge fund in the world, famous for the management philosophy of "radical transparency."
Dalio said Cohn is skilled in what the hedge fund titan called "thoughtful disagreements," which he said forms the cornerstone for the way his Bridgewater Associates is run.
"The power of great collective decision-making is so much greater than the power of any individual decision-making," he said.





A slew of chip stocks is likely headed for gains after Apple's product launch Tuesday, JPMorgan predicts.
With many investors expecting significant developments in the next generation of iPhone, JPMorgan listed some of the companies likely to see shares jump, including Apple's rising chip technology partner, Broadcom.
"As we have discussed in prior research, we expect Broadcom to benefit from increased dollar content in the forthcoming iPhone models, including the new OLED version that we expect to use Broadcom's touch control technology," wrote JPMorgan analyst Harlan Sur.
"In total, Broadcom has pointed to a 40% increase in blended content in the new iPhone models, and we believe the company's non-RF content [wireless charging, touch controller, Wi-Fi/Bluetooth, GPS] is increasing by $3-$4 per iPhone versus last year's models."
The relationship between Apple and Broadcom has been hot lately, generating much attention from Wall Street analysts in the run-up to what is expected to be a major upgrade for the iPhone. Sur previously noted that the wireless charging partnership between Apple and Broadcom — "a key enabler of Apple's best-in-class performance"— has been going on for about two years.
Apple's new product presentation is set to start around 1 p.m. ET.
"We believe Broadcom is a leader in wireless communications, enterprise storage, networking, and broadband with broad-based exposure to positive trends," wrote Sur, reiterating his overweight rating.
While Broadcom may make headlines, JPMorgan also highlighted antenna and radio frequency provider Qorvo. The company's mobile segment supplies radio solutions that provide a wide variety of functions in the cellular radio space for major phone manufacturers and could stand to reap big gains if Apple's product launch is a success.
Qorvo is already up a whopping 38 percent since January. Seth Klarman, the value investing giant who draws comparisons to Warren Buffett, purchased a large stake earlier this year. Klarman's hedge fund, Baupost, acquired 7.2 million shares of Qorvo worth $493 million, according to the March quarter 13F filing.
Strong iPhone demand would benefit memory players like Micron Technology as well, which supplies phones with types of random access memory (RAM).
"Micron and other industry participants should benefit from increased DRAM demand (unit demand and potential increases in content per phone) from Apple in 2H17 and into 2018," Sur said. "We anticipate Micron benefitting from the new iPhone launches and remind investors that the iPhone 7+ contained 3GB of DRAM vs. 2G of DRAM for the iPhone 7 and prior iPhone versions."


Billionaire hedge fund manager Leon Cooperman recommended First Data, Shire, United Continental Holdings, Hess and WPX Energy at the Delivering Alpha conference on Tuesday.
On First Data: "The stock is very cheap," he said.On Shire: "Investors have overly discounted concerns and ignored positive data."On United Continental: "The airline's management has identified a lot of cost opportunities. I expect 15 percent earnings growth the next few years."
On Hess and WPX Energy: "The solution for low oil prices is low oil prices. Energy stocks seem overly discounted. These two picks have growing production profile and a net asset value well above current prices at existing oil prices."
At the conference, presented by CNBC and Institutional Investor, Cooperman also shared his view on the market and oil prices over the next year.  "The market is in a zone of fair and full valuation. I see very few signs of exuberance," he said. "I predict oil will be higher in an year. I see the price of oil going to $60."
Cooperman founded Omega Advisors in 1991. The firm has approximately $3.6 billion in assets under management, according to its website.


Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on Tuesday said the stock market has surged on expectations President Donald Trump's administration and Congress will pass tax reform.
The S&P 500 has rallied more than 16 percent since the Nov. 8 election through Monday, adding more than $2 trillion in market value to the benchmark, according to S&P.
"There is no question that the stock market has expectations that we're going to get tax reform done," he said at the Delivering Alpha conference presented by CNBC and Institutional Investor. "The stock market has expectations we're going to create significant growth."
Mnuchin also said the Trump administration is considering backdating tax reform to the start of this year to boost the U.S. economy further.


The "Fast Money" traders shared their first moves as the market opens.
Pete Najarian was a buyer of Snap.
Tim Seymour was a buyer of Qualcomm.
Dan Nathan was a buyer of Intel.
Guy Adami was a buyer of Citigroup.
Trader disclosure: On September 11, 2017 , the following stocks and commodities mentioned or intended to be mentioned on CNBC's "Fast Money" were owned by the "Fast Money" traders:  Pete Najarian is long calls AMAT, AVGO, BAC, BHP, CHK, CPN, CTL, EOG, FB, HIMX, INTC, JBLU, LULU, MDLZ, MSFT, NEM, NRG, NVDA, ORCL, PG, RIO, SCSS, SFM, SGMS, SNAP, SUM, TER, UNP, UUP, VALE, XLF. Pete Najarian is long stock AAP, AAPL, BAC, BBY, BKE, BMS, CHRW,CMCSA, DIS, GILD, GIS, GM, IBM, KO, LEN, LVS, MRK, MSFT, MU, PEP, PFE, RHT, SCSS, TXT, UAL, VIAB, WDC, WFC, WFT, WYNN. Pete owns TLT puts. Pete bought UUP calls. Tim Seymour is long AMZA, APC, BAC, C, CCJ, CLF, CSCO, DAL, DPZ, DVYE, EEM, EUFN, EWM, FB, FXI, GILD, GM, GOOGL, HAL, INTC, LOW, M, MAT, MCD, MOS, MPEL, RAI, RH, RL, SBUX, SQ, T, TWTR, UA, UAL, VALE, VIAB, VOD, VRX, XLE. Tim is short IWM, XRT, RACE, SPY. Tim bought EUFN. Dan Nathan is Long Sept xlf puts. Dan is also long DIS, INTC, M, NKE, T. Guy Adami is long CELG, EXAS, GDX, INTC, Guy Adami's wife, Linda Snow, works at Merck.


The easy money has been made off retail's meltdown, and now it's time to see where the sector is going, billionaire Marc Lasry told CNBC on Tuesday.
"We've covered quite a bit," the chairman and CEO of Avenue Capital said ahead of the 2017 Delivering Alpha Conference presented by CNBC and Institutional Investor magazine.
"Right now, whatever we've made money [on] we've made money on. I think the issue today is where is retail going. We'll all find out in a year," he added in an interview on CNBC's "Squawk Box" ahead of the conference. "The easy money has been made, and now you're sort of going to wait. It's a melting ice cube. And the question is how fast is it melting?"
Earlier this year, Lasry told CNBC he went short on retail. He said the issues facing retailers were "just too big" and those stocks would likely see more downside.
The SPDR S&P Retail ETF (XRT), a popular exchange-traded fund that tracks the performance of retail stocks in the S&P 500, was up 1.74 percent over the last 30 days but was more than 8 percent lower for the year, according to FactSet.
Lasry said Tuesday his firm is now looking for potential longs but added he's not seeking a stock like Amazon.
"I'm looking at companies today where their debt has gotten hit and their equities have gotten hit, and we'll probably start investing in that sector again in the next three to six months as we get a better feel for what's happening," he said.
"It's more high end. ... Like a J.Crew or a couple others," he added.
— In addition to Lasry, Delivering Alpha participants include Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, Omega Advisors Chairman Leon Cooperman, Bridgewater Associates founder Ray Dalio, Blackstone chief Steve Schwarzman, DowDupont CEO Edward Breen, Kynikos Associates' Jim Chanos and JPMorgan Chase chief Jamie Dimon.


In a year that has seen digital currency prices go higher not by percentages but multiples, investors are starting to worry that things have gone a bit too far.
Bitcoin is now considered the "most crowded trade," as measured by sentiment in the monthly global Bank of America Merrill Lynch Fund Managers survey. That means investors believe there are too many people on one side of the trade and it could be due for a reversal.
Bitcoin's price has surged about 330 percent this year, the beneficiary of a jump in interest for the cryptocurrency and a growing field of competitors, as well as a flight to alternative assets and, some fear, a speculative bubble.
The Merrill survey is one of the most followed and respected on Wall Street. Conducted during the week that ended Thursday, more than 200 global fund managers with at least $600 billion under management were surveyed.
Of course, a crowded trade doesn't have to mean it's nearing an end.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are higher after Monday's strong rally.  Gold continues to edge lower and is now at the $1,327 an ounce level.
-The national debt is now above $20 trillion.
NEW APPLE PHONE
-Apple is expected to unveil the new iPhone X today.



Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
DowDupont – The newly combined company has altered its spinoff plan, now planning to move units with $8 billion or more in annual revenue from the materials spinoff to the specialty chemicals spinoff.
Travelers — The insurance company temporarily suspended stock buybacks while it evaluates its losses stemming from hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
Apple – Apple holds its long-anticipated product launch event today beginning at 1 p.m. ET, at which new versions of the iPhone are widely expected to be unveiled.
21st Century Fox – Fox has joined the court challenge against a CBS deal to buy Australian TV broadcaster Ten Network Holdings. A private company controlled by Fox Executive Chairman Lachlan Murdoch has challenged the CBS deal in court and wants to revise its own bid.
Western Digital – The hard disk drive maker may or may not have a deal to buy Toshiba's chip unit, in a long-running takeover process. Published reports in Japan say Toshiba has agreed to sell the unit to a group led by Western Digital for $18.3 billion, but Toshiba has denied the report and said it is continuing to evaluate bids.
Equifax – The credit reporting agency is seeing lawsuits pile up related to the massive data breach that may affect as many as 143 million Americans. More than 30 lawsuits have been filed in the U.S. so far, with Equifax shares falling more than 20 percent since the breach was disclosed last Thursday.
Teva Pharmaceutical – The drugmaker has agreed to sell its Paragard contraceptive brand to a unit of Cooper Companies for $1.1 billion in cash.
Nielsen – Nielsen had to delay issuing its ratings for Sunday night's victory by the Dallas Cowboys over the New York Giants, because the company had to evacuate its ratings staff in Tampa Bay ahead of Hurricane Irma.
Coach, L Brands, Nike – The stocks are rated "outperform" in new coverage at Bernstein. The firm thinks athletic apparel and footwear will outperform the broader apparel category, but is being selective within those categories, and also sees compelling value opportunities in specialty retail. Bernstein is also positive on off-price retailers, rating both TJX and Ross Stores as "outperform."
Kroger – Kroger was upgraded to "buy" from "hold" at Pivotal Research on a valuation basis. The supermarket operator's stock has lost nearly 40 percent of its value so far this year.
Amazon – Amazon saw a 25 percent increase in foot traffic at its Whole Foods grocery chain over the two days following the implementation of price cuts, according to the New York Post.
First Data – First Data filed for an 85 million share secondary offering, on behalf of shareholder New Omaha Holdings. The payment processing company will not receive any proceeds from the offering.


It's rare that CNBC's Jim Cramer comes across stock market sentiment as optimistic as Monday's, where investors see the glass half full but consider it to be brimming.
"In the last 72 hours, we have seen a whole slew of events that might normally give investors pause or make them think, reflect. Instead, this time, these events just gave buyers an opportunity to get in while the getting's still good. At most other moments in history, buyers would be wary of the current setup. Now, though, they're enthusiastically embracing the future," the "Mad Money" host said.
The most unusual thing about these events is that the rally around them is predicated on a lack of negatives rather than on the presence of positives, Cramer said.


It's rare that CNBC's Jim Cramer comes across stock market sentiment as optimistic as Monday's, where investors see the glass half full but consider it to be brimming.
"In the last 72 hours, we have seen a whole slew of events that might normally give investors pause or make them think, reflect. Instead, this time, these events just gave buyers an opportunity to get in while the getting's still good," the "Mad Money" host said.
The most unusual thing about these events is that the rally around them is predicated on a lack of negatives rather than on the presence of positives, Cramer said.
Besides Cramer's five reasons for the rally, the FANG stocks also surged. And out of the stocks in his acronym for Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google (now Alphabet), one stood out amid the weather-focused news cycle.
"Netflix always does well when people are shut in. It's as much of a storm play as Amazon, which gets new Prime members when local stores are closed for inclement weather," Cramer said.


As the proxy fight between activist investor Nelson Peltz and Procter & Gamble continues, P&G President and CEO David Taylor offered a rebuttal to some of Peltz's suggestions on CNBC.
"He's proposed some things that could be very dangerous to the short term, which is reorganize the company right now, and he's proposed something very dangerous for the long-term future of this company, and that is eliminating our corporate R&D," Taylor told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer on Monday, referring to his consumer product company's research and development.
Peltz's firm, Trian Partners, released a long-awaited proposal last Wednesday detailing changes it would like to see at P&G, including a board shake-up and splitting the business into three smaller segments.
Taylor said the suggestion to remove the company's corporate R&D, which would turn into three separate R&D departments within Peltz's structure, would deprive P&G of lucrative opportunities.
"I can give you several examples: the sachets that are often used for samples in the U.S. and they're sold by the hundreds of millions in developing markets — the process to make them faster than anybody can make them commercially, and at a lower cost, was developed using our liquids understanding from our liquids businesses and our converting capability that comes out of our paper businesses," Taylor said. "If you had separate businesses with separate R&D, you wouldn't have made that connection and would have missed the opportunity to take advantage of a real plus."
The CEO also said that he and Peltz had spoken many times about the activist's ideas, despite the fact that, according to Taylor, the data Peltz used was dated.
He said that Peltz was coordinating with a former P&G executive who left the company eight years ago and had lost touch with the organizational changes being made.
"I've listened to his ideas because I believe it's important to listen to investors," Taylor said of Peltz. "But in the first several meetings, he didn't advance new ideas, and the few new ideas he did advance weren't right for our company right now. We've already made many of the changes he advocates. A more focused company, we're there. A company that has people empowered and accountable, we're there today and we're executing. The last thing we need right now is a reorganization."
Taylor added that he was surprised by Peltz's activism and the proxy fight as a whole, particularly because of the changes P&G has allegedly implemented.
"We didn't ask for the proxy fight, but I'm absolutely committed, as is our board of directors and the people of P&G, to do what's right for the short, mid and long term for the company. And for that reason, we're fighting it," he said.
While Taylor acknowledged the several-year period in which P&G's business stalled and even lost share in some countries, he said the company responded with an overhaul that worked.
"We didn't accept that we can't improve. We made the changes to our portfolio. We made the changes in our organization. We're leaner today than we were five years ago and especially 10 years ago. And we made the changes in our culture to be able to set ourselves up with a much more focused, empowered and accountable organization," he said, echoing some of the changes Peltz called for in his 93-page proposal.
And when it came to considering Peltz, a 50-year veteran of the consumer goods space who says he doesn't know how to spell "lose," for P&G's board, Taylor was not interested.
"We want the absolute best for our company, whether it's a member of the board of directors or whether it's our senior management. The standard is the best. And we've done our homework and he's not the right person for P&G right now," the CEO said. "Many people tell me, 'Why not?' 'Why not' is not the governance standard for our company. We want 'Why?' Who are the right people to bring to the company that would add value for the future?"


The Chinese National Congress is set to meet in mid-October, and some predict the session will have wide-reaching implications for global markets and the economy.
Discussions around the growth of the country's debt in recent years will be particularly consequential, said Chad Morganlander, portfolio manager at Washington Crossing Advisors.
"One critical thing to watch is how they rebalance their economy. Over the course of the last five years, you've actually seen nonfinancial debt in China increase by roughly $14 trillion, which is pretty close to 90 to 100 percent growth. That growth rate is not sustainable," Morganlander said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
This apparent mountain of debt has created "financial fragility" across China, he said, and the country's Communist party would like to "decelerate" that growth rate.
"Unfortunately, that rebalancing does have major implications on U.S. markets and foreign markets," he said, given the massive amount of goods consumed and produced in the country and the many international markets it touches.
On Monday, China began scaling back measures that support the Chinese yuan following its rally this year against the U.S. dollar and other rival currencies.
The country's accrued debt has been discussed by closely followed hedge-fund manager Kyle Bass.
Bass, founder and chief investment officer at Hayman Capital Management, has expressed a bearish view of China and has been vocal about the country's mounting debt.
"They're doing things to try to tweak their trade relationship with the U.S., but more importantly, their newfound strength globally, both economically and as you see militarily in the South China Sea, is all based on their belief in their economic strength," Bass said in June on CNBC's "Squawk Box."
He added: "All that is built upon a massive credit expansion that they're going to have to come up" against.
Furthermore, the relationship between the U.S. and China has become increasingly fraught as the Trump administration earlier this year placed a sanction against a Chinese firm and two Chinese citizens with ties to North Korea, he said.


Check out the companies making headlines after the bell:
Shares of American Eagle Outfitters fell nearly 3 percent. The retailer declared a quarterly dividend 12.5 cents a share, the same amount it has declared since May of 2013, according to a review of press releases on the company's website.
Kroger's stock dipped slightly after multiple analysts lowered price projections for the grocer. BMO Capital cut the stock's target price to $20 per share from $24 per share. Jefferies snipped its expectations on the stock to $19 per share from $24 per share. JPMorgan dropped its estimate on the stock to $21 per share from $24 per share. Kroger reported earnings for its second quarter last week.
Equifax shares declined. The credit rating agency announced last week it suffered a data breach earlier in the summer. Three executives sold shares shortly after the company became aware of the incident but before it told the public. On Monday, the U.S. Senate Finance Committee sent a letter to Equifax CEO Richard Smith seeking additional information about who knew what and when.

