
A year during which the market exceeded all expectations ends not with investors backing off but rather with them throwing caution to the wind.
The trend was particularly prevalent among those who prefer index funds, as ETFs saw their second-biggest week of inflows ever at $31.4 billion, according to fund flow data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Active strategies, as expressed through mutual funds, saw huge outflows, with the $22.7 billion leaving the fourth-worst week on record. However, the difference of $8.7 billion still left the equity side of the ledger with a big week.
Speculation continues to build that the bull market is running out of steam, even as the major indexes continue to set records. The Dow industrials are threatening to break 25,000 as 2017 winds to a close, with the index up just shy of 25 percent including Friday's gains as of midday. The blue chips would need to pick up just another 1.5 percent or so to break the 25K barrier.


Fitbit won't be profitable and will continue to burn through cash next year, Stifel said as it downgraded the company's stock to a sell rating.
The company that once ignited a boom in fitness trackers hasn't innovated enough to keep consumers interested, Stifel wrote. Plus, it said Fitbit hasn't unlocked any meaningful business in the health-care space.
"The franchise and customer database does have strategic value and the balance sheet can sustain cash burn through 2018, but absent a change in direction and sudden acceleration in health care system revenue contribution, we see shares lacking a catalyst (without profits, not even corporate tax reform)," Stifel analyst Jim Duffy wrote in a note published Friday.
Fitbit now has two sell ratings on it, still relatively rare recommendations on Wall Street. The company still has five buy ratings and seven hold calls, according to FactSet. Shares of Fitbit plunged as much as 9.3 percent on Friday, dragging down its year-to-date loss to 15.5 percent.
Nonetheless, Stifel said it's encouraged by Fitbit's position in a market with promise for the long-term. But right now, it doesn't see Fitbit's path to profitability.


The hot FANG stocks are not likely to continue their strong outperformance in 2018, and investors should look to overweight other technology names and value stocks, according to FundStrat.
FundStrat founder Tom Lee says the group could be challenged by the Federal Communication Commission's decision this week to do away with Obama-era net neutrality rules that guaranteed content providers equal access to the internet. Simply put, the rules prevented internet providers from charging content companies more for a higher level of service.
FANG stocks account for about 64 percent of internet traffic, says FundStrat. Those names include Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet.
"While the implications are not yet known, we see this as creating the potential for content distributors to bear a greater share of the total cost of the internet," wrote Lee. FundStrat  estimates the cost of the internet to be about $100 billion a year, and the winners would be telecom and cable companies that could find ways to share their costs.


A leading indicator for stocks just entered a death cross, but the traditionally ominous signal might not be as scary as it's cracked up to be.
The high-yield corporate bond ETF, the HYG, has fallen 2 percent from its 52-week high, with its short-term 50-day moving average crossing below its long-term 200-day moving average (the death cross) earlier this week. The last time this happened, the HYG plunged 20 percent from September 2014 to its low in February 2016.
High yield is typically viewed as a barometer for the equity market, as the two are highly correlated, but according to Craig Johnson, technical market strategist at Piper Jaffray, these warning signs may not be as reliable as people think.
"We've done some back testing on [the death cross], a lot of the damage is done before the cross actually takes place. I'd probably say 75 percent of the damage is already done from what we've found." Johnson said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"You can also see on the chart that you're getting a divergence right now between the S&P 500 and high yield. In the past that has signaled that perhaps there is a challenge ahead with the market," he said. "We would disagree with that."

The technician noted that the correlation between the S&P 500 and HYG fell to a three-year low earlier this fall, signaling to him to believe that investors have little to worry about from that aspect. Johnson has a 2,850 price target on the S&P 500 for 2018.
Larry McDonald, founder of the Bear Traps Report, expects further pressure on the high-yield market going into the next year.
"The biggest thing going on is we've had a big move in energy, so the default rate in high yield has improved because oil is up from mid-20s in 2016 to close to $65 now so that's helping high yield," he said on "Trading Nation." "But if you look at the real driver in the last 12 months it's been the European Central Bank. They were doing $2 trillion of economic stimulus of what's called buybacks, asset purchases. And they've been buying some really poor-quality assets."
McDonald pointed to the losses seen after the ECB's purchase of bonds in the retailer Steinhoff which dropped in value. ECB President Mario Draghi defended the move earlier this week.
"They're buying so many high-yield bonds in Europe, that's driving down yields here, this year. But if the ECB pulls back that's a very, very big negative for U.S. high yield. We think that's the biggest risk in the next six months," he added.


The first week of Cboe's bitcoin futures trading was relatively stable, except for a sudden drop Wednesday afternoon.
It turns out that was the same day one of the largest brokerages trading the futures, Interactive Brokers, began allowing clients to short, or bet against, the futures.
"The introduction of short sales was necessitated by the large premium of the January futures contract over the price at which Bitcoin trades on the physical venues," Interactive Brokers founder, Chairman and CEO Thomas Peterffy, said in a release Wednesday.
On Tuesday, Cboe's January bitcoin futures contract settled at $18,020. In contrast, the digital currency was trading more than $500 dollars lower on major digital currency exchanges. Bitcoin settled Tuesday at $17,395 according to Gemini's daily price auction, which Cboe's contract is based off of. Bitcoin traded that day at $17,178, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index.
Difference between Cboe January bitcoin futures contract and CoinDesk bitcoin price index

Source: Cboe, CoinDesk
The launch of bitcoin futures on the Cboe Futures Exchange Sunday marked the cryptocurrency's first derivatives contract on an established exchange. Many saw it as a step towards establishing bitcoin as a legitimate asset class, potentially paving the way for a bitcoin exchange-traded fund.
Also on Wednesday, DoubleLine Capital CEO Jeffrey Gundlach said midday on CNBC's "Halftime Report" that "if you short bitcoin today, you'll make money," although he acknowledged it could trade higher in the short term.
The Cboe bitcoin futures then fell 10 percent, briefly triggering a price halt, and settled more than 5 percent lower in their worst trading day since the launch. The futures had soared nearly 20 percent in their first day of trading. They were trading 7.5 percent higher at $18,060 late Friday morning.

When the bitcoin futures launched Sunday evening, Interactive Brokers had not allowed clients to short the product "due to the extreme volatility of cryptocurrencies," according to a Monday release. Peterffy stated that "Interactive Brokers was on the buy side of the low print of $14,710."
Interactive Brokers said that it handled just over half of the bitcoin futures trading volume the day of their launch. Updated figures were not yet available as of Friday.
CME, the world's largest futures exchange, is set to launch its own bitcoin futures contract Sunday evening. Interactive Brokers said Friday that it plans to let customers bet on and against the CME contract.


Traders are making bullish bets using options on Mircon, Red Hat and Paychex ahead of earnings next week.
Chipmaker Micron reports earnings on Tuesday after the bell.
In the past week investors have bought more than 11,000 calls with a December 48 strike price in Micron, according to Jon Najarian, Najarian Family Office co-founder and "Halftime Report" contributor. These calls expire next Friday, so it's a relatively short-term bet. Micron closed at $42.24 on Thursday, so the stock would have to pop nearly 14 percent to hit $48 by next Friday.


Investors are scrambling to determine which companies will benefit most from President Donald Trump's policy initiatives, including the current Republican plan for tax cuts.
JPMorgan's top analysts weighed in on the discussion, with Dubravko Lakos-Bujas – the bank's head of U.S. equity strategy – telling clients that corporate tax cuts spell a "goldilocks" scenario for stocks.
"We believe progress on GOP/Trump policy initiatives (i.e., lower corporate taxes, reduction in regulatory burden) should be a significant source of upside for equities," wrote the strategist. "We estimate the tax plan could provide additional upside of ~$10 to S&P 500 earnings per share, which would increase our estimates to $153 in 2018 and $165 in 2019."
The current Republican legislation aims to boost economic activity and fuel job growth, with party officials assuring voters that the bill would pay for itself through GDP expansion. Provisions of the bill include a top individual tax rate of 37 percent while also lowering the corporate tax rate to 21 percent, which could spell gains for earnings in the coming years.
The lawmakers are expected to vote on a reconciled bill early next week.
"Considering these drivers and the potential for legislative success on tax reform, we expect S&P 500 to reach 3,000 next year," added Lakos-Bujas, forecasting double-digit growth in the next 12 months.
But the strategist also encouraged investors to buy select stocks that could outperform others if Trump is victorious on the tax plan.
By screening for companies with high tax rates, domestic sales and pricing power, JPMorgan's equity analysts determined that the following stocks could benefit the most from the GOP plan. While some company stocks have performed well this year, others may be set for a rebound with tax reform.

"Financials is our highest conviction overweight given the sector should continue to benefit from a 'goldilocks-type' scenario with expanding net interest margin (rising rates) and declining credit costs (strong labor market with falling unemployment rate with some wage growth)," explained Lakos-Bujas.
The strategist also advised investors to pivot to value from growth stocks, arguing that the latter group may be extended with technology's long run this year. Value picks with strong fundamentals and dividends in financials and energy may be a better better into 2018, according to the research.


CNBC's Jim Cramer questioned Friday whether Republicans would be able to pass their tax overhaul bill this year — or if concerns from within the party about the legislation would cause them to fall short, like in their attempt to repeal Obamacare.
Cramer spoke just hours before GOP leaders on Capitol Hill were expected to finalize their compromise tax measure. But there were still some holdout and undecided lawmakers ahead of next week's planned vote.
Tax writers on Friday afternoon, according to sources, made tweaks to the child tax credit that turned Republican Sen. Marco Rubio's opposition into support. On Thursday, he had said he would vote "no," unless the proposed refundability to taxpayers of the child credit was expanded. There's been no word yet from Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah, who was undecided on the bill due to the child credit.
Meanwhile, Maine Republican Sen. Susan Collins has been noncommittal on the bill, while Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., has expressed concerns about expanding the federal deficit.
"We should not rule out the fact that this may not be a done deal," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
Cramer also asked whether it "could be an ACA," referring to the acronym for the formal name of Obamacare, the Affordable Care Act. Earlier this year, Republicans were unable to follow through on their yearslong promise to repeal former President Barack Obama's signature health bill.
"Do you think it just suddenly falls apart?" Cramer asked. "Most people felt that ACA was going to pass."


Nike shares have moved into high gear, surging nearly 30 percent this year to their highest level since 2016, and Larry McDonald of the Bear Traps Report says the Dow stock may have run too far, too fast.
The athletic apparel maker has been on a tear this week, rallying nearly 6 percent and outperforming the broader retail group — the retail ETF, XRT is down about 2 percent.
From a short-term perspective, Nike "looks like a screaming sell," McDonald said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "Relative strength index is through the roof, and I think shares should be sold here." The relative strength index is usually looked to by investors as an technical indicator to determine whether or not a stock has run too far, too fast.
"You're talking about shares that are up 35 percent since October, and you're also talking about shares that have also had substantial drawdowns since 2013," McDonald said.
However, not everyone is pessimistic on the athletic giant.
Craig Johnson, senior technical research analyst at Piper Jaffray, said Nike looks poised to continue to surge.
There's "good momentum, good relative strength," Johnson said Thursday on "Trading Nation."

Looking at a chart of Nike, Johnson pointed to the big base of support as an indication that the stock's recent run-up could continue. "We just started breaking out, and I think you're going to see a move here in Nike shares probably back up toward $68, maybe even $70 a share," he said.
Johnson also noted that any form of shorter-term pullback in Nike should be seen as a buying opportunity.
The company is scheduled to report earnings after the market close on Thursday. Analysts polled by FactSet expect earnings of 40 cents per share on $8.4 billion in revenue.
Previously, shares of Nike rallied in the month after earnings reports. After posting earnings on June 29 and Sept. 26, the stock jumped 10 percent and 6 percent, respectively.
Disclaimer


Goldman Sachs believes retail stocks will be big winners of the tax overhaul.
The current dealfeatures a corporate tax rate reduction to 21 percent from 35 percent, starting in 2018, and a top individual rate of 37 percent, CNBC and other outlets reported.
"Tax reform legislation has now passed both chambers of Congress. While the final shape of the legislation is still in flux, our economists expect a conference agreement and enactment by year-end," Goldman analyst Matthew Fassler said in a note Friday. "Based on the current proposals, we expect that most retailers in our coverage would emerge as net beneficiaries."
The retail sector is underperforming the market this year. The SPDR S&P Retail ETF is roughly flat year to date through Thursday versus the S&P 500's 18.5 percent return.
Fassler noted that U.S. retailers generate most of their sales domestically, so the significant reduction of the corporate tax rate will have a large positive impact for the sector's earnings.
For investors who want to trade on tax reform being implemented, here are 10 retail companies Goldman says will benefit the most in terms of profits:




If you missed this year's stock rally, fear not: Equities will go higher next year, according to Richard Bernstein, CEO of Richard Bernstein Advisors.
"Earnings around the world are still accelerating," Bernstein told CNBC's "Power Lunch" on Thursday. "It's really hard to get a bear market going when earnings are accelerating."
He also noted there is a lot of cash in the market, meaning "a lot of ammo for people to buy the dip."
The S&P 500 has soared more than 18 percent in 2017, with stocks boosted by strong earnings growth, a global economic expansion and expectations for lower corporate taxes.


The disastrous year for Teva Pharmaceutical shareholders will improve in 2018, according to one top Wall Street firm.
Goldman Sachs raised its rating to buy from neutral for the generic drugmaker, citing the company's aggressive cost-cutting targets for the next two years.
The call sent the stock up 4 percent during Friday's premarket session.
"TEVA has turned a corner on December 14, with its announced $3bn of cost cuts by 2019 coming in well ahead of our expectation of $1-2bn by 2020," analyst Jami Rubin wrote in a note to clients Friday. "While we acknowledge there is skepticism on the path forward … we believe we are in the early innings of a credible turnaround led by a competent management team."
The company announced Thursday it plans to lay off 14,000 employees or 25 percent of its workforce as a part of its restructuring plan over the next two years.
The analyst increased her 12-month price target for Teva shares to $20 from $15, representing 16 percent upside to Thursday's close. Teva shares surged 10 percent on Thursday after announcing the cost-saving targets and layoffs.
Teva shares are underperforming the market this year. Through Thursday, its stock is down 52 percent in 2017 versus the S&P 500's 18.5 percent return. The company repeatedly disappointed Wall Street with lower-than-expected financial guidance and weak results earlier this year.
Rubin expressed confidence Teva's new CEO, Kare Schultz, who joined in November, will deliver on the cost-cutting projections. The executive has "repeatedly understated and over-delivered" at his previous job at Lundbeck, Rubin said.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Oracle — The business software giant reported adjusted quarterly profit of 70 cents per share, 2 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts and the company also added $12 billion to its share buyback program. Oracle gave weaker-than-expected guidance for growth of its cloud-computing business for the second consecutive quarter, however.
Hess — Hess is once again the target of activist investor Elliott Management, which said it is frustrated by the energy giant's "continuing underperformance" by the energy giant. The Wall Street Journal said Elliott wants to either oust CEO John Hess or push him to sell all or part of the company. Hess and Elliott engaged in a contentious battle in 2013 that led to the addition of Elliott nominees to the board of directors.
Adobe Systems – Adobe came in 10 cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.26 per share. The design software company's revenue also came in above Street forecasts and Adobe raised its outlook for 2018.
Costco – Costco earned an adjusted $1.36 per share for its latest quarter, beating estimates by 2 cents a share. Revenue for the warehouse retailer was slightly above forecasts. Its comparable-store sales jumped 10.5 percent, while comparable e-commerce sales surged 43.5 percent.
Teva Pharmaceutical – Goldman Sachs upgraded the generic drug maker to "buy" from "neutral," saying the company is in the early innings of a credible turnaround following Thursday's announcement of workforce reductions and a dividend suspension.
Foot Locker – Canaccord upgraded the athletic apparel and footwear retailer to "buy" from "hold," citing the company's strong relationship with Nike and terming current headwinds for the industry cyclical rather than structural.
T-Mobile US – Macquarie upgraded the wireless services provider to "outperform" from "neutral," saying the company is poised for a new phase of growth and pointing to T-Mobile's ability to out-execute its peers.
Fitbit – Stifel Nicolaus downgraded the wearable fitness device maker to "sell" from "hold," saying the company has a "high hurdle" to clear to achieve a breakeven operating margin.
Jabil Circuit – Jabil beat estimates by a penny a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 80 cents per share. Revenue was above estimates, as well. The contract electronics manufacturer, one of Apple's biggest suppliers, also gave an upbeat current-quarter forecast.
Waste Management – The environmental services company increased its quarterly dividend by 9.4 percent to 46.5 cents per share, and also approved a $1.25 billion stock buyback program.
CSX – Chief Executive Officer Hunter Harrison is taking a medical leave of absence, due to complications from an unspecified illness. Chief Operating Officer James Foote was named acting CEO.
Pfizer – The drugmaker received Food and Drug Administration approval for expanded use of its Xeljanz drug, which can now be used for to treatment of psoriatic arthritis.
Wells Fargo – The bank cut 60 jobs in its mortgage unit, according to The Wall Street Journal, as it continues to revamp its business following increased scrutiny by federal regulators.
Sinclair Broadcasting – Sinclair may have to sell off about a dozen TV stations to win government approval of its planned buyout of Tribune Media, according to The Wall Street Journal. The paper said the Justice Department has signaled it is willing to approve the deal with that concession.
Discovery Communications — Discovery shares are getting a boost, following a Securities and Exchange Commission filing showing media mogul John Malone bought nearly 333,000 new shares in the cable channel operator. That puts the total holdings of Malone and his wife to about 939,000 shares.


Foot Locker shares could rocket higher next year as footwear trends bottom in 2017, according to Canaccord Genuity, which upgraded the stock to buy from hold.
Calling the retailer's relationship with Nike "strong and symbiotic," analyst Camilo Lyon told clients that footwear trends are set to improve with sustained growth in athletic options.
"It was made abundantly clear to us that the company's relationship with Nike is strong and symbiotic, and more importantly the current assortment-led comp declines are cyclical, not structural," Lyon said in a note Friday. "We believe footwear trends, while still soft, are improving sequentially. Running continues to perform well as momentum in Adidas (NMD, Tubular Shadow, EQT, UltraBOOST) and Nike (VaporMax, Air franchise) is not fading and allocations are increasing."
A swell in footwear sales at Foot Locker would certainly be welcomed by the company. Shares have slid all year as news of a closer relationship between Nike and e-commerce giant Amazon surfaced. The stock is down nearly 40 percent this year, though shares have rallied 42 percent in the past month.
The company performed better than expected in its latest quarterly earnings report, sending shares up nearly 30 percent in a single day.
Lyon's new $64 price target represents 44 percent upside from Thursday's close. Though an inflection in footwear trends was the crux of the analyst's upgrade, Foot Locker's improving digital platform could also bode well for sales.
Shares of Foot Locker were up 5 percent in late morning trading.
"The company is making progress on rolling out the new digital e-commerce platform along with a mobile app platform and new point-of-sale technology," Lyon said. "Following these rollouts, all e-commerce sites globally will be on one platform, all mobile apps will be on one platform, and all stores worldwide will be using the same point-of-sale system."
A better digital surface would likely lead to greater visibility into consumer buying patterns, quicker access to inventory as well as enhanced data analytics. Lyon noted that the company is hiring scientists and third parties to study social data and popular buying trends.


Cboe's bitcoin futures ended their first week of trading higher on slightly stronger demand.
The futures contract, which trades under the ticker XBT and expires in January, settled up 7.8 percent Friday at $18,105 — a 17.1 percent gain in their first week of trading.
Earlier, the futures triggered a two-minute trading halt at 5:37 a.m. ET and the contract had traded more than 1,000 contracts by 8:36 a.m., for an unofficial full-day volume of 1,515 contracts.
Full-day trading volume in the January contract had hovered closer to 1,000 and 1,500 in the last few days after nearly 4,000 contracts on the first day. Total trading volume across all three contracts was 4,127. That's still relatively small compared with futures for the Cboe's volatility index, whose daily trading volume typically ranges from the tens of thousands to more than 100,000.

The Cboe bitcoin futures have had a relatively smooth first week of trading. The futures triggered two brief trading halts Sunday night as prices surged, and triggered another temporary trading halt Wednesday as the futures fell 10 percent. The halts were in accordance with Cboe's trading rules and match similar rules for other market products.
However, investor participation remained light as firms preferred to monitor the first futures contract on an established exchange for a notoriously volatile asset. As of Thursday, major banks such as Goldman Sachs were offering limited to no support for clients to trade bitcoin futures.
Interactive Brokers and Wedbush Futures were among the roughly 20 firms that Cboe said did participate in its bitcoin futures launch. TD Ameritradeannounced Friday it would give certain clients access to the Cboe bitcoin futures on Monday.
"From our point of view, the volumes at the CFE today are not reflecting the level of interest that we're seeing. There's a lot of preparation by firms to trade bitcoin one way or the other," Bob Fitzsimmons, head of Wedbush Futures, said in a phone interview Friday.
"We're seeing some digital currency hedge funds and obviously you see an element of retail in this as well, but all relatively sophisticated trading firms," he said.
Bitcoin itself was trading 6 percent higher at $17,469, according to CoinDesk. The digital currency has gained 8.8 percent for the week, 76 percent for December, and more than 1,700 percent for the year, according to CoinDesk.
The world's largest futures exchange, CME, is set to launch its own bitcoin futures contract Sunday evening. Interactive Brokers and Wedbush both plan to allow clients access, while TD Ameritrade initially will not.
Most other digital currencies fell Friday after surging in the last few days to record highs. Ethereum fell 1.7 percent to $684, Ripple, or XRP, traded more than 12.5 percent lower at 75.6 cents, and bitcoin's offshoot bitcoin cash fell 8.1 percent to $ 1,807, according to CoinMarketCap. Litecoin rose 7.4 percent to $300, the website showed.
Clarification: This story has been updated to reflect the January bitcoin futures contract traded nearly 4,000 contracts on its first day. Total trading volume across all contracts was 4,127.


Tesla recently climbed out of bear market territory, and one chart-minded trader sees an even bigger comeback in the cards.
Shares of the electric auto maker surged 7 percent this week after Pepsi announced it preordered 100 of the new Tesla Semi trucks. The stock is still down more than 10 percent from its recent high, but the breakout leads Todd Gordon of TradingAnalysis.com to believe it could soon reclaim those levels.
"I like the consolidation that we've seen over the last several months, and we've just broken higher on news that Pepsi's going to put a pretty big order in for trucks," he said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "That was the catalyst we needed to break out of the consolidation."
According to Gordon, a descending wedge pattern has formed in Tesla, along with a consolidation that is now serving as a support level just above $300. "We should be able now to get a little push up towards $400 in early 2018," said Gordon.

Furthermore, Gordon pointed out that the stock recently bounced off the lower end of an upward trend channel, and is making a run toward the higher end of that channel around $380, which Gordon believes is a key level for Tesla to break leading up to earnings in February.

To play for a move higher, Gordon bought the February 375/380 call spread for $1.25, or about $125 per options contract. Gordon would make a maximum reward of around $375 if Tesla closes above $380 on the Feb. 16 expiration.
But Gordon would lose the $125 he paid to make the trade if Tesla closes below $375 on Feb. 16. Therefore, he wants to establish a point at which to get out of the trade.
"If my options spread gets down to about 65 cents, half of the options premium that we just laid out is gone and it's probably time to get out of the trade and contain the risk," he said.
Shares of Tesla have surged 58 percent this year.


This start-up is making it a lot easier to own a Ferrari — or, at least, a part of one.
The collector car market has historically only been accessible to a wealthy few. Rally Rd. is aiming to democratize classic car collecting by turning premium vehicles — like a $165,000 vintage Ferrari Testarossa or a $425,000 Porsche Speedster — into stock.
"Each investment on Rally Rd. is essentially a mini public company," says Christopher Bruno, the start-up's co-founder and CEO. "Our investors are able to create a custom, diversified portfolio of equity interest in blue-chip collector cars, share by share."
After Rally Rd.'s team of experts identifies an investment opportunity, the company acquires the car and securitizes it, turning it into equity shares. Price per share is determined by the value of the car divided by 2,000. Investors are then able to purchase stock in the vehicle for as low as $50 a share. Rally Rd. does not charge any commissions or management fees, and the entire process is completed on a smartphone, through the company's mobile app.
The cars on Rally Rd. are always for sale. The start-up decides when to sell a car with the help of input from an expert advisory board, as well as investor sentiment, determined by data collected on the app. After a car is sold, the proceeds get paid to its shareholders. If investors want to exit before an asset is liquidated, they can trade their shares on a secondary market during monthly trading windows.


Bitcoin: it's electric.   Well, indirectly, anyway. Electricity consumption domestically and around the world is rising on bitcoin mining fervor, according to media reports citing Digiconomist data on bitcoin-related energy consumption.  Investors can capitalize on the surge in electricity consumption by way of bitcoin mining through buying several names in the energy and power space, according to macroeconomic strategist and Bear Traps Report publisher Larry McDonald. Here are his reasons why, and his recommendations to investors.  • Bitcoin is incredibly volatile as an asset and investors are looking to more conservative, long-term ways to play the bitcoin trend than buying the cryptocurrency outright. Through the act of bitcoin mining, electricity is being consumed at a rapid clip.  • Investors can look to one natural gas exchange-traded fund, the United States Natural Gas Fund (UNG), as well as uranium and the Global X Uranium ETF (URA).  • A liquefied natural gas company, Cheniere Energy (LNG), would also be a smart play here.  Bottom line: As bitcoin mining consumes more electricity, some energy-related exchange-traded funds are worth a buy, according to McDonald.


Ripple is vying with bitcoin cash to be the third-largest cryptocurrency by market value.
Ripple, or XRP, surged 89 percent Thursday to a record high of 89.2 cents and was last trading near 81 cents, giving it a market value of $31.6 billion, according to CoinMarketCap.
Those gains temporarily pushed ripple's market value past that of bitcoin's offshoot bitcoin cash, and into third place just behind the largest digital currencies, bitcoin and ethereum, according to CoinMarketCap. The website showed bitcoin cash had regained third place by late Thursday afternoon, with a market value of $32.1 billion.
Ripple surpassed the market value of litecoin on Wednesday after starting the week in fifth place by cryptocurrency market capitalization, according to CoinMarketCap.
Ripple seven-day performance

Source: CoinMarketCap
Ripple is officially the name of a startup using blockchain technology to develop a payments network for banks, digital asset exchanges and other financial institutions. XRP is the digital coin network participants use for transactions.
Interest from South Korean investors helped drive ripple's latest gains, just as they have helped send ethereum higher. In the last 24 hours, trading in South Korean won occasionally accounted for more than 40 percent of ripple trading volume, according to CryptoCompare.
Nikkei reported Wednesday Japan time that banks in Japan and South Korea began testing Ripple's blockchain technology on Friday. The cross-border trials are set to run through Jan. 31, and if all goes well, the banks plan to send money using Ripple's XRP digital currency, according to the report.
"In a landscape of a lot of hype, Ripple is the one that is delivering a reality," Brad Garlinghouse, CEO of Ripple, said in a phone interview with CNBC.
Ripple has gained traction in the last several months. In October, Ripple announced that more than 100 financial institutions use its blockchain network. The following month, the company said American Express FX International Payments and Santander would use Ripple's network for cross-border payments between the U.S. and the UK.
At the end of November, TechCrunch founder Mike Arrington announced he is launching a $100 million "cryptofund" that will be denominated in XRP.


Overstock.com CEO Patrick Byrne said he expects to have a deal in the next three months on selling or reorganizing the company's retail business to focus on blockchain, the technology behind bitcoin.
"My goal is [within] 60 to 90 days we walk away from this," Byrne told CNBC Wednesday in reference to the plan. He said he has an "ethical obligation" to focus for the next five years on his newly announced De Soto joint venture for a blockchain-based global property registry. "We think we can change the world for 5 billion people."
Byrne said the company is looking at three options for its home goods e-commerce business:
First, a traditional brick-and-mortar business could buy the operations.
Second, a "strategic investor, probably a guy out of Asia" could invest in the business. An approach from a wealthy Asian investor prompted Byrne to ask Guggenheim to help the company explore sale options, he said.
Third, the company could "go private" with a private equity company such as Bain, Carlyle or KKR and "go off the market for two years" in order to integrate Overstock's blockchain work with the retail arm.

Byrne had indicated on Overstock.com's third-quarter earnings call that he could sell the retail business.
The only Wall Street analyst covering the stock, D.A. Davidson's Tom Forte, had subsequently raised his price target on the stock to $85 a share, with the retail business accounting for $58 a share.
Marc Cohodes, a noted short-seller who announced his positive turn on the stock in October, said Wednesday he estimates the retail business is worth about $60 to $90 a share.
Those estimates would value the e-commerce arm at about $1.5 billion to $2.25 billion, since Overstock.com has 25.02 million shares outstanding.
Shares of Overstock.com traded little changed Thursday after gaining 13.9 percent Wednesday to $60.90 a share after news of the company's for-profit joint venture with well-known Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto. However, Byrne told CNBC Wednesday that while he expects the venture to generate revenue, making money is not the primary goal.
Overstock's shares have now surged 248 percent this year and have a market value of $1.5 billion as investors bet the company's work on blockchain could reap benefits similar to the meteoric surge of digital currency bitcoin, which was the first application of blockchain technology. The cryptocurrency has leaped more than 1,600 percent this year, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index.
Blockchain eliminates the need for a third-party intermediary by creating a rapid, permanent record of transactions in a network.
Byrne has a big vision for his investments in the technology, which began when Overstock launched Medici Ventures in 2014.
Medici's subsidiary has majority ownership of tZero, which said in September it is launching an SEC-compliant platform for trading digital coins. TZero is set to begin its initial coin offering on Monday and plans to raise $500 million.
TZero already operates a blockchain-based system for short-sellers. In addition to launching the digital coin-trading platform, Byrne said he is in contact with two countries about launching an overseas trading platform for coins that are considered "utility" tokens rather than "securities."
Cohodes estimates Overstock's blockchain business could be worth far more than the e-commerce operations. He said Wednesday that tZero adds another $100 to $200 to the stock, an additional value of $2.5 billion to $5 billion. D.A. Davidson's Forte has said Medici Ventures and tZero are together worth at least $27 a share, or about $675.5 million.


With bitcoin's meteoric rise in value, some investors are wondering if using it to purchase another digital asset means they can delay paying taxes on their gains.
Under the Republican tax bill expected to be voted on next week, the answer is no.
Because the IRS views bitcoin as property rather than a currency for tax purposes, there's been discussion about whether a certain kind of transaction known as a 1031 exchange can apply to bitcoin and its brethren.
A 1031 exchange allows taxpayers to exchange one type of asset for a similar one, thereby postponing capital gains taxes. The asset also must be used for business or investment purposes and meet other requirements.
In simple terms, such an exchange can result in getting taxed at a lower rate when the new asset is eventually sold.


Shares of Twitter gained 7.3 percent on Thursday, reaching their highest level in more than a year.
The social media's stock hit $23.24, its highest level since Oct. 5, 2016, when it traded as high as $25.25 a share. It closed at $22.58.
Jonathan Krinsky, chief market technician at MKM Partners, said Twitter's stock was breaking out of a two-year range on Thursday.
"It's been trading between $14 on the downside and $22 on the upside," he said. "Based on the length of the base, I'd say we could see an upside into the high $20s."

Twitter shares have rallied sharply this year, advancing nearly 40 percent in that time period. Krinsky said the next level to watch on the stock is $24. Twitter hasn't closed above that level since October 2016.


Shares of Tiffany & Co. jumped 4 percent Thursday after Citigroup upgraded the luxury retailer to buy, saying the jeweler is "starting to show some shine."
"The third quarter brought several positive inflection points, new management is showing us that they understand the challenges and opportunities, and they are not sitting still," Citi analyst Paul Lejuez explained. "Considering the increasing tailwind from FX and the likely earnings per share lift from tax reform (which we don't believe is priced in), we believe Tiffany looks attractive."
It has been a busy year at Tiffany with "significant" changes to both the board and management. Though the company typically debuted major collections every few years, it added both CEO Alessandro Bogliolo and head designer Reed Krakoff this year in an effort to jump-start sales with new blood and more frequent product launches.
"Tiffany launched its HardWare collection of jewelry and (more recently) its home/accessories line, as well as opening the Blue Box Café in its NYC flagship," explained Lejuez. "We are optimistic that the changes we have seen thus far have Tiffany on a better path for success."
The new HardWare collection features pieces like a $12,000 link bracelet in 18-karat rose gold.
Shares of Tiffany are up 28 percent this year versus the S&P 500's 19 percent climb, with 9 percentage points of the stock's surge coming in the last three months. Tiffany stock closed up 3.4 percent higher Thursday after the call.
The analyst raised his price target on Tiffany to $115 from $92. The new target is 20 percent higher than Wednesday's closing price.
Meanwhile, Citi has more reason to favor the luxury retailer. Citi's European luxury goods analyst Thomas Chauvet said he believes the company could be an attractive acquisition target. Chauvet and his team find "increasing probability" that a European luxury conglomerate could make a move to buy Tiffany or one of its segments, potentially boosting the shares further.
Tiffany & Co. did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.


Bitcoin is now sizing up to be what could be the biggest market bubble of all time.
According to Birinyi Associates, bitcoin now looks to be bigger than any of the 10 other market bubbles it studied including the the tech bubble, beanie babies, the Dow in 1929 and the silver bubble of the late 1970s.
Bitcoin was trading at about $16,235 Thursday morning, rising from $1,000 at the start of the year, and $11,000 at the beginning of last week.
Just last week, bitcoin was the third largest of the 10 events Birinyi studied. It was third behind an 18th-century French financing scheme around the development of the Mississippi Valley, known as the Mississippi bubble, and the one-day 31 percent surge in Qualcomm in December 1999. According to Birinyi Associates, it was a Wall Street analyst's call for a $1,000 target that set Qualcomm shares on fire.
The cryptocurrency market goes beyond bitcoin, but none has appealed to the broader, general public in quite the same way.
Wall Street has been late in catching up to the individual investors and cryptocurrency traders who expect bitcoin to keep surging. Three exchanges have rushed to launch bitcoin products. Futures started trading Sunday on the Cboe, with a separate contract expected to launch at the CME this weekend. Nasdaq also plans to offer futures next year.


The Republican plan for a major tax overhaul may not be fully priced into the market, closely followed trader Art Cashin told CNBC on Thursday.
Stocks opened higher Thursday, a day after news broke that House and Senate negotiators have reached a deal on a tax plan. The two chambers hope to send legislation to President Donald Trump's desk before Christmas. It will likely feature a 21 percent corporate rate.
"No, I don't think it's fully priced in," Cashin, UBS' director of floor operations at the New York Stock Exchange, said on "Squawk on the Street" about the tax plan. "And there are other potentially disruptive things. This pass-through for independent operators may heavily impact the brokerage business."
Cashin said he was also confused about the market's reaction to the tax bill Thursday considering Republican Sen. John McCain has been hospitalized. McCain's office said Wednesday that the Arizona senator was receiving treatment for "normal side effects of his ongoing cancer therapy."
The statement added, McCain "looks forward to returning to work as soon as possible."
"If he's not there for the vote, that's going to make things even tighter," Cashin said.


The Trump administration may be more open to the Disney-Twenty-First Century Fox deal than other proposed media mergers, billionaire investor Mario Gabelli told CNBC on Thursday.
"From my point of view, the one good news is that the administration ... is more friendly towards Fox than they would to CNN," Gabelli said on "Squawk Box," referring to President Donald Trump's adoration of Fox News and his loathing of CNN, which he has repeatedly called "fake news."
Gabelli called into CNBC shortly after Disney announced a deal to pay $52.4 billion in stock for many parts of Fox, including Fox movie studios, Nat Geo, stakes in Sky and Hulu, and regional sports networks, but not Fox News Channel and other Fox television broadcasting assets.
As of the latest securities filing on Sept. 30, Gabelli's Gamco Investors owned 6.1 million Twenty-First Century Fox Class A shares and 4.4 million Fox Class B shares. Gamco also has a small stake in Disney.
Gabelli comments about CNN came after reports last month that the Justice Department was pushing AT&T to sell assets, including possibly the cable news network, in order to get approval for its proposed $85 billion buyout of Time Warner. The DOJ has denied those reports.
Gamco owned nearly 2.1 million Time Warner shares and about 1.4 million shares of AT&T, as of Sept. 30.


Disney wants to win the streaming wars by having three distinct products: A family-friendly movie and TV service, a sports streaming platform and an adult-focused Hulu.
"We think it's quite a compelling opportunity for the company, and we think it's really compelling from a consumer perspective," Disney CEO Bob Iger told CNBC's David Faber on "Squawk on the Street."
Disney will purchase many parts of Twenty-First Century Fox for $52.4 billion in stock in a deal announced Thursday. Part of the deal includes Fox's movie studios, networks Nat Geo and FX, Asian pay-TV operator Star TV, and stakes in Sky, Endemol Shine Group and Hulu, as well as several regional sports networks. It will also give it more content to launch its direct-to-consumer services, as it prepares to remove its content from Netflix by 2019.
Disney's streaming plans involve launching an over-the-top subscription plan for Disney, Pixar, Marvel and Lucasfilm content in 2019. It will start a sports-focused ESPN streaming service next year, and hopes to make Hulu it's more "adult-oriented product."
The Disney-Fox deal will give Disney a 60 percent stake of Hulu. The company things its an "interesting" opportunity to grow the platform alongside the other minority owners which include Comcast and Time Warner, Iger said.
"With that we'll have the ability to direct Hulu in ways that we haven't been able to, as essentially equal partners," Iger said. "But we'll also be able to infuse Hulu with even more content. We will actually invest in content from both entities for Hulu."
Disclosure: CNBC parent company NBCUniversal is owned by Comcast.


Twenty-First Century Fox's decision to sell $52 billion of assets to Disney seems like odd timing.
On the surface, Fox may have benefited by waiting until a federal judge rules on AT&T's $85 billion deal for Time Warner. That trial date is set for March 19, although a verdict may not come until about two months later.
Waiting would have let Fox know if big media vertical integration is acceptable under U.S. law or not. If it is — and AT&T's deal for Time Warner stands — Comcast and Verizon, both of which expressed interest in Fox's assets, would instantly become more viable buyers from a regulatory standpoint. That may have pushed Disney's offer price higher.
We should also remember that 3½ years ago Fox made an unsolicited offer to acquire Time Warner, then ultimately withdrew it. But Time Warner may be back in play in a few months, if the Department of Justice's decision to block AT&T's $85 billion acquisition holds up in court.


Disney's strategy of buying key media content assets from Twenty-First Century Fox to beef up content for its own streaming services will not work, according to one Wall Street firm.
On Thursday, Disney announced a deal to acquire certain Twenty-First Century Fox assets including movie studios and cable entertainment properties.
"We are weighing in - negatively - with our assessment of what we expect will be the strategic rationale for the deal (positioning Disney better to compete in the OTT space) … In our view, Disney is committing significant capital to the lost cause of protecting video aggregation margins," analyst Doug Creutz wrote in a note to clients Thursday. "Taking on competitors who don't need to turn a profit is rarely a good idea."
The analyst reaffirmed his market perform rating and $94 price target for Disney shares, representing 13 percent downside to Wednesday's close.
Disney announced plans in August to launch a branded direct-to-consumer streaming service in 2019 and an ESPN streaming service in 2018.
Creutz said the internet giants like Amazon and Netflix can leverage "essentially unlimited balance sheets" to buy content.
"What we don't understand is why Disney would want to compete with Netflix, and other new media players, as a new media content aggregator," he wrote. "With even more players entering the fray (Apple, Google), and a likely willingness by at least some of them to play a long game of loss leadership in content aggregation to support other business objectives, we expect pressure on content margins."
Disney shares are underperforming the market this year. Its shares have rallied 3 percent through Wednesday versus the S&P 500's 19 percent gain.
"We think that this deal is an attempt by the Murdoch clan to eventually put themselves in position to run Disney," he wrote. "Eventual control of Disney by the Murdochs may not be the most likely outcome, but we think it is a very possible one."


Despite a host of challenges facing consumer staples, Coca-Cola, Pepsi and Dr Pepper Snapple Group all buying opportunities, according to Deutsche Bank.
With analysts across Wall Street cautious on the space due to new competition and pricing pressure, analyst Steve Powers argues that traditional beverages companies are up to the task.
"The door has opened to new (smaller, but agile) competition, which is increasingly leveraging digital technology and sophisticated third-party manufacturing to deliver compelling product options," wrote Powers on Wednesday. "Still, such concerns have now become the dominant market narrative—already making investors revisit past assumptions about normalized growth … Beverage companies today are far more accepting of their new realities versus 6 to 12 months ago, and are acting accordingly."
Starting with Coca-Cola, Powers highlighted the company's recent beverage initiatives and efforts to break into new categories. Recent projects at the beverage giant include a cola recipe sweetened only with stevia as well as a continued relationship with energy drink company Monster. Some analyst have even speculated that the company could venture into alcoholic mixers or booze in coming years.
"In our view, Coca-Cola is emerging from recent change determined to win across all beverages, while importantly shifting focus to price/revenue realization," the analyst explained. "This shift comes alongside promising efforts both to streamline internal operations (more speed, higher productivity), and optimize System alignment through Coca-Cola own refranchising."
The analyst's $52 price target represents 13 percent upside from Wednesday's close; shares are up 11 percent this year.
Meanwhile, Powers sees reignited acceleration at PepsiCo, arguing that the company's stock should climb 12 percent in the next year despite losing share to Coca-Cola.
"The domestic Frito business remains dominant, and is showing signs of renewed acceleration. Moreover, the building of Frito scale abroad remains a potential source of upside surprise," explained Powers. "While PepsiCo's North America beverage business is currently ceding share in the midst of Coca-Cola's refranchising, management seems to understand past shortfalls and has committed to increased investments."
Shares of PepsiCo are up 13 percent since January.
Powers also initiated coverage of Dr Pepper Snapple at buy despite recent concerns over its acquisition of antioxidant drink maker Bai earlier this year. The company faced a barrage of skepticism during its October earnings call as analysts voiced concern that the company lacks the experience to integrate new brands and ramp volume.
"We initiate on Dr Pepper Snapple with a Buy rating and $104 price target, viewing tail risks from Bai disappointment as already priced in," said Powers. "With roughly 13 percent upside to our price target, Dr Pepper Snapple offers an attractive return, nothing that the company could see significant benefits from proposed tax reform."
Dr Pepper Snapple shares are up 3 percent this year.



A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are a bit higher after Wednesday's mixed close. We get weekly jobless claims numbers and retail sales data this morning.
DEALS/NO DEALS
-Disney and FOX have announceda $52 billion deal in which Disney will acquire Fox's movie and television production assets.  Hollywood is worried the combination will bring substantial layoffs.
TAXES
-GOP leaders in the House and Senate have made a deal on their combined tax reform plan and now seek to vote on it next week. The Fed announcement Wednesday included some praise and a green light for the tax reform bill.


Mainstream market forecasters are taking a serious look at the bitcoin boom — noting a bust could cause collateral damage in the stock market.
Nuveen Asset Management's Bob Doll is one of them. He acknowledges that a potential cryptocurrency crash could have a spillover effect, even though it's not included in his official 2018 stock market forecast.
"It's sort of been until recently pretty isolated. We can't have a conversation without bitcoin showing up," the firm's chief equity strategist said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "Somebody will get scared if bitcoin drops by 30 percent in a short period of time."
He believes the longer the bitcoin mania goes, and the bigger it gets — the worse it is for the stock market. Doll sees it creating jitters "even though the fundamental overflow is pretty nonexistent."
Right now, Doll's annual forecast calls for more gains. He has a year-end price target of 2,800 on the S&P 500. That's about 5 percent higher from current levels.
His biggest economic-related risk to the rally is inflation. Doll says he isn't seeing hints of it yet but is conscious of the negative role it will eventually play.
"A little bit of inflation is good for the revenue line. When it becomes evident that the Fed has to sit on it by becoming punitive and raising rates faster than the curve suggests, that's when we worry," said Doll. "That's when we tend to get the inverted yield curve. They are in our future."
The Federal Reserve on Wednesday nudged up its federal funds rate by a quarter point, the fifth rate hike since December 2015.


As the bull market heads into its ninth year, the list of potential risks that could stop its run is growing.
The wall of worry starts in Washington, but the sources of potential risk come from around the globe — including North Korea, China and the Middle East.
Domestically, the Alabama U.S. Senate vote this week suggests that the 2018 midterm elections may not go smoothly for congressional Republicans and President Donald Trump as they try to hold onto the GOP majority next year. That threatens the Republican agenda and makes it possible that the tax reform vote, expected next week, could be the final big GOP initiative to make it through Congress.
"I think the most enduring risks that investors face tend to come from domestic forces," said Marc Chandler, head of foreign exchange strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman.
On the geopolitical front, markets could face bouts of nervousness in the new year as the Trump administration is forced to find a way to deal with North Korea's nuclear ambitions, which increasingly threaten global security.
However, there is a solid list of positives, and analysts expect another up year for the market in 2018, but with more modest gains. Strong earnings growth, a new corporate tax plan and a stronger global economy should help provide fuel for the bull market for another year. CNBC's survey of Wall Street strategists shows a median forecast of 2,800 on the S&P 500, a gain of about 5 percent from current levels, versus 2017's 20 percent gain.
The economy and market are heading into late cycle, which should be a good period for both.
"You have the possibility of a record-long expansion," said Steven Wieting, chief investment strategist at Citi Private Bank. He said there are "the seeds of a decent late-cycle environment which is not producing any signs of future catastrophes so far. We should enjoy these."
Yet, for all the good news there are a few potential time bombs for markets.


Investors should buy Lululemon shares because of its growth prospects overseas, according to one Wall Street firm.
Deutsche Bank raised its rating for the apparel retailer's shares to buy from hold, predicting Lululemon will report sales above expectations.
The call sent the stock up 2 percent during Thursday's premarket session.
"Lululemon drives enormously strong customer loyalty, controls its distribution unlike other brands, leads the industry in full price selling, and is still in its infancy growing its International business," analyst Paul Trussell wrote in a note to clients Thursday.
The analyst raised his price target for the company's shares to $89 from $72, representing 20 percent upside from Wednesday's close.
Trussell noted how Lululemon reported strong 7 percent comparable sales growth in the past two quarters. He said the company's Asian stores grew sales nearly 100 percent and European stores grew 40 percent in the third quarter. The analyst cited how only 17 percent of the company's stores are outside North America.
"LULU's international growth pillar continues to reflect one of the company's most significant opportunities," he wrote. "We think LULU will likely beat 4Q expectations on robust SSS [same store sales] and leverage of expenses."
Lululemon stock has underperformed the market year to date with its shares up 14 percent through Wednesday, compared with the S&P 500's 19 percent return.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Twenty-First Century Fox – Fox announced a deal to sell film and TV assets to Walt Disney for $52.4 billion in stock. The companies expect the transaction to close by June 30, 2018.
CBS – Stephens began coverage of CBS with an "overweight" rating, focusing on the advantages of the media company's unique content creation, ownership, and distribution model.
Verizon – HSBC downgraded the stock to "hold" from "buy," saying its recent rally limits any potential upside.
Express Scripts – The pharmacy benefits manager raised its full-year 2017 earnings forecast to an adjusted $7.00 to $7.08 per share from the prior $6.97 to $7.05, compared to the consensus estimate of $7.01 a share. The company also issued a 2018 earnings outlook that comes in largely above consensus forecasts.
Pier 1 Imports – Pier 1 reported quarterly profit of 9 cents per share, 2 cents a share below estimates. Revenue did beat forecasts, but the retailer gave weaker-than-expected current-quarter guidance. CEO Alasdair James said November sales momentum has been fading this month.
Nordson – Nordson came in 5 cents a share above estimates, reporting adjusted quarterly profit of $1.38 per share. Revenue also topped forecasts. The industrial equipment manufacturer forecast a sales increase of 30 percent to 34 percent for the first quarter of 2018.
Delta Air Lines – The airline is expected to announce an order for 100 Airbus A321neo jets, sources said. The order is expected to be announced this morning ahead of the airline's investor day and is seen as a major win for Airbus and a loss for rival Boeing.
Gap Inc. – Gap was downgraded to "perform" from "outperform" at Oppenheimer, which also lowered its price target for the apparel retailer's stock. The firm still sees upside at Old Navy, but struggles at the Gap and Banana Republic chains.
Lululemon – Lululemon was upgraded to "buy" from "hold" at Deutsche Bank, which sees the athletic apparel and footwear sector on more solid ground than previously and that the yogawear maker is on track for more sustained profitable growth across its various operations.
Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, Dr Pepper Snapple – These stocks were among the beverages stocks rated "buy" in new coverage at Deutsche Bank, which said it is taking a constructive view on a sector where market sentiment is biased to the negative side.
Cheetah Mobile – Cheetah announced a deal to incorporate Microsoft's artificial intelligence-based technologies into the mobile internet company's products and services.
Callaway Golf – JPMorgan Chase began coverage on the golf equipment maker with an "overweight" rating, saying Callaway represents a "compelling" double-digit bottom line growth story based on an innovative product portfolio.
Valeant Pharmaceuticals – JPMorgan downgraded the drugmaker to "underweight" from "neutral," with the shares having doubled since reporting third-quarter earnings. JPMorgan points to significant patent erosion concerns that will impact earnings going forward, among other factors.


After the Federal Reserve raised interest rates on Wednesday, CNBC's Jim Cramer wanted investors to get a feel for the state of the U.S. economy.
"Higher rates can kill the bull if they make bonds competitive with the return you get from stocks. We aren't there yet," the "Mad Money" host said. "A quarter-point rate hike from these very low levels won't really do much damage to either the economy or the stock market."
Cramer used a quote from the late legendary investor, Sir John Templeton, to explain the current state of affairs: "Bull markets are born on pessimism, grown on skepticism, mature on optimism, and die on euphoria."
"We're currently in stage three. We're in optimism," Cramer said. "We're optimistic about 2018. We're optimistic that the Fed won't kill the economy, optimistic that inflation's under control, optimistic that more jobs will be created, augmented by the tax bill, and I'm optimistic that stocks can keep running."
Yet amid all this optimism, there isn't much euphoria, the "Mad Money" host said. There are still plenty of people skeptical that the stock market's gains can last. There's still money on the sidelines.
Cramer argued that the most euphoric part of the market is in the world of cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, which Fed Chair Janet Yellen said on Wednesday was still a "very small" segment of the payment system.
"I get the sense that when — not if, but when — they become big potatoes, the Fed will have a more forceful policy," Cramer said. "But right now, Yellen, even after repeated questioning, didn't seem to take the cryptocurrency bait. She just didn't think they're that important."
But there are still plenty of areas in the market to be concerned about, the "Mad Money" host said.
For one, there aren't enough high-skilled jobs being created in the United States, as established by Apple's $390 million investment in fiber optics company Finisair.
The money will fund 500 new jobs at Finisair and refurbish a closed-down facility in Texas, where Finisair will manufacture chips for Apple's latest devices.
"Without this injection of capital, I think Finisar would struggle versus foreign competitors," Cramer said. "Good work by Apple."
Second, long-term interest rates (which are not controlled by the Fed) have remained stagnant even in the face of aggressive bank deregulation by the government, meaning there's not enough lending. Cramer said he hoped that might change with new Fed Chair Jay Powell.
Most of all, the "Mad Money" host wanted investors to keep an eye out for the signs of euphoria.
"First, if we see a tremendous amount of insider selling and secondary stock offerings that get lapped up by the market, something that happened near the peak in 2000, we might be too euphoric," he said. "If we see people trading houses like they did back in 2007, we might be too euphoric."
"If we see investors taking down a gigantic amount of margin debt in order to buy stocks, we might be too euphoric," he continued. "If we hear outrageous price targets for stocks and start bidding up the prices of companies without any earnings or even any revenues, you better believe we're too euphoric."
But none of that is happening, Cramer said. Ten years after a financial crisis shook the economic system to its core, we're simply optimistic.
And there are still plenty of people in the United States who were so scarred by the 2008 recession that they don't want to invest ever again, Cramer added.
"Am I giving you permission to party down with stocks? No way," the "Mad Money" host said. "We need to be careful not to own the stocks of companies that are doing poorly. We need to remain vigilant against euphoria. We should always be willing to take something off the table. No one ever got hurt taking a profit. Build up some cash on the sidelines."


CME CEO and Chairman Terry Duffy may not own bitcoin, but he thinks it could change the world. That's why CME Group is launching bitcoin futures Sunday – with some extra regulatory safeguards.
"Regulation is important to any product – when you look at cryptocurrencies or anything else you trade -- so we continue to evolve," Duffy said on CNBC's "Fast Money."
Competitor Cboe, which launched bitcoin futures Dec. 10, will offer contracts as low as 1 bitcoin. But CME is only offering contracts on 5 bitcoins, in part to ward off retail participants.
"The last thing I want to have happen is for participants that have never traded futures contracts before to enter into CME's markets and begin trading bitcoin futures," Duffy said. "We're targeting the more professional type trader and the institutional investor."
To determine pricing, CME will tie futures to a bitcoin reference rate, which is an average of four exchanges.
To offset bitcoin's notorious volatility, CME has already raised initial margins – or the amount put up at the start of the trade – to 47 percent from 35 percent, and set maintenance margins at 43 percent. Duffy said CME has no qualms about raising the rate again.
"If, in fact, this thing starts to move precipitously, our margins will increase, our velocity logic will kick in and other functions we have, as well," Duffy said.
Duffy doesn't own bitcoin personally, but he believes the cryptocurrency may well change the future of finance.
"I think we're going through a major change in finance," Duffy said. "For us not to list it and to miss potentially helping something that could change the world would be wrong, too. I think we're taking a very measured approach."


Walt Disney's widely anticipated deal to buy Twenty-First Century Fox's entertainment assets reminded CNBC's Jim Cramer of his experience founding TheStreet.com.
"Scale. Gotta have scale. I remember when I first heard that term, "scale." It was when I started TheStreet.com 22 years ago. I would meet with bankers, of course begging for money, and they'd say, 'Jim, you aren't scaling fast enough,'" the "Mad Money" host recalled.
Being large enough to compete with major industry players is a requirement for any company that wants to secure funding and get ahead, as Cramer later found out.
"If you aren't dominant, then you won't win, or worse, you might not even survive," he said. "Disney's in the position that I was in 22 years ago. It really doesn't matter how much they pay, they'll be getting huge scale, and with this deal, ... they need that scale badly."
So ahead of a potential Thursday deal in which Disney would buy Fox's movie, television and regional sports network assets, valued at $60 billion according to sources, Cramer broke down the offensive and defensive drivers behind the purchase.
Cramer said the combination of Disney's ESPN and Fox's regional sports content would give the entertainment giant a "hammerlock" on sports programming. That side of the deal would bolster Disney's prospects for BamTech, its digital sports streaming arm, he added.
If the deal goes through, Disney would also get the rights to more key Marvel Comics characters, adding the potential for more film franchises and theme park rides.
The "Mad Money" host argued that the prospective deal is offensive in the sense that it might help Disney overcome its cord-cutting concerns and get its content in front of consumers, no matter where they want to watch it.
"But it's also defensive," he said. "There's not a lot of beachfront property out there. Fox's entertainment assets are a prime piece of real estate. Again, Disney had to pay up for it, but they didn't want that beachfront property going to the FANGs," Cramer's acronym for Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet.
With Fox's assets under its belt, Disney could package ESPN and Fox Sports as a separate public company or a unit within the larger parent company. It could use the sports division to build out BamTech into a catch-all sports streaming colossus.
"Either way, Disney has bought itself time and boxed out its real enemies, the digital titans who can decide that they want to take Disney's business, meaning the business of getting you to watch them," the "Mad Money" host said. "Netflix and Amazon don't care whether you watch on TV or your phone or your computer."
And with this deal, Disney might not have to care, either.


Companies that enforce employee-centric and customer-centric cultures are likely to see better financial gains than their competitors, Just Capital's Dan Hesse told CNBC on Wednesday.
"What we've seen from a financial performance point of view is that you have ... [a] higher return on equity of these companies that do good things," Hesse, the former CEO of Sprint, told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer.
Just Capital, a private, non-profit research firm, recently conducted a survey of 72,000 individuals across the United States to hear about what they wanted to see from the nation's top companies.
On Tuesday, Just Capital and Forbes released a ranking of the top 100 most "just" U.S. companies based on the results.
Hesse, a board member of Just Capital, acknowledged that many leading technology companies landed high in the ranks, with Intel, Texas Instruments and Nvidia taking the top three spots.
"Part of it, I think, is keeping up with one another," he said of the tech players. "They're competing for the same talent. They're competing for the same customers."
But one of the most sweeping commonalities was how consumers felt about tax reform, Hesse said.
While investors might get excited about the potential for share buybacks and dividend increases if corporate tax reform is passed, consumers couldn't be less thrilled about it, Hesse said.
"If there's one overall theme in the data, it's that they believe companies are focused too much on just shareholders versus all the other stakeholders," he told Cramer.
"They'll say shareholders, yes, important, but your employees are No. 1 and your customers are No. 2," Hesse continued. "So are the communities, the environment, a lot of other stakeholders. So they will want to see companies take this money and invest in their employees and in some of these other areas."
And given the deep political divides in the country, sewn in part by the 2016 election, Hesse said the 72,000 survey participants agreed on more than they probably thought:
"With all of the differences politically, the results between Democrats and Republicans were amazingly similar in this survey."


The Federal Reserve came through on a widely expected interest rate hike Wednesday following its two-day policy meeting and sharply raised its economic growth forecast for 2018.
In their decision, the central bank policymakers mostly followed the script, though they did indicate that one less hike is on the way for 2019. Two Fed presidents voted against the increase — Charles Evans of Chicago and Neel Kashkari of Minneapolis.
The move will push the target range to 1.25 percent to 1.5 percent. The rate is pegged to a wide variety of debt instruments, such as credit cards and adjustable-rate mortgages.
One of the more notable developments came from the expectations Federal Open Market Committee members set for gross domestic product next year. The committee collectively raised its GDP estimate from 2.1 percent in September to 2.5 percent.
That comes following two consecutive quarters of 3 percent growth or higher and estimates that the fourth quarter could hit that level as well.
However, the burst may be short-lived. Growth is projected to come back down to 2.1 percent in 2019 and 2 percent in 2020, though both are above the respective 2 percent and 1.8 percent forecasts three months ago.


This is a comparison of Wednesday's FOMC statement with the one issued after the Fed's previous policymaking meeting on October 31.
Text removed from the October statement is in red with a horizontal line through the middle.
Text appearing for the first time in the new statement is in red and underlined.
Black text appears in both statements.


Jeffrey Gundlach, a renowned bond investor, believes a tax cut is not going to be positive for all companies over the long run and could hurt values of junk credit.
"There's probably going to be some unintended consequences from all this tinkering around with the tax code," Gundlach told CNBC's Scott Wapner on "Halftime Report." "I think it will probably harm some companies, some sectors."
Gundlach, CEO of DoubleLine Capital, which manages more than $100 billion, also said the new tax plan could "lead to a narrative about defaults in the junk bond market."
Republican lawmakers and the Trump administration have been pushing hard for a revamp of the U.S. tax code this year. Their plan would lower the corporate tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent starting in 2018.
Equities have risen sharply this year as investors bet on a cut to the corporate tax rate. The Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500 are up 24.6 percent and 19.2 percent for the year, respectively. On Wednesday, they reached record highs.
But the tax plan would also raise taxes in states like California, New York and New Jersey, which are already high tax-paying states. Gundlach said it would likely make people in those states less willing to buy stocks and risk assets.
"I do believe the narrative will develop that there are negative parts, unintended consequences to this tax package," he said.
Gundlach also found it interesting that junk bonds haven't followed equities higher this year. The SPDR Bloomberg Barclays High Yield Bond exchange-traded fund (JNK) is up just 0.9 percent in 2017.


Apple's investment in Finisar is a "fantastic" deal, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday, and now the chipmaker is an "entirely different company."
Finisar's stock jumped Wednesday after Apple announced the second investment from its $1 billion Advanced Manufacturing Fund, committing $390 million to Finisar.
The company will use the money to reopen a shuttered plant in Sherman, Texas, and create 500 jobs.
Apple CEO Tim Cook told Cramer earlier this year about the fund to promote advanced manufacturing jobs in the U.S. Cook said he hoped the investment would spur even more job creation.
"Finisar is a heavily shorted stock because they've missed a couple of quarters and people feel we're losing our leadership overseas," said Cramer, whose charitable trust owns shares of Apple. "Well guess what, when you get a check from Apple it really does help."
"If you were short Finisar before, you should realize it's an entirely different company after this," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "They are people who fight it, but I say don't fight the feeling."
The announcement came a couple days after Apple confirmed it would buy music recognition app Shazam. News of that deal was first reported by TechCrunch.
Cramer agreed that Apple's appetite may be getting more "acute." "I think that they're stepping up," said the host of CNBC's "Mad Money."
Cramer said the investments may be "excess" for Apple, which has a market cap of more than $800 billion, but it is "killer" for companies who are on the receiving end.


Disney's "Star Wars: The Last Jedi," which premieres in U.S. theaters on Friday, could mean hundreds of millions of dollars in unanticipated box office revenue for IMAX, according to JPMorgan analysis.
As the latest installment in the sci-fi epic, "The Last Jedi" has received a swell of positive reviews from film critics in recent days, leading JPMorgan analyst Alexia Quadrani to speculate that weekend traffic could be strong.
"The Last Jedi" "could drive upside to our fourth-quarter estimates with overwhelmingly positive reviews for the film," wrote Quadrani on Tuesday, giving a nod to the film's 93 percent Rotten Tomatoes score. "Overall, assuming solid performance for The Last Jedi, we believe there could be upside to our fourth-quarter IMAX global box office estimate of $285 million, +15 percent year-over-year."
The film will be released in a record number of IMAX theaters worldwide — starting with 775 domestic and international screens for its opening weekend and an additional 503 screens in China next month, according to a company spokesperson. Pre-sale IMAX tickets are now the second-highest in IMAX history, exceeding Christopher Nolan's final Batman movie, "The Dark Knight Rises."
Some scenes were shot using IMAX's extremely high-resolution cameras, providing audiences with better image quality in the company's exclusive aspect ratio.
The film is so popular that NASA is partnering with Disney to screen the film for its astronauts in outer space.

Looking back at the 2015 release of "Star Wars: The Force Awakens," Quadrani noted that global opening set a weekend box office record for IMAX, which added $48 million over a few days. The film would ultimately gross about $130 million in IMAX box office in the fourth quarter of 2015.
While she expects "The Last Jedi" to perform "modestly lower" than "The Force Awakens," Quadrani explained that the new film has the advantage of one additional weekend in the month of December.
Though up 21 percent in the past three months, IMAX shares slipped 0.4 percent Wednesday.


Shares of Overstock.com surged Wednesday after its CEO announced a joint venture for a global property registry based on bitcoin's blockchain technology.
Overstock Chief Executive Patrick Byrne and the company's blockchain-focused subsidiary Medici Ventures are partnering with well-known Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto to establish the for-profit venture called De Soto.
An earlier report said the venture would be nonprofit, but a company spokesperson confirmed to CNBC that the venture will be for profit.

Byrne also has hired Guggenheim Partners to explore options for selling Overstock, which is primarily an online home goods retailer. A multibillion-dollar investment fund has already approached Overstock, and interest from Asia has been especially strong, according to the company.
The stock briefly climbed 8.79 percent to $58.15 a share Wednesday. Overstock.com shares have leaped more than 220 percent this year following news the company is planning to launch a licensed digital coin trading platform through its subsidiary tZero and raise funds through an initial coin offering. On Friday, Morgan Stanley Investment Management disclosed in a filing that it had an 11.4 percent stake in Overstock.com.
"If [Byrne] executes properly on blockchain I think the stock's worth somewhere between $200 and $400," said Marc Cohodes, a noted short seller and independent investor who turned positive on Overstock.com in October. "I own a lot of this thing. I bought a lot more the other day when it pulled back."
"These guys have spent real money" on blockchain, Cohodes said. "Global property management on the blockchain. How big is that market?"
Overstock.com is the third-most active corporate investor in blockchain technology over the last five years, according to data company CB Insights. Japan-based SBI Holdings ranks first and Google, Alphabet's subsidiary, is second, the data analysis showed.
Blockchain technology creates a permanent, open record of all transactions on a network. The technology allows two parties to interact directly without an intermediary. Proponents say blockchain can help speed up financial transactions and improve security of personal identification, among other applications.
One of economist de Soto's major arguments is that formal documentation of land ownership is the key to alleviating poverty in underdeveloped countries. The De Soto venture plans to use the blockchain to document the informal records of local property ownership.




Boeing's recent run has been nothing short of amazing.
Boeing is on track for its best annual performance since 1978. The stock has soared more than 86 percent this year, adding about $77 billion in market cap and around 892 points to the Dow.
Boeing was trading at yet another all-time high on Wednesday at around $295.
But as the stock trades at record highs, one technician is warning that Boeing may have soared too far, too fast, and the meteoric run could soon come to a close.
Matt Maley of Miller Tabak says two technical indicators suggest the rally has gotten long in the tooth, with the first being the stock's Relative Strength Index. The index essentially measures the degree to which a stock is overbought.
"If you look at its RSI chart, it's in the high 80s," Maley said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "It hasn't been this high very often at all, and the last time it was this high was the very end of 2013 just before the stock rolled over and came down 15 percent."

Maley also points out that the stock is up almost 90 percent from its 200-week moving average, a gap that hasn't been so high in the last 20 years.
"Premiums above their 200-day moving average or 200-week moving average or anything like that are not necessarily good timing tools, but they do show the stock is getting way ahead of itself," he said. "It makes it really tough to put new money into the stock at these levels."
Mike Binger, a senior portfolio manager at Gradient Investments, mentioned that his firm had sold Boeing, and while it may have gotten out a bit too early, now may not be the best time to buy the stock.
Binger pointed out that while Wall Street analysts are generally bullish on the stock, "after about a 125 and 130 percent run …there's not a lot left in this stock."
According to FactSet, of the 28 analysts who cover Boeing the average rating is overweight with a $289.46 price target, roughly in line with where the stock is currently trading.
According to Binger, Boeing is still vulnerable to competition, and airline traffic trends that could hinder its production. This leads the portfolio manager to emphasize that while investors who hold the stock shouldn't necessarily sell Boeing, investors looking to put new money to work should avoid the stock for the time being.


Another day, another digital currency surge.
Ripple, or XRP, leaped 37.5 percent from Tuesday's close to a record high of 51.37 cents Wednesday, according to CoinMarketCap. The gains pushed ripple past litecoin into fourth place by cryptocurrency market capitalization at $18.23 billion, according to CoinMarketCap. Ripple last traded slightly off its highs around 47 cents, according to CoinMarketCap.
Ripple is officially the name of the startup using bitcoin's blockchain technology to develop a payments network for banks, digital asset exchanges and other financial institutions. XRP is the digital coin network participants use for transactions.
Ripple seven-day performance

Source: CoinMarketCap
Like much of the recent gains in digital currencies, there was no apparent fundamental reason for ripple's surge other than positive momentum.
Since bitcoin jumped Monday following the launch of the first bitcoin futures contract on a major exchange, less popular cryptocurrencies have alternately surged. Litecoin and ethereum soared to record highs Tuesday. On Wednesday, ripple became the largest gainer.
"The launch of bitcoin futures by Cboe Global Markets earlier this week has been seen as a celebrity endorsement and a stamp of approval on crypto," Standpoint Research's Ronnie Moas said in an email. "Ripple is very promising … and many people are excited about this particular coin. It is in a powerful position and serves as a payment network … allowing you to transfer dozens of different currencies worldwide in lightning speed."
With Wednesday's gains, ripple is up more than 7,000 percent from its 0.65-cent price at the start of this year.
Bitcoin traded little changed near $17,152 Wednesday, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index. The digital currency has a market value of about $287 billion, the largest among the cryptocurrencies,  followed by ethereum and bitcoin's offshoot, bitcoin cash.


Laser chipmaker Finisar's stock soared Wednesday following the news of a $390 million Apple investment.
Shares were up 28 percent Wednesday morning.
Apple announced the investment as the second from its $1 billion Advanced Manufacturing Fund. Finisar's chips enable depth and proximity sensing, making possible some of the iPhone X's standout features like Face ID, Animoji and ARKit.
With the investment, Finisar will transform a shuttered, 700,000-square-foot manufacturing plant in Sherman, Texas, into a high-tech facility developing more of the iPhone X-enabling chips.
--CNBC's Josh Lipton contributed to this story.


Janet Yellen could use her final news conference as Federal Reserve chair to sound off on a variety of issues, from the move toward bank deregulation to the central bank's critics to the state of the country under President Donald Trump.
Expect none of that.
Instead, Yellen is likely to offer the same approach to her last Q&A with the media as she did the first: diplomatic — reserved and with a healthy smattering of wonky Fed speak aimed at addressing questions without pinning the central bank to some future course of action.
The former head of the San Francisco Fed likely will yield to Fed Governor Jerome Powell, who has been nominated for the post by Trump and likely will get the full Senate's confirmation.
"My guess is she wants to make the handoff as quiet and smooth as possible," said Ed Keon, managing director and portfolio manager at QMA. "She knows it's not going to be her calling the shots next year. She's not a showboater. I think she will want to offer a dignified exit and leave things to her predecessor."
Powell will ascend to the chair at an interesting time.
The Fed is on a slow but consistent rate-hiking course that likely will be called into question next year if inflation continues to miss the central bank's 2 percent target. At the same time, the Fed is reducing — again, slowly but surely — its $4.5 trillion balance sheet of bonds it accumulated in its three rounds of stimulus known as quantitative easing.
If Yellen does veer away from the traditional parley with reporters, it may be too blow the Fed's horn at least a little for navigating those changes without causing major disruptions to the economy.
"To some extent she will want to go back and in a humble way declare victory by pointing out the progress that the economy has made on so many fronts," said David Donabedian, chief investment officer of CIBC Atlantic Trust Private Wealth Management. "She will strenuously avoid anything that sounds like she's telling Jay Powell what he should do. She will as much as possible tout the achievements of her term but not create any expectations for the new guy."
Markets widely expect Powell to continue monetary policy in a fairly status quo manner. Fed officials currently have indicated that three more rate hikes are likely in 2018, though the market is expecting only two.
Where the two may differ is on regulation, with Powell a bit more open to relaxing some of the banking rules put into place after the financial crisis.
The reaction to his approach will be interesting. Yellen had a few missteps early on with public statements, so the market may have to allow her successor at least a bit of a learning curve.
"History suggests there's a little tolerance there," Donabedian said. "If you remember back to Yellen's first couple of months, she made a couple of stumbles and was correctly forgiven for it, and has been just spot on as a messenger since then."


Apple shares are surging so far this year as investors are bullish on the iPhone X product launch, but one Wall Street firm says the rally can continue through next year.
Citi Research reiterated its buy rating for the smartphone maker's shares Wednesday, citing several reasons why Apple stock will rise in 2018.
"While we acknowledge smartphone growth remains tempered, we continue to see positive tailwinds for Apple's fundamental growth drivers," analyst Jim Suva wrote in a note to clients.
Apple has crushed the market this year with its shares up 48 percent year to date through Tuesday, compared with the S&P 500's 19 percent gain.
Suva shared his five top reasons why the company's stock can go higher:
1. "Super upgrade cycle continues into FY18 as production issues have resulted in elongated lead times vs prior cycles, thereby likely to drive better than seasonal demand in March quarter." 2. "Tax reform benefit from reduction in corporate taxes and cash repatriation." 3. "Sticky User Base Which Drives Continued Services Revenue Growth ... continued momentum in mobile commerce, mobile gaming, mobile entertainment will continue to drive sticky services revenue growth." 4. "Enterprise Push Mid Term, Applewood Longer Term ... enterprises are spending more efforts to upgrade mobile device hardware which is positive for Apple. Longer term we believe Applewood (Apple's move to gain traction in India & more services) will eventually become material." 5. "Attractive Valuation – Shares are trading at a 20% discount to the SP500 in line with their 5 year median despite improving fundamentals described above."
The analyst reaffirmed his $200 price target for Apple shares, representing 16.5 percent upside to Tuesday's close.


Deregulation and a global equity bull market will propel Morgan Stanley in the new year, according to Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, which specializes in coverage of the financial sector.
With major changes expected to the Federal Reserve's financial crisis banking regulations, Morgan Stanley should be set for a stock swell in the next 12 months, wrote KBW analyst Brian Kleinhanzl.
"We are expecting regulations will be eased for the largest banks beginning in earnest in 2018 and we expect Morgan Stanley will be one of the larger beneficiaries of regulatory change over time," wrote the analyst on Tuesday. "We expect changes to [the Fed's] Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) will occur and the benefit will be improved returns over the long term."
While Morgan Stanley is already up more than 27 percent this year and 16 percent over the past three months, Kleinhanzl believes that the bank's stock will reach $59 by next December. That implies roughly 10 percent upside from Tuesday's close over the next 12 months.
Shares of Morgan Stanley closed down 1.24 percent Wednesday after the call.
The analyst added that continued global growth is likely to drive equity markets higher, buoyed by quantitative easing outside the United States and the possibility of Republican tax cuts.
"We believe that Morgan Stanley is more levered to equity markets than peers due to exposure to equities within Wealth and Investment Management and Morgan Stanley's leading equity trading franchise," explained Kleinhanzl. "Lastly, there is a high probability that tax reform could happen in 2017 or early 2018, and we expect that tax reform could be a further catalyst for markets should consumer and corporate cash flows improve."


Whether or not bitcoin is in a bubble, the cryptocurrency's performance "dwarfs" nearly all bubbles, including the 1929 stock market crash, investor Ken Fisher told CNBC on Wednesday.
Bitcoin, which has surged more than 1,500 percent this year, has many market participants warning of a bubble.
Fisher suggested looking at the peak of prior bubbles with that of the popular digital currency.
"If you look at bitcoin coming up to this point today and overlay it with the peak, it dwarfs all those other bubbles," the executive chairman and co-chief investment officer of Fisher Investments said. "Gold a couple of times, 1929. Nineteen-ninety with the Nikkei, 2000 with the Nasdaq. You can just go down the list: boom, boom, boom, boom, boom."
"This one in magnitude, whether it's a bubble or not, the price move around that dwarfs every bubble that's ever occurred," Fisher added in an interview on "Squawk Box."


This was a terrible year for the tech industry.
That’s an odd thing to say at a time of record growth and profits. In 2017, large American tech companies have kept hauling in more money, more users, and — to a degree that might seem dystopian — they continued to expand their foothold in our lives. This was a year in which Amazon created a way for its delivery drivers to let themselves into your house, and Apple created a phone you can unlock with your face.
Yet underneath this apparent success was a momentous shift in how the tech business deals with the world. Five or 10 years from now, we will come to regard 2017 as a turning point.
Why? Because this year, for the first time, tech giants began to grudgingly accept that they have some responsibility to the offline world. The scope of that responsibility, though, is another matter entirely.
Let me explain how this is all playing out.


Bitcoin has made some investors quite wealthy, but one Wall Street veteran won't touch it.
The Lindsey Group's Peter Boockvar believes the bitcoin boom is a classic mania that will ultimately inflict a lot of pain. He calls it a "gigantic price chase based on nothing."
"If bitcoin went to $50,000 or $5 tomorrow, I don't think either price would surprise anybody," the firm's chief market analyst said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now." "Its concept I get — an alternative currency, an alternative form of transacting for goods and services. But the price itself is nothing more than a historic bubble."
In just the past six months, bitcoin has surged 541 percent and is now bouncing above $17,100. Bitcoin futures are up 12 percent since trading made its debut at the Cboe.
The big gains extend to its smaller competitors such as litecoin. It has ripped 260 percent higher over past week, gaining 70 percent on Tuesday alone.
"The problem with cryptocurrencies generally is that there's potentially an infinite amount. I mean even bitcoin is now forking and sort of spawning brother and sister coins like bitcoin cash," said Boockvar. "What good is it if you can spawn a new one every day?"
Boockvar, a CNBC contributor, is more comfortable investing in an asset that's thousands of years old versus one that's only 10.
"If bitcoin is being perceived as this alternative currency, where gold is one as well, ...  I would not be surprised when the day comes when bitcoin falls. Maybe that's when gold eventually rallies," he said. "It's much more difficult getting gold out of the ground than having a laptop and creating some new cryptocurrency."
He said a variety of factors could spark a cataclysmic cryptocrash. The currencies could flame out, lose their novelty or a vital regulatory issue could emerge, according to Boockvar.
And, there's one particular vulnerability that's partial to the cryptospace.
"It could be hacked. It could be someone who loses their coins," Boockvar said.


The choice you make for how you want to receive professional financial advice can make or break your portfolio.
Investors today have four main choices for how they want to receive financial advice, Ron Carson, founder and CEO of the Carson Group, said in an interview with CNBC.com.
You can either go the traditional route and work with a human financial advisor or opt to work exclusively with a robo-advisor. Or you can select a bionic offering, which is a combination of both, or choose to work with a financial advisor on a retainer-fee basis.
More from Investor Toolkit: Advisors turn to life coaches and counselors Retirees leave $100B in Social Security benefits on table How much those advisor fees are costing you
The decision you make should be based on your personal goals, needs and objectives, Carson said, and how you are most comfortable interacting with and receiving advice.
The direction you choose will have a big impact on your financial future.
"Your behavior is going to drive performance," Carson said.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Honeywell– The industrial conglomerate said it expected adjusted 2018 earnings of between $7.55 and $7.80 per share, compared to the current consensus estimate of $7.79. It also narrowed current quarter earnings guidance toward the upper end of prior projections.
Finisar – The manufacturer of optical communications components was awarded $390 million by Apple from its Advanced Manufacturing Fund. The fund is designed to support innovation by American manufacturers.
Eli Lilly – The drug maker expects 2018 adjusted earnings of between $4.60 and $4.70 per share, compared to a consensus estimate of $4.64. Lilly also said it expects several key experimental treatments to make their way through the regulatory procedure in 2018.
Amgen – The biotech firm raised its quarterly dividend 15 percent to $1.32 per share.
Western Digital — The hard disk drive maker and Japan's Toshiba settled their long-running dispute over Toshiba's planned sale of its memory chip unit to Bain Capital for $18 billion. The two companies had been long time partners in the operation of Japanese chip plant.
Toyota – Toyota President Akio Toyoda said he wants electrified vehicles and hybrids to account for 50 percent of the automaker's sales by 2030. Toyoda made his statement at a news conference announcing an expansion of Toyota's battery partnership with Panasonic.
AT&T – AT&T is testing powerline-based high speed internet service in Georgia as well as a non-U.S. location. The Georgia test is taking place in a rural area, although the company said it could potentially be instituted in more populated area as well.
Verifone Systems – Verifone reported adjusted quarterly profit of 44 cents per share, beating estimates by a penny, while the payment systems company also saw revenue beat forecasts. However, the shares came under pressure after its outlook fell short of analyst estimates.
MongoDB — MongoDB lost 44 cents per share in its first quarterly earnings report following its October initial public offering. The database company's loss was 4 cents smaller than expected, while its revenue beat forecasts.
TiVo – TiVo was downgraded to "neutral" from "buy" at B. Riley/FBR, which doesn't think the DVR maker's issues with Comcast will be resolved quickly. The two sides are in a patent dispute involving technology contained in Comcast set-top boxes.
O'Reilly Auto – O'Reilly was upgraded to "outperform" from "sector perform" at RBC Capital, which cites valuation among other factors for the auto parts retailer.
Walt Disney – Disney would have the Murdoch family as a 5 percent stakeholder after a potential sale of cable assets to Disney by 21st Century Fox, according to London's Daily Mail.
Morgan Stanley – The investment firm was upgraded to "outperform" from "market perform" at KBW, which cites an improving regulatory environment as well as an attractive valuation.
Home Depot, Lowe's – The two stocks were both rated "buy" in new coverage at Guggenheim, which said both home improvement chains will benefit from a favorable housing industry backdrop and superior supply chains, among other factors.
Disclosure: Comcast is the parent company of NBCUniversal and CNBC.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are mixed after Tuesday's record high closes for the Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500, but a slight loss for the Nasdaq. Most of the focus today will be on the Fed decision coming out at 2 p.m. ET.
-The latest read on consumer inflation is due out this morning and is expected to come in at 0.4 percent.
ALABAMA ELECTION/SENATE
-Democrat Doug Jones defeated Roy Moore to win the Alabama U.S. Senate election. This reduces the Republican majority in the Senate to 51 to 49. Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton is expected to announce his choice to replace Sen. Al Franken today. Franken promised to resign amid sexual misconduct accusations.


Stanley Druckenmiller believes the overly easy monetary policies by global central banks will have disastrous consequences.
"The way you create deflation is you create an asset bubble. If I was 'Darth Vader' of the financial world and decided I'm going to do this nasty thing and create deflation, I would do exactly what the central banks are doing now," he told CNBC's Kelly Evans in an exclusive interview airing Tuesday on "Closing Bell."
"Misallocate resources [with low interest rates], create an asset bubble and then deal with the consequences down the road," he said.


Investors should pocket gains after a strong rally in major stock markets and scout bargains in the energy and technology sectors next year, a senior strategist at TD Ameritrade said Tuesday.
Equity markets have had an ebullient 2017 with the S&P 500 rising 18.8 percent so far this year and the Nasdaq clocking a 27.7 percent gain.
"This has been a tremendous rally, and if you're overweight in certain sectors such as technology, your portfolio might be a little bit out of whack as to what your goals are," said JJ Kinahan, chief market strategist and managing director of TD Ameritrade, which manages $1.16 trillion-worth of assets for its global clients.
"Bulls and bears make money and pigs get slaughtered, so taking a little money off the table might not be the worst thing in the world to do," he added.
"Put a little money in your pocket and lower the basis for the rest of your investments."


Tesla shares have surged 12 percent in the last week, but one equity strategist sees trouble on the horizon.  The stock has risen for three-straight sessions on a slew of news the market appeared to like: CEO Elon Musk said last week the electric car manufacturer was working toward custom artificial intelligence hardware and PepsiCo said Monday it had reserved a fleet of 100 Tesla Semi trucks.  Despite the rally, Matt Maley of Miller Tabak has reservations for the stock heading into 2018. Here are his reasons why.  • Tesla continues to see production problems related to its Model 3, as Miller Tabak's research partners at Cascend Securities point out. This means if someone has not already ordered a Model 3, it may not arrive until 2019. This would in turn allow other auto companies to play catch-up.  • Tesla is also going to have to issue more debt in 2018. This may not prove to be a major long-term concern, but a lot of what investors are getting in shares of Tesla is long-term oriented.  • If the broader market sees meaningful weakness in 2018, Tesla would likely become quite vulnerable. If the stock market sees a correction, investors might be more comfortable holding shares of a company that have more solid immediate- to long-term profits, thus prompting profit-taking in the stock.  • The key level to watch in Tesla, if weakness becomes apparent later this month or in early 2018, is the $290 mark. This is the level at which Tesla shares bounced several times this year. Furthermore, it was the stock's high back in 2014. Once this was broken to the upside last spring, the stock rallied meaningfully. This may be a case of the old technical analysis adage, "Old resistance becomes new support." If $290 is broken to the downside in any meaningful way, this would be quite negative on a technical basis.

Bottom line: Tesla stock has risen meaningfully over the past week, but Maley sees trouble ahead.


One of the leading Wall Street veterans now investing in cryptocurrencies said Tuesday he would sell digital currency litecoin after its surge.
"I don't think it will have the same legs that bitcoin would. I would sell it here versus buying bitcoin," Michael Novogratz, formerly a macro hedge fund manager at Fortress Investment Group, said on CNBC's "Fast Money."
Novogratz is now CEO of Galaxy Investment Partners and he said Tuesday the firm is launching its cryptocurrency fund by the end of this week. News that Novogratz was launching a $500 million cryptocurrency fund first broke at the end of September.
"The best investments by a long shot have been these exchanges. The exchanges are printing money right now," Novogratz said. "You wish you owned a big chunk of Coinbase, or Bitfinex, or any of these big exchanges."
Litecoin briefly climbed 59.5 percent for the day to a record high of $341.72, up more than 7,700 percent this year, according to CoinMarketCap. At one point, litecoin was up more than 70 percent over the last 24 hours. The website showed the digital currency had a market value of $18 billion, ranking fourth behind bitcoin, ethereum and bitcoin cash.
A key differentiator between litecoin and bitcoin is transaction cost. The median transaction fee for litecoin on Monday was about 7.9 cents, versus $14.17 for bitcoin, according to BitInfoCharts.
However, Novogratz said he expects bitcoin's gains to accelerate. "I think at this pace it could hit $40,000 in three months, two months," he said, noting the only risk is that the price surge generates too much negative attention from regulators.
Jay Clayton, chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, warned in a lengthy Monday statement about the dangers for investing in cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings.
Meanwhile, some of the world's largest futures exchanges are eager to launch bitcoin futures. Cboe became the first major exchange to do so on Sunday, and CME is set to launch its own product this coming Sunday.
Institutional investors are "absolutely not" invested in cryptocurrencies yet, but they are watching them carefully, Novogratz said.
"All of these guys are looking at this as a potential asset class," he said, citing a recent visit to one of the biggest pension funds in the world. "Mark my words, when Goldman Sachs starts trading it, you're going to see the big pensions start coming in."
Goldman Sachs said in a statement Monday it will "clear bitcoin futures contracts for certain clients," but overall participation by the major banks was little to none. Trading volume Tuesday in the Cboe bitcoin futures dropped to less than half of Monday's already relatively low level.
Novogratz also apologized Tuesday for his rather scathing comments about his fellow former Goldman partners Steven Mnuchin and Gary Cohn. They are now respectively treasury secretary and chief White House economic advisor.
"I should apologize and you should never call someone an idiot," Novogratz said, adding that his remarks about Cohn were taken out of context.
When asked earlier this week about the Treasury Department's one-page analysis of the GOP tax plan's economic impact, Novogratz told a Bloomberg reporter that "Steve Mnuchin never even modeled the thing — idiot, I-D-I-O-T" and that "Gary Cohn shouldn't be able to live with himself."
— CNBC's Liz Moyer contributed to this report.


CNBC's Jim Cramer doesn't like to look at the stock market as a whole.
"There's no such thing as the stock market, not the way most people talk about it," the "Mad Money" host said. "Instead, you have a market of stocks, and that's an important distinction, particularly in Cramerica, because stocks are like snowflakes: no two are the same."
Even though Cramer thinks investors' first $10,000 should go into a broad-based index fund, he prefers looking at individual companies for the most illuminating market information.
Take Walt Disney. Shares of the entertainment giant have been rallying ever since the news broke that Disney is in talks to buy Fox's non-news assets and regional sports network.
The deal would expand Disney's film library to include Avatar and the Marvel characters, hopefully shifting the narrative away from the company's ESPN subscriber losses.
If Disney CEO Bob Iger is able to secure a deal, which is looking increasingly likely, Disney's narrative would change overnight. Investors would once again see it as an entertainment powerhouse with an unbeatable sports network and highly successful franchises, Cramer said.
"Spending on new content that can be so additive to earnings and so easily swallowed? Holy cow, what a windfall," he said. "After the deal on Thursday, people will be buying this stock hand over fist."
Pharmaceutical company Valeant is also seeing a turnaround under CEO Joe Papa, the "Mad Money" host said.
Now at $21 a share, Valeant's stock was trading at a measly $8 a share in April, when Wall Street raised concerns about, in Cramer's words, its "hideous" balance sheet.
"I'm sure many of you rolled your eyes … about the notion that Papa could clean up this love canal of debt, but that's exactly what happened," Cramer said. "Papa saved this company and now he's taking it to levels that seemed impossible six months ago."
Cramer also called attention to the consumer food cohort. Stocks in the space have been struggling of late as food companies report earnings miss after earnings miss.
But then there's PepsiCo, with a stock about $2 away from its all-time high and a Cramer-fave CEO, Indra Nooyi, at the helm. McDonald's shares have barely been hit since CEO Steve Easterbrook came on board.
"That's really my point. People who look at this market and worry about taxes or the Russia investigation or North Korea or a host of big-picture problems problems … simply don't realize that we do have some phenomenal value creators all over the place," the "Mad Money" host said.
In the athleisure retail space, Lululemon CEO Laurent Potdevin is bucking the sector's downtrend too after a strong earnings report, Cramer said.
So for investors who are worried about entire sectors or cohorts, Cramer offered some advice: view companies on a case-by-case basis.
"Management matters," the "Mad Money" host said. "When you've got a fabulous CEO working for you every day of the week and the weekend, for that matter, it makes a difference, often a big difference. That's why you need to judge companies on their own merits rather than just taking your cue from the amorphous blob that is the market."


After the Dow Jones industrial average hit yet another all-time high on Tuesday, CNBC's Jim Cramer had to investigate to see if the white-hot index is showing any signs of cooling.
"I think it's worth asking which red-hot groups will have the staying power once 2018 rolls around," the "Mad Money" host said. "And as far as hot sectors go, nothing has been as hot as the industrials, powered by tremendous economic growth both here and overseas."
With a White House infrastructure plan and a congressional tax overhaul seemingly on the horizon for 2018, industrial stocks could still get a boost from the federal government's actions.
So Cramer called on technician Bob Lang, the founder of ExplosiveOptions.net and one of the three minds behind TheStreet.com's Trifecta Stocks newsletter, to see if the industrials' already lengthy rally can continue into the new year.
Cramer began with the daily chart of Caterpillar, the global manufacturer of construction equipment and machinery. Caterpillar's stock is up 55 percent for 2017, a stone's throw from its all-time highs.

Lang liked the stock's high trading volume, an indicator technicians use to verify dramatic moves. High volume means that there are a lot of buyers pushing the stock higher, so Lang thought the move was telling the truth.
Better yet, Caterpillar's moving average convergence divergence (MACD) indicator just made a bullish crossover — a reliable signal that it can go even higher — and the stock has a floor of support at $139, down roughly $4 from where it closed on Tuesday.
"Put it all together and this chart's got a lot going for it," Cramer said. "Lang says Caterpillar is his favorite name in the group, and this combination of positives makes him think the stock could take a run at $155 or even $160 early in the new year."
Next, Cramer turned to the daily chart of Emerson Electric, an industrial focused on engineering and automation.

Since Emerson gave up trying to acquire Rockwell Automation last month, its shares have been on a tear, with a 13 percent gain just since mid-November. Just like Caterpillar, the stock has showing high volume and a bullish MACD indicator.
"Lang says the V-shaped bottom pattern tends to be quite bullish — he could see this stock ... take a run at $75 in the not-too-distant future," Cramer said. "At the moment, the stock's trading at $66. Lang says he'd love to buy it on a pullback to $63, where Emerson has the support of the 50-day moving average ... but who knows if you'll get that kind of decline?"
Honeywell's stock also surged in November on high volume, according to its daily chart, but lately, it looks like it's run out of steam.

Lang said shares of Honeywell may have gotten overheated, but noted a few positives: the pullback happened on lower volume, meaning there aren't any major sellers, and the stock has been holding above its floor of support.
"Put it all together and as far as Lang's concerned, Honeywell just needs to re-charge," Cramer said. "He could potentially see this $153 stock running up to $170 near the beginning of the new year, which would be stupendous."
Finally, Cramer and Lang inspected the daily chart of United Technologies, an industrial stock with aerospace exposure that has consistently been reaching new highs.

"Lang thinks this is a very powerful trend," Cramer said. "He sees the $123 stock possibly going to the $130s before too long, although ideally he recommends waiting for a pullback to $120, where UTX has a nice floor of support."
But, like with the others, Cramer warned that United Technologies may not see much lower levels again in the near future, at least not again in 2017.
"It's a good time to be an industrial company, and the charts, as interpreted by Bob Lang, suggest the industrial stocks are going to continue to have a good time right into year-end," the "Mad Money" host concluded. "He likes Caterpillar, he likes Emerson Electric, Honeywell [and] United Technologies, and I've got to say I agree with him. All we can do is hope that these stocks come in and give us better prices as part of some sort of market-wide sell-off that has nothing to do with their businesses. Why? Because their businesses are red-hot."


Executives must enforce cybersecurity as part of company culture if they want to have a safer, more protected workplace, McAfee CEO Chris Young told CNBC on Tuesday.
"One of the things that I talk about all the time when I talk to other CEOs is you've got to have a culture of security. It's got to matter," Young told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer. "Ten years ago, if I were to ask a CEO about cybersecurity, he might say, 'Yeah, I've got some guy in IT that's working on this.' Now everybody cares and I think that's going to make a big difference."
High-profile cyberattacks at firms like Equifax and WannaCry rattled consumers in 2017 as the world woke up to the possibility of mass-scale hacks.
And every day, the volume, complexity and speed of cyberattacks are on the rise, Young told Cramer.
"The problem's getting worse," the CEO said. "These guys are moving faster than ever."
McAfee, a privately-held cybersecurity firm that was once owned by Intel, oversees 432 million total endpoints for 103,000 corporate customers and is in many ways on the front lines when it comes to cyberattacks.
Young, who formerly ran end-user computing for VMware, said that one of McAfee's latest challenges has been in the area of ransomware, a type of cyberattack that holds the victim's information hostage until a sum of money is paid.
"Ransomware is one of the fastest-growing attacks that we have seen out there right now," Young said. "You look at some of the big attacks we've seen this year like WannaCry or NotPetya. [Hackers are] using those as a way to test where to go next."
A lot of cyberattackers request that the ransom be paid in bitcoin, the digital currency that's exploded in popularity and price this year.
Ironically, Young said that blockchain, the digital ledger that tracks all of the transactions made with bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, can offer some valuable lessons on cybersecurity.
"I actually think blockchain offers a lot of interesting things that we could do with security," Young said. "It's all crypto-based, so in particular, identity is something that blockchain could offer a lot of new solutions around."


U.S. companies on balance already are paying well below the 20 percent tax level targeted in the Republican reform plan, according to an analysis by Yardeni Research.
In fact, the typical effective tax rate — the amount paid minus deductions — could be as low as 13 percent over the past years, Yardeni concluded when looking at a cleaner number of how much the government is really collecting.
That's well below other estimates that sought to clarify the impact of the tax reform proposal that would take the current nominal rate from 35 percent to 20 percent. Multiple firms have concluded the benefits will tilt to specific sectors and provide a limited aggregate windfall.
The Institution on Taxation and Economic Policy, for instance, looked at 258 Fortune 500 companies that were "consistently profitable" from 2008 to 2015 and found they paid an effective rate of 21.2 percent.
But Yardeni found those estimates may be overstating what the government is actually getting from corporations. For instance, the Bureau of Economic Analysis, which compiles quarterly GDP reports, includes taxes collected from state and federal governments as well as the hundreds of billions the Fed remits to the Treasury each quarter from its $4.5 trillion bond portfolio.
The Fed's profits from the bonds it bought during three rounds of quantitative easing swelled from $27 billion at the beginning of 2009 to a record $105 billion in the second quarter of 2014.

The bureau uses something called the National Income and Product Accounts that Yardeni said could be distorting the corporate tax picture by including the state and local as well as the Fed receipts.
"The obvious conclusion is that measuring the average effective federal corporate tax rate using the NIPA data will overstate it by the amount of 'taxes' collected from the Fed and by the amount of taxes paid to taxing authorities other than the IRS," Ed Yardeni, founder of Yardeni Research, said in a note.
Still, even using the NIPA-based data yields an effective rate below 25 percent since 2008, and 20.7 percent over the past four quarters. Excluding the Fed's contribution to that data set takes the effective rate all the way down to 13 percent, Yardeni said.
Yardeni concedes that there could be some holes in his method, such as the small business contribution, but he sees on whole the numbers are right.


Despite bitcoin's immense gain in popularity, Wall Street's top economists and market strategists remain unconvinced.
Eighty percent of respondents to the December CNBC Fed Survey said the current valuation of bitcoin is a bubble. Only 2 percent of respondents said the valuation is based on fundamentals, and 17 percent responded that they don't know or are unsure.
In 2017 alone, bitcoin's price has jumped more than 1,000 percent, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index. After launching on Sunday evening on the Cboe Futures Exchange, bitcoin futures surged nearly 20 percent, to $18,545, on their first full day of trading, according to the January futures contract.

"We remain cautious on current domestic equity valuations even though we see very few areas that look cheap, and see a speculative quality to assets overall at this point (see Bitcoin…)," wrote John Roberts, director of research at Hilliard Lyons.
Wall Street also does not seem convinced of bitcoin's role as a currency. Of the 44 economists, fund managers and strategists surveyed last week, 66 percent said bitcoin does not qualify under the definition of a currency, while 17 percent said it does.

Unlike bitcoin, when it comes to the stock market, market participants are not resoundingly alarmed about valuations.
Sixty-six percent said they do not believe valuations are at a level where the Fed needs to raise rates to cool the market, compared with 24 percent who said the Fed should hike rates to cool the market.
Wall Street is also not convinced the Fed is worried about stock market valuations. Five percent said Fed members are "very concerned" about valuations versus 20 percent who said Fed members are "not at all concerned." A 68 percent majority said the average Fed member is "somewhat concerned."
Still, domestic stock valuations are looking frothy, warned Scott Wren, Wells Fargo  Investment Institute's senior global equity strategist. This is "unless you assume margins will expand meaningfully in the coming two years and earnings growth will accelerate meaningfully from here in 2018/19 (this is in addition to any tax reform)." Wren says both scenarios seem unlikely.
The survey forecasts the S&P 500 to reach 2,775 on average by the end of 2018 and 2,862 by the end of 2019.


Wall Street strategist Tom Lee sees significant gains ahead for bitcoin because young investors are interested in it.
"I think what viewers have to appreciate is, this is a millennial story," Fundstrat's Lee said Tuesday on CNBC's "Squawk Box." "The average millennial is 25 today. The boomers were 25 in 1982, so what did the boomers drive from 1982 to the peak population of the boomers, which was '99? The S&P 500."
"Millennials have great interest in digital businesses, social media and bitcoin," Lee said, adding that "the millennial population is not going to peak until 2040."
Lee was chief equity strategist at JPMorgan before co-founding Fundstrat in 2014. He is the only major strategist on Wall Street to issue price targets for bitcoin and expects the digital currency to hit $11,500 by the middle of next year and $25,000 by 2022.

Source: Deutsche Bank
The S&P 500 has climbed more than 18 percent this year to record highs, while bitcoin has surged 1,700 percent to above $17,000. Major exchanges such as the Cboe and CME are vying to launch bitcoin derivatives products, which could allow institutional investors to buy into the cryptocurrency trend and pave the way for a bitcoin exchange-traded fund.
An October survey found 27 percent of millennials would prefer to invest in $1,000 of bitcoin versus the same amount of stocks. Harris Poll conducted the online survey of more than 2,000 U.S. adults on behalf of cryptocurrency venture capital firm Blockchain Capital.
However, CNBC also reported in October that Vlad Tenev, co-founder of stock trading app Robinhood, expects stocks to stay in favor. At the time, about 78 percent of Robinhood's more than 2 million customers fall into the so-called millennial category, those ages 18 to 35.


Activision Blizzard's upcoming franchise title launches will be big blockbuster sellers, according to one top Wall Street firm.
Goldman Sachs raised its rating for Activision Blizzard shares to buy from neutral, predicting the company will report profits above expectations in 2019 and 2020.
"We believe the recent sell-off in Video Game stocks has largely been due to technical factors relating to positioning around tax reform, and does not reflect any change in fundamentals for the group. We therefore see attractive entry points across our coverage, particularly for ATVI," analyst Christopher Merwin wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "We are raising our 2019 and 2020 estimates on account of a robust multi year pipeline of games — Diablo, Overwatch 2, and a Blizzard mobile title — which we don't think Street estimates are fully taking into account."
Activision Blizzard shares are up 75 percent year to date through Monday compared with the S&P 500's 19 percent return. The stock is 6 percent off its Nov. 3 52-week high of $67.03.
The analyst increased his 12-month price target for Activision Blizzard shares to $73 from $67, representing 16 upside to Monday's close.
Merwin predicts the company's next "Diablo" game will be released in 2019 and sell 15 million units. He also forecasts "Overwatch 2" will launch in 2020 and sell 20 million units in its first year. The analyst noted how the previous "Diablo" and "Overwatch" titles sold 30 million units in three years and more than 16 million units in its first year respectively, according to his estimates.
"When adding in the potential for non-recurring titles — Diablo, Overwatch 2, and Blizzard mobile — we believe Street estimates … seem rather conservative, particularly in 2019 and 2020," he wrote.
As a result, Merwin estimates Activision Blizzard will generate earnings per share of $3.04 in 2019 versus the Wall Street consensus of $2.90. He also predicts the company will report earnings per share of $3.40 in 2020 versus the $3.19 average estimate.
Activision Blizzard shares are up 1 percent Tuesday after the report.


Verizon will leave its earnings "plateau" behind in 2018 thanks to an over-the-top platform launch by year's end, according to Nomura.
"After three years of stable to declining earnings per share — Verizon's self-described 'plateau' — we think the company is finally poised to resume earnings per share growth," wrote Kvaal on Monday. "Verizon has teased OTT since September ... Unlike AT&T, Verizon need not bundle its over-the-top service to reduce churn or be overly mindful of its existing video base as its pay-TV base is minimal relative to rivals."
Investors got a first glimpse into a broader OTT platform Monday, when Verizon announced a partnership with the NFL to distribute live football games on Monday, Thursday and Sunday nights. Such a move by Verizon would put it in direct competition with AT&T's DirectTV Now service.
The NFL partnership will allow fans on any mobile carrier to stream professional football games on their smartphones. Until the agreement, only Verizon customers could watch live games on their phones.
And while Kvaal expects "more to come" in terms of OTT content, he also added that the telecommunications company's 15 percent stock appreciation over the past month reflects mounting optimism around the Republican tax efforts, which could add 20 percent to earnings per share.
Verizon declined to comment for this story.
The analyst raised his price target to $61 from $47, representing 18 percent upside from Monday's close.

Shares were up 1.9 percent Tuesday, set to add to the stock's 15 percent climb over the past month. Verizon's latest and greatest developments in data speed likely spell upside as well.
By the end of the second quarter, Verizon experienced more subscribers migrating up to an unlimited plan from a lower-priced, fixed data capacity plan than subscribers migrating downward, noted Kvaal. While that trend alone is expected to drive revenue, profits should also pop with the introduction of 5G service and migration to Verizon's 4G Advanced service, said the analyst.
The addition of LTE Advanced and 5G should lower the cost per gigabyte of data by a factor of 10x, explained the analyst, spelling greater savings for Verizon and allowing the company to segment its market by speed and usage.


Another hedge fund has fallen prey to seemingly unbeatable markets.
John Burbank's Passport Capital is shuttering its flagship Passport Global Fund at the end of this year because of "unacceptable" returns over the last two years that "cause me to rethink how to manage money in this environment," he said in a letter to investors Monday.
The manager, who gained prominence with a winning bet against subprime housing before the 2008 financial crisis, joins others who are calling it quits lately.
Earlier this year, Eric Mindich returned money to investors in Eton Park Capital Management. In September, Whitney Tilson said he would shut down his Kase Capital Management, and last month Neil Chriss said he would close Hutchin Hill Capital and return money to investors.
Fund managers are having difficulty finding winning bets as markets continue their record-setting climb. Even managers who are still in the game have complained about the treacherous markets. Earlier this year, David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital questioned whether value investing is still a viable strategy.
Burbank said he would continue to focus on the Special Opportunities Fund and Saudi share class, which he calls "differentiated investment opportunities" where they have a significant edge. "I am confident that focusing on a small number of high conviction long term ideas will continue to yield positive results," Burbank said in his letter.
He founded Passport 17 years ago with less than $1 million. He closed a long-short strategy fund earlier this year, Bloomberg reported, and the firm was hit with investor withdrawals.
Burbank said in his letter that Saudi equities are an opportunity because almost no foreigners own any yet, and the firm will continue to invest in technology winners and "old economy losers." He also left open the possibility of opening a new fund.


Litecoin, the fourth-largest cryptocurrency in the world by value, has hit a record high and rallied nearly 5,800 percent this year, beating rival bitcoin's rise.
The price of litecoin reached an all-time high of $255.42 on Tuesday, according to industry website Coinmarketcap.com, which takes the volume weighted average of all prices reported on different exchanges to work out the price.
On January 1, litecoin was trading at $4.36. The rally to date marks a 5,758.2 percent increase.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are a bit higher after Monday's modest rally. The two-day Fed meeting begins today and we get a reading on wholesale inflation this morning.
-SEC Chairman Jay Clayton is warning Americans about investing in bitcoin.
-Mattel is warning of weak holiday sales.


One of the dot-com boom's biggest investors says he hasn't been this bullish on tech in years.
Paul Meeks, who ran Merrill Lynch's technology and internet funds, predicts this year's high-flying tech stocks will soar 10 percent more regardless of market conditions.
"I actually think that technology will outperform the S&P 500 next year," Meeks said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."  "I believe in technology, particularly in key industries like public cloud computing."
The Nasdaq has been having a banner year — rising nearly 28 percent. The index closed up by a half percent to 6875.08 on Monday, helping it recoup recent losses.
Plus, the Nasdaq 100 extended its win streak to five.
Meeks singles out FANG stocks — Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet — as likely winners again.
"I do believe they're going to outperform again," said Meeks, chief investment officer for Sloy, Dahl and Holst.
He's most bullish on Facebook and Google. Shares of the social media giant have surged 55 percent so far this year, while the internet stock rose nearly 33 percent.
"I don't think they're too expensive," he said. "The P/E ratios of both Facebook and Google are actually not outrageous at all."


The Fed is expected to raise interest rates Wednesday, but it's how the Fed responds to the tax bill that is the wild card for markets.
Many strategists and economists expect the Fed to leave its interest rate forecast in place, but there's a case to be made that Fed officials could acknowledge the tax bill could create stimulus, bumping their outlook for GDP and interest rates. One argument against that is that it is the second to last meeting for Fed Chair Janet Yellen, and the Fed may stick with the status quo ahead of the expected transition to Jerome Powell as Fed chair early next year.
"The surprise we have to look for is how the Fed may interpret tax changes going forward. They've had three rate hikes for 2018. Does this move them to four? There's a very low threshold to move up to four hikes. It just takes three voters. That's really what people are going to focus on," said Jim Caron, portfolio manager and fixed income strategist at Morgan Stanley Investment Management.


Bitcoin futures fell in low volume Tuesday in their second day of trading on the Cboe Futures Exchange.
Trading volume in the most popular contract, which expires in January, was less than half what it was the prior day at just over 1,500 around the 4:15 p.m., ET, settle. Volume had already topped 800 about two hours after the futures launch Sunday night and was near 3,000 by 9:30 a.m. Monday morning.
The Cboe bitcoin futures, listed under the ticker XBT, settled 2.83 percent lower at $18,020 after earlier falling more than 3.5 percent. The contract had soared nearly 20 percent in its Monday debut, with a total 4,127 contracts traded and about 20 firms participating, according to Cboe.
However, some of the largest banks, such as Goldman Sachs, offered limited to no support for the Cboe bitcoin futures as of Monday.
A Cboe spokesperson said the exchange did not have a separate statement on Tuesday's trading volume, but noted that its CEO and Chairman Ed Tilly has said Cboe expects a slow and steady increase in the bitcoin futures' volume and open interest.
Open interest in the bitcoin futures was 1,372 Monday, versus 650,765 for Cboe Volatility Index (.VIX) futures, according to Cboe.

Bitcoin briefly rose more than 5 percent to a high of $17,615.47, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index, which tracks prices from digital currency exchanges Bitstamp, Coinbase, itBit and Bitfinex. The digital currency has surged about 1,700 percent this year as investor interest has grown despite criticism that bitcoin is in a bubble.
The gains came despite two of the largest exchanges for U.S. dollar-bitcoin trading reporting technical issues Tuesday.
A spokesperson for Coinbase, one of the leading platforms in the U.S. for buying and selling bitcoin, said in a statement that "the site is seeing high traffic volume at the moment and some users may be experiencing intermittent service outages." Coinbase's GDAX exchange website also said there is a "partially degraded service," as of 4:23 p.m., ET.
Coinbase also said in a 12:01 p.m. status update that, after about one-and-a-half hours, it had resolved an issue that temporarily disabled the purchase and sale of digital currencies ethereum and litecoin. The company reported a second suspension of ethereum buys and sells for about 45 minutes later in the afternoon.
Ethereum briefly surged more than 23 percent Tuesday to a record high of $637.62, according to CoinMarketCap, while litecoin temporarily climbed 59.5 percent for the day to a record high of $341.72. The bitcoin offshoot, bitcoin cash, jumped more than 14 percent to $1,628.95, according to CoinMarketCap.
Litecoin seven-day performance

Source: CoinMarketCap
"Because bitcoin might see more stability [due to Sunday's futures launch], we might see more activity in the other coins that don't have a derivatives market," said Paul Puey, CEO of Edge, which sells software for buying, selling, storing and transacting bitcoin securely. Edge has about 700,000 accounts and is adding about 1,000 a day, Puey said.
Another major exchange, Bitfinex tweeted Tuesday morning that it is once again under a DDoS, or distributed denial-of-service attack, which attempts to paralyze a system with a flood of information.
Tweet
Bitfinex has suffered a "sustained denial of service attack" since last week and took the website down briefly Tuesday "to mitigate further issues for customers," an exchange spokesperson said in a statement to CNBC. "We are constantly improving our systems to ensure that we're able to both accommodate the immense volume of trading that occurs on our platform while also fending off sustained DDoS attacks."
Bitfinex had the largest share of U.S. dollar-bitcoin trading volume late Tuesday afternoon at 28 percent, while Coinbase had about 24 percent, according to CryptoCompare.
Cboe's bitcoin futures launch comes a week ahead of CME's own product in a race by major exchanges to launch bitcoin derivatives. Cantor Fitzgerald and Nasdaq are also planning their own derivatives products.
Cryptocurrency enthusiasts say the launch of bitcoin derivatives will allow institutional investors to buy into the digital currency trend, helping establish bitcoin as a legitimate asset class and pave the way for an exchange-traded fund. VanEck refiled for a bitcoin ETF on Monday.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
PespiCo — An executive for the soda maker said PepsiCo has reserved 100 of Tesla's new Semi trucks, marking the largest pre-order of the vehicles to date.
Verizon Communications — The telecommunication giant's stock was upgraded to "buy" from "neutral" at Instinet. Instinet also raised its price target on the stock to $61 per share from $47 a share, representing a 17.7 percent upside. "Better visibility into subscriber growth, rising [average revenue per user], and cost control fuels our confidence EPS growth will resume in 2018," it said.
Abbott Laboratories — BMO Capital Markets upgraded Abbott to "outperform" from "market perform," noting the health-care company "faces easier 1H18 comps, a shifting FX environment, and its revenue and EPS growth rates are at the high end of its peers." BMO also raised its price target on the stock to $65 per share from $58 a share, representing an 18.3 percent upside.
Mattel — The toy maker said it expects fourth-quarter gross sales to be hit by key partners tightening up inventory management and by underperforming brands. Mattel also said it expects a mid-to-high single-digit percentage drop for fiscal 2017 gross sales.
Mylan — Mylan shares were initiated with a "buy" rating at Guggenheim Securities and a price target of $59 a share. In a note to clients, Guggenheim says it gives Mylan's generics and specialty segments a "premium multiple" given the company's "risk/benefit profile, its diversification outside the U.S., and its pipeline containing biosimilars and hard-to-manufacture, complex products."
Stitch Fix — The e-commerce company was initiated with an "outperform" rating and a $29-a-share price target at RBC Capital Markets. Analyst Mark Mahaney said in a note that Stitch Fix is "revolutionizing fashion through direct shipments of apparel that has been selected through the combination of data science and personal stylists."
Activision Blizzard — Goldman Sachs upgraded the video game maker's stock to "buy" from "neutral," noting Activision's "discounted valuation relative to peers … ahead of accelerating earnings growth over the next 2-3 years." Activision shares rose 2.5 percent in the premarket.
WestRock — Packaging manufacturer WestRock has agreed to acquire nearly all of Plymouth Packaging's assets for an undisclosed amount.
Alphabet — Recode reported that Alphabet's Google is once again sending more traffic to publishers than Facebook. For a time, Facebook had surpassed Google in web referral traffic. But Facebook sent 25 percent less traffic to publishers this year, while Google's traffic rose by 17 percent, the report says.


I first invested $5,000 in bitcoin back in 2013 at $72 per coin and now own approximately 69.2 bitcoins.
While I had first heard about bitcoin in 2011, it wasn't until I watched a documentary and started reading forums about the cryptocurrency that I decided to buy it. It was easy to see how bitcoin could disrupt the entire financial system.
I decided to buy as a long-term experiment and used less than 1 percent of my net worth at the time to buy into bitcoin. Sure, I wanted to make money on it, but if I lost everything, it wasn't going to change the course of my life.
As of this writing, bitcoin is trading at $16,600, which makes my bitcoins now worth $1,148,720. It took me five years working 80-hour weeks to make over $1 million saving and investing in the stock market, but with bitcoin, my coins have increased to over $1 million in 2017 alone. It's by far, without a doubt, the easiest money I have ever made.
But I don't recommend you invest in Bitcoin today.


Goldman Sachs is expecting the commodities sector to generate returns of almost 10 percent next year, more than other assets over the long run.
Robust demand growth for raw materials worldwide should underpin the case for investors to own them, Goldman said in a research note published Monday.
Jeffrey Currie, global head of commodities research at the U.S. bank, said "a positive carry in key commodity markets and already strong global demand growth across the commodity complex reinforces the case for owning commodities. And hence we maintain our 12-month overweight recommendation, now with a forecasted return of almost 10 percent."
Unlike equities, which discount future growth, commodities rise as the current levels of demand offset the amount of available supply, according to Goldman.
The bank said it does not anticipate the oil market to shift back into contango — when futures prices for a commodity are higher than the current spot price — in 2018. Therefore, a positive roll yield in oil will bring returns of around 15 percent next year, Goldman analysts said. The roll yield refers to an amount gained when the futures price converges to the spot price as time passes.
While Goldman said it had "significant divergences" regarding its views on metal commodities, its analysts were most bullish on copper and most bearish on aluminum.
"The difference lies in the supply dynamics … While copper supply is likely to become increasingly constrained over the coming years, aluminum supply should become more abundant," Goldman analysts said.


Chamath Palihapitiya, who first bought bitcoin years ago at an average price of about $100, still believes the cryptocurrency has much further to go despite the monster rally this year.
"I think this thing is a $100,000 a coin probably in the next three to four years. And I think it is in the next 20 years a million dollars a coin," he said in an interview Tuesday with CNBC's "Squawk Box."
The venture capitalist said he and two other friends in Silicon Valley at one point in 2013 owned 5 percent of the entire float of bitcoin. His initial dollar cost average for his investment in the digital currency was $100 a coin. He did sell some on the move higher.
Palihapitiya still thinks investors should put 1 percent of their net worth in the cryptocurrency.
"This is now a confidence game. There is no real utility in this. This is a fantastic fundamental hedge and store of value against autocratic regimes and banking infrastructure that we know is corrosive to how the world needs to work properly,"  Palihapitiya said. "You cannot have central banks infinitely printing currency."


For people looking to get in on cryptocurrencies without having to bet on a single one, a new money management firm is trying to make crypto-investing as easy as buying the S&P 500.
Bitwise Asset Management has just started accepting investors into Hold 10, the world's first crypto-index fund, which lets people put money in the 10 largest cryptocurrencies as weighted by the total value of coins outstanding.
The fund was announced in October and is now open to accredited investors. On Tuesday, Bitwise also said it has raised $4 million from some of the best-known investors in financial technology, including Keith Rabois (through Khosla Ventures), David Sacks and Naval Ravikant.
"We and our investors believe that a vehicle like this, or passive index investing as an approach, is a great way for many people to participate in cryptocurrency," Bitwise CEO Hunter Horsley told CNBC.
The Hold 10 index is the latest investment vehicle to launch in the cryptocurrency space. Just this week, bitcoin started trading in the futures market, while dozens of actively managed hedge funds have opened this year. Initial coin offerings, which let investors buy and trade cryptocurrencies created by individual companies, have raised over $3.7 billion in 2017, according to CoinDesk.


Bitcoin is the new gold. The Federal Reserve is tightening. Interest rates are going higher. So, there is no need for gold anymore.  Wrong.  Sure, the yellow metal has declined nearly 7 percent since September, now trading below its 200-day moving average for the first time since July, the Fed is about to hike rates and, finally, tax reform legislation is in the works.
It's easy to forget that gold, now facing pressure ahead of the central bank's meeting, was up as much as 18 percent this year.  We're not concerned.  After violating support near $1,260 and $1,270, gold's price action began something of a cleansing, working off the overextended net-long ratio of 20 to 1 (speculative long positions to short ones). The Commitment of Traders report for the week ended Dec. 5, released last Friday, reflected a reduction in this ratio by 33 percent. Furthermore, weakness in gold during previous years for the month of December is not uncommon for a number of reasons, including hawkish Fed language, tax-selling and strong seasonals in the equity market.  This year, we expect a less hawkish or even a potentially dovish Fed, coupled with overshadowing political issues heading into the new year.  The final piece of the bullish puzzle is gold's strong seasonality for the month of January; gold has finished the month of January higher in nine of the last 12 years.
Of those years, the first it failed to do so was in 2010, when it rose by more than 6 percent in January before finishing about 1 percent lower. The second year gold ended lower was in 2011, when it gained as much as 35 percent when it hit all-time highs in September.  We believe that gold, should it move lower over the next three weeks, should not be a death sentence for the metal, but instead should be viewed as a buying opportunity.


Is bitcoin the new gold? Goldman Sachs doesn't think so.
In a client note released Tuesday, the investment bank said that with the launch of the Cboe bitcoin futures contract, many investors have been asking if the cryptocurrency is taking demand away from gold.
"We believe the answer is no," Goldman Sachs said.
Cboe launched the bitcoin futures under the "XBT" ticker symbol on Sunday, with the first full day of trade on Monday.
Goldman outlined its reasons for why it sees a lack of substitution by investors from gold into bitcoin.
First, the investor pools are "vastly different" with those buying gold through various products are covered by anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing regulations, the investment bank said. But it's still unclear how cryptocurrencies could comply with such rules.
Secondly, there has been "no discernable outflow of gold" from exchange-traded funds (ETFs). An ETF is a financial product that tracks the price of an asset such as a commodity. Goldman said that ETF holdings had recently hit their highest level since mid-2013.
Finally, the analysts said that the "market characteristics of gold and cryptocurrencies are vastly different." Goldman said that bitcoin is attracting "more speculative inflows relative to gold."
"The net effect is that bitcoin has demonstrated much higher volatility and lower liquidity/price discovery compared to gold. The market cap of bitcoin is circa $275 billion versus gold at $8.3 trillion. Even all of the cryptocurrencies combined have a market cap less than $500 billion," the bank's note said.
"While the lack of liquidity and increased volatility may keep bitcoin interesting, it is unlikely to convince investors looking for the kind of diversification and hedging benefits which gold has proven to possess over its long history."
Many commentators have dubbed bitcoin "digital gold" because it has a finite supply and has at times seen price rises due to geopolitical tensions.
Goldman concluded in a separate note in October that bitcoin is not a good store of value versus gold.


Plenty of people are worried about the stock market's seemingly endless rally, but CNBC's Jim Cramer is more interested in the drivers behind it.
"Stocks have indeed come very far very fast, we're right on the cusp of multiple rate hikes, there was a terrorist attack in Times Square, we've got a special prosecutor investigating the White House and last week we almost had a government shutdown that was only temporarily averted. Yet stocks [are] in great shape," the "Mad Money" host said.
With some seasoned Wall Streeters calling a top to the action and warning investors to get out of the market now, Cramer found some tangible factors that could be responsible for the gains.
First on Cramer's list was employment. High employment can have a positive effect on the economy, he said. Consumers buy homes, cars and expensive iPhones. Confidence rises.
Second, it's important to look at the kinds of jobs being created, Cramer said. In November, the U.S. economy added 31,000 manufacturing jobs, a better gain than Cramer's seen in years.
"The manufacturing sector [is] incredibly robust ... because the United States now has found abundant natural resources that we tend to take for granted," he said.
The sheer amount of energy, particularly renewable energy, in the United States has made the country a lead exporter of cheap crude oil, gasoline and liquefied natural gas.
Even though that wasn't supposed to happen (OPEC's cuts were meant to balance oil markets, not skew them in favor of the United States), Cramer said it's brought huge benefits to U.S. oil producers.
Now, those companies are producing energy at lower costs, finding more oil with fewer rigs and are flush with business even at historically low oil prices.
"That's why this rig count we follow on Friday and the oil inventories on Wednesday ... really don't matter that much anymore," Cramer said. "We're getting much more out of each rig. That matters. Who cares about storage when we're exporting oil at a record pace?"
"In short, jobs are being distributed more broadly in places that had been fallow," Cramer added.
Third, the GOP's attempted overhaul of the U.S. tax code would bring benefits for businesses, particularly those that pay high taxes.
Corporate tax cuts would enable giants like Boeing, for example, to return more money to shareholders via dividends and buybacks and invest in their companies via hiring and research and development.
"We know they have far more plane orders than they can handle. They need to expand their capacity. Maybe they get the money to make that happen," Cramer said. "Bullish."
Fourth, the White House's push for deregulation has breathed new life into small businesses, spurring hiring and increased confidence, the "Mad Money" host said.
"You may think this really bad, [but] I'm not talking politics. Purely from an economic standpoint, deregulation is good for the stock market," Cramer said.
Paired with the comebacks in left-for-dead stocks like Valeant and the once-pronounced-dead retail cohort, Cramer said that the environment is just right for stocks to keep running.
"Last week, I did present a list of worries when we were hitting all-time highs again, like today, that I'm always ruminating on," Cramer said. "But I think the reason why this market keeps hanging in there matters a lot more. The truth is, when the economy's this good, you are indeed unlikely to get a sustained decline."


For those looking to invest in experience and lifestyle, golf might be their next ace in the hole.
At least that's what Erik Anderson, the co-chairman and CEO of privately-held entertainment company Topgolf, told CNBC on Monday.
Topgolf, a budding chain of sports-bar-meets-driving-range entertainment centers, has been growing in popularity among non-golfers. (Golf equipment maker Callaway Golf has a 15 percent stake in Topgolf.)
Anderson told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer that Topgolf's customer breakdown is 40 percent golfers and 60 percent non-golfers (or people who play fewer than eight rounds of golf per year).
"It appeals to everybody," the CEO said, adding that the demographic breakdown is roughly 35 percent women.
Topgolf's centers feature interactive driving ranges that use tracking chips to show how far and where each golf ball went. The facilities also have food and drink options, event spaces and training classes for budding golfers.
"Golf certainly hit a peak at one point in the U.S. ... but I think it's stabilizing," Anderson told Cramer. "We're seeing real growth again. And I think golf starts to get growing in a couple of ways. If you count our activity, golf actually has grown. So I think it's just expanding the audience and how people get to it."
Topgolf has mainly been expanding its audience by opening new locations — the company will open its 38th facility on Friday — and by partnering with related organizations like Formula One.
Anderson said that Topgolf's interactive system can be set up anywhere, so his company has been introducing the game outside its "regular venue" to gain traction.
And according to the company's breakdown, which shows that 53 percent of its customers are between the ages of 18 and 34, it's gaining traction among a key segment of the population: millennials.

Anderson said that he's trying to provide a "dense parallel experience" for younger customers that speaks to their love of multitasking. At a Topgolf, millennials can play golf, meet with friends or colleagues, eat food, have a drink, watch TV and, best of all, document the experience.
The CEO said one of his biggest wins as a company leader came when NFL quarterback Drew Brees took a photo of his Topgolf score and posted it on Snapchat.
"I knew we were really onto something when ... he took a Snapchat, a little picture of the screen that said, 'This was my score.' And I said, 'I'm winning,'" Anderson said. "I'm winning as an owner, as a CEO when people are taking a picture of the screen and telling me, 'Hey, can you beat my score?'"


The midwinter bounce in auto parts stocks O'Reilly Automotive, Advance Auto Parts and AutoZone did not go unnoticed by CNBC's Jim Cramer.
"First AutoZone and O'Reilly bounced from their lows over the summer, then Advance Auto Parts seemed to bottom last month. It's now up 28 percent from its lows on Nov. 8," the "Mad Money" host said. "That's a magnificent move. More important, if the auto parts business is really back on track, then these stocks are dirt-cheap in a market where we're constantly hearing people fretting about sky-high valuations."
All three stocks served shareholders well from 2013 to 2016, when people were less eager to buy new cars following the financial crisis and, as a result, had to replace car parts more often.
But starting in 2017, all three fell off a cliff. The proximate cause? Amazon's rumored foray 
 into the auto parts industry.
In late January, Wall Street started buzzing about the e-commerce giant's potential disruption in auto parts, and shares of O'Reilly, Advance Auto and Autozone all got slammed.
Shortly after, auto parts retailers started issuing dismal earnings reports. Even though the weakness had nothing to do with Amazon, it looked bad given the worries about potential competition.
In February, Advance Auto and AutoZone both reported shortfalls. O'Reilly's results, usually the strongest of the three, still beat estimates.
By spring, all three were struggling: Advance Auto's earnings missed expectations by far, with same-store sales were down 2.7 percent; AutoZone reported a gigantic miss; and O'Reilly disappointed analysts despite giving decent guidance.
"So what caused these hideous numbers? The one thing that all three companies kept citing as an alibi for their poor performance was the very mild winter, [the] second mild one in a row," Cramer said.
Cold winters tend to raise the need for car maintenance and part replacement, so mild winters result in less overall demand for replacement car parts.
Last year's mild winter also resulted in dramatic sell-offs for the car parts plays. Advance Auto slid from $169 a share at the beginning of 2017 to $78 a share when it bottomed a month ago; AutoZone fell from $789 to $491 at its July lows; O'Reilly tumbled from $278 to $169.
But come fall, all three stocks started gaining strength. Advance Auto gave Wall Street a big earnings beat and re-affirmed its full-year guidance; AutoZone delivered a strong quarter; and O'Reilly beat estimates and raised its full-year forecast.
"I think the market may have overreacted in the first half when these companies reported a wave of shortfalls and everyone was freaking out about 'Death Star' Amazon," Cramer said.
"I've even recommended Advance Auto Parts as a takeover target at the Deal Economy conference a couple weeks ago because Jeff Smith, who runs Starboard Value, the activist fund, is Advance Auto's chairman. I bet he'd love to get [a deal] out of this one," he added.
And all three stocks are still fairly cheap, Cramer said: Advance Auto trades at 17 times next year's earnings estimates, AutoZone at 14 times and O'Reilly at 19 times.
"The sell-off was a total rush to judgment," the "Mad Money" host concluded. "Which one should you buy? ... You can take your pick. You can buy best of breed, that's O'Reilly. You can bargain-hunt with AutoZone or you can speculate on a takeout with Advance Auto Parts. Boy, this industry, it's got something for everybody."


After doing some homework on the "roller-coaster" stock of Acadia Pharmaceuticals, CNBC's Jim Cramer came back with a surprisingly positive take on the pharma play.
"A lot of people don't like roller-coasters, so even if you like what I'm about to say about the stock, it may not suit you. That said, I think that Acadia's got enough going for it that this stock is indeed worth speculating on, meaning you can invest a small portion of your discretionary mad money portfolio in Acadia," the "Mad Money" host said. "Not for your retirement money, but I like this one."
Acadia is a biotechnology company that develops treatments to central nervous system disorders, particularly mental illnesses and symptoms associated with Parkinson's disease.
Sadly, the markets for Acadia's drugs are huge: 8 million people in the United States suffer from dementia-related psychosis, 1 million from Parkinson's and 3 million from schizophrenia.
Acadia's aim for its treatments — some of which are the only ones of their kind on the market and some of which are in clinical trials — is to reduce the severe side effects that come with treating serious psychosis.
And even though its stock has been whipped around in the last few years, Cramer thinks the company has the makings of a good story.
"As far as I'm concerned, the bullish story is intact, it's just that this stock goes through periods of being overly liked followed by periods of excessive hatred. Frankly, this was, I would say, the most volatile stock that I've ever done the work on," he said. "Bottom line? Acadia's been a real wild trader, but it's got a very impressive anti-psychotic drug that could have many different indications, so I think the stock is absolutely worth speculating the next time it pulls back."


Shares of Overstock.com briefly surged more than 23 percent Monday after Morgan Stanley Investment Management disclosed an 11.4 percent stake in the company.
The investment management division of Morgan Stanley has $447 billion in assets under management and its products include mutual funds and hedge funds. The unit said in a 13G filing Friday with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it owned nearly 2.87 million shares of Overstock.com as of Nov. 30.
A 13G filing is typically used for passive stakes of between 5 and 20 percent of a company. Representatives for Morgan Stanley Investment Management and Overstock.com did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

With Monday's gains, Overstock.com shares were on pace for their best day since Nov. 9. The stock leaped 30.7 percent that day, after D.A. Davidson analyst Tom Forte predicted more than 60 percent in gains for it. Forte pointed to indications on Overstock's third-quarter earnings call that the company could sell its home goods e-commerce business to focus on bitcoin's blockchain technology through its Medici Ventures division.
Forte maintained his $85 price target on Monday, still nearly 52 percent above Monday's session high of $56.05 a share.
Overstock's gains accelerated in the last few months after news that the company is planning to launch a licensed digital coin trading platform through its subsidiary tZero and raise funds through an initial coin offering. The shares are up more than 200 percent this year.
Bitcoin leaped more than 9.5 percent to above $16,500 on Monday, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index, after the launch of bitcoin futures on the Cboe Futures Exchange Sunday night.


Semiconductor stocks outperformed the market handily this year and one Wall Street analyst believes several companies in the sector will continue to surge higher next year.
The iShares PHLX Semiconductor ETF has rallied 37 percent year to date versus the S&P 500's 18 percent gain through Friday.
"Looking ahead, we expect the semiconductor industry to continue exhibiting relatively stable and less cyclical growth," JPMorgan analyst Harlan Sur wrote in a note to clients Monday. "In addition to further industry growth in 2018, we expect M&A/consolidation and aggressive capital returns will likely drive valuation support in our stocks through the year."
Here are four overweight-rated semiconductor stocks recommended by JPMorgan, along with the firm's current price targets.


Bitcoin futures are up and running, but trading volumes are on the light side.
Cboe CEO Ed Tilly is saying the start of bitcoin futures has been a success. "Our regulated market experienced a smooth operational open and orderly markets throughout the evening trading session. We look forward to the growth of this new derivatives market."
There were two trading halts, but they were part of the product design and were not unexpected. The Cboe website briefly experienced difficulties as so many tried to access the site when trading started at 6 p.m. ET on Sunday, but it quickly came back up.
Others also felt that while the volume was small, the interest level was sufficient to be considered a success. JB Mackenzie, managing director of futures and forex for TD Ameritrade, told me, "The first trade session was very orderly with good liquidity and volume. More than 2,000 contracts traded before midnight which shows that the marketplace was engaged."
Still, the roughly 3,000 contracts that have traded since the start of trading represents a notional value of only $50 million, tiny compared with established futures markets like gold, which can trade 400,000 contracts a day at a price of roughly $125,000 per contract.
"Trading was orderly, though there is not a lot of liquidity," Bobby Cho, head trader at bitcoin trading company Cumberland told me. "There is very limited access because a lot of the brokers aren't giving access to their clients yet."
Brian Kelly from Brian Kelly Capital also said the start, while small, could be considered a success: "I would expect more volume as people prepare for CME futures." That is a reference to bitcoin futures set to begin trading this coming weekend at the CME.
Though bitcoin has attracted tremendous interest, the bitcoin market is still remarkably small compared with other major asset classes.
Bitcoin versus other assets
Bitcoin: $300 billion
Gold: $6 trillion
U.S. stock market: $25 trillion
U.S. bond market: $38 trillion
Some investors are convinced bitcoin could join the big leagues of major asset classes. Cameron Winklevoss, an investor in the Gemini exchange that is behind the Cboe futures contract, told CNBC over the weekend, "Long term, directionally, it is a multitrillion-dollar asset — I don't know how long it takes to get there."


On a bitcoin bet, it's the exchanges that will come out ahead, according to Alpha One Capital Partners founder Dan Niles.
"You don't go out and mine for gold, you go ahead and you sell the picks and the shovels," Niles told CNBC's "Squawk Alley" on Monday.
"We don't think it's a real currency, but we think it's going to continue to grow especially the underlying blockchain technology."
IBM and Walmart have already started using blockchain technology to improve on food safety, Niles said, and bitcoin futures started trading on official exchanges this weekend.
Chip companies AMD and Nvidia saw a bitcoin bump, too, as the powerhouses GPUs behind the mining of digital currency. But Niles said there's already too much hype around those names to buy in.
The coins are fast approaching a bubble, he said, and the thing with bubbles is, "they can always go a lot higher than you anticipated, then you get a shakeout, and then things start to grow."
"We've got a shakeout coming at some point."


The launch of bitcoin futures on the Cboe Futures Exchange over the weekend was a "very big victory" for the digital currency, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Monday.
Bitcoin futures, trading under the ticker symbol XBT, debuted Sunday night on the Cboe. The futures price climbed 10 percent in the first two hours and triggered at least two trading halts due to rapid price gains.
"I was hoping we'd get some price discovery. If this is the price discovery, it can head much higher," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
"This is a very big victory for bitcoin last night," Cramer said, "and I think a lot of people felt it would be inconceivable that when you had a two-sided market that somebody would come in. We do have other exchanges coming in." CME is launching bitcoin futures contracts on Dec. 18.

Reports that claimed bitcoin could eventually replace gold as a repository also helped the cryptocurrency "mightly," he said.
Cramer has been a vocal critic of bitcoin, warning investors that it's like "'Monopoly' money" and people would be better off going to Las Vegas.
Critics, including JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon, have doubted the legitimacy of bitcoin. Proponents argue bitcoin is a good medium of exchange and a way to store value like gold.
Cramer said Monday that "so many people" who wanted the cryptocurrency to go higher and were overwhelmed by "any short interest, short attempts, to drive it down."


UBS Wealth Management is not a believer in bitcoin becoming a legitimate currency even as the launch of futures lead some investors to believe the cryptocurrency will become a more stable market.
"The bubble to end all bubbles continues. Cryptocurrencies only have value if accepted as currencies. However, they cannot be used for the most important transaction in an economy, and cryptocurrency supply can only rise and never fall (making them a poor store of value)," global chief economist Paul Donovan wrote in a post Monday. "To date, using cryptocurrencies requires (effectively) a simultaneous asset sale and purchase of goods or services."
The economist said in an October report that bitcoin's extreme price volatility detracted from its ability to be a "store of value," which is an essential feature of being a currency.
"A twenty-fold increase in bitcoin prices in just two years, and an absence of any fundamental economic backing, cryptocurrency prices are almost certainly a bubble," he wrote in that report.


The launch of bitcoin futures could "have a material negative impact on the price of bitcoin," a well-respected technology analyst said Monday.
With the futures, "investors will have an easier time betting against bitcoin," and "investors could move towards trading futures contracts and out of bitcoin itself," Gene Munster, co-founder of venture capital firm Loup Ventures, said in a research note Monday. Munster was a widely followed Apple analyst at Piper Jaffray before launching Loup in January to focus on artificial intelligence, robotics, virtual reality and augmented reality.
Munster pointed out that since the bitcoin futures contracts settle in dollars, the derivative product gives investors "better liquidity than bitcoin." "For institutional investors, betting on bitcoin without having to conduct bitcoin transactions is likely to prove easier," Munster said.
Bitcoin's initial reaction to the launch of futures on the Cboe Futures Exchange on Sunday evening was positive. The digital currency was 9 percent higher Monday morning near $16,380, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index.
Bitcoin 12-month performance

Source: CoinDesk
The new futures soared nearly 20 percent overnight, triggering two trading halts in their Sunday debut. CME is set to launch its own bitcoin futures contract Dec. 18.
The launch of bitcoin futures on two of the world's largest futures exchanges marks a step toward legitimizing the digital currency as an asset class for institutional investors, and could pave the way toward a bitcoin exchange-traded fund. Enthusiasts predict bitcoin futures will allow large investors to buy into the cryptocurrency trend.
However, the overarching worry is that bitcoin's dramatic price surge is unsustainable. The digital currency surged more than 1,700 percent to a record $17,364.56 on Thursday, according to CoinDesk.
"Fundamentals don't seem to support [bitcoin's] move," Munster said, pointing out that using bitcoin for retail purchases is still not easy. "It's more likely than not that bitcoin is in a bubble and the price of bitcoin will be extremely volatile, especially as more futures exchanges open."
The biggest red flag for Munster follows the adage "when your barber gets in, it's time to get out."
"Well, it's 2017 and our Uber drivers may be just as good of a measure. Two weeks ago, we had an Uber driver ask us how to buy bitcoin. We showed her how to sign up on Coinbase and she made the purchase before the end of our trip. A cautionary one-off story that illustrates the bitcoin investor shift over the past year from tech-futurist, to professional investor, and now the general public."


Electronic Arts will reinstitute in-game purchases in its "Star Wars Battlefront II" title despite recent wavering by one of its top executives, according to a Wall Street firm.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch lowered its price target and profit forecasts for Electronic Arts shares due to poor sales of the "Star Wars" game.
"EA has had a challenging C4Q, beginning with the shutdown of Visceral Games and now Battlefront 2 (BF2) controversy," analyst Justin Post wrote in a note to clients Monday entitled "Lowering ests for BF2; Stock weakness sets up for a better 2018." "As controversy subsides post-holidays, we expect investor interest to pick up ahead of a stronger FY19 title slate, renewed digital optimism, and operating leverage potential. Battlefront MTX relaunch and FIFA World Cup content launch are key 1H events."
Post maintained his buy rating and reduced his price target to $130 from $137 for Electronic Arts shares, representing 23.5 percent upside to Friday's close.
The analyst noted how EA shares have "materially underperformed" since the end of September falling 11 percent versus the S&P 500's 5 percent return. He said November U.S. physical game unit sales of "Star Wars Battlefront II" declined 52 percent versus 2015's "Star Wars Battlefront" in its first month, according to NPD sell-through data.
As a result, Post predicts the title will miss the company's guidance of 14 million unit sales by 2.5 million. The analyst lowered his earnings estimates for EA's fiscal 2018 earnings-per-share to $4.22 from $4.28. He also reduced his fiscal 2019 forecast to $5.02 from $5.14.
Electronic Arts announced Nov. 16, a day before the "Star Wars Battlefront II" game's official launch, that it is temporarily turning off all in-game purchases for the game in response to negative sentiment from gamers.
"It's clear that many of you feel there are still challenges in the design. We've heard the concerns about potentially giving players unfair advantages. … Sorry we didn't get this right," EA wrote in the post.
The company told gamers then it will change the micro-transaction model for the game in the future. However, EA's chief financial officer, Blake Jorgensen, at NASDAQ investor conference on Dec. 5 seemed to be open to turning off micro-transactions permanently for the title.  "Over time, we'll address how we will want to bring the MTX either into the game or not and in what form we'll decide to bring it into," he said.
Post still predicts EA will relaunch micro-transactions for the "Star Wars" game.
"Battlefront 2 MTX likely to return next year," he wrote. "Perhaps the biggest stock negative from the BF2 MTX issues is the potential negative impact on FY19 MTX revenues … That said, even with 12mn in total units sold and an average of $10 of MTX per game sold, BF2 could still do over $100mn in MTX."
Here are the different ways the analyst suggested EA can add in-gaming purchasing back into the title:
EA's stock is up 34 percent year to date through Friday compared with the S&P 500's 18 percent gain.
The company declined to comment on this story.


Fueled by an investor appetite for liquid alternative investment strategies, hedge fund conversions have been a growing trend over the last few years.


Putting aside money to invest in the stock market can be intimidating, which is, in part, why nearly half of American adults have $0 in stocks, reports Gallup. But if you do it right, it can be the most reliable and effective way to grow your money.
According to Mark Hamrick, Bankrate.com's senior economic analyst, most people think investing in real estate is a better bet but, in fact, it's the stock market that gives the best returns. So it's no wonder, especially in the middle of a bull market, that those who fail to invest often regret it later in life.
In a recent GOBankingRates survey, 11 percent of the 5,000 some American adult participants even called not investing their No. 1 financial regret.
It was the third most popular answer overall and matched the percentage of those who most regretted falling into debt. Meanwhile, 23 percent pointed to "Spending money on non-essentials" and 36 percent said "Not saving enough money."


Bitcoin futures rallied Monday in their first full day of trading on the Cboe Futures Exchange.
The new futures contract, which expires in January, settled 19.9 percent higher at $18,545.
The digital currency itself rose more than 14 percent Monday to $17,261, according to CoinDesk's bitcoin price index. The index tracks prices from digital currency exchanges Bitstamp, Coinbase, itBit and Bitfinex.

Cboe launched the bitcoin futures under the "XBT" ticker symbol on Sunday following a giant leap in the digital currency's price this year and a surge of investor interest.
The debut of the first futures contract on an established exchange was relatively orderly, in contrast to expectations of high volatility and traders short selling, or betting against, bitcoin.
Initial interest in the new bitcoin futures product appeared to overload Cboe's website, but the issue was quickly resolved. "Due to heavy traffic on our website, visitors to http://www.cboe.com may find that it is performing slower than usual and may at times be temporarily unavailable," the exchange said in a statement Sunday. "All trading systems are operating normally."
The new futures also handled sharp price moves smoothly. About two hours after their 6 p.m. ET launch on Sunday, the new futures had climbed 10 percent, triggering a two-minute trading halt. By 10:05 p.m., the bitcoin futures had soared 20 percent, triggering a five-minute trading halt.
The halts followed the exchange's rules, similar to the way that trading in stocks is halted after sharp price moves.
However, price limits may be more relevant for bitcoin, which is notoriously volatile. Many cryptocurrency proponents see the launch of bitcoin futures as a step toward legitimizing the digital currency in the eyes of big, institutional investors.


Wall Street will be watching bitcoin this week as futures trading, which allows traders to bet against the cryptocurrency, began on Sunday evening.
Plus, a lot of news coming out of Washington this week: There's a big Federal Reserve meeting, a critical deadline for the government's spending powers and one really big vote that big media companies everywhere will be watching closely.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are higher this morning. The Dow Jones industrial average and the S&P 500 posted record-high closes.
BITCOIN TRADE
-Bitcoin futures trading began on the CBOE Sunday night and the action has been volatile.
TERROR/DEFENSE
-In a surprise move, Russian President Vladimir Putin is ordering Russian troops out of Syria.



Goldman Sachs upgrades ADP, saying the payroll processor with a largely domestic footprint will be an "outsized beneficiary" of the corporate tax cut.
Goldman also cited strong new bookings for its upgrade. Shares of ADP closed up 1.6 percent Monday.
A reduction in the corporate rate to 20 percent as proposed by congressional Republicans will drive earnings higher, argued analyst James Schneider, who raised the stock to buy from neutral. The new rating makes Goldman one of just a few companies on Wall Street with a buy rating on the company, which just successfully fought off activist Bill Ackman from taking a board seat.
"We estimate that tax reform could be 14 percent accretive to ADP's calendar year 2019 earnings per share, assuming a 20 percent corporate tax rate and the repeal of certain corporate tax deductions," Goldman analyst James Schneider wrote on Monday.
Seeking to clinch their first major legislative victory in 2017, Republicans have been scrambling to live up to campaign promises by cutting tax rates. With the House and Senate now in conference, investors are betting on a lower corporate tax rate and better results for companies with domestic exposure.
The Goldman analyst argued that ADP "stands out" from other companies in the information technology sector thanks to its higher U.S. sales exposure. While information technology has lower U.S. sales exposure than the overall S&P 500 (48 percent versus 71 percent), ADP is far ahead of its peers domestically with 85 percent U.S. exposure, according to Goldman.
Schneider increased his price target on ADP to $135 from $110, representing 16 percent upside over the next 12 months. A relaxed corporate rate should improve ADP earnings, but rising interest rates may also prove to be a boon.
Though Goldman is above consensus in predicting four increases in the federal funds rate in 2018, rising interest rates should benefit the company's float income, added Schneider.
"Our economists expect steady interest rate increases over the next few years; they expect the Federal Funds Rate to increase by 100 basis points in both 2018 and 2019," explained the analyst. "This would lead ADP's portfolio yield to inflect higher and drive significant earnings per share accretion … Based on the current trajectory of interest rates, we see the potential for roughly 6 percent upside to fiscal year 2019 earnings per share if rates increase an additional 50 basis points."
Just one other firm has a buy rating on ADP, according to TipRanks.com: Bank of America Merrill Lynch.


It isn't too late for investors to hop into cryptocurrencies after the bitcoin futures launch on the Cboe, an analyst told CNBC on Monday.
"Relative to assets, you're talking $100 trillion in investable assets," said Brian Kelly, founder of BK Capital Management. "All you would need is 1 percent of those assets to be allocated to this and you've got a double in bitcoin."
"It's so early," Kelly added in a "Squawk Box" interview. "You haven't missed the train yet."

Bitcoin futures, trading under the XBT ticker symbol, debuted on the Cboe futures exchange on Sunday night. The futures price climbed 10 percent in the first two hours and triggered at least two trading halts due to rapid price gains. The new futures eased back on Monday from its initial surge.
For the time being, the digital currency will be "incredibly inefficient" but will eventually mature. Kelly said. "Bitcoin itself has been around for eight or nine years now," he said. "The trading markets are really just maturing. It'll get more complicated. More strategies will come in."
"But clients calling you saying, "Hey, how do I get in?' To me that's a bullish sign," he added.
Bitcoin, which has surged more than 1,500 percent this year, has some market participants warning of a bubble. Critics, including Jamie Dimon, have doubted the legitimacy of bitcoin. But on Friday, the JPMorgan Chase CEO seemed to be softening his tone on cryptocurrencies. He still declared that he remains "highly skeptical."


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Fitbit — Fitbit announced Friday it had reached a "global settlement" with former wearables maker Jawbone which ends all outstanding civil litigation. Jawbone sued Fitbit in 2015, claiming they trade secrets and market research, among other information.
Juno Therapeutics, Celgene — Juno and Celgene shares rose in the premarket after the companies released study data of a drug aimed at treating a type of non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma. The data showed a three-month overall response rate of 74 percent to the drug.
ADP — Goldman Sachs upgraded the human resources management company's stock to "buy" from "neutral." The bank also raised its price target on ADP to $135 a share from $110. "We expect fundamentals to inflect in 2018 as bookings rebound and client retention improves," Goldman said.
U.S. Steel — The steel producer's shares were upgraded to hold from sell at Axiom, with analysts noting U.S. Steel will benefit from "protectionism from the Trump administration" and "positive seasonality."
HSBC — Europe's biggest bank said a deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Justice Department has expired, ending the threat of further punishment for lapses in its anti-money laundering controls. HSBC paid $1.9 billion and agreed to a five-year deal with the DOJ after failing to prevent Mexican cartels from laundering millions through the bank.
LKQ — Auto parts company LKQ agreed to buy German wholesale distributor Stahlgruber for $1.77 billion. LKQ expects the transaction to complete in the first half of 2018.
Xerox — Jonathan Christodoro, a former managing director of Icahn Capital, announced his resignation from Xerox's board of directors in order to pave the way for Carl Icahn to submit board nominations for next year's annual meeting.
Xylem — Xylem agreed to buy infrastructure company Pure Technologies for $397 million in cash. The deal is expected to close in the first quarter of 2018.
—Reuters contributed to this report.


Bitcoin leaped an astonishing $2,000 on Monday after investors flocked to Chicago's Cboe futures exchange to bet on price movements.
The digital currency was seen trading at a spot price of $16,571.09 at 10 a.m. ET, according to data on industry website CoinDesk, whose bitcoin price index tracks prices from cryptoexchanges Bitstamp, Coinbase and Bitfinex. It was up 10.22 percent for the session.
Trading at $14,557.07 just a minute before the introduction of Cboe's hotly anticipated futures contracts, bitcoin's price saw an immediate hike in value of more than $1,000 in the first five to 10 minutes of trading.
Bitcoin futures, meanwhile, were trading at $18,040, up more than 16 percent for the session.
Futures contracts allow investors to agree to buy or sell a particular asset at a predetermined price at a later date. This enables price movement speculation and the avoidance of volatility in the market.
Bitcoin's total market capitalization — which is calculated by multiplying the price by the volume of tokens in circulation — stood at $277 billion, higher than that of U.S. banking giant Citigroup.


A key trend in the gold market has just been broken, and bitcoin could be to blame.
The gold miners ETF (GDX) had fallen nearly 15 percent from its September highs while gold has plunged to lows unseen since the end of July. This is curious, says Larry McDonald, head of U.S. macro strategy at ACG Analytics, as the move lower in gold has also been followed by a move down in bond yields, which according to the strategist is very rare.
"Over the last two years, every time rates have come down, and this week rates have moved lower, you had gold go up," he said Friday in a "Trading Nation" segment on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "Almost every time, there has been an 82 percent correlation between gold and bonds. This week, for the first time, that correlation broke down, and I do think it has something to do with bitcoin."
According to McDonald, there could be even more downside for gold, given the rapid growth of cryptocurrencies, bitcoin and otherwise.
"If you add up all the cryptocurrencies and the liquid gold that's in the market right now, the cryptocurrencies in market cap are now 23 percent of the liquid tradeable gold," he said. "That's up from 2 or 3 percent a year ago, so cryptocurrencies are definitely eating into the gold play."
In fact, while gold has fallen more than 2 percent in the past month, bitcoin has actually more than doubled its value in that time, according to Coinbase.
Following the launch of bitcoin futures contracts on the CBOE, bitcoin soared and was around $16,800 Monday morning. Gold, on the other hand, was still sitting near its July lows.
Phillip Streible, senior market strategist at RJO Futures, says that the performance of bitcoin futures contracts, the first of which began trading on the Cboe on Sunday, will be a key determinant of gold's next move.
"If all of a sudden we see bitcoin futures go into a free fall and collapse, [gold will benefit]," he said last week on "Power Lunch." "Safe haven, store of value, it will start to get people back."
The next exchange to launch bitcoin futures contracts will be the CME on Dec. 18.


CNBC's Jim Cramer is always on the hunt for strong secular growth trends, and lately, he's been eyeing one that he just can't seem to brush off: protein and millennials' obsession with it.
"I know this sounds silly. They made fun of me on 'Squawk on the Street' when I said it. 'They like protein.' I know, it's been kind of a staple for millions of years," the "Mad Money" host said. "More important, aren't millennials supposed to be going vegan or vegetarian at alarming rates?"
"As it turns out, the younger generation does love protein, and the one they really love is chicken," Cramer continued. "I think millennials are so image-conscious — well, of course, they're Instagramming each other — that they'll do anything to avoid eating carbs, including going full carnivore."
Cramer believed in this trend so much that he attributed two high-profile deals — Roark Capital taking Buffalo Wild Wings private and Burger King parent Restaurant Brands buying Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen — to its dominance.
"One chicken chain getting acquired [might be an] isolated incident, but two? I think two's the beginning of a pattern," Cramer said, pointing to an Axios story that reported Roark subsidiary Arby's has more acquisitions planned.
The "Mad Money" host added that the "poultry bull market" has more players in it than just restaurants.
Shares of Tyson Foods, a Cramer-fave food distributor specializing in chicken, beef and pork, have been running thanks to the company's poultry business, he said.
Tyson's management has helped by adopting millennial-friendly initiatives like selling antibiotic-free chicken and embracing sustainability. In turn, the company has been seeing increased demand for chicken with no signs that it will stem in 2018.
Cramer didn't want investors to overthink investing in the protein bull market, though. He still liked the stock of Tyson because the company's fundamentals are still improving.
On the restaurant side, Cramer liked the stock of Wingstop, a chicken-wing-focused chain that, in a rare move for restaurant chains, is still putting up new stores.
But the stock's strength couldn't be denied. Wingstop trades at 50 times next year's earnings estimates, a pricey multiple compared to its 17 percent long-term growth rate.
"And I don't expect it to be taken private," Cramer said. "After all, Wingstop used to be private. Guess who owned it? Roark Capital, the same guys who just bought Buffalo Wild Wings, until the IPO in 2015."
The other big public player in protein is Yum! Brands, the parent company of Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC. With a stock up over 30 percent for 2017, Cramer pointed to Taco Bell and KFC as its main drivers.
"What can I say? People can't get enough protein. But Yum trades now at 26 times next year's numbers," he said. "This one isn't cheap anymore."
Still, even though it wasn't his favorite, the "Mad Money" host gave investors his blessing to buy shares of Yum, particularly on a pullback, because of its savvy management.
"Here's my bottom line: it may sound like a silly thesis and people laughed initially, but protein is red-hot, I think because image-conscious millennials are desperate to avoid eating carbohydrates," Cramer said. "The best way to play it? Stick with Tyson Foods. Yum's worth holding. Wingstop could be attractive into weakness. Tyson is a buy, buy, buy."


If someone had told CNBC's Jim Cramer that he would someday see nonfarm payrolls increase by 228,000 without an immediate rise in interest rates, he would've called them insane.
But that's exactly what Friday's jobs report from the U.S. Department of Labor showed, with jobs in education and health services, professional services and manufacturing making up most of the gains.
Specifically, some 54,000 jobs were added in education and health services; 46,000 in professional and business services; and 31,000 in the manufacturing sector.
"The manufacturing jobs are in diverse industries like fabricating metal products, plastic and rubber, electronic products, just the kind of higher-skilled blue collar jobs we want to see," the "Mad Money" host said. "Normally, though, this kind of number would be accompanied by inflation, and inflation sends interest rates soaring."
However, rates didn't surge higher. Cramer said this was because jobs grew rapidly, but wages didn't — average hourly pay only ticked up by 5 cents, to $26.55, and yearly wages increased by 64 cents.
That 2.5 percent annual wage increase explained exactly why interest rates held their ground, the "Mad Money" host said.
"We literally have not just growth, but growth without any real inflation, and guys, that's the holy grail of economics. I can't stress enough how rare this is," Cramer said. "Growth without inflation is one of those things that's supposedly possible in theory, but you almost never see it in real life, at least not in a fully industrialized country like the United States."
Cramer said Friday's inaction in the bond markets could have been made possible by technology, specifically companies using it to automate operations rather than hiring expensive human workers.
The other possible drivers? The White House's deregulation and tax overhaul efforts, two pro-business initiatives that could spur growth, at least according to top advisor Gary Cohn.
Cramer couldn't disagree with any of these analyses, adding that part of the growth could've been due to Texas and Florida rebounding after the summer's hurricanes.
But he knew that it wouldn't necessarily last. Autonomous driving — which could hit roads much sooner than expected — and cashier-less checkouts in stores may lead to lower employment, Cramer said.
"At least for the moment, though, this is indeed a fabulous economy and it buttresses the notion that the stock market's run isn't all that crazy," the "Mad Money" host said. "Remember, in normal times, strength sowed the seeds of its own destruction by leading to inflation and then multiple Fed rate hikes just growing up like weeds. But at least for the moment, that's not the case. My take? Enjoy it. Moments like this one don't come around very often."


Sometimes, CNBC's Jim Cramer is content with taking things at face value.
That's at least how the "Mad Money" host felt about the U.S. Labor Departments nonfarm payroll report on Friday, which showed healthy job growth with little inflation.
"The jobs report, frankly, had something for everyone," Cramer said. "Good manufacturing growth, ... tame wage growth — I know that's not great for the vast majority of people who work for a living, of course, but it is terrific if you're a business that wants interest rates to stay relatively low, and those businesses tend to have stocks attached to them. At the same time, there was enough ammo for the Fed to tighten when it meets next week."
With this set-up in mind, Cramer turned to the stocks and events he'll be watching next week.
Sunday marks the first day that non-miners will be able to trade bitcoin futures on Cboe, creating the first two-way market in the digital currency.
"I bet they start to tame the bitcoin phenomenon," Cramer said. "I don't necessarily mean it'll go down, although I have my suspicions that short-sellers will use the futures to blast bitcoin lower. What I mean is that, so far at least, bitcoin is the least transparent financial bubble I've ever seen."
Cramer is curious to see how bitcoin fares trading on a prominent exchange with possibilities for hedging and high-volume trading.


One of Wall Street's top strategists and a longtime bitcoin fan has unveiled his top stock ideas to clients as a way to play the cryptocurrency craze.
Fundstrat's Tom Lee was the first major strategist to issue an official price target on bitcoin and now becomes the first to give clients direct bitcoin equity plays.
Many investment mandates require managers to steer clear of volatile assets and stick to traditional equity markets; despite bitcoin's stellar success over recent weeks, the cryptocurrency may be too volatile for standard investment rules.
In addition to recommending stocks, Lee noted his $25,000 year-end target for the price of one bitcoin.
"We believe investors should have exposure to blockchain, particularly given bitcoin has essentially zero correlation to equities, bonds and commodities — hence, as a portfolio strategy, bitcoin is a good diversification tool," wrote Lee in a note Friday.
The digital asset took Wall Street by storm Thursday, jumping from $13,000 to highs above $19,000 in roughly one day. Bitcoin has since cooled off a bit, now trading just under $16,000.
The first group of bitcoin plays Lee highlighted includes the CME Group, Chicago Board Options Exchange (Cboe) and Goldman Sachs.
Cboe, the largest U.S. options exchange, announced in August its plans to launch its own bitcoin derivatives trading products, offering cash-settled bitcoin futures to both institutional and retail investors. They begin trading Sunday evening. Bitcoin fans argue that the launch of such products by Cboe and others help legitimize the trade and may help stabilize the otherwise volatile token.
For its part, CME followed suit in October with Chairman Terry Duffy saying, "Given increasing client interest in the evolving cryptocurrency markets, we have decided to introduce a bitcoin futures contract." Fundstrat's Lee included Goldman in the group because he expects the bank "to be the first investment bank to be involved in bitcoin trading."
Though options exchanges and investment banks may see upside thanks to the bitcoin mania, technology and chip companies are also set to climb, added Lee. Chipmakers like Nvidia and Advanced Micro Devices that produce graphics processing units (GPUs) necessary for bitcoin "mining" should perform well if bitcoin presses upward.


The good times are not over yet for U.S. stocks, according to John Stoltzfus, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer Asset Management. On Friday, Stoltzfus forecast the S&P 500 to reach 3,000 next year, making him the biggest bull on Wall Street.
"Going forward we expect many of the same thematics from 2017 to apply in the New Year as investors look to determine whether improving economic conditions and corporate fundamentals can boost stock markets higher for a third straight year," Stoltzfus said in a note to clients Friday. Some of those thematics include improving global economic conditions and rising corporate profits.
U.S. stocks have risen sharply in 2017, with the S&P 500 spiking nearly 18 percent to record highs.
Stoltzfus thinks this market still has more room to run, so long as the Federal Reserve's policy remains consistent.
"What it really needs to keep moving along is modest growth of inflation, modest wage growth, a Federal Reserve that remains very sensitive to the needs of the economy," Stolfuz said Friday on CNBC's "Fast Money."
"I would say the biggest risk would be if all of a sudden you've got a sense the Fed thought inflation was moving ahead of itself, and they had to increase the pace of the normalization," he added.
His 3,000 target on the broad index — the highest among major Wall Street strategists as of Friday morning — implies 13.8 percent upside from Thursday's close of 2,636.98.
To be sure, other major Wall Street strategists are also very bullish on stocks heading into 2018, but not as much as Stoltzfus. Morgan Stanley's Mike Wilson expects the S&P 500 to reach 2,750 over the next 12 months, while Deutsche Bank's Binky Chadha and Credit Suisse's Jonathan Golub have price targets on the index of 2,850 and 2,875, respectively.
Stoltzfus expects S&P 500 earnings to rise 13.5 percent to $146 per share, driving the gains in stocks.
"Improving fundamentals are likely to support higher stock prices and P/E multiple expansion next year," he said. "We remain constructive on further improvement for corporate fundamentals and see opportunity for growth in both the top and bottom-line. We expect forward guidance from corporate management teams to remain positive as global economies continue to improve at a sustainable rate of growth."
Corporate earnings have grown nicely this year, gaining at least 10 percent in the first two quarters of the year and advancing more than 6 percent in the third quarter.
Stoltzfus recommends investors buy tech stocks in 2018.
"While Info Tech has performed exceptionally well in 2017, we believe accelerating revenue and earnings growth in many segments supports such performance and augers well for the next year," he said.
Tech is by far the best-performing S&P 500 sector this year, having soared more than 35 percent.
Stoltzfus also has an outperform rating on consumer stocks, which "will continue to benefit from increased consumer confidence, improved employment and modest wage trends," industrials, health care and materials.
"In our opinion skeptic and bear capitulation appears to have just begun in the fourth quarter of 2017 and contributed to the number of this year's equity benchmark record highs. We believe that it is early in this process and multiples could expand further than we currently anticipate should the capitulation gain momentum," notes the strategist.
CNBC's Chloe Aiello contributed to this report.


Steinhoff shares plunged another 50 percent on Friday, before recovering as traders booked profits on short positions taken out after the South African retailer disclosed accounting irregularities earlier this week.
More than $12 billion has been wiped off the market value of the owner of Conforama furniture stores and Poundland discount shops since Wednesday, when it announced an independent investigation into its accounts and said its CEO was leaving.
At 6:35 a.m. ET, the stock was down 12 percent in Johannesburg after earlier touching a 14-year lower of 5 rand. It was down 2.4 percent in Frankfurt, where the group has a primary listing.
"This buying we are seeing now is people that sold the shares short when it was in the fifty-fives and the sixties," said Cratos Capital equities trader Greg Davies.
Short-sellers borrow shares for a fee and sell them into the market, in the hope of repurchasing them at a lower price and pocketing the difference.
More than half of Steinhoff's shares that are available to borrow are currently out of loan, according to Markit, a data provider more than doubling from August and up from 40 percent on Monday. The figure is a record for Steinhoff and the highest for any South African company tracked by Markit.
The cost for short-sellers to borrow shares for a year has more than doubled from its twelve-month average of 1.4 percent to 3.1 percent, according to Astec, another data provider. Both Markit and Astec estimate it would take around ten days of trading for short-sellers to close all their positions.


I have long believed that to be a financial advisor is to serve in a noble profession.
In fact, given the impact finances can have on our lives, I consider the financial advisory profession approaching the importance of what physicians may do to positively impact patients' physical and mental well-being, or what clergy do to positively impact the spiritual well-being of people of faith. As financial advisors, we have a tremendous opportunity and, similarly, a tremendous responsibility to positively impact our clients' financial well-being.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are higher after Thursday's modest rally. The focus this morning will be on the November jobs report.
-The Labor Department said 228,000 jobs were created last month, beating expectations of 200,000, and the unemployment rate held at 4.1 percent.
BITCOIN TRADE
-Bitcoin continues to move wildly. It hit the $17,000 mark Thursday before falling back to $14,500 this morning.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
General Motors — In a roundup of auto companies, Piper Jaffray wrote in a note that General Motors is "very cheap" compared to others in the industry. The firm views GM as "the second least-risky" company in its coverage and named the motor city giant as one of its top picks.
Nike — Guggenheim raised its outlook on Nike ahead of the company's second quarter earnings later in December, saying in a note the athletic brand offers an "attractive" balance of risk to reward for investors.
Alexion Pharmaceuticals — Biopharma analysts at Leerink Partners answered investors' calls for an outlook on Alexion's drug ALXN1210, which is being evaluated for the treatment of patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. Leerink wrote in a note it sees Alexion shares rising 30 percent in a base outcome from Phase 3 trials for the drug.
Trivago — Deutsche Bank raised its rating on the travel services company to "buy" from "hold," saying in a note Trivago should benefit from a stabilizing bidding environment among its more substantial customers.
TE Connectivity — The board of TE Connectivity announced it was repurchasing $1.5 billion in company shares and raised the company's quarterly dividend to 44 cents per share from 40 cents per share.
Transocean — The offshore drilling contractor announced that wealth advisory firm Wilmington Trust filed a lawsuit against Transocean-subsidiary Global Marine, alleging the company is in default of $300 million. Transocean said it intends to "vigorously defend" the suit.


Could the market's new darling become its next black swan event 
?
The bitcoin craze could pose a real risk to the broader market next year, Deutsche Bank warned last week, ahead of the cryptocurrency's launch on futures exchanges, scheduled to take place Sunday. Torsten Slok, the firm's chief international economist, sent to clients a list of significant risks to the market in 2018. Included on that list: A crash in the price of bitcoin, higher inflation and the threat of North Korea. Bitcoin has emerged as a financial phenomenon this year as the digital currency sees $1,000-plus swings within hours. At this juncture, as the cryptocurrency has advanced quadruple digits this year, Slok said the markets have not correctly priced in the broader impact bitcoin could potentially have.
Deutsche Bank's risks to the market in 2018

"It is something that I think financial markets so far have been discounting as a small issue," the economist said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." He said he worries about whether bitcoin and its wild price swings could become "more systemic" next year if the current trends continue.
"The worry, of course, that one can have is that it's catching on quite substantially. And of course with the speed with which prices are going up, then you do wonder where prices will be even by the end of 2017. But we do think that in 2018, this, of course, will continue to be a topic, and there are a number of questions that remain unanswered," Slok said.
While bitcoin has more than its share of true believers — many of whom have sent its price on a dizzying rally to around $19,000 just last week — the digital currency's volatility and lack of transparency has earned it a fair number of critics.
Last week, "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer likened bitcoin trading to "an abstruse casino game that seems to have only winners and no losers. You've got to like that, right? I think, though, that could change," Cramer said.
Specifically, questions persist around regulation of the cryptocurrency and transparency in what exactly investors hold, according to Deutsche's Slok. The cryptocurrency's price rose above $19,000 for the first time on Thursday before tumbling more than 20 percent, according to Coinbase data. Its volatility could intensify in days ahead as exchanges prepare to launch bitcoin futures trading.
--CNBC's Liz Gurdus contributed to this report.


The cryptocurrency market has had a banner year thanks to the meteoric rise in bitcoin prices and the huge popularity of initial coin offerings as a new way of fundraising.
Many people are buying into new digital tokens with the assumption that those virtual currencies will appreciate over time at levels similar to bitcoin, or its rival ether. And while price action has hardly been staid this year, market watchers told CNBC they expect more dramatic movements in the cryptocurrency market in 2018.
Those developments could include a spike in funds being raised through ICOs, clearer guidelines and crackdowns from regulators and the mainstream acceptance of bitcoin, they said.


A lot of people are talking about cryptocurrencies these days, probably because they've gone so much higher this year.  The most important thing to remind ourselves is that anything to do with bitcoin or ethereum right now is pure speculation. Prices are rising because there is a finite supply and people are betting that other people are going to buy at higher prices later. There are zero fundamentals involved because these digital assets produce no cash flows, like a stock or a bond.  Whether or not cryptocurrencies represent the future of commerce or are just in a giant bubble, people are curious about how they can experiment.  I do not recommend that people risk their money in cryptocurrencies, but I have been experimenting personally, just to learn and see for myself what it's all about. This video is for people who are curious and it's not an endorsement of any particular coin or service.  Okay, with that disclaimer, I'll tell you a little bit about how I've been doing my research.  I chose to use Coinbase.com to buy my first bitcoin this July. It's a brokerage and handles storage for people who want to buy and sell digital assets.  To get started, I created a login and an account. I was then prompted to link a bank account, which took 48 hours to establish. I was able to execute my first purchase, locking in my price immediately, although it took almost a week before the money was transferred in from my bank and the coin purchase showed up on the screen. The first thing you'll see when you log in is a dashboard. It defaults to showing you Bitcoin's recent price activity, although you can toggle over to see prices of Ethereum and Litecoin, the other two digital assets Coinbase currently allows you to buy and sell.  Below, you'll see the holdings in your account.  The buy/sell page is where you place an order. It looks like an online stock brokerage page, and that's probably not an accident. You have the option of buying fractional amounts of cryptocurrency. You don't have to buy one whole coin at a time. I believe that this has sped adoption among young speculators first starting out with lower dollar figures.  You can also see that there is an option to place a fixed dollar amount at a specified interval. For example, you can have the same dollar amount move into your account daily, weekly, biweekly or monthly, making an automatic purchase regardless of price. It's sort of like dollar cost averaging.  The most popular news source for all things crypto is called Coindesk. Coindesk has set itself up to be something like the Wall Street Journal for digital assets. The news coverage goes on throughout the day, written by analysts and journalists who cover the space.  It is, of course, highly biased toward being bullish on crypto in general so it's important to take everything you read with a grain of salt.  Let me remind everyone that so far, Bitcoin has had a parabolic rise and has turned into something of a mania, and there is no reason to think that this could go on uninterrupted. In fact, one of the most enduring features of the crypto-space is the periodic crash, which comes without any warning, even though all of the crashes have led to higher prices so far.  Storage and custody is another tricky issue, with hacks of these exchanges having occurred on a regular basis. For that reason, many players have been taking their digital coins off of the exchanges and storing them on a chip that is not connected to the internet.  Timing a mania or a bubble is very difficult, so my attitude is to expect that every dollar I experiment with could be lost.  The world of cryptocurrencies is both exciting and fraught with danger, volatility and the chance of theft. It's very early right now and anyone experimenting should do so with eyes wide open and a high risk tolerance.  Good luck out there.


Bitcoin futures are set to begin trading Sunday at the CBOE and a week later at the CME, and retail brokerages are bracing.
Interactive Brokers' founder Tom Peterffy said on  CNBC's "Fast Money" on Thursday, his concern is that the cryptocurrency could continue to rise to $100,000 or more before crashing to zero, and could pull down small brokerages in the process.
Bitcoin's price has skyrocketed just this week from $12,000 to $19,000 and back down below $16,000. Futures trading is only seen as further legitimizing bitcoin even as some prominent market participants say a dangerous bubble is forming.


Jobs grew by 228,000 in November, with strong hiring across the board in manufacturing, construction and professional jobs.
Employers were expected to have added about 200,000 jobs in November and wage growth was seen as strong, two trends reinforcing that the Federal Reserve will raise rates when it meets next week.
The employment report showed the unemployment rate held at 4.1 percent, and average hourly earnings rose 0.2 percent, slightly less than the 0.3 percent expected. Year-over-year, wages rose 2.5 percent pace, up from 2.4 percent in October. For more, read the latest on November job gains.
Economists expect to see some continued recovery in hiring after Hurricanes Harvey and Irma  hit Texas and the Southeast in August and September.
"I think it's going to be a pretty firm report," said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at Amherst Pierpont. "I have 210,000 for payrolls. I think it's that high because there's a little bit more of the post-storm recovery."


The stock of Allergan seems to be on a one-way path of struggle and endless competition, CNBC's Jim Cramer said on Thursday.
"It can't catch a break," the "Mad Money" host told a caller in the lightning round. "Sage Therapeutics has got a competitive drug to something that they may be doing for depression. The other day we saw another company, Revance [Therapeutics], have a competitive product to Botox. Doesn't matter that the CEO, Brent Saunders, just bought a lot of stock. Nothing matters. This stock is a one-way stock."
Cramer even compared Allergan's stock to bitcoin, the wildly popular digital currency that also seems to be on a "one-way" path to $20,000 and possibly beyond.
"It is the anti-bitcoin," Cramer said.


With the CBOE, CME and Nasdaq hopping aboard the bitcoin train to offer their own derivatives of the wildly popular cryptocurrency, CNBC's Jim Cramer issued a warning about the craze.
"After its recent ascent, bitcoin's become some sort of abstruse casino game that seems to have only winners and no losers. You've got to like that, right? I think, though, that could change," the "Mad Money" host said. "Whenever any security runs from $5,000 to $10,000 to $15,000 to $19,000 in a matter of weeks or even hours, you've gotta wonder how long it will be before it bursts."
Given the buzz around bitcoin, Cramer said that it could still have room to run even after Thursday's rally, which brought the digital currency above $19,000 for the first time.
But the "Mad Money" host still came up with five reasons to be suspicious of the trend.
"First, no one knows who created it. Second, no one knows how much the creator reserved for themselves. For all we know, there are tons of these things sitting on the sidelines somewhere. Third, there's virtually no transparency into the underlying system," Cramer said. "Fourth, there's no government backing — obviously — there are no underlying assets backing it up and there's no military support for the bitcoin system, unlike real currencies."
Fifth, despite the professed protection of blockchain, the secure way to trade bitcoin, Cramer pointed out the bitcoin is software. And software, as we know all too well, can be hacked.
"When, not if, but when, that happens, it will be a total loss as there's no insurance and no fiat backing," Cramer said. "With those five considerations, sooner or later, this thing's going to run out of steam."
Cramer said that the real driver behind the rally could be hidden buyers hoarding bitcoin because they want to keep the supply tight.
That's part of the reason why bitcoin is often cast as the "death knell" to gold, which remains a precious metal because only 1 percent of the world's supply is mined each year, Cramer said.
But the three major exchanges creating bitcoin futures will make the digital currency a two-way market, putting people on the other side of the trade. Not only would that help eliminate hoarding, but it'll introduce shorting possibilities, the "Mad Money" host predicted.
"Once we get an orderly market in bitcoin, I think a top won't be far behind," he said. "Look, I want to congratulate everyone who was early on this story, everyone who ... sold it at $19,000, everyone who's made a fortune in bitcoin. You're smart, you're good, you're fabulous. But when the other side of the trade develops, bulls make money, bears make money, and pigs get slaughtered. And I do not want you to be a pig and get slaughtered."


Hong Kong-based private equity and venture capital firm First Eastern Investment Group is betting big on China's burgeoning financial technology sector, its chairman and chief executive told CNBC.
"I'm putting my money on Chinese fintech, particularly the payments sector going global," Victor Chu said Friday on the sidelines of the Fortune Global Forum in Guangzhou, China.
Alibaba's Alipay and Tencent's WeChat Pay, which currently dominate the payments landscape in China, have already had some expansion outside of their domestic market. And as Chinese tourists travel abroad in greater numbers, the two payments companies are expected to "follow their customers" and sink their feet in more countries, Chu said.
First Eastern Investment Group is already helping both Alipay and WeChat to expand into Europe, Chu told CNBC.
"If they (Chinese tourists) go to London and WeChat Pay is accepted like Visa, it's very easy, they don't even need to exchange foreign currency," he said, noting that the number of Chinese outbound tourists is projected to exceed 200 million in five years from the current 110 million.
"So they have to go out because they have to follow their customers, but sooner or later, WeChat Pay and Alipay, with innovation, can be very competitive," he added.


The analyst who accurately called oil's bottom in in 2015 sees a boom for U.S. shale producers.
Tom Kloza, who runs the Oil Price Information Service, is crediting OPEC for his optimistic 2018 forecast.
"OPEC basically gave a Christmas gift to U.S. shale producers," the company's global head of energy analysis said this week on CNBC's "Futures Now."
The oil cartel decidedlast Thursday to extend production cuts through the end of next year. The purpose is intended to boost crude prices and prevent a glut.
But it comes with a price. In return, non-OPEC countries, such as the United States, have more of an incentive to increase their output.
Kloza said the U.S. surpassed 9.7 million barrels a day in crude output, including shale, on Wednesday — something that hasn't happened since April 1971. Kloza predicts the number will get to 10 million by early next year.
"We may be at a record right now for shale," Kloza said. "It establishes a stronger bottom for crude oil."
He predicts West Texas Intermediate crude will hover around $55 a barrel and Brent bubbling around $60 next year. Right now, WTI is trading in the mid-$50s and while Brent is just over $61.
"You hear these people talking about $70. Look, $70 is possible but it's probably as possible as the Jets making it to the Super Bowl. So, it's very, very improbable," he said. "It would take an event, it would take some sort of disruption in Libya or Nigeria beyond what we've seen in the last couple of years."


Investors should be careful of the euphoria that's propelled bitcoin to past $19,000 a day after crossing $14,000 because it's very early days in cryptocurrencies, BK Capital Management founder Brian Kelly told CNBC on Thursday.
"If you look at the internet in 1995, that's where you are in digital currencies," said Kelly, portfolio manager of the BKCM Digital Asset Fund.
While bitcoin is the largest, with a market value of around $250 billion, and a nearly 1,900 percent increase in the past 12 months, there have been a wave of cryptocurrencies in recent years. Two other big ones, ethereum and litecoin, have seen even larger 12-month gains, 5,100 percent and 2,600 percent, respectively, according to a main digital currency platform CoinBase.
"To be clear, there will be Pets.com in this space. There are Pets.com," said Kelly, referring to the online pet supply retailer that's become one of the symbols of the dot-com excess of the 1990s. Founded in 1998, Pets.com, which even advertised during the Super Bowl, went public in February 2000 and shortly after achieved a $100 million market value. But it went out of business about eight months later.
"I have no idea if bitcoin is going to be one [to prevail]," he admitted. "Just like the internet."
In the meantime, Kelly who calls himself a "value speculator" in digital currencies is investing in bitcoin, which he said traded more than Apple shares last week. He said there's plenty of liquidity on the platforms that enable trading in digital currencies, so investors who want to sell won't have problems finding buyers.
"As much as I love bitcoin, an asset that goes straight up, investors have to be careful," said Kelly, author of "The Bitcoin Big Bang — How Alternative Currencies are About to Change the World." "That being said, there's a massive runway here digital currencies."
Kelly also said he sees greater opportunity in ethereum than bitcoin. "There are thousands of the smartest minds working on building stuff on top of [ethereum]."
In addition to trading bitcoin in the unregulated cash market, CME Group and Cboe Global Markets are set to unveil bitcoin futures, which add a layer of federal government oversight.
Andrew Busch, chief market intelligence officer of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which approved the exchanges' plans, told CNBC on Wednesday, "Our role as a derivatives regulator is to make sure the futures contract it's not manipulated. We're going to do that for sure."
Cboe bitcoin futures are set to begin trading on Sunday. The CME contracts are slated to launch on Dec. 18. Nasdaq, meanwhile, plans to launch its own bitcoin futures as early as the second quarter of 2018.


Shares in Skyworks Solutions, Cirrus Logic, and Qorvo traded higher on Thursday after fellow Apple supplier Broadcom hinted the late launch of iPhone X would help revenue rise.
"As we look into the first quarter 2018, unlike the last 2 years, we expect wireless revenue to continue to grow sequentially as the ramp in demand from our North American customer this year was pushed out compared to prior years," Broadcom CEO Hock Tan told a conference call on Wednesday.
Analysts say the 2017 performance of component suppliers to the California-based tech giant has been weighed down by Apple's decision to push back the launch of the 10th anniversary iPhone until November.
Many have also said suppliers who support the phone's functionalities ranging from image and motion sensors to power management would see gains now that the phone has launched.
"I would expect stocks like SWKS, QRVO, CRUS to react positively today from AVGO (Broadcom) as well as the entire sector," said Loop Capital analyst Betsy Van Hees.
Shares of Skyworks were up 2 pct, while Cirrus rose 1.2 pct and Qorvo 1.9 pct in premarket trading on Thursday.
"While our fundamental thesis remains unchanged for QRVO and SWKS, for traders we wouldn't dismiss the opportunity for QRVO and SWKS to trade higher off this call," Cowen analyst Karl Ackerman wrote.
Earlier this week Ackerman said detailed field research on Apple production had pointed to better than expected iPhone builds for the fourth quarter of 2017 and first quarter of next year.


Shares of Sage Therapeutics soared 70 percent on Thursday after the company announced positive results in the testing a major depressive disorder (MDD) treatment.
Sage said in a release that 64 percent of patients achieved MDD remission using the SAGE-217 drug in the 15th day of treatment.
This is the second successful drug trial result in as many months for Sage. On Nov. 9, the company said brexanolone — a drug aimed at treating moderate and severe postpartum depression —  met its main goal in two late-stage studies. The stock shot up 54.2 percent that day and is up 44.1 percent over the past month.

"These very encouraging data suggest the potential of SAGE-217 in the treatment of MDD as well as other mood-related disorders that we may pursue," CEO Jeff Jonas said in a statement. "The positive activity and safety findings of SAGE-217 in MDD support advancing the program into later stage clinical development."


Those who track the markets commonly describe stocks and bonds as arguing about the economic future — with the odds typically tilted toward bonds, for their tight focus on the core macro forces and record of prescience.
The headlines are familiar:
"Bond Markets Have a Message About the Economy That Stock Investors Might Not Want to Hear"
And:
"The Bond Market Is Giving the Stock Market a Stern Warning"
This foreboding signal of economic weakness purportedly comes from stubbornly low 10-year Treasury yields and a narrowing spread between short and long rates at a time of buoyant equity indexes.
But here's the thing: The first headline above is from June 2016, the second from June of this year. Stocks and the U.S. economy have done just fine in the interim; the S&P 500 has climbed at a 15 percent annual rate since both those dates, up 25 percent since June 2016 and more than 8 percent the past six months.
The 10-year Treasury is, in fact, higher now than at those moments over the past 18 months when it seemed its skimpy yield was wagging a finger at stocks and admonishing them to "be careful."
Yet much talk on Wall Street today again involves the stickiness of that 10-year note under 2.4 percent, and the compression of its spread to two-year Treasurys to below 0.55 percentage points, despite a peppy run of economic growth here and abroad and swelling investor risk appetites in other markets.
So is there any reason to think now that the bond market is conveying an alarming message that should be heeded?
Probably not — at least no urgent warning of distress particularly soon. There are several big-picture reasons yields are still subdued despite years of predictions for them to race higher, and they don't include "the economy is in trouble."
First, demand for U.S. Treasury paper is persistently strong in a world suffering a relative shortage of safe yield.
The German 10-year note yields around 0.3 percent, leaving its American counterpart a full two percentage points higher and unable to widen that gap more.
Hedge-fund manager Mark Dow, who also blogs at Behavioral Macro, points out that there is very little triple-A rated corporate debt in circulation after ratings-agencies turned stricter. Vast amounts of capital is wielded by price-insensitive institutions, from insurers to pension plans to banks, which are now required to hold more high-quality securities. And, of course, central banks are holding trillions in government debt.
This makes the 10-year Treasury a balky gauge of cyclical economic prospects, Dow argues in a blog post:
"This isn't to say yields don't react to economic info or don't say anything about the state of the economy. Of course they do. But the dominance of financial drivers after 30 years of global financial deepening has made attempts to extract economic information from the level and shape of the US yield curve unhelpful–or worse, vulnerable to false positives."
A "false positive," in this case, would mean an untrustworthy signal of sharp economic slowdown.
It's worth noting that in the past week or so, as the 10-year yield has ebbed and the yield curve pressed to new lows for this cycle, bank stocks have held up well and utility and REIT shares have sagged.
Might this be the equity market's way of looking through the current bond action, betting the economy will be good enough for a run of Fed rate hikes and implying that a rush to much lower long-term yields is not in the offing?
Second, bond yields also might simply be saying consumer inflation is low and is likely to remain so. The whole story of aging populations and galloping technological disruption isn't new but still persuades.
Cathie Wood, chief investment officer at growth-stock shop ARK Invest, has pointed out that in the late 19th century the yield curve was flat for years thanks to an innovation-driven deflationary economic boom.
The two-year Treasury is driven by Fed rate-hike expectations for the next several quarters. The ten-year is influenced by the longer-term outlook for inflation's effect on bondholder returns
Third, perhaps the squeezed yield curve is also about the economic cycle simply pushing into a later phase, but not yet nearing its end.
If that's the case, and Treasury prices are set up for a few more rate hikes before the Fed tightening cycle is done, we could be six months to two years away from the economy tipping into recession. Importantly, corporate high-grade and speculative-grade debt are priced at sturdy levels, a virtual "all clear" from the credit markets about the underpinnings of the economy.
Strategist Tony Dwyer of Cannacord Genuity notes that over the past three cycles, once the 2-to-10-year Treasury spread narrowed below 0.6 percentage points, the median S&P 500 gain to the ultimate market peak was around 60 percent, and a recession was "at least two years away."
Only three cycles might not be statistically airtight. And this has been an unusual cycle, with rates kept near zero for years and markets having outperformed the economy for much of the time. So maybe such "rules" won't be followed too closely.
But it's at least some comfort to those hearing shrill warnings about what bonds are supposedly telling us.



Stronger business travel in 2018 will likely mean higher profits for hotels, airlines and car rental providers, but online travel company Expedia won't be in on the windfall.
Growth concerns have dogged Expedia throughout the year, and MKM Partners analyst Christopher Agnew says these worries aren't likely to resolve themselves soon.
Shares of Expedia fell 0.3 percent Thursday; the stock is down 17.5 percent over the past three months.
"The stock gapped down in October and has been unable to even attempt to fill that gap, an indication of weakness," wrote Agnew on Thursday. The analyst downgraded Expedia to neutral from buy. The stock's 200-day moving average — a key metric for Wall Street technical analysts — has begun to flatten out and is at risk of moving lower.

Expedia's bookings were light in the third quarter as reported in October. Gross bookings grew by about $2.1 billion, or 11 percent year over year, and overall nights stayed through all Expedia lodgings brands increased just 16 percent year over year.
The stock "has really lost momentum," added Agnew, who has a $115 estimate on Expedia shares, which is 3.5 percent lower than Wednesday's closing price. While the outlook is gloomy, the analyst noted that Expedia's HomeAway, a direct Airbnb challenger, may benefit from strong leisure travel.


A correction hasn't shaken the historic market rally yet, but Wall Street legend Byron Wien says it's "definitely" coming.
"A 10 percent correction could come along at any time, and particularly when the market has done as well as it's done. I mean basically it's gone straight up since Donald Trump was elected," Wien warned on Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
If a correction of that magnitude were to hit today, the Dow would suffer a 2,400 point blow.
Wien, vice chairman of Blackstone's Private Wealth Solutions group, gives a 50 percent probability for a deep sell-off by year-end. He's been in the correction camp all year — and says he's concerned it hasn't happened yet.
"The market is overbought and investors are optimistic," said Wien. "An overbought market with optimistic investors is vulnerable, and the question is what triggers the vulnerability?"
It's not an easy answer, according to Wien. His hunch is a geopolitical development, such as a major conflict with North Korea, could trigger a correction by causing instability. But it's also possible the rally could just pause on its own.
"Maybe the market just spontaneously begins to fade," added Wien, who believes the markets are already borrowing performance from 2018.Regardless of how it materializes, Wien doesn't see it as a sign that a bear market is around the corner. He believes stocks would bounce back quickly, and ultimately end 2018 higher than current levels.
"Fundamentals are very strong," Wien said.
The Dow, which is up 32 percent since Trump was elected, saw its second negative session in a row on Wednesday after falling about 40 points. It closed at 24,140.


Biotech stocks have lagged recently, as the Nasdaq biotech ETF, the IBB, has declined for three-straight sessions and is down more than 10 percent from its October high. On a technical level, the group's charts concern Miller Tabak equity strategist Matt Maley. Here's why: • On Wednesday, the ETF broke below its 200-day moving average, which has proven solid support for the IBB for much of 2017. This is a red flag for the stocks into year-end and into 2018.

• The IBB has rallied nearly 16 percent this year but began pulling back in October. This raised concern that it could see a decline akin to the one in 2015 amid political uncertainty around drug pricing. • Two more key levels Maley is watching are 105.5, which was the IBB's high in early November and early December, and 101.5, which is the low touched in August and November. A break below 101.5 would be quite bearish for the IBB.  Bottom line: Biotech stocks just broke below their 200-day moving average, which could have negative implications for the group.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Shake Shack — The fast casual chain got a positive bump from Morgan Stanley, which raised its rating on the stock to "equal weight" from "underweight." Shake Shack new store openings have consistently outperformed, the firm wrote in a note, and this next year should see heavy investment by the burger makers.
Expedia — Both Priceline and Expedia were lowered to a "neutral" rating by MKM Partners. The firm lowered its outlook from "buy" on both of the online travel companies, saying in note the future holds a "significantly lower earnings outlook."
Dollar General — The discount retailer's third quarter earnings came in a penny below the 94 cents per share which analysts surveyed by FactSet expected. Dollar General said hurricanes accounted for 5 cent negative impact on earnings.
Sage Therapeutics — Shares of the biopharmaceutical company ripped higher after announcing positive results from Phase 2 testing of its depression drug known as SAGE-217. Leerink Partners wrote in a note that Sage now has 90 percent odds of approval for the drug.
Broadcom — The chipmaker reported first quarter earnings 7 cents above what Wall Street expected with earnings of $4.59 per share, as well as a healthy $4.85 billion in revenue. MKM Partners and Drexel Hamilton both issued notes saying the results were "solid," with the former firm noting that investor focus is now on Broadcom's proposed acquisition of Qualcomm.
Vail Resorts —The Colorado company reported an earnings loss of $2 per share for its first quarter, missing Wall Street anaylsts' expectations of $1.83 per share loss.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are mixed after Wednesday's flat close. We get weekly jobless claims numbers this morning ahead of Friday's monthly jobs report.
-GE is cutting 12,000 jobs in the electrical power division.
BITCOIN BOOM
-Bitcoin has soared past $15,000, just hours after crossing $14,000. Leading banks are trying to block the launching of bitcoin futures exchanges. Hackers have stolen about $70 million worth of bitcoin from a major cryptomining website.



Suddenly, housing stocks have gone from hot to not.
The iShares U.S. Home Construction exchange-traded fund, the ITB, has fallen more than 1 percent in the last week after advancing more than 50 percent year to date. The ETF is still the best-performing U.S. industry group ETF this year, according to an analysis from Bespoke Investment Group.
A relatively strong fundamental backdrop has set the homebuilders up for their hot streak, said Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global. She cited rising wage growth, consumer sentiment ticking higher and mortgage rates remaining historically low. Still, she spots emerging risks on the horizon.
"We have seen tightening inventories. Regionally, these are different stories. So what's happening in California is going to be different from what's happening in Nevada. However, that is going to continue to be a problem," Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global, said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
The pending tax bill also provides an air of uncertainty regarding mortgage rates on a state-by-state basis, she added.
Technically speaking, the charts of the housing stocks look strong, said Rich Ross, head of technical analysis at Evercore ISI.
Looking at a chart of the ITB, Ross noted that a slight pullback after a strong run is to be expected. Zooming out and looking longer-term, he noted that the ITB has recently emerged from a four-year sideways trading range despite its recent lagging.

"What we know about technical analysis is when we emerge from these patterns, whether it's a multiyear range or a multiyear base, the moves coming out of that pattern tend to be larger in both duration and magnitude than people anticipate. That's what's going on here with the homebuilders," he said.
The ITB was modestly lower in Wednesday trading.


Wall Street banks have raised objections to the introduction of bitcoin futures trading, highlighting fears that the financial system can't cope with the cryptocurrency's volatile price swings.
Bitcoin has rocketed higher Thursday, crossing the $15,000 mark less than 48 hours after topping $12,000.
The U.K.'s  Financial Times has reported that a letter from the Futures Industry Association, which counts the world's biggest banks among its members, is to be sent Thursday to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in the U.S.
The letter reportedly criticizes the introduction of bitcoin futures and states that the Chicago exchanges, CME Group and CBOE Global Markets, should not be allowed to launch bitcoin futures under a self-certifying regime.


CNBC's Jim Cramer knows that part of smart investing is learning from everyone.
So when Carlyle Group co-CEO David Rubenstein said that the only thing he's worried about for the next two years is some sort of unexpected geopolitical event, it got Cramer thinking.
"The only thing we have to worry about, I think, in 2018 and 2019 is some unanticipated geopolitical event, the so-called black swan," Rubenstein told CNBC's Net/Net dinner in Washington, D.C. on Tuesday.
While Cramer doesn't like the phrase "black swan" because he wants to be ready for anything and everything, he did compile a list of 10 concerns he has going into 2018.
"A black swan is the thing you don't see coming, but we've got more than enough concerns that can be anticipated," the "Mad Money" host said. "Let me tell you what weighs on me every day."


As he rounds out his last few months as CEO of the now-private Panera Bread, Ron Shaich told CNBC that one of his biggest worries is the "pervasive short-term-ism" of the public market.
"The greatest competitive advantage Panera had, the reason we produced these results we did, is because we could think long term," Shaich told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer on Wednesday. "And the reason I took our company private is I'm increasingly worried about our ability to do that in a public market."
Shaich, who co-founded Panera and remained at its helm for two decades, highlighted a sea change he's noticed in his 26 years as CEO of a public company.
After issuing and watching the results of more than 100 quarterly earnings reports, the restaurant industry veteran said that traders, not institutional investors, increasingly run the show in the stock market.
"What's driving today's shareholdings are traders on the market," Shaich said. "We had large shareholders like [Capital Research & Management], Goldman Sachs, Baron Funds, but the reality is, they don't drive the price. What drives the price are the traders who are betting on next week's comp. And that affects the entire organization."
"Do you think this is good for economic growth?" the CEO added.
Shaich called attention to the recent upheaval in Buffalo Wild Wings to cement his point. Over the summer, activist firm Marcato incited a proxy fight that ended with the resignation of the chain's CEO, Sally Smith.
Shaich said that Smith called him when the proxy fight started, and they talked about "drawing a line in the sand" to push back against the activists.
"Her management supported her. Her franchisees supported her. She lost the proxy fight, the stock popped 10 percent for a couple of weeks and then it fell 40 percent. And they were forced to sell the company for no more than it was trading at at the beginning," Shaich said.
Shaich expressed his frustration with activists who take minority stakes in companies only in order to boost the stock price in the near term.
As Shaich sees it, the long-term view often serves companies much better than the day-by-day, quarter-by-quarter sentiment that today's market has adopted.
"The greatest competitive advantage of the FANG stocks – Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google – is they have the ability to be long term. They have a capital structure that's long term,' Shaich said. "I think that increasingly, if we're going to have change, we need to really express this. We need to recognize how these markets have changed."


When "momentum stock" Autodesk lost its mojo after a less-than-perfect quarter, CNBC's Jim Cramer knew he had to take another look at the software company's business to vet the decline.
Autodesk, which makes computer-aided design software for an array of industries from architecture to entertainment, posted a small earnings beat on Nov. 28. Cramer didn't find many negatives in the report, but after it was released, the stock tanked 16 percent.
"When you see a market darling turn on a dime like this and get slammed, you've got to circle back to the story and ask yourself a simple question: are we dealing with a broken stock or a broken company?" the "Mad Money" host said. "In other words, did Autodesk merely hit a speed bump, or did it crash into a retaining wall at 80 miles an hour?"
Before the latest quarter, Autodesk was one of the S&P 500's top 20 best-performing stocks for 2017. Shares of the software play had run up over 70 percent for the year.
But even though its third-quarter results beat Wall Street's earnings and sales estimates, management also lowered its full-year guidance and announced a restructuring plan replete with roughly 1,150 layoffs, according to an SEC filing.
"It implies that things aren't going well. And since when does Autodesk need to turn things around?" Cramer said. "You typically don't roll out a restructuring plan when your business is firing on all cylinders."
And until the latest quarter, Autodesk did appear to be firing on all cylinders. The company is a leader in design software that Cramer called "the best tech company you've never heard of."
The "Mad Money" host recommended Autodesk's stock after the company started moving operations to the cloud, concurrently reporting a series of strong quarters. In August, Autodesk delivered a strong top- and bottom-line beat with a 94 percent increase in cloud revenues.
Soon after, the stock was peppered with a series of analyst upgrades: Guggenheim, Canaccord, KeyBanc and RBC Capital all raised their price targets on the name, with Guggenheim taking it from "neutral" to "buy."
"Now, I'm a big believer in the idea that you need to be wary when a stock runs dramatically going into the quarter, and all these supremely bullish analysts sure didn't help," Cramer said.
In fact, the bulls effectively set Autodesk up for failure, he continued: unless the earnings results were utterly perfect, the stock was doomed.
And this quarter came with more than a few flaws. The earnings beat was smaller than Wall Street was used to from Autodesk.
To make matters worse, the restructuring plan, which management said was done to pay for the cloud transition, took analysts for a spin, raising four separate questions about the move on the conference call.
The guidance was also fairly dismal. Autodesk's sales forecast for next quarter was weaker than expected, and management slashed the high end of its full-year subscription forecast from 675,000 to 650,000. Worse yet, executives said they expected a bigger-then-expected full-year loss.
"This has become a 'show me' story," Cramer said. "While I'm still a believer in the company's long-term prospects, I have less conviction than I did the last time Autodesk was at these levels over the summer. It's actually not as cheap as it was back then, at the same level, because we now have to deal with a whole new set of risks about the future. My verdict? If you own Autodesk, hold it — feel free to ring the register on part of it, absolutely, though — and if you don't like this new level of uncertainty but you think it's a buying opportunity, I suggest you be patient. I think you're going to get a better one."


Bitcoin is a pure gamble, and those interested in the cryptocurrency should just go to Vegas, CNBC's Jim Cramer warned on Wednesday.
The cryptocurrency, which has surged more than 1,000 percent this year, broke above the $12,000 mark on Wednesday morning, according to industry site CoinDesk. Bitcoin's rapid gains have prompted some market participants to warn of a bubble.
"It's kind of like 'Monopoly' money," Cramer said on "Squawk Box."  "Obviously, there's people who use it. If you ever say anything bad about it, there's like this 'bitcoin mafia' that comes after you. But it is an oddity that has nothing to do with us" as investors.
"It's just pure gambling at this point," Cramer continued. "I mean if you want to gamble, go to Vegas. Vegas is fabulous."
"I mean honestly, what's the difference between bitcoin and trying to figure out the Super Bowl? I mean it's gambling," the host of CNBC's "Mad Money" added.
Late last month, Cramer said the cryptocurrency's velocity is a sign that its surge is "parabolic," and that could mean the rally won't last.


It's one of the most common questions on Wall Street: Where has all the volatility gone?
Between D.C. drama, geopolitical uncertainty surrounding North Korea and President Donald Trump's tweets, investors have had ample reasons to hit the sell button. But 2017 is shaping up to be one of the least volatile years on record.
And according to a new report by Credit Suisse, big market moves may not return anytime soon.
The firm says the market's lack of volatility is the result of stocks moving independently of one another, a dynamic broadly referred to as correlations. According to Credit Suisse's research, three-month correlations in the market have fallen to their lowest level since 2000.

"The extreme sector dispersion explains why index moves have been so muted this year, as the market has really been driven by sector rotation," wrote Mandy Xu, chief equity derivatives strategist at Credit Suisse and author of the report on sector correlation breaking down.
In other words, while the market appears calm on the surface, many stocks are seeing big moves independent of one another; however, those moves in single stocks cancel each other out when they are grouped into a broader index, leading to muted daily market moves.
Xu points to tax reform uncertainty and investors being caught off guard in the recent sector rotation as the drivers of low correlations in the market. According to the strategist, as long as stocks continue moving independently of each other, the broader market will remain calm.
"If this continues, expect to remain in a low volatility regime for longer," she added.


Social media giant Facebook will lead the "FANG" stocks higher in 2018 with no correction in sight, according to Evercore ISI.
In fact, given the large addressable markets that are on the cusp of disruption, analyst Anthony DiClemente argues that the next wave of technology growth could be even larger than the last.
"Today's leading tech companies are leveraging the internet to disrupt and take profits from large established industries, a dynamic that is driving real earnings and free cash flow growth," DiClemente wrote to clients on Tuesday. "Beyond that, smartphone ubiquity, the transition from offline to digital marketplaces, and continued growth in user adoption of emerging/established digital platforms are providing fuel for the next legs of growth."
The analyst, who worked previously for Nomura Instinet, initiated coverage on a slew of companies in the space Wednesday with most of the so-called FANG stocks among his favorites.
By issuing a $225 price target on Mark Zuckerberg's social media giant Facebook, the analyst believes that the company's shares will rise 30 percent over the next year.
"Between 2013 and 2017, the share of web traffic coming via Facebook has grown five-fold to exceed 40 percent, during this same period the value of the overall digital ecosystem has effectively doubled," wrote DiClemente. "Perhaps the most striking dynamic within social media is the incredible growth of Instagram over the past three years. Based on the company's disclosure in late September, Instagram's user base now stands at 800mn, a four-fold increase relative to just three years prior."
Investors have also been keeping a close eye on Facebook's digital video ambitions, including its new "Watch" platform and ventures into sports content. The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this year that the company is willing to spend up to $1 billion on original video content.
As for Amazon, DiClemente was also quite optimistic on everything from Amazon Web Services to Alexa and Prime Instant Video. His $1,350 price target reflects 18 percent upside over the next 12 months.
"Within both e-commerce and cloud computing, Amazon has established itself as the clear market leader," he added. "Amazon's competitive advantage, driven by its vast global infrastructure should ensure continued attractive returns in our view."
DiClemente also issued an outperform rating on Google parent Alphabet accompanied by a $1,230 price target, representing 21 percent upside over the next 12 months. With the ongoing shift to mobile platforms and web searches, the analyst argues that Google will "outpace" the growth of the overall search industry.
As the only FANG stock that did not receive an outperform rating, Netflix may be facing a maturing subscriber base in the U.S., the analyst noted.
While DiClemente sees a long runway for subscriber growth overseas, a possible slowdown in domestic user growth may force the company to consider its price power. In October, Netflix announced that its $10/month high-definition plan now costs $11, sending shares soaring at the time of the announcement.
To be sure, the analyst's $210 price target does spell meaningful, 14 percent upside for the company over the next year.


Shares of AeroVironment, a military drone maker, closed 26 percent higher and hit an all-time high on Wednesday after the company posted strong quarterly sales.
The company's revenue for fiscal second-quarter 2018 hit $73.8 million, marking a 47 percent year-over-year increase. AeroVironment attributed the sales surge to a $23.2 million gain in drones sales.
AeroVironment's strong revenue tricked down to its bottom line, as the drone maker's earnings per share shattered Wall Street expectations. The company reported a profit of 29 cents a share, while analysts polled by Reuters expected a loss of 6 cents a share.
"Our outstanding team delivered another solid quarter of financial and operational results driven by robust, global customer demand across our business and continued effective execution," CEO Wahid Nawabi said in a release.
AeroVironment's stock has already had a stellar 2017, having risen 61.2 percent entering Wednesday's session.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Alphabet — Evercore ISI initiated coverage of a group of internet companies, saying that "the best is yet to come for internet disruptors." The Google-parent company was among those the Wall Street firm rates as out-performers, as well as Facebook, Amazon, InterActive and Match Group.
Alibaba Group — Susquehanna began coverage of the Chinese e-commerce giant on Wednesday. The firm highlighted Alibaba's two retail platforms, Taobao and Tmall, as "impressive," writing in a note that both advertising businesses have "amply runway ahead."
AeroVironment — The military drone maker shares soared after the company posted strong second quarter sales. AeroVironment crushed Wall Street's expectations, reporting a profit of 29 cents per share, while analysts polled by Reuters were anticipating a loss of 6 cents per share.
UnitedHealth Group — Optum, division of the health care giant, expects to close a $4.9 billion deal for DaVita Medical Group next year. DaVita said it plans to use the sale proceedings to pay debts and buyback stock over the next couple of years.
Discovery Communications — The cable programming giant is taking a majority interest worth $70 million in the Oprah Winfrey Network, which was previously a joint venture between the TV star and Discovery. The deal increases Discovery's ownership to 75 percent, while Winfrey will continue as OWN's chief executive.
Home Depot — The home improvement retailer increased its fourth quarter stock buyback program to $15 billion, replacing a previous plan to purchase $2.1 billion in shares.
Fred's — The regional pharmacy announced it would not pay out its quarterly dividend and instead would put the money toward paying down more debt. The move came as Fred's reported a third quarter loss that was worse than anticipated.
Dave & Busters — The entertainment company reported better-than-expected earnings at 29 cents per share, above the 24 cents per share analysts polled by FactSet expected.



A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are down after Tuesday's losses. We get economic data today on private sector job growth and worker productivity this morning. Bitcoin has broken over $12,000 for the first time. Mortgage refinance applications surged 9 percent last week as rates fell back.
-Home Depot has announced a $15 billion share buyback program.
DEALS/NO DEALS
-Merger talks between Disney and 21st Century Fox have resumed. As part of the deal, James Murdoch could end up replacing Bob Iger as Disney CEO.


Emerging market equities have been lagging recently, falling over 3 percent in the last week alone. But we're still long emerging markets, and I believe it's a larger story than just the recent sell-off in Chinese technology stocks.  That sell-off has raised concerns regarding the health of the emerging markets trade. However, the drivers of this dip came from Chinese authorities and were largely expected. The drivers of emerging market equities reach far beyond China, and commodities are now being driven by increased manufacturing and a global trade boom. For these reasons, we continue to remain optimistic on emerging markets.  What happened in China?  The Chinese government instituted tough new regulations on online consumer lending platforms, which are made up of payday loans and peer-to-peer lending. Some of them are associated with large holdings in the emerging markets exchange-traded fund like Ant Financial, an Alibaba Group affiliate.  Many of these platforms conduct business without proper government licenses; the China Banking Regulatory Commission has suspended the issuance of all new licenses to online micro lending and is said to be scrutinizing online lending practices. More importantly, banks are being prohibited from buying loans underwritten by these platforms because they are deemed too risky.  Finally, securitizing these loans is now forbidden to avoid an outcome similar to the U.S. subprime crash.  How does this all impact emerging market equities?  While much of this is a continuation of the Chinese debt bubble, the move suggests that it has gotten out of the regulators' control. As they move to let the air out of this bubble, we are seeing faling prices for industrial metals and other raw goods. Many of these loans were being used to purchase homes, keeping the housing bubble in China inflated.  This will hit commodities exporting nations, but not as hard as one might expect.  What is offsetting this?  We see a global trade boom continuing to drive emerging markets as global Purchasing Manager indexes show continued growth in demand for manufactured goods. For example, Korea is already registering signs of slowing Chinese demand but is still showing 9.6 percent year-on-year growth for November exports. However, we continue to watch the tone out of Washington, since a shift toward more protectionism could put a dent in this.


The market has a problem: there's nothing left to rotate into.
Stocks sold off again midday Tuesday for the second day in a row.
On the surface, the tax bill that has been such a market mover got push-back from Democrats who organized protests against what they view as tax cuts for the rich.
I have already warned that the tax bill is not a fait accompli, but for different reasons: It is not clear if corporate tax cuts will be a 2018 or 2019 event (the Senate bill pushes it out to 2019) and President Donald Trump has intimated that the corporate tax cut may only be 22 percent, not 20 percent.
That is a half a loaf for traders, who are anticipating tax cuts in 2018 and a 20 percent tax cut.
But the markets have already indicated there may not be too much juice left in the whole "tax cut" trade, even if it passes.
We have been in a frenzy in the past week as traders have bought sectors that would benefit from tax cuts (banks, telecoms, industrials) and sold those that would benefit very little (technology).
But we may be reaching the limits of that trade.
Two days in a row, markets rose mid-morning, then sold off.
On Tuesday, the S&P 500 ETF (SPY), widely used by active traders to quickly get in and out of the market, spiked down decisively around 2:15 p.m. when it dropped notably below the early morning low, as well as Monday's low.
That is a bad technical indicator.
It doesn't help that the recent market leader — banks led the charge down. As with Monday, the bank stocks weakened midday. The Bank ETF (KBE) also saw a volume spike midday when it, too, dropped below the early morning close. But this time most closed down, with many regionals down nearly 2 percent. Banks were down since midday Monday, with the KBE was down almost 3 percent from Monday's high.
They have also grabbed almost every underperforming sector, regardless of tax implications: transports, retail and small caps (Russell 2000).
But all that reversed Tuesday. The biggest losers were the last week's biggest gainers: telecom, banks, retail, Russell 2000, transports.
This tells you traders are now seeing the limits to this "land grab" of buying underperforming sectors and playing the "tax cut" game.
Who can blame them? Take Macy's. It was $18 three weeks ago. It hit $26 Tuesday before selling off, up 40 percent.
Macy's up 40 percent in three weeks? Really? What happened to Macy's in three weeks? Oh sure, Thanksgiving was OK and the earnings were a modest surprise, but up 40 percent?
Or take bank stocks. The regional banks went nuts. BB&T was up 10 percent in four days. So was U.S. Bancorp. Zions Bancorp was up even more. Really?
You can't help but start to think we are stealing a bit from next year's gains.
Here's a bigger question: The whole market this year has been based on tech momentum. Will traders take the chance to buy some of the (modestly) beaten-down tech names?
Take Facebook. It's in another one of its periodic downdrafts, down about 7 percent in the last week. Facebook has had several downdrafts this year, most recently in September and October, and volume spiked each time. But ultimately, buyers bought on the dip.
Will that happen this time? Ask the same question for Nvidia or Alibaba. There's been endless demand on weakness.
The difference this time: There's not much in the way of other "beaten-down" stocks to buy.


A market that already has broken a multitude of records is about to set another one — this time for cash poured into stock-based funds.
Equity exchange-traded funds are on track to pull in $300 billion this year, after another solid showing in November. The month saw $30.6 billion in inflows, taking the running total for 2017 up to just shy of $294 billion, according to State Street Global Advisors.
For perspective, that would bring the total inflows for stock-based ETFs alone to more than the entire $3.4 trillion industry has ever taken in during a year.
A market that has seen 64 record closing highs for the Dow industrials is also seeing plenty of participation from investors.


A head of one of the largest U.S. private equity companies said a geopolitical surprise is the only thing for markets to worry about in the next two years.
"The only thing we have to worry about I think in 2018 and 2019 is some unanticipated geopolitical event, the so-called black swan," David Rubenstein, co-CEO of The Carlyle Group, said Tuesday at CNBC's Net/Net dinner in Washington, D.C. He pointed to a possible North Korea missile launch or an event similar to the Sept. 11 attacks.
"But right now, short of those kind of things, I think the economy's in reasonably good shape and probably going to be spurred on a little by the tax bill," he said. Rubenstein said the tax bill should have "very favorable consequences for the economy" and he doesn't see any negative surprises from inflation or the labor market.


Bitcoin has almost doubled in value since November, when commodities king Dennis Gartman last disparaged the cryptocurrency. Bitcoin's biggest bear still won't bite, though.
"Bitcoin on a volatile day moves 15 and 20 percent,"  Gartman said on CNBC's "Fast Money."   "How can you margin something that can move 15 to 20 percent on a regular basis? It's the volatility that frightens me."
Volatility is a theme that routinely comes up in Gartman's rebukes of the cryptocurrency, which he maintains is a bubble waiting to pop.
"Bitcoin is the modern day Tulip Bulb mania. I will let others trade it, I won't trade it," Gartman said on CNBC's Fast Money.
Last month, Gartman told "Fast Money" the cryptocurrency "is a market ... for criminals, this is a market for millennials."
He softened his tone slightly Tuesday in light of the development that Cboe Global Markets will launch futures trading in the cryptocurrency beginning Sunday.
"It is gaining some sense of legitimacy by the Cboe," he said.
Still, Gartman maintained he doesn't think the cryptocurrency is out of the woods just yet.
"When they begin to pay taxes on it, when it ceases to be an avenue for avoiding taxes, when it ceases to be a place where drug dealers are trading and making transactions, then I'll be interested," Gartman said.


Stocks could see more bumpy trading ahead, after the S&P 500 and Nasdaq each suffered their first three-day string of losses since August.
But the seasonal tailwinds of December could take over and send stocks higher after more rocky trading, technicians and strategists say.
"When you have a reversal like you had [Monday] traditionally you have anywhere from two to seven choppy trading days after it," said Art Cashin, director of floor operations at UBS. "Like today, there will be some up, some down, but they can't really make progress."
The S&P 500 fell 9 points Tuesday to 2,629, while the Nasdaq fell 13 points to 6,762. The Dow, which was positive Monday, lost 109 points to 24,180. The small cap Russell 2000 was hardest hit, losing 1 percent to 1,516.
Stocks tried to rally but failed Tuesday. The tax rotation trade of the last week slowed. Tech, which had been pounded, was the only S&P sector to end with a gain, albeit just 0.2 percent. Investors have been moving money out of technology, since it will not benefit as much as other sectors from tax legislation, and it may even be hurt if a corporate AMT element stays in the bill.
"For that sector especially, ultimately, we'll get a signal that it's washed out. Today's action is reaffirming there's more room to come in, before ultimately sounding the all clear," said Todd Sohn, technical analyst with Strategas Research. "Around the first two weeks of December, when you look historically at the seasonality, there is a mild bout of weakness in usually the first 10 days of December. Then you get the rally after that."
Sohn said the volatility could be a warning of market behavior in the new year.
Oppenheimer technician Ari Wald says he's not concerned about the shakeout, adding that he thinks it is not likely to be the prelude to a big sell-off.
"Let's talk tech in particular, which is down in the last few sessions. Taking a step back, there's no damage done" technically, he said. "It's simply just a function of the terrific rally going into the most recent pull back. ...The market is battling some near-term overbought conditions, so some sideways consolidation would be reasonable."
Wald said timing the choppy period is difficult, but he believes the trend is higher and dips should be bought.
"Seasonally, December is  a good time for stocks. Santa rallies are the last five trading days of the year and the first two of the new year. December is usually positive for stocks. It's never been the worst performing month of the year going back to 1928. ...There's a tailwind. We're not expecting a big pullback," said Wald.

Scott Redler, partner with T3Live.com, said after Tuesday's trading, he was more convinced that Monday set the high for the year in the S&P 500.
"The gap up today was sold again. It was basically more methodical," he said. "I think the market is more vulnerable versus being in a rush to buy here. ...It seems like traders are less in a rush to put bigger amounts of money to work."
Redler said the market could calm down later in the month.
"The question is, does a bid show up closer to Christmas or not?" he said.


DoubleLine CEO Jeffrey Gundlach said Tuesday that historical and economic indicators point to a likely buying opportunity for commodities such as oil and gold.
"If you ever thought about buying commodities, ... maybe you should buy them now," Gundlach said in a webcast organized by his firm.
He pointed out that by comparing total returns of the S&P Goldman Sachs Commodity Index with the S&P 500 over the last several decades, there are clearly defined points at which commodities outperformed stocks, leading to a sharp increase in stocks, and vice versa. For example, stocks far outpaced commodities during the dotcom bubble of the late 1990s into 2000. But commodities went on to rally hard until they peaked during the global financial crisis of 2008.
"We're right at that level where in the past you would have wanted commodities instead of stocks," Gundlach said, noting that commodity prices stopped falling in 2016 and the global economy is "definitely hanging in there." He said he does not see a recession likely for at least the next six months.
The S&P GSCI is up nearly 56 percent from its low in January 2016 after plunging more than 30 percent in 2015. The index is up just over 6 percent this year, while the S&P 500 has rallied more than 17 percent.
Gundlach also expects the U.S. dollar index's next major move will be lower as the Federal Reserve is unable to tighten monetary policy as much as they plan. A weaker dollar also helps commodity prices and emerging market assets, which Gundlach said he still likes.
In a response to a question about whether having 10 percent of a portfolio in gold is "too much," Gundlach said he would rather put 10 to 15 percent of his investments in commodities broadly rather than gold alone.
The investor also said the falling yield curve between the 2-year and 10-year Treasury yield is "getting to the point where it's worth watching." That fact that "people are starting to explain away the yield curve" indicates to him the U.S. economy is closer to the middle of the tightening cycle than the beginning.
"It's pretty relentlessly flattening," Gundlach said. "If the [yield curve] goes to zero then we get a flashing yellow light for [a] recession."
DoubleLine's $54 billion Total Return Bond Fund is up 3.6 percent year to date, according to Morningstar.
This summer, Gundlach put a big bet on the return of volatility to the market, predicting the Standard & Poor's 500 would tumble. He bought a bunch of put options on the index, a bet that it would fall and a move he described as a bullish bet on volatility. In August, Gundlach predicted the VIX would double to 20.
Just the opposite has happened for most of this year. The S&P has climbed while volatility as tracked by the CBOE's Volatility Index, or VIX, is down 20 percent. Only recently has Gundlach's bet been in a position to benefit. The VIX is up 21 percent this month and 16 percent so far this quarter.
Gundlach said on Tuesday's webcast that since the VIX jumped from below 10 to above 17 a few days after his August forecast, "I'm going to call it good enough."



Cryptocurrencies' total market value edged up to another record high Wednesday, surpassing that of the U.S.' largest bank.
The combined market capitalization of all digital currencies reached an all-time high of more than $370 billion at about 6:50 a.m. London time, according to Coinmarketcap data. This figure is worked out by multiplying the prices of cryptocurrencies by the total volume of those digital currencies in circulation.
Their market value overtook that of JPMorgan, which is currently at $366.8 billion. Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief executive, has been a notorious critic of bitcoin, the world's largest cryptocurrency. Dimon has called bitcoin a "fraud" that will eventually "blow up."


CNBC's Jim Cramer remembers the days when kids bought the same brands as their parents, afraid that deviating would mean they were questioning their elders' judgment.
But now, consumer patterns are suggesting that the exact opposite idea has taken hold.
"Customer loyalty? Hard thing to come by these days," the "Mad Money" host said. "Now that the internet gives you the ability to comparison-shop for just about anything, younger people just reach for what's on sale or what can create the most exciting experience. Those choices are roiling the whole market and I think a lot of investors fail to understand their implications."
When Cramer was younger, he used Old Spice deodorant because his grandfather did, shaved with Gillette because his Pop liked the brand, drove a Ford because Pop drove one and filled his prescriptions at the local drugstore where the employees knew him by name.
Now, everything is fundamentally different. Cramer's favorite deodorant has too many chemicals, Unilever's Dollar Shave Club sends razors straight to his doorstep and his local drugstore was replaced by a Walgreens, where nobody knows who he is or, frankly, cares.
Cramer used to shop at the same few stores, occasionally browsing the local mall for bargains or scouring the weekend newspapers for good deals.
Now, people use Google to search for anything under the sun and Amazon to find bargains. A single $24 movie ticket equals three months of Netflix, and cars are growing obsolete to younger people thanks to ride-hailing services like Uber and Lyft.
"In this environment, unless a brand has enough cachet that it's worth posing with on Instagram ... it becomes very difficult to value all sorts of companies," Cramer said. "That's why we spend a huge amount of time trying to figure out what certain stocks are worth as this next generation takes over."
The few companies that have customer loyalty in this day and age are Alphabet (the parent company of Google), Amazon and Facebook, the "Mad Money" host said.
All three use swaths of data to perfect their respective search, retail and creative outlets, giving consumers high-quality platforms to replace newspaper-browsing and window-shopping.
"That's why FAANG, my acronym for Facebook, Amazon — if I stretch the A, Apple — Netflix and Google, have such staying power," Cramer said.
People tend to squawk about Apple's eventual demise, but they talk and text about it on their iPhones, using Apple's ecosystem in a rare case of brand loyalty, Cramer said.
Cramer added that brand loyalty among consumers is eroding because national chains are reaching a point where they all feel interchangeable.
"At a certain point, national chains start feeling indistinguishable from each other," he said. "If I put you in a Lowe's, would you know whether you're in a Lowe's or a Home Depot? A Dollar Tree versus Dollar General? Would you know if you're wearing Nikes versus Adidas? You get the picture."
But this millennial-driven "homogenization" shouldn't deter investors from investing in individual stocks, the "Mad Money" host said.
For example, airlines and cruise lines like Carnival and Royal Caribbean transport younger people to the perfect backdrops for their Instagram-documented adventures, Cramer said.
"They like pets, that's Idexx. They like protein, that's Tyson Foods. They like restaurants, that's Yelp. They like trips, that's Expedia," he continued.
So as incomprehensible as the younger generations may seem, index funds aren't the only or best way to play the stock market's shifting landscape.
"The bottom line: if you're looking for long-term themes you can fall back on when the market's unsettled, remember that the baby boomers no longer rule the earth," Cramer concluded. "The millennials are inheriting it as we speak, and the handful of companies that they like — and they really only like a handful — are the only ones that really benefit from any kind of brand loyalty here. That's going to be the story for years to come. Get used to it. And if you want to be on the right side of it, I say you better do it now, or else."


After a brutal rotation out of the technology stocks that came on the heels of the Senate passing its tax reform bill, CNBC's Jim Cramer wanted to check in with tech.
Tech stocks recovered on Tuesday after Monday's storm of selling, caused in part by investors trying to buy shares of domestic companies that stand to benefit from corporate tax reform.
So Cramer called on technician Carolyn Boroden, one of his colleagues at RealMoney.com and the brain behind FibonacciQueen.com, to help him get a better outlook on the tech sector.
"Specifically, we're going to drill down into the action in the now-despised and left-for-dead roadkill that are Facebook, Apple and Netflix," the "Mad Money" host said. "The big question: when we look back on this moment a year from now, will the pullbacks in these stocks look like fabulous buying opportunities?"
Boroden's methodology for predicting these moves might seem obvious. She uses ratios developed by medieval mathematician Leonardo Fibonacci, who discovered that certain patterns repeat themselves in nature in things like snail shells and pine cones.
Funny enough, these patterns also tend to show up in the stock charts. The Fibonacci Queen's specialty is looking at past swings in a given stock or index and applying the ratios to find when a stock might change trajectory.
"I know it sounds like pseudo-science, a kind of stock market astrology or alchemy, but the fact is, it does work," Cramer said.
And when it comes to the stocks of Netflix, Apple and Facebook, Boroden found that all three recently reached key Fibonacci extensions of their prior swings.
In plain English, that means the stocks repeated an entire previous move, then ran up some more, which Boroden often takes as a sign to get more cautious.
Looking at the weekly chart of Netflix, Boroden liked that the stock's latest pullback was very similar to its last few declines.

Netflix's stock lost roughly $27 in its last pullback in late summer. In the pullback before that, it also shed about $27. Last week, it lost $26, meaning the most recent decline could be over.
Better yet, the $27 declines were followed by much bigger rallies that made up for the declines and then some. While that might not necessarily happen again, Boroden was confident that if Netflix's $177 to $178 floor of support holds, the stock could run to $211 a share.
"However, if Netflix does start falling again and breaks down below the floor of support, the next one is at $167 to $168 — that's the level to watch if the big tech sell-off picks up again," Cramer said.
Just like with Netflix, Apple's weekly chart suggests the stock is experiencing a "garden-variety pullback," Cramer said.

Apple's last few pullbacks each lasted for about $14, meaning the now-$170 stock could decline to $160. But the stock has so many floors of support between $170 and $160 that Boroden isn't worried.
"There's the floor at $166 to $167, another floor at $164 and $165, and there's one at $159 to $161," Cramer said. "That's a lot of areas where things could turn again, and the stock's rallied slightly today so it's possible that the pain is already over."
Like the others, Facebook's last few pullbacks of $10 or $11 suggested that the stock's current decline — down over $10 from where it traded a week ago — might be done after today's rally.

That said, Boroden did point out some levels to watch for Facebook: one floor of support from $169 to $170, another from $162 to $166, and a third at $157.
"As long as the price holds above one of these floors, even the lowest one, Boroden's optimistic," Cramer said.
All in all, Fibonacci ratios, especially when imparted on stocks by the Fibonacci Queen, can be so predictive that they're "almost creepy," the "Mad Money" host said.
"The charts, as interpreted by Carolyn Boroden, suggest that the recent declines in Netflix, in Apple and in Facebook are really nothing to get too worked up about," he concluded. "My view? These tech titans may not be in the sweet spot to benefit the most from tax reform, but they're still fabulous companies. I'd use any further weakness to gradually buy some more on the way down, even as they've been thrown away as if they were never worth anything to begin with."


CNBC's Jim Cramer knows how hard it is to compare stocks using their individual valuations.
The only tools investors really have to value a stock are the given company's total addressable market and its price-to-earnings multiple, or the share price relative to the earnings per share.
"In the end, valuing stocks is either totally straightforward or totally mystifying — one or the other," the "Mad Money" host said. "For a certain group of stocks, it's much more of an art than a science."
For example, investors trying to pin down the value of Netflix will run into trouble because the streaming giant barely has any earnings, Cramer said.
"You're hostage to the total addressable market, or TAM, for internet entertainment around the world," he explained. "Without that kind of thinking, no one would ever believe it was reasonable for Netflix the company to be worth almost four times as much as CBS."
Valuing Amazon is just as tricky. Cramer thinks Amazon's retail and cloud businesses could be worth $750 billion and $250 billion respectively, which would mean the $1,140 stock could still double.
If investors considered that possibility, the recent technology stock sell-off would make shares of Amazon seem like a bargain over the long term.
How about Tesla? It's no secret that Cramer thinks the automaker's value is entirely in the eye of the beholder considering its lack of earnings, shoddy projections and star power of its CEO, Elon Musk.
But for those who view Tesla as a tech stock and not an auto stock, the $303 share price seems reasonable, Cramer said.
To prove his point, Cramer pointed to the valuations of respected consumer goods stocks like Colgate and Clorox. Colgate has a 7 percent growth rate and a 24 times price-to-earnings multiple; Clorox also trades at 24 times next year's earnings and has a growth rate of 5 percent.
"We all accept these valuations in the consumer packaged goods space despite uninspiring growth rates and now-meager dividends," Cramer said. "It's stereotyping, plain and simple."
Meanwhile, stocks like Apple, Alphabet and Facebook are viewed as too expensive despite having larger addressable markets and faster growth than the consumer goods names, he said.
Apple's growth rate, for one, could go as high as 25 percent by some estimates. Still, the tech stock has a price-to-earnings multiple of 14, a huge discount to the consumer goods names.
Similarly, analysts put Facebook's growth rate at 21 percent with a 21 times price-to-earnings estimate for 2019. Alphabet has a 17 percent growth rate and sells at 24 times 2018 earnings estimates.
All of this tells Cramer one thing: that the stocks he likes and owns for his charitable trust are cheaper, on a price-to-earnings basis, than household consumer goods names.
"People love to claim that Facebook or Alphabet or Apple have gotten so expensive that you can't possibly own them, but when you actually do the exercises I do and you get all arithmetic ... you don't get that conclusion," Cramer said. "Yep, tech's much cheaper than you think. It just doesn't usually get explained in comparison to what's really expensive that we all hold so dear."


CNBC's Jim Cramer remembers the days when kids bought the same brands as their parents, afraid that deviating would mean they were questioning their elders' judgment.
But now, consumer patterns are suggesting that the exact opposite idea has taken hold.
"Customer loyalty? Hard thing to come by these days," the "Mad Money" host said. "Now that the internet gives you the ability to comparison-shop for just about anything, younger people just reach for what's on sale or what can create the most exciting experience. Those choices are roiling the whole market and I think a lot of investors fail to understand their implications."
This millennial-driven shift has created a "void" where bank, housing, materials and health care stocks trade together, while hard-to-value stocks like Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, Apple and Alphabet reign supreme.
But that shouldn't deter investors from investing in individual stocks, Cramer said.
"This is why so many professionals just say go buy an index fund, it's too hard to pick individual companies. I come back and say, no it isn't," he said. "The mores and methods of the next generation are not unfathomable."


Goldman Sachs remains pro-risk in equities, but the investment bank's top strategists say "time is running out for Goldilocks."
An economy growing at just the right speed to support stock prices but not trigger inflation will soon end as consumer prices and rates start creeping higher next year, according to the report from the global Goldman equity strategist team, led by Christian Mueller-Glissmann.


Steve Schwarzman, chairman and CEO of Blackstone, calls the tax reform working its way through Congress a "game changer."
The billionaire former advisor to President Donald Trump as part of his policy forum, told CNBC's "Halftime Report" on Tuesday that the bill was "actually sort of a game changer because there has been enormous frustration in terms of getting legislation passed."
Sure the tax plan isn't a love letter to private equity, he acknowledged. The bill proposes to eliminate the deductibility of interest, something Schwarzman said would be a slight negative for private equity firms, which buy companies using financing.
It also proposes that ordinary income tax be applied to investments of fewer than three years, a longer timeline than the one year threshold currently applied, something that is also not a positive for his firm, he said.
Still, passage of the tax plan would be a sign of progress during a year in which Trump struggled to push his agenda through Congress, losing out on health-care reform after multiple attempts. Schwarzman led the president's policy forum, which disbanded this summer as CEOs revolted against Trump's comments in which he failed to condemn violence at a white nationalist rally.
Tax reform is seen as a critical goal of Trump's first year in office.
Schwarzman told CNBC on Tuesday: "This is a whopper. There is no doubt about it in terms of its impact, scale and the fact that many people thought that this wouldn't work. It seems at this point a pretty good shot that this is going to get resolved before Christmas."


The trading environment is decidedly less exciting than it was during last year's post-election rally, as JPMorgan Chase's chief financial officer points out.
Revenue from sales and trading at the bank is running 15 percent lower so far in the fourth quarter compared to this point in the same period last year, Marianne Lake told an audience at the Goldman Sachs financial services conference on Tuesday.
"The volatility remains pretty low across the spectrum," she said in response to a question about the trading business. It "hasn't been that exciting." Markets revenue in JPMorgan's investment bank for the full fourth quarter of 2016 was $5.7 billion.
The reverse trend is true of investment banking, she noted, where activity levels have been high, "up high single-digits."
JPMorgan Chase is mulling how to assist customers who want to trade bitcoin futures, which is something being rolled out in the coming weeks at CBOE, CME and, ultimately, Nasdaq. The largest U.S. bank's CEO, Jamie Dimon, has publicly derided bitcoin as a "fraud" but Lake's public comments have been more measured.
The firm, she said earlier this year, is "open-minded" to the potential uses of the digital currency.


The continuing rapid ascent of global equities combined with rising interest rates has some financial analysts predicting inevitable recession in the near future.
"We think the (Federal Reserve) will continue to tighten pretty steadily over the course of the next couple of years or so, but we're starting to think that the end of the cycle, you can start to see it now. So we're saying 2019: recession," Robin Bew, CEO of the Economist Intelligence Unit, told CNBC on Tuesday.
Central banks are gradually tightening monetary policy, moving to raise interest rates and withdraw the stimulus they pumped into their economies following the 2008 financial crisis.
More hawkish positions from the U.S. Federal Reserve to the European Central Bank have rattled some investor sentiment, as the former aims to shrink its balance sheet and the latter draws down its quantitative easing program.
Bew said that as the U.S. economy grows and unemployment continues to fall, it is "gradually soaking up more spare capacity," or more slack in the economy. "Our team is already thinking about when that's going to go wrong for the U.S. economy." He believes that year will be 2019.
Liquidity provided by central banks is "the central piece that we have to understand, to make sure we understand how the market reacts," argued Sonja Laud, head of equity at Fidelity International.
Shrinking liquidity can result in a sell-off of equities, Laud warned. "If we take away excess liquidity, you will obviously find the odd bottleneck in some parts of the market where you cannot freely trade as you thought you could," Laud added. "And then normally what does happen is you sell the most liquid asset class available, and equities is normally the area of choice."
Tightening liquidity combined with what's been widely described as an overvalued stock market has for some time now been prompting the question of whether a crash is around the corner. However, a tightening fiscal policy doesn't inevitably lead to a market crash, and there are analysts that believe stock markets will continue to push higher over the coming years.
The prolonged period of investor optimism of the last few years — the second-longest bull market in history — has seen stock prices climb to record highs. Adjectives like "inflated" and "overstretched" are used daily to describe stock market valuations, pointing to what many analysts warn will lead to an eventual market correction or even a full-blown recession.
The Dow Jones industrial average has spiked 5,500 points in the last year, with the U.S. benchmark hitting an all-time high of 24,536 points on Monday before settling to 24,400. Retail stocks are currently booming as confidence grows in the U.S. government's ability to pass a Republican-led tax plan that promises to slash corporate tax rates from 35 percent to 20 percent.
Meanwhile, Germany's benchmark DAX and the U.K.'s FTSE 100 both hit all-time highs in November.
History points to lofty valuations preceding market crashes: indeed, the Daily Telegraph  reported that the only times market valuations have been higher than today's (adjusted for inflation) were just before the dotcom bubble of the late 1990s and the 1929 Wall Street crash.


Investors need to be careful on small-cap names heading into 2018 despite better-than-expected performance this year, according to Jefferies.
Though strategist Steven DeSanctis admits he was "way too conservative" with his 1,410 Russell 2000 target, he isn't necessarily changing his wary views.
"We see another year of low returns for small with the Russell 2000 rising to 1664," DeSanctis said in an investor note Tuesday. "Even with a big boost from tax reform, valuations are way too high. Volatility is lowest level EVER and should go higher."

The Russell 2000, one of Wall Street's widely followed small cap equity indexes, has posted a healthy 13 percent climb this year.


Shares of the Snapchat's parent company jumped more than 8 percent Tuesday, and CNBC's Jim Cramer said it may finally be at a good level to buy.
Cramer cited a note on Snap stock by investment bank Barclays, which upgraded the stock to overweight from equal weight and raised its price target to $18 a share from $11. "We've been on the sidelines since the IPO, but feel now is a good time to start accumulating shares," Barclays analyst Ross Sandler wrote.
"I thought this was a very good upgrade. ... I like this piece," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "Ross Sandler has been historically very good. I've known Ross Sandler for years. ... Ross Sandler does quality work."
When asked whether Snap has reached an "entry point" for investors, Cramer said, "I have felt that there is a level where you just have to accept the fact that younger people like this."
"This whole notion that Facebook is killing [it] — that seems to be a narrative we could live without in a sense that there's room for more," said Cramer, the host of CNBC's "Mad Money."
Cramer said he also appreciated some of the changes coming to the social media company, including a redesign.
"I've been trying to find an entry point for it," Cramer said. "I think that it is down for the year, so you may have some people with tax law selling. You see the stocks that are down aren't coming back. But (the upgrade) was very clever."
Snap shares had fallen nearly 45 percent since going public in early March.


Shares of Bank of America rose 0.3 percent in Tuesday midday trading after the bank announced it would be buying back an additional $5 billion worth of shares.
The board of directors approved the additional repurchase, which will occur through June 2018. The company had previously announced plans to repurchase $12 billion in common stock earlier this year.
In a statement from Bank of America, the repurchase program "will be subject to various factors, including the company's capital position, liquidity, financial performance and alternative uses of capital, stock trading price, and general market conditions, and may be suspended at any time."
Bank of America shares are 31 percent higher this year, with a 4 percent jump in the last one month alone, as investors bet that banks will be one of the top beneficiaries of tax reform.
CEO Brian Moynihan is speaking at the Goldman Sachs financial services conference Tuesday morning and will also be appearing from there in an interview on CNBC.


Snap shares rose 10.1 percent on Tuesday after Barclays said the social media company could hit a "turning point" next year.
The investment bank upgraded Snap to overweight from equal weight and raised its price target to $18 a share from $11, implying a 32.7 percent upside from Monday's close.
"We've been on the sidelines since the IPO, but feel now is a good time to start accumulating shares," Barclays analyst Ross Sandler said in a note Tuesday. "Snap may start hitting or exceeding consensus revenue estimates and accelerating growth in 2018 now that the pricing transition is [in the] late stage."
Sandler also said Snap could benefit from a narrative change away from 2017's "Facebook is killing Snap" to "these companies can co-exist" like Priceline Group and Expedia.
Snap shares have fallen nearly 45 percent since going public in early March, as the company has failed to meet investor expectations. Mounting pressure from Facebook has also pressured the stock lower.
Disclosure: CNBC parent NBCUniversal is an investor in Snap.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are mostly higher after Monday's modest gain for the Dow Jones industrial average and losses for the Nasdaq. That trend looks to continue at the open. We get some economic data on the service sector and the trade deficit this morning.
BUDGET BATTLES
-House Republicans have introduced a two-week stop-gap bill to fund the government and the children's health insurance program. President Trump is scheduled to meet with top Democrats later this week to hammer out a deal on a longer term budget.
RUSSIA PROBE
-Special counsel Robert Mueller has subpoenaed Deutsche Bank for info on accounts held by President Trump and his family.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
AutoZone — The auto-parts retailer posted better-than-expected quarterly earnings and revenue, sending its stock nearly 7 percent higher in premarket trading. Same-store sales — a key metric for retailers — rose 2.3 percent in the quarter, also surpassing estimates.
Toll Brothers — Toll Brothers reported weaker-than-forecast earnings and sales, pushing its stock 6.3 percent lower before the bell. The company said in its fourth-quarter report that its results were hurt by higher labor and raw material costs. Toll also said it experienced the slowest orders growth in six quarters.
Ford Motor — Ford said it will launch 50 new vehicles in China by 2025, including 15 electric vehicles, in an effort to boost slowing sales.
McDonald's — Analysts at Jefferies upgraded the fast-food giant's stock to buy from hold and hiked their price target to $200 a share from $50. In a note to clients, they said McDonald's "use of data and technology … should attract a higher multiple over time, while leading to higher returns." McDonald's shares closed Monday's session at $170.65.
Snap — The social media company's stock was upgraded to overweight from equal weight by analysts at Barclays. The analysts see revenue upside for Snap in the fourth quarter and believe the company's pricing transition will be "in the rear-view mirror" next year. Barclays also raised its price target on Snap to $18 a share from $11. The stock finished at $13.57.
Humana — The health insurance giant said it expects Medicare Advantage membership to approach the higher end of its growth range by the end of 2018, according to an 8-K filing released Tuesday.
SL Green Realty — The real estate trust's stock was upgraded to buy from neutral by analysts at BTIG, who noted the company has "proven its ability to win in a challenging NYC office market." The analysts also raised their price target on SL Green's stock to $122 a share.


Traders are watching Tuesday's opening action after the S&P 500 rallied hard, reversed gains and ended Monday lower — a sign of potential trouble.
"Today was your first overall S&P signal that we could have weakness to come. It gapped up on news, and sold off and closed on the lows of the day. Money didn't rotate to tech and those names got pressured further," said Scott Redler, partner with T3Live.com. "The best set up for traders would be a down open, where buyers return to high beta tech."
Tech was a drag all day Monday, following a trend started in the past week when it first looked like the Senate would approve its tax bill. Now with that bill passed, the market has been rewarding companies with high tax rates and pounding the high-beta and other tech names that often have lower tax rates.
The divergence between the tech-driven Nasdaq and the S&P 500 is now the greatest it has been in a five-day period since the early days of the bull market, according to Bespoke. The S&P 500 is up 1.5 percent in the past five days while the Nasdaq is down about the same amount, and Bespoke founder Paul Hickey said the only time the difference between the two was greater in the bull market was in May, 2009 when the spread was 4.7 percent.
The market is already beginning to count on a 20 percent corporate tax rate even though the House and Senate must reconcile their tax bills before tax changes become law.
Telecommunications companies, consumer discretionary, staples, financials and industrials all ramped higher Monday, as tech rolled over. The Nasdaq finished down 1 percent at 6,775, while the S&P 500 ended down 2 points at 2,639 after surging to 2,665. The Dow, meanwhile, ended up 58 points to 24,290.
While analysts say it's healthy to see market leadership expand beyond a few big cap tech names, those stocks have been huge drivers of the bull market. FANG – Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google parent Alphabet, all slumped along with other big cap tech names, like Microsoft and Apple.
"The divergences in the Dow and Nasdaq have been pretty glaring over the last week and heading into today," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at B. Riley FBR. "There's not enough of a basket of value that they rotated into that can support the amount of damage that's being done to momentum names."
Hickey said to put the move in perspective, tech has been sensitive to the "Trump trade," where domestically oriented companies benefit more.
"Tech also lagged after [President Donald] Trump first got elected, the Trump trade being the more cyclically sensitive sectors. There's a brief adjustment period but after a short period of divergence, the trend will likely reassert itself," said Hickey. "Last June when we had the selloff in the tech stocks, within a few weeks it was back to the old grind. What I think the bigger issue will be for those would be if you started to see interest rates really moving higher."
When the Nasdaq and S&P diverged in 2009, the market was more volatile and the Nasdaq was more than 3 percent lower a week later but it resumed its rise, and was up 6 percent a month later. The S&P 500 also was pressured, losing about 4 percent in the first week but it was up 1 percent after a month. Since then there were other times the spread was greater than 2 percent, and in each of those occasions, the Nasdaq was higher a week later as was the S&P.
Redler said it will be important to see if there are dip buyers, which have prevented the market from having any sort of sizable correction this year. The S&P tech sector is still up 34 percent year to date, while Nasdaq is up 25.9 percent. The S&P 500 is up 17.9 percent.
"The trade changed for tech Nov. 28 when most of the high beta tech lost momentum levels," said Redler, who follows short term technicals. He said the big cap tech names fell below their 8-day or 21-day moving averages. He said it would be a positive to see the QQQs or the Power Shares QQQ Trust ETF hold its 50-day moving average, which is just about 2 points below its $152.71 close.
"It feels like we have five different markets right now," he said. "There's been a lot less continuity in the last week that we've seen for a long time."
Redler said he puts 60 percent odds on the possibility that Monday's S&P intraday high of 2,665 will be the high for 2017.
"If you reduced risk a week ago, now you have the opportunity to see if there's a better dip to buy buy, but that has to happen soon. Otherwise, some real damage could set up," he said.
Besides the progress of the tax bill, markets will be watching the Senate Banking committee hearing and vote on Jerome Powell for Fed chairman, which begins at 10 a.m.
There is also international trade data at 8:30 a.m. ET, services PMI at 9:45 a.m., and ISM manufacturing data at 10 a.m.
Autozone, Toll Brothers, HD Supply and Bank of Montreal report before the opening bell.


China's stock market is having a banner year, and Asia expert Stephen Roach sees reasons for investors to be optimistic — but not without a caveat.
If the right steps aren't taken, he warns, a stock market shock could come from outside its borders.
"There's just been a progression in the advances that North Korea has made in terms of nuclear weapons capability and in missile delivery capability. And now, we're at a really dangerous point," the Yale University senior fellow said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
Roach, who spent five years as chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, has been arguing that China's economy is in the early stages of a "long-heralded structural transformation." He's been closely following China's evolution into a services and consumer-oriented economy.
"My base case for the fundamentals of the Asian economy remain constructive," said Roach, who visits China five to six times a year. "China is in a period of addressing a lot of its structural challenges."
The Hang Seng stock index has surged more than 32 percent this year. There have been concerns that China's economy has been overheating, and too much speculation is baked into its stock market.
Roach doesn't share those concerns but says it's vital for North Korea to abandon its nuclear ambitions for China's growth story to continue.
"This is a potentially destabilizing threat with a very aggressive leadership that seems absolutely fixed on developing a capability and a presence in a nuclear club," he said.
Roach believes sanctions are necessary, and China could set up the most effective ones.
"China is North Korea's largest trading partner," he said. "There's no question that China has leverage."
China provides key items such as fuel and food to North Korea, which has been dealing with serious shortages.
"It's just a question of whether or not they have the willingness to use it or whether or not we have the ability to put pressure on them to use that leverage," Roach said.


When the stock market soars to new altitudes, as it has this autumn, there's usually uneasiness among many investors about a potential drop or correction, promoting concerns about portfolio volatility.


We may be testing the limits of how far we can push the "tax cut" trade.
Since early last week, when momentum in Washington really picked up, sectors that would see the biggest earnings boost from tax cuts have been notable outperformers.
But there may be limits to how far investors can push this trade.
Last week, Cannacord, working with Thomson Reuters, published a study on the sectors that would get the biggest boost from a 20 percent corporate tax cut. Four of them — energy, financials, industrials and telecom — would see notable double-digit gains in earnings. One sector, technology, would see almost no boost:
Biggest gainers from 20 percent tax cut
(boost to 2018 earnings)
Energy 21.5 percent
Financials 18.5 percent
Industrials 13.2 percent
Telecom 15.5 percent
Tech 1.5 percent
Source: Cannacord/Thomson Reuters
Not surprisingly, the movement of these sectors in the past week has reflected the prospects for earnings improvement from tax cuts, and, in the case of technology, the lack of such improvement:
Sector gainers and laggards
(since last Tuesday)
Banks up 7.7 percent
Energy up 3.7 percent
Industrials up 3.6 percent
Telecom up 8.4 percent
Technology down 3.9 percent
This also helps explain the recent outperformance of so-called value stocks versus growth stocks. Value stocks (financials, energy, telecom) would simply fare better under tax cuts. Growth (technology) would not.
However, in the middle of the day, bank stocks, which have had huge gains in the past week, began selling off aggressively. Most ended the day positive, but well off their highs, on heavy volume. Other market leaders like industrials and telecom also ended off their highs.
This suggests traders are taking profits on the outsized gains, and we may be approaching the limits to the current rally.
Regardless, the tax cut is healthy because it creates a new base of stocks that can see their earnings boosted. It takes attention away from a small group of technology stocks (semiconductors, FAANG) that have received enormous attention this year.
"It ought to mean a rotation in asset allocation given that equity investors up to now have concentrated their portfolios into a small group of 'super-performers' that benefited from the disinflationary environment," said Sean Darby, chief global strategist for Jefferies.
However, we are not out of the woods yet. The Senate bill would put off corporate tax cuts until 2019, and President Donald Trump hinted over the weekend that the final corporate tax rate may not be 20 percent, but 22 percent. That will lower the expected earnings boost, and this combination could be a significant disappointment to markets.
Beyond the tax bill, traders are split between those who "sell on the news" and those who argue that any correction will be met by more buying in early 2018.
The "sell on the news" crowd has considerable support, arguing that stocks are seeing a final blowoff on the tax cut news and that it is simply unreasonable, and against the weight of history, to see stocks continue to advance.
But that's where the split occurs. Most traders believe some correction is coming, but a surprisingly large group feels that the sell-off will be met by more buying.
Tony Dwyer, chief market strategist for Cannacord, has been in the bull camp, arguing that "in our view, investors are not adjusting expectations up enough to reflect headwinds that have become tailwinds for growth."
Dwyer makes two arguments. First, he argues that the combination of global growth, a weak dollar, improving capital spending and a still-accommodative Fed will continue to help markets, though he admits some short-term correction may occur.
He also goes farther than most strategists by insisting that the S&P 500 can support a rather large multiple of 20 times forward earnings, close to where it is now.


The race to get bitcoin futures is now on. The CBOE announced Monday it would begin trading bitcoin futures on Sunday evening at the start of global trading hours.
The first full day of trading would be on Monday, Dec. 11. That would beat the CME, which has announced it, too, will begin trading bitcoin futures on Dec. 18, a week later, and the Nasdaq, which is also planning to introduce futures trading in the first half of 2018.
Bitcoin enthusiasts are hopeful that a bitcoin ETF might be coming. The SEC denied applications to start bitcoin ETFs earlier in the year on the grounds that the cryptocurrency was "unregulated," but CBOE head Ed Tilly said he plans to reapply with the SEC for a bitcoin ETF.
The argument seems to be a simple one. The presence of a futures market will demonstrate that the cryptocurrency is sufficiently "regulated" to allow ETFs to start.
The argument may be helped by two features that will be a part of the bitcoin futures: price limits and margin rates.
The CBOE and CME will have margin rates of 30 percent and 35 percent, respectively.
In addition to being able to short bitcoin, there's considerable speculation about whether futures will lower or increase the volatility level of bitcoin. The CME, for example, says it will be using price limits that kick in during gains or losses of 7 percent, 13 percent and 20 percent that would slow and in some cases halt trading. In particular, prices will not be allowed to move up or down more than 20 percent from the prior day's close. If that limit is hit, trading can only continue at or within the +/- 20 percent limit for the remainder of the trading session.
There may even be a price war developing for the business. The CBOE made a point in its press release this morning to say trading would be free through December, but doesn't say how much it would be after.
The CME says bitcoin futures will be priced at a premium to standard Equity Index futures, but in line with the pricing conventions of other premium products.


The ISM non-manufacturing index is due out Tuesday shortly after the market opens, and one strategist is watching the report for clues to broad economic health and whether its bullish market sentiment is supported. The non-manufacturing report is set to come out days ahead of the closely watched U.S. employment situation report on Friday morning, said Boris Schlossberg, managing director of foreign exchange strategy at BK Asset Management. He'll be watching the ISM's data closely for several reasons; here's why. • The non-manufacturing survey, which measures activity in areas such as construction and agriculture, is the second-most-important economic indicator after the employment report, Schlossberg said. The ISM's monthly report will be strong foreshadowing for the non-farm payrolls report on Friday, he added. • Both reports will reflect not only the strength of the U.S. economy but the inflation outlook, as well as the next move for the Federal Reserve and whether it will maintain its relatively positive outlook. • Schlossberg said there is a chance that key parts of the employment report, such as wages, could disappoint the market, as recent personal income and personal spending data has been relatively soft. Furthermore, the ISM's data due out on Tuesday will likely preview that weakness. • If the data on Tuesday misses estimates, the first market to feel the disappointment will be the U.S. dollar, Schlossberg said. The fixed income market would also likely see bond yields fall on a soft print. As far as stocks go, disappointing non-manufacturing data would prove neutral or positive for equities as it would indicate the Federal Reserve may tamp down its tightening plans. The market is expecting a reading of 59.0 on the ISM non-manufacturing index, according to FactSet data. This reflects a slight month-over-month drop; a reading over 50 percent is traditionally seen as bullish for the economy.  Bottom line: The ISM non-manufacturing data due out on Tuesday will be a key indicator of the inflation outlook, the non-farm payroll report on Friday, and whether or not the Fed's bullish outlook is supported.


It's been less than six months since Amazon announced its deal to buy Whole Foods, but for CNBC's Jim Cramer and many of the country's supermarket chains, it's felt like years.
"On that fateful day, June 16, the whole supermarket sector got beaten to a pulp, with many of the grocers seeing their stocks fall 5 to 10 percent in a single session," the "Mad Money" host said. "The whole group suddenly needed to be re-rated lower now that the retail Death Star had them in its crosshairs."
Initially, the declines were brutal: Supervalu shed 14.4 percent, Kroger dropped 9.2 percent, Costco fell 7.2 percent, Sprouts sank 6.3 percent and Target and Wal-Mart each slid about 5 percent.
The grocers' weakness continued for several months. Cramer said that it felt "like an Armageddon" for the group, which saw Amazon as the ultimate bringer of doom.
But lately, the cohort has reversed, with many of the leading stocks up 20 to 40 percent from their summer lows.
Oddly enough, much of the group is trading above where it was before Amazon announced the Whole Foods deal, so Cramer investigated to find out what the positive action might mean.
"How is it that supermarket stocks have managed to rebound? Isn't Amazon totally toxic to anyone it competes with?" he wondered. "Sure, nobody in their right mind wants to go up against Amazon — I mean, maybe CVS did this big deal with Aetna because they're worried — but entire industries don't come undone in a single day."
Simply, Wall Street got ahead of itself, the "Mad Money" host said. As soon as Amazon made its takeover public, analysts raced to slash their estimates on every possible competitor.
What they didn't account for was the near term. Amazon has yet to expand Whole Foods' several hundred stores to a level that truly competes with local supermarkets, even though it would likely pose a serious threat once that was complete, Cramer said.
The grocers' latest earnings results only confirmed that the analysts jumped the gun. Kroger delivered strong results last week. Supervalu beat Wall Street estimates in October. Costco reported better-than-expected earnings and Sprouts. Target and Wal-Mart followed suit.
Additionally, Wal-Mart upped its forecast and announced a $20 billion stock buyback, a whopping 8.5 percent of its market cap at the time.
Still, Cramer acknowledged that the long-term outlook is bleak for some. Supervalu, for one, was too risky for him to recommend, even though he felt more secure about Kroger, Sprouts, Costco and Wal-Mart (which he saw as the only true challenger to Amazon).
And with corporate tax cuts on the horizon, Cramer said that he couldn't blame the buyers who believe that the worst is over for the supermarket chains, which may soon pay lower tax rates.
"Here's the bottom line: when Amazon declares war on a particular industry, it's not an immediate death sentence for the incumbent players," Cramer concluded. "Sure, Amazon crushed the bookstores and the record stores, but it took many, many years to play out and their balance sheets weren't as good as some of these. That's why the sell-off in the supermarket stocks ... was excessive, and why I think these stocks can continue to climb even after the huge rebounds that they've already had."


Wall Street is declaring Gap Inc. the "weekend winner" as strong department store traffic over Thanksgiving and Black Friday hints at a better-than-expected holiday season.
While analysts were impressed with mall shopping overall, several said Gap companies including Old Navy were the biggest surprises.
"Traffic and conversion appeared solid on Black Friday, despite sales continuing to be dispersed throughout the entire weekend and an ongoing migration of Black Friday shopping online," wrote Jefferies analyst Randal Konik. "Old Navy and Gap both offered a 50 percent off store-wide sale, essentially flat to last year, which seemed successful in driving traffic and conversion."
"We believe holiday is off to a strong start at The Gap and reiterate our buy rating."
Konik also said that Gap and Old Navy's performance came even though its discounts were similar to those in prior years.  He noted that Banana Republic broadened its 50 percent-off discount to all regular-priced merchandise.

Shares of Gap have outperformed the market this year — up more than 32 percent versus the S&P 500's 16 percent climb. Shares closed up 1.2 percent Monday. SunTrust analyst Pamela Quintiliano also praised Gap's strong showing.
"Old Navy was the on-mall holiday weekend winner followed by American Eagle and Express," Quintiliano wrote on Monday. "Our biggest surprise was mall traffic, which was above our expectations despite online continuing to gain broad-based momentum. Throughout the weekend, traffic and conversion were consistently higher than we have seen in years."
Citing retail researcher ShopperTrak, the analyst noted that the "big win" was that traffic was down under 1 percent on Black Friday and declined just over 1.6 percent for Thanksgiving and Black Friday combined. Adobe Analytics calculated that Thanksgiving online spending rose 18 percent.
"The weekend looked pretty good," retail expert Dana Telsey said on CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Monday. "For the most part, promotions were the same as last year. That's encouraging. The fact that traffic was essentially flat is a good thing. You're not seeing the deterioration."
"You know, Gap, Old Navy? There were lines out the door," she added. "Gap is probably the one that's going to be one of the surprising ones."


Square's foray into bitcoin trading merely extends an "overdone" stock rally and puts off an impending correction, according to one analyst.
The company recently created a buzz with a trial that enables some users of the Square Cash app to buy and sell bitcoin, but this may be too risky for investors to stomach, said BTIG analyst Mark Palmer, who downgraded Square shares to sell on Monday.
The shares dropped more than 16 percent Monday, on pace for their worst day since May 2016, after the call.
"We believe Square's valuation already reflects emphatic and unimpeded growth while failing to factor in competitive, credit-related and macro risks that did not go away when some investors suddenly viewed its shares as a play on a trendy cryptocurrency," wrote Palmer on Monday. "We believe Bitcoin could provide a marginal contribution to Square's revenues if the trial succeeds, it becomes a permanent feature for all Square Cash users, and the company starts to charge a fee for trades."
He added, "It is not optimal from a risk standpoint for Square to have its fortunes tied to those of a cryptocurrency that has frequently displayed extreme volatility."
The analyst also cut his price target to $30, which is 39 percent lower than Friday's closing price.
Investors are already skittish when it comes to Square's stock.
With the company's shares up nearly 220 percent since January (as of Monday morning), anything less than perfect performance from Jack Dorsey's second major company tends to send the stock tumbling. Square handily beat Wall Street expectations in its latest quarterly earnings report, but its stock fell roughly 1.3 percent anyway.
After the company told investors about its plans to launch the bitcoin trading function on its Square Cash application, shares soared 11 percent as fascination with the cryptocurrency intensifies.
"It's dangerous for a stock to become tethered to a cryptocurrency," Palmer said on CNBC's "Closing Bell" later on Monday. "The other thing that happens when you see a craze along these lines is that investors forget about the risks — the other risks associated with the story. In this case, what we see with Square is they're getting increasingly involved in credit."
"At a time when PayPal is selling its credit portfolio to Synchrony Financial, Square is running into the fire."
Bitcoin surged over the Thanksgiving holiday, according to CoinDesk, and continued its relentless climb on Monday, last seen trading above $9,600.


Closely followed economist Jim O'Neill thinks Brent crude oil might surge to $80 a barrel in the next year before falling back to roughly $60 by next November.
That would mark a 26 percent run-up from today's price of about $63.50 a barrel. International benchmark Brent prices have already rallied about $20 a barrel, or more than 40 percent, from the year's lows in June. Brent hit a nearly 2½-year high of $64.65 a barrel earlier this month.
Conventional wisdom holds that prices won't budge much over the next year, says O'Neill, but the former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management and creator of the "BRIC" acronym is not running with the herd.
"While oil prices could be about $60 per barrel in November 2018, my guess is that they will have risen to about $80 per barrel in the meantime," O'Neill wrote in Barron's this weekend.
O'Neill, now an economics professor at the University of Manchester, says the market is finally waking up to the fact that global economic growth is gaining momentum and likely expanding at 4 percent or higher. That means there will be more demand for oil.


Broad agreement seems to be spreading on Wall Street that we are late in this economic and market cycle.
But what exactly does that mean for investors when no one knows for sure how long it can "stay late" — or how generous the market might be before the cycle turns from "late" to "over?"
Perhaps it's no surprise that strategists are checking their watch and eyeing the door at this stage. For the literalists who date the start of this bull market to the March 9, 2009, bear-market low, this has been the second-longest advance on record without a 20 percent drop. The U.S. economy has been expanding almost as long, and equities are as expensive as they've been at plenty of bull-market peaks, if not all of them.
As some veteran strategists give their outlook for the market in 2018, it's as if they hear a clock ticking loudly in the background.
Michael Hartnett, global strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, has been correct in his bullish stance this entire year, which he describes as the emergence of an "Icarus trade" embracing risk and courting overconfidence. He now foresees a "big top" in risk markets in the first half of next year after perhaps another 10 percent gain in the S&P 500, as faith in growth and central banks peak together.
Wharton School professor Jeremy Siegel, best known for his predominant bullishness and for authoring "Stocks for the Long Run," told CNBC last week he expects "one more push" up to new highs for the indexes. But he suggested stocks were "clearly near to a top," and 2018 could be positive but less rewarding and more volatile for investors.
Ned Davis of Ned Davis Research has also described the bull market as being in the "very late innings." Doug Ramsey, chief investment officer at Leuthold Group and a student of market cycles, says the sturdy rally still deserves the benefit of the doubt and shows few typical signs of an imminent peak. But he confesses "very limited visibility into 2018," given how expensive and well-loved equities are, and the fact that the factors keeping him bullish are the most short-term ones.
And in a column on Friday, CNBC's Patti Domm nicely portrayed the way individual investors have been embracing stocks more eagerly, which tends to happen in the latter phases of a market ascent.
It's hard to dispute any of these observations outright by using a broad sampling of economic data or market stats.
David Rosenberg, chief economist at Gluskin Sheff (who admits to having turned cautious early the past couple of cycles) detailed in recent months where things stand now across 15 economic and market indicators versus the average expansion. Measures such as the drop in unemployment, gain in consumer confidence, increase in corporate profit margins and high-yield bond spread decline have already achieved 100 percent of the average improvement of past cycles.
Of course, part of this is explained by the fact that the last recession was far deeper than preceding ones, so these indicators started at unusually depressed levels. And the fact that they've already notched the "average" improvement of prior cycles ahead of a recession simply means this is an "above average" cycle in terms of duration and cumulative progress.
Similarly, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin shows the median stock in the S&P 500 has almost never been more expensive in measured history across eight metrics. Yet he's calling for about another 10 percent advance in the index next year — in a report titled "Rational Exuberance." The forecast effectively acknowledges that bull markets tend to overshoot "fair value" when a shock doesn't come along to prevent it, and he figures this cycle can get closer to the stupendous gains of the 1990s run.
The chart below shows the S&P 500's valuation across eight metrics, according to Goldman Sachs:

One late-cycle indicator that has the worrywarts running full tilt is the narrowing Treasury yield curve. Short-term yields, such as on the two-year note, tend to rise faster than the 10-year yield as a cycle matures. This gap is now below 0.65 of a percentage point, generating a fair amount of worry that the bond market is signaling an oncoming recession.
Yet in the past, there was no worthwhile stock-market signal from the yield curve unless it "inverted," with short yields higher than long yields. And the average time from inversion to the start of a recession was more than a year.
If the flatter yield curve today is mostly saying that inflation remains structurally restrained and the Federal Reserve is likely to be just about finished tightening within a year or so, just how scary is that message today?
Complicating all this "late-cycle" talk is the fact that stocks often do just fine in this phase — sometimes even accelerating higher in the final quarter of a bull market.
Consider a scenario Hartnett considers a risk to his "big top" prediction: "Tech bubble ... AI/robots cause wage deflation extending era of excess liquidity, bond yields fall, Nasdaq exponential; 'Icarus unleashed' bubble could end in 2019 with bear market on hostile Fed hiking, Occupy Silicon Valley and War on Inequality politics."
Quite a contrast to a cycle ending in a whimper.
What "late-cycle" might mean for investors in practical terms is that long-term return expectations should remain modest and volatility should pick up from record-low levels. But radically cutting back on equities is a long-odds strategy, given that it can stay late for quite a while.
It would not be surprising, though, if next year the main source of turbulence and anxiety turns toward "late-cycle eruptions," such as rising labor costs pinching profit margins in certain sectors and bouts of agita about the Fed being "behind the curve" and needing to tighten faster.
Late or not, that might be more interesting than this year's orderly, low-drama climb.


Don't panic, but there is now a 70 percent chance of a U.S. stock market correction, according to research conducted by fund giant Vanguard Group. There is always the risk of a correction in stocks, but the Vanguard research shows that the current probability is 30 percent higher than what has been typical over the past six decades.
Vanguard, which manages roughly $5 trillion in assets and is a proponent of long-term investing, isn't sounding the alarm bells to scare investors out of the market. But according to Vanguard's chief economist Joe Davis, investors do need to be prepared for a significant downturn.
"It's about having reasonable expectations," Davis said of the research, which attempts to provide investors with a view of what can occur in the markets in the next five years. "Having a 10 percent negative return in the U.S. market in a calendar year [within a five-year forward period] has happened 40 percent of the time since 1960. That goes with the territory of being a stock investor." He added, "It's unreasonable to expect rates of returns, which exceeded our own bullish forecast from 2010, to continue."
In its annual economic and investing outlook published last week, Vanguard told investors to expect no better than 4 percent to 6 percent returns from stocks in the next five years, its least bullish outlook since the post-financial crisis recovery began.





Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Qualcomm – Broadcom is considering raising its offer to buy its rival chipmaker, according to a Reuters report. Broadcom's last offer consisted of $60 per share in cash and $10 per share in Broadcom stock, but sources say top Qualcomm shareholders want at least $80 per share.
SandRidge Energy – Investor Carl Icahn bought a 13.51 percent stake in SandRidge and indicated he would vote against the firm's proposed purchase of Bonanza Creek Energy.
UPS – UPS acquired a manufacturing pharmacy license from Georgia regulators, allowing it to relabel pharmaceuticals as well as ship them.
CBS – CBS and Dish Network agreed on a new carriage contract that ends a three-day blackout of CBS channels for the satellite TV service's subscribers.
Amazon.com – Amazon workers in Italy and Germany are planning a strike for Black Friday. The Italy walkout follows a failure to agree over bonuses, and German workers are striking in an ongoing dispute over pay and working conditions.
Raytheon, Boeing – The two defense contractors were reportedly selected to sell about $7 billion in munitions to Saudi Arabia, according to sources quoted by Reuters.
Teva Pharmaceutical – Teva plans to cut 20 percent to 25 percent of its workforce in Israel, according to the financial news website Calcalist. The drugmaker employs nearly 6,900 workers in Israel.
Nektar Therapeutics – An experimental pneumonia treatment developed by Nektar and partner Bayer did not meet its primary goal in a phase III study.


CNBC's Jim Cramer may not be a chartist, but he understands why charts are so important for predicting the market's major moves.
"You must consider them as if they are footprints at a scene of a crime," the "Mad Money" host said. "These footprints trace out what big money managers might be doing with their buying and selling of stocks."
Cramer cares about charts because there's a remarkable, self-fulfilling nature of charting stocks. Some of the best investment ideas can come from chart-inspired brainstorming sessions, he said.
But for Cramer, the best way to produce results is by carefully analyzing both a stock's fundamentals and its technicals for more comprehensive results.
A good technical analysis means being able to find the indicators that will help to determine the overall direction of the market, especially since so many stocks are influenced by S&P 500 stock futures.
Sometimes, technicians start by comparing the chart of an individual company to the chart of an average to determine the legitimacy of a move, a tactic known as confirmation.
For instance, if the Dow Jones industrial average hits a new high, historically, it is not sustainable unless the Dow Jones transportation average also hits a high, confirming the breakout status of the Dow itself.
If both the industrials and the transports hit new highs, Cramer feels secure blessing the move as legitimate.
Other indicators that Cramer watches are the banking index, the housing index, the semiconductor index and the ETF that encompasses large retailers.
"I like to see all of these indexes move up in sync before I truly bless a market move," the "Mad Money" host said. "You get all of these indexes rolling higher, and you have to put the maximum amount of chips on the table."
The inverse is also true. If there's a move up without confirmation from a majority of the indexes, then the whole rally could be fake and shouldn't be trusted. Cramer saw this occur right before the 2008 financial crisis, when there was no participation from the financials, retail or tech.
The "Mad Money" host also considers stocks' advances and declines, which indicate if a rally is too concentrated. He likes to see a market with good participation from many different groups.
Additionally, Cramer looks at the new-high-to-new-low ratio, since stocks that make the new-high list are worth watching. It's not easy to get on the list, so any company hitting new highs must be doing exceptionally well, be part of a strong sector, and be privy to strong geopolitical forces pushing it higher, he said.
"You may not be a technician, but you need to know what the charts are saying and you need to know how to read the internals to verify a real move or a phony one," Cramer added.


CNBC's Jim Cramer likes to work with a combination of analyzing both fundamentals and charts to spot the next big moves in the market.
Charts are especially helpful for determining the best entry and exit points in a stock, which is why Cramer waits to pull the trigger on a stock until after he looks at the charts.
"I would consider looking at the chart of the stock you like as part of the homework, making it ingrained into your thinking," the "Mad Money" host said.
When an investor buys a stock, he is betting from the start that the stock will go up. That means understanding the historical patterns of the stock's charts and where it might be headed.
Sometimes, finding a bottom after a long decline can be incredibly lucrative. In 2009, when the market was in severe decline, Cramer had the sense that the decline was slowing, so he started to look for the most bulletproof stock he could find.
He came up with AT&T, which seemed to have promising prospects, with a roll out of a new Apple iPhone that was expected to produce record profits for the company.
Cramer first checked with four chartists, who all agreed that AT&T's stock had a strong foundation. They also agreed that it had established a bottom of $21 in 2008, amid the tsunami of selling. They figured this out by looking at the volume and seeing that it had expanded to a level far beyond a normal period's trading. That was a sign that the sellers were exhausted.
"As long as sellers overwhelm buyers with their dumping, no base can form," Cramer explained. "A climax is a sign that those potential sellers who had been holding on for some time are finally giving up en masse."
Additionally, when a chartist sees that trading volume has grown but the stock has not gone down, it often means that the stock has finally found its floor and is now safe to buy. In other words, the buyers' power to determine the direction of a stock is finally equal to the sellers'.
Chartists also look at the advance of a stock, which happens when the stock takes out its resistance overhead.
Rather than simply looking at a stock's closing price and graphing it against the previous day's close, technicians use what is known as a moving average to better represent a stock's movement. They calculate the moving average by taking a stock's closing prices over a period of time, adding them up, and then dividing by the number of days in that period.
So when AT&T cracked through the ceiling of resistance marked by its 200-day moving average, it signaled to Cramer that the stock was finally a good investment or trade — its old roof became its new floor.
"When you see this kind of reliable pattern, as AT&T demonstrated, despite what the fundamental analysts might be saying, you have to use the discipline that these technicians give you to pull the trigger and take advantage of a fabulous buying opportunity," Cramer said.
Otherwise, that opportunity could be overlooked whenever the market takes a beating, simply because the charts were not taken into consideration.


The most simple and reliable chart pattern out there is one that Jim Cramer dreads.
Unfortunately, Cramer learned not to ignore the head-and-shoulders pattern the hard way when his charitable trust bought Alcoa — which spun off its aluminum business in November 2016 under the name Alcoa and is now known as Arconic — in 2010, when the stock price was in the low teens, and ultimately took a loss because it was too early to buy.
"Yes, just like a human's head. That is the most frightening pattern in the chart book," the "Mad Money" host said.
Shares of Alcoa saw a healthy run from the winter of 2010 to February 2011, rising from $13 to $17. The stock ran to $18 on the eve of its quarterly earnings report, and Cramer thought it was a fine quarter when it reported.
What worried him was that even after an initial positive reaction, the stock dropped. Several days later, however, Cramer assumed it would take out its $18 level and went back to buy more.
But Cramer was wrong — extremely wrong.
What the "Mad Money" host did not realize is that the fluctuation in price had traced a perfect head-and-shoulders pattern.
It turns out that during the time when the head-and-shoulders pattern was forming on Alcoa's chart, Europe and China's markets started to slow down, sending aluminum into a glut.
Ultimately, while former CEO Klaus Kleinfeld could control his own company, but not the price of the commodity itself.
On the other hand, if a head-and-shoulders pattern signals trouble ahead, then the inverse head-and-shoulders formation signals the opposite — a chance for glory.
"The key with this pattern is the neckline, the line that connects the high to the two shoulders. When a stock breaks out above that line it tells a technician that you are about to witness a big move higher," Cramer said.
At the end of the day, patterns matter. So when you see a head-and-shoulders pattern, no matter how confident in the stock you might be, Cramer believes you should sell. And when the reverse head-and-shoulders develops, then you should consider buying.
That is just how powerful these moves are. The chart work is more often right than most would ever think possible.


CNBC's Jim Cramer may not be a chartist, but he understands why charts are so important for predicting the market's major moves.
"You must consider them as if they are footprints at a scene of a crime. These footprints trace out what big money managers might be doing with their buying and selling of stocks," the "Mad Money" host said.
Cramer cares about charts because there is a remarkable self-fulfilling nature of charting stocks. Some of the best investment ideas can come from chart-inspired brainstorming sessions, he said.
But for Cramer, the best way to produce results is by carefully analyzing both a stock's fundamentals and its technicals for more comprehensive results.


Technicals and fundamentals are Jim Cramer's key tools for determining when a stock is ready to explode.
"Typically, when a stock gets overbought, it is ripe for a pullback because overbought stocks, ones with many buyers reaching to take in supply, tend to snap back after they have gotten too far away from their longer term trend line," the "Mad Money" host said.
Investors can determine whether a stock is overbought or oversold by charting the ratio of higher closes, also known as the relative strength index, or RSI. This is a momentum oscillator that measures the direction of a given stock and the velocity of its move.
To find moments in an individual stock's trajectory where its strength stands out — a potential sign of a pending move or change in momentum — Cramer matches the stock's RSI to something else, such as the relative strength of its sector or a wider index, and then measures the past price action.
But the inverse can also be true, as a stock can also fall so fast that investors should expect it to snap back because it is technically oversold. These patterns are reliable indicators that a change in direction is about to occur, and tend to be stellar action points.
So, for investors who are debating whether they should buy a stock and have done all the research to find that said stock is overbought, Cramer suggests waiting for the inevitable pullback that almost always happens.
Some stocks, however, can break through all the traditionally measured ceilings and stay overbought for weeks at a time.
"They defy the notion of the inevitable gravitational pull of the old equilibrium line and can't be contained by any of the various ceilings that overbought conditions usually bump into," Cramer said. "When you spot these highly unusual moves, you may be able to strap yourself into a real moon shot."
Volume is another key tool that chartists use to find pivots. It is often said that volume can be a lie detector for investors to tell if a move is real or not. For example, when a small move happens on light volume, technicians ignore it.
Chartists use volume to determine if large money managers are starting to accumulate or distribute the stock in an aggressive way.
Technicians also measure something called an accumulation distribution line. This involves charting whether a stock closes higher on greater volume on any given day, versus lower, or on low volume.
Most brokerage firms offer this kind of charting on their websites, and while Cramer considers the method to be somewhat arcane, he trusts it because it goes against the grain of conventional thinking and offers a fresh way to look at stock movements.
Cramer saw this occur with shares of Monsanto in July 2012. Though he did not care for the stock of the company at the time, the accumulation distribution line showed that the stock had down days with light volume and up days with heavy volume.
To Cramer, that was a sure sign that more money was flowing into the stock, rather than out of it.
It turns out that Monsanto's stock had started correlating with the price of corn, which was going higher because of new demand for ethanol brought about by federal price supports. Cramer was too concerned about near-term earnings and worries about a shortfall to recognize what was happening.
"Powerful moves can, and often do, elude those who are only focused on the underlying companies and not the action of the stocks themselves," Cramer said.


Despite recent disappointments over a possible T-Mobile-Sprint deal, investors should favor shares of T-Mobile and expect a buyback, according to JPMorgan.
Calling the mobile provider "the best long-term idea in wireless," analyst Philip Cusick told clients in a note that the company is likely to initiate a share buyback sooner than originally projected.


The Nasdaq's record run is nothing short of "amazing," and it's showing no signs of stopping, technical analyst Louise Yamada says.
The tech-heavy index hit another record on Tuesday, closing at 6862.48 for its 66th high this year. According to Yamada, the charts are pointing to an even bigger breakout.
"I think the Nasdaq has been very impressive. It's up almost 57 percent, it's well above the 50-day moving average. … We're headed towards 7,000 next, and then we'll calculate something higher," she said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now." "Monthly and weekly momentum are positive for the [index], and [while a few of the FANG stocks took a rest] from June to October, now they're going on to new highs."

Yamada is referring to the recent rally in big tech that has driven the Nasdaq composite index to new highs. Apple, Microsoft and Amazon, to name a few have all soared to record highs in the last month. Chip stocks like Micron and Nvidia have also been on a tear this year, contributing to the Nasdaq rally.
Yamada believes other indicators also point to more record highs.
"We don't see a top," she said." "The advance-decline line is supporting the advance, and we would have to see three to six months of negative divergences" for things to change.
The Nasdaq composite is outperforming every other major U.S. index this year, up 27 percent.


Housing stocks are on a tear this year, and it may not be too late to get in on the rally.  One large-cap homebuilders ETF, the XHB, has advanced 25 percent in 2017 and has climbed to its highest level in over 11 years. Its top holdings, D.R. Horton and PulteGroup, have gained a whopping 81 percent and 78 percent, respectively. Instead of playing pure homebuilder stocks, investors should look at home construction stocks to capitalize on the move, said Mike Binger, senior portfolio manager at Gradient Investments.  "The homebuilding industry in and of itself is in pretty good shape right now," Binger said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Deere & Co. – The heavy equipment maker reported quarterly profit of $1.57 per share, beating estimates by 10 cents a share. Revenue also beat forecasts, with Deere saying the overall market improved and sales in South America saw a particularly strong rebound.
Rockwell Automation – The maker of industrial automation systems rejected a revised takeover bid from Emerson Electric, saying it undervalued the company and was not in the best interests of shareholders. Emerson had increased its original $215 per share bid to $225 per share in cash and stock last week.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise – Meg Whitman will step down as chief executive officer on February 1. She will be succeeded by the company's president, Antonio Nieri. Separately, the computer networking company reported adjusted quarterly profit of 31 cents per share, 3 cents above estimates, with revenue also beating forecasts.
HP Inc. – HP Inc. matched Street estimates by reporting adjusted quarterly profit of 44 cents per share, while the computer and printer maker saw revenue above forecasts. Its 2018 outlook is also in line with analyst forecasts.
Salesforce.com – Salesforce came in 2 cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly earnings of 39 cents per share. Revenue also beat projections. The cloud software company did give current-quarter revenue guidance that falls slightly below Street forecasts.
GameStop – GameStop beat estimates by 12 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 54 cents per share. The video game and console retailer saw revenue beat estimates, as well. GameStop was helped by the ongoing popularity of the new Nintendo Switch gaming console.
Guess – Guess matched Wall Street estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 12 cents per share, but the apparel maker's revenue missed forecasts on a sales drop in its Americas region.
Microsoft – Microsoft's Skype phone service has been pulled from Apple and Android app stores in China. In a statement, Apple said the Chinese government had told it the app violated local laws.
Intel – Chips made by Intel are the subject of a government warning, with officials urging businesses to follow an alert issued by the chipmaker about security floors in some widely used microprocessors. Intel has said it knows of no cases in which hackers exploited the vulnerabilities in those chips.
JPMorgan Chase – JPMorgan is looking into possible business opportunities involving bitcoin, despite CEO Jamie Dimon calling bitcoin a "fraud." According to The Wall Street Journal, the bank is mulling whether to provide clients with access to a potential bitcoin product being considered by CME Group.
Walt Disney – Disney senior creative director John Lasseter is taking a six-month leave of absence, due to "missteps" that he said made some workers feel "disrespected and uncomfortable."
Mallinckrodt – The drugmaker's stock was downgraded to "perform" from "outperform" at Oppenheimer, which points to a lack of visibility regarding the growth of arthritis treatment Acthar, among other factors.


Energy stocks are about to play catch-up to the rest of the market, one strategist says.  Larry McDonald, founder of the Bear Traps Report investment newsletter, has been watching closely the apparent disconnect between strong global growth and lagging oil stocks. After all, domestic and international stock markets are near all-time highs, he pointed out. While energy has been lagging other sectors this year, the group is about to play catch-up as oil prices rise, he said. Here's why.  • OPEC is scheduled to meet next week in Vienna, and McDonald believes the group of oil producing nations is going to position for a further reduction in output; this could in turn buoy oil prices.  • Political tension in oil-rich nations like Saudi Arabia "could be very disruptive for the global oil market and create a supply shock," McDonald said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."  • Furthermore, he said, "you've got India and China growing at the fastest pace in years. So you've got an economic pickup globally, and it's just setting up for a situation where oil and oil producers are coming into, potentially, a sweet spot."  • To capitalize on this growth, McDonald said investors should look to play one large energy exchange-traded fund, the XLE. He holds a $78 price target on the XLE in the next six to nine months, implying nearly 16 percent of upside from current levels.  Crude oil and the XLE settled higher on Tuesday.  Bottom line: McDonald believes the fundamental backdrop supports higher oil prices ahead, and energy stocks will benefit.


The retailers that are being crushed by Amazon have rallied in the past two weeks ahead of the holiday shopping period, but if history is a guide, they could underperform again after Thanksgiving.
Bespoke Investment Group's "Death by Amazon" index includes 62 brick-and-mortar retailers whose businesses have been hurt by Amazon and internet shopping. Since its peak in September 2015, the index has lost a third of its value, and it has declined by 15 percent this year alone, while the S&P 500 is up 15 percent.

But so far this month, retail stocks have bounced with the XRT, SPDR S&P Retail ETF, up 5.3 percent, while the S&P 500 is up just 0.9 percent. In the same period, Amazon is up 3 percent.
"The retail stocks have done great this month," said Paul Hickey, co-founder of Bespoke. "I don't think necessarily people are going to start changing their habits, going back to brick-and-mortar this holiday season. … The only argument you can make in their favor is they're down so much."
Since 2000, the S&P retail sector on average has underperformed the broader market from Thanksgiving through year end. The median move has been a 0.4 percent gain, compared with the 1.5 percent move in the S&P 500.
Amazon in the same period has been up 70 percent of the time with a median move of 1 percent, since 2000.
Hickey said Apple's new iPhone X could steal some of the gift-shopping business from retail this year. "I think Amazon will still have a pretty good year ... but if it's anyone, it's the traditional retailers that could have the most headwinds," said Hickey.
Among the stocks in the Death by Amazon index are Macy's, Kohl's, TJX, Ulta, Wal-Mart, Williams-Sonoma, Bed Bath and Beyond, Big Lots, CVS, Costco Wholesale, Foot Locker, Fred's, Target GNC Holdings, J.C. Penney, Nordstrom, Kroger and Sears Holdings.




When CNBC's Jim Cramer talks about the "era of good feelings," he's not referencing the U.S. history books.
"No, I'm talking about this week of Thanksgiving, where the buyers pay up and the sellers walk away," the "Mad Money" host said. "It's almost as if there's a selling ban."
Cramer found more than a few examples of this in Tuesday's market layout, beginning with the stock of Apple.
Even with several articles casting Apple's new HomePod as worse than the Amazon Echo and news that the smart speaker's release will be delayed until next year, shares of Apple steadily climbed intraday.
"Negative, negative, negative, negative. What does the stock do? Rallies three bucks. Why? Because the sellers are on strike," Cramer said.
Shares of Facebook were also rising despite a Buzzfeed story about the social media giant's trepidatious standing in Russia, a piece about Chinese tech player Tencent surpassing Facebook in valuation and an unfavorable tweet from Mark Cuban:

The stocks of Micron and Western Digital, which some fear may eventually overwhelm the market with supply of DRAM and flash chips, also lifted on Tuesday.
"In this era of good feelings, money managers suspend their critical faculties," Cramer said. "It's almost as if these longtime worries have up and vanished. But nothing's changed. The sellers are just letting the stocks lift and the buyers are reaching like mad."
Certainly, there were several areas where the sellers remained on Tuesday, namely the turbulent oil stocks, the discount retailers after a disappointing quarter from DSW and the stock of General Electric after a brutal price target cut by Deutsche Bank.
Cramer said that this lapse in selling is typically a "Thanksgiving phenomenon," but given the state of the bull market, even the "Mad Money" host wasn't so sure when it would end.
"Maybe investors have simply decided they should pay more for the same earnings numbers, giving us the gift of multiple expansion," he said. "The bottom line? I've got an idea: if you really are scared of this market like so many are, if you truly believe there will be a crash or something terrible is out there — a view I do not subscribe to — then feel free to use the era of good feelings to lighten up. Nobody ever got hurt selling into strength."


It drives CNBC's Jim Cramer crazy when people say that stocks are dangerous and overvalued "at this point in the cycle."
"I put air quotes around that phrase because whenever people say it, I feel like they're trying real hard to put the stock market in the context of some sort of game," the "Mad Money" host said on Tuesday. "It's the ninth inning, it's the fourth quarter or whatever time frame that resonates as well as the obvious meaning, which is something like, 'We haven't had a recession yet, but we're about to, and if that's the case, stocks are way too expensive.'"
What irritates Cramer most is that he sees plenty of bubbles out there, but the stock market is not one of them.
One such example is bitcoin, the wildly popular cryptocurrency used by traders hungry for its rapid-fire gains and by companies to pay off hackers using ransomware.
In the meantime, wealthy citizens in Venezuela, Zimbabwe and Brazil are purchasing bitcoin as a way to get money securely away from the "failing regimes," Cramer said.
"So you have this currency that's been bid up to $8,000 by people anxious to move their money without government scrutiny for whatever reason," Cramer said. "A year ago, one bitcoin was worth $750. You mean to tell me that's not a bubble? You think that's a safe place, a reasonable approximation of value versus the stock market?"
Cramer also called attention to the Leonardo da Vinci painting that sold for over $450 million, breaking all-time art auction records.
The sale was a prime example of too much money being poured into too little product, the "Mad Money" host argued.
"This one was either a ridiculous outlier or the new benchmark of wealth in the world," he said. "Either way, a painting is not something that generates income and this particular painting may be a fake. Isn't that the definition of overvalued?"
Perhaps the most overvalued portion of the market Cramer found was junk bonds, which are low-yield, high-risk, fixed-income investments with credit ratings of BB or lower (by the Standard & Poor's standards).
And then there's the stock market, where Cramer saw only three stocks that truly eschew the boundaries of traditional valuation: Netflix, Amazon and Tesla.
But Cramer said that Netflix's valuation could still be driven higher by the entertainment giant's distribution network and that the market hasn't caught up with Amazon's still-undervalued web services arm.
"Tesla remains a free association situation where anyone can put any value on it," Cramer acknowledged. "But in the last six months, we've gone from having three cult stocks that were impossible to value on the fundamentals to having just one. That's reassuring."
So as certain areas of investment explode in value, Cramer maintained that stocks are one of the few portions of the market where prices actually run true.
"Look, the stock market does not exist in a vacuum," the "Mad Money" host said. "And as long as everything else is totally crazy and bubblicious, stocks are looking good. I don't care where we are 'in the cycle,' I care where we are in the supermarket of investing, and right now, stocks are the only aisle with real and obvious value."


Marvell Technology Group President and CEO Matt Murphy told CNBC that he wasn't expecting the market to react so positively to Marvell's $6 billion deal to buy fellow chipmaker Cavium.
"We're actually pleasantly surprised," Murphy told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer on Tuesday. "The reaction we've gotten over the last few days as I've met with investors is they love the fact that you're getting a pure play infrastructure, cloud-levered, [internet-of-things]-levered company that really takes care of all the interconnections within the cloud and to the edge."
In a fairly unusual move for an acquirer's stock, shares of Marvell surged on news of the deal, closing up 7.8 percent on Tuesday. Shares of Cavium closed up nearly 4 percent.
Murphy, who took the helm of Marvell in July 2016, classified the move as part of a larger restructuring the semiconductor company is doing under his leadership.
Upon joining the chipmaker, Murphy said he set up three main objectives: spruce up the financials, build a management team and re-focus the company as a whole.
"The thing about Marvell is it's an iconic company. It's got great technology, great bones and great engineering and products," Murphy told Cramer. "We re-focused fundamentally on storage, networking, cloud and infrastructure as the key drivers for our company's future, and that's now set us up over the last year to grow our top line, make a ton of progress with customers, and then enable us, with the balance sheet we've got, to actually go off and combine with Cavium."
Combining with rival Cavium will help diversify Marvell's client portfolio and business, reducing the hard drive business, which used to garner 40 percent of Marvell's sales, to only 25 percent of the company, the CEO said.

"Of that 25 percent, a good portion of that is actually growing within hard drives. All the drives that go into the data center or enterprise, the big-capacity drives, the near-line drives, that's a growing segment of the hard drive market," Murphy said.
Better yet, the CEO said the combination will create a leading player in "silicon, software and solutions for the cloud," presented to the market as "the industrial internet of things."
"We think that this combination is fantastic on a number of levels," Murphy told Cramer. "Once the data gets onto the internet, that goes all through Marvell and Cavium technology."


Stocks are overpriced, but that may not be a problem, Peter Costa, president of Empire Executions, told CNBC on Tuesday.
It seems that no matter what, the market continues to drive higher and higher. On Tuesday, the S&P 500, the Dow Jones industrial average, the Nasdaq composite and the Russell 2000 all closed at record highs.
"There's a confluence of really good things. There's good earnings, [and] low interest rates, even with the rate hike next week or next month or whenever it is. You've got a really good environment for stocks," Costa said on CNBC's "Closing Bell."
This environment also means that stocks are "absolutely" overpriced, Costa said.
JPMorgan Chief Global Strategist David Kelly agreed, saying, "We're pricing in a lot of optimism here."
Still, Costa said, "I don't know if overpriced is an issue anymore."
Although hiccups are inevitable, he continued, "I don't think there's anything within the next couple of months that we're going to see that's going to slow [the market] down."


Bank of America Merrill Lynch sees a scary good news-bad news scenario unfolding in 2018: A solid push higher in the first half followed by all sorts of potential trouble after.
The S&P 500 would peak out around 2,863 in the scenario, or about 11 percent higher than Monday's close. Bond yields are expected to rise, with the benchmark 10-year Treasury note hitting 2.75 percent as global GDP growth reaches 3.8 percent.
That setting assumes three things: the "last vestiges" of stimulus from the Fed and other central banks, the passage of tax reform in Congress, and "full investor capitulation into risk assets" on better-than-expected corporate earnings.
After that, though, things get considerably sketchier as the second-longest bull market in history runs into trouble.


Tesla shareholders are in for a roller-coaster ride next year, according to the most widely followed analyst covering the stock.
Morgan Stanley reiterated its equal weight rating for electric car maker's shares, predicting the stock will rise then fall in the coming year.
"We expect Tesla shares to be extremely volatile in 2018, divided into two stages: (1) The alleviation of production bottlenecks with strong cash inflow, and (2) mounting concerns over the sustainability of the competitive moat," analyst Adam Jonas wrote in a note to clients Tuesday entitled "Tesla 2018: $400 then $200?"
The analyst reiterated his $379 price target for Tesla shares, representing 23 percent upside to Monday's close.
"We believe such upside [to the firm's price target] is less interesting on a risk-adjusted basis. From a shorter-term trading perspective, we anticipate Tesla's stock price may reach highs in the range of $400 or more over the next few months before facing some more serious headwinds later in the year," he wrote.
Jonas expects Tesla will fix its battery production issues in the coming weeks as the company put more resources on the problem. However, he predicts more electric car and autonomous transportation announcements from direct competitors next year will hurt investor sentiment.
The electric car maker's shares are outperforming the market this year, up 44.5 percent through Monday compared with the S&P 500's 15.3 percent return.
Tesla did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Its shares are up 0.6 percent in the Tuesday premarket session after the call.


The stock market is in for another strong year in 2018 so long as Congress is able to pass tax reform, according to a Goldman Sachs forecast.
With tax reform, the S&P 500 should close next year at 2,850, a healthy 10.4 percent gain from Monday's close, the Wall Street investment banking giant said in a look ahead released Tuesday. Should Congress fail to get a bill through, that outlook dims considerably, with an expected level of 2,450, which would represent a 5 percent pullback.
The prediction represents a considerably more bullish tone for Goldman, whose chief U.S. equity strategist, David Kostin, has been reserved in his expectations. In fact, the firm had predicted the S&P 500 to close 2016 at just 2,400, a mark it passed in late May and never looked back.
That brighter view also comes days after the firm's economists released their own buoyant projections for the year ahead, with expectations for greater growth both in the U.S. and globally and a domestic unemployment rate at its lowest level since 1969.
"Our 'rational exuberance' rests on a combination of above-trend US and global economic growth, low albeit slowly rising interest rates, and profit growth aided by corporate tax reform likely to be adopted by early next year," Kostin said in a report for clients.


Chip stocks have been on fire this year, and one technician says the hottest name in the group is showing no signs of cooling off.
Micron is the best-performing technology stock this year, up nearly 120 percent, and according to Rich Ross of Evercore ISI, the stock has could rally another 25 percent from current levels.
"There's been no stronger trend than semiconductors and technology, and this is the strongest stock within the group," he said Monday on the "Trading Nation" segment of CNBC's "Power Lunch." "We think it's going to [$60] here by virtue of that multiyear base breakout ... the trend has not even come close to exhaustion," he added. That's roughly $15 higher than where the stock is trading, and would put the stock at its highest level in 17 years.


But even from a fundamental basis, Chantico Global CEO Gina Sanchez believes that the semiconductor space in general will rally on. Semis as a group are up about 46 percent this year, and industry trends, says Sanchez, will only drive stocks like Micron higher.
"You have augmented reality, virtual reality, AI, smart tech, smart manufacturing, and smart automotive," she said on "Trading Nation." "These are all massive trends that aren't going away."
Year to date, shares of Micron are up 117 percent.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Lowe's – The home improvement retailer earned $1.05 per share for the third quarter, three cents a share above estimates. Revenue topped forecasts, and comparable-store sales were up 5.7 percent compared to the Thomson Reuters consensus of a 4.6 percent increase. Like rival Home Depot, Lowe's benefited from extra sales related to the quarter's hurricanes.
Hormel – The food company edged estimates by a penny a share, with quarterly profit of 42 cents per share. Revenue also came in above estimates and Hormel announced it would merge its grocery and specialty foods businesses.
Medtronic – The medical device maker earned an adjusted $1.07 per share for its latest quarter, nine cents a share above estimates. Revenue came in above forecasts, as well. The beat comes despite declines related to the sale of a unit to Cardinal Health, the quarter's hurricanes, and the California wildfires.
DSW – The shoe retailer fell eight cents a share shy of consensus estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 45 cents per share. Revenue fell short of expectations and comparable-store sales posted an unexpected decline. DSW is among the companies saying its sales were negatively impacted by the quarter's hurricanes.
Campbell Soup – The food company reported adjusted quarterly profit of 92 cents per share, five cents a share shy of estimates. Revenue also missed forecasts and Campbell said higher costs for logistics, transportation, and carrots impacted its bottom line.
Dollar Tree – The discount retailer earned $1.01 per share for the third quarter, 11 cents a share above estimates. Revenue and comparable-store sales also beat Street forecasts.
AT&T — The Justice Department sued AT&T to block its proposed $85.4 billion acquisition of Time Warner. The suit claims the deal would raise prices for consumers and would slow the transition to other distribution models. AT&T said the move was a "radical" departure from decades of antitrust regulation.
Intuit – Intuit reported adjusted quarterly profit of 11 cents per share, six cents a share above estimates. The financial software company's revenue also above forecasts. The results were helped by more subscriptions for the company's QuickBooks Online service, but the shares are being pressured by a forecast which was merely in line with analysts' estimates.
Urban Outfitters – Urban Outfitters came in eight cents a share above estimates, with quarterly profit of 41 cents per share. The apparel retailer's revenue beat estimates, as well. Urban Outfitters also gave investors a pleasant surprise with an unexpected increase in comparable-store sales.
Palo Alto Networks – Palo Alto reported adjusted quarterly profit of 74 cents per share, five cents a share above consensus estimates. Revenue also came in ahead of analysts' forecasts. The cybersecurity services company is among those in its field that have seen increased business since the Equifax data breach and ransomware attacks.
Broadcom – Broadcom would make major changes to Qualcomm's controversial patent licensing business if its bid to acquire its rival chip maker is successful, according to The Wall Street Journal. Broadcom has not made it clear, however, exactly how it would change that business.
Dish Network – The satellite TV provider's customers are without CBS television stations, with the two sides unable to reach a new carriage agreement. Dish said CBS refused to extend the contract while talks continue — CBS accused Dish of punishing its subscribers rather than negotiate a fair deal.
BHP Billiton – The mining company and Brazilian partner Vale received a 150-day extension to negotiate a settlement of a $48 billion damage claim related to the 2015 Samarco mine disaster which killed 19 people.
21st Century Fox – Fox struck a $90 million dollar settlement of a shareholder lawsuit, stemming from the sexual harassment scandal at Fox News channel. The defendants – which included Fox officers and directors – did not admit wrongdoing in agreeing to the settlement.
Mellanox Technologies — Activist investor Starboard Value acquired a 10.7 percent stake in the high-speed computing company and urged it to explore a potential sale. Starboard said the company is spending too much on research and development and other expenses compared to its peers. Mellanox said it welcomed Starboard's input.
Deere – Deere was upgraded to "outperform" from "neutral" at RW Baird, which cites stronger than expected demand for Deere's heavy equipment.


"Robust demand" for Boeing's commercial aircraft presents a compelling investment opportunity, according to a Jefferies analysis.
A persistent pileup of commercial jet orders will lead Boeing to grow deliveries 6 percent annually through the next 10 years, Jefferies analyst Sheila Kahyaoglu said in a note toclients Tuesday. She reiterated her buy rating and bumped up her 12-month price target.
"We have increased confidence that Boeing can grow EPS at a low double-digit rate supported by robust demand for its commercial aircraft and higher productivity," Kahyaoglu wrote. "Given the size of the backlog, near-term production is well supported, but the opportunity set should likely keep backlogs at elevated levels."
Boeing has been a Dow Jones industrial average leader this year, up nearly 70 percent. The jet manufacturer hit a record on Nov. 8.

Shares traded 0.5 percent higher Tuesday morning.
The analyst sees a marked increase in production of Boeing's popular 787 Dreamliner from the current 12 units per month to 14 by 2019. While much of the current swell in demand for aircraft stems from expansion in the Middle East, European and U.S. capacity is likely due for replacement, she said.
In the case of United and Delta, Kahyaoglu said the average age of a wide-body aircraft is in excess of 15 years.
"While order backlogs for the Middle Eastern carriers look full, there appears to be some under penetration for U.S. and European carriers that have older fleets, with little in the way of backlog," she wrote. "Delta Airlines has a fleet of 163 widebody aircraft with an average age of 17 years. The airlines order backlog is for 49 aircraft."
The craze for planes is set to keep earnings per shares elevated in the years to come, added the analyst. She now expects adjusted EPS of $12.51 in 2019 and raised her 12-month price target to $312 from $300, representing 18 percent upside from Monday's close.


Shares of shoe retailer DSW fell 11 percent Tuesday after the company posted earnings below Wall Street expectations.
The footwear company reported earnings of 45 cents per share in the third quarter, below the 53 cents analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters expected. DSW also reduced its fiscal 2017 earnings expectation to a range of $1.40 to $1.45 a share, down 5 cents on the low end and 10 cents on the high end.
"An unusually severe hurricane season" hurt DSW's same store sales and earnings, CEO Roger Rawlins said in the earnings release. Hurricanes brought the last quarter's earnings down by 5 cents per share, according to DSW.
Hurricanes weren't the only headwinds for DSW. "Warm weather in the quarter hurt sales as cold weather product underperformed," Susquehanna analyst Sam Poser wrote in a note Tuesday. The extended period of high temperatures across the nation hurts the sales of winter staples such as boots, a crucial part of DSW's business.
DSW stock was little changed for the year through Monday.


Campbell Soup, which missed Wall Street estimates for first-quarter profit and revenue, said harvest delays of its carrot crop in California and higher costs are likely to hurt its earnings in the current quarter.
Shares of the company were down 7 percent at $46.39 in late morning trading.
The company, which sells the Bolthouse Farms of fresh juices, said severe weather hurt crop production, leading the world's largest soup maker to delay supply of carrot-based products to its customers.
Campbell, which expects delays to pick up in December, said transport disruptions have led to a big rise in supply-chain costs.
"Given the seasonality of our business and the timing of these unforeseen cost issues, we expect to see significantly weaker performance in the second quarter, followed by improvements in the second half," Campbell's Finance Chief Anthony DiSilvestro said on the conference call.
The company also said delays in finalizing an agreement with a key customer over a promotional program would deepen its soup sales losses in the United States in the first half of the year.
J.P. Morgan analyst Ken Goldman said Campbell's weak results underscore the lower demand that packaged-food companies have been facing.
"But we remind investors that the two major problems (a lost promotion at Wal-Mart, carrots) are CPB-specific," Goldman said.
The company's fresh food unit, which includes Bolthouse Farms and Garden Fresh Gourmet brands, has been witnessing sales declines since last year due to a premature harvest of carrots and recall of protein drinks.
In the first quarter, the Pepperidge Farm snacks maker said gross margins fell 2.4 percent, leading the company to cut its fiscal 2018 adjusted profit to $2.95 to $3.02 per share from previously stated $3.04 to $3.11.
This was below the analysts' average estimate of $3.05 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Excluding items, Campbell earned 92 cents per share on revenue of $2.16 billion in the first quarter ended Oct. 29.
Analysts on average expected revenue of $2.17 billion and profit of 97 cents per share.


Dollar Tree, the biggest U.S. dollar-store chain operator, on Tuesday reported third-quarter comparable store sales and profit that beat Wall Street estimates, helped by higher customer traffic and spending at its stores.
Sales at stores open for more than a year rose 3.3 percent, above the 2.4 percent rise expected by analysts, while same-store sales at Dollar Tree's namesake chain rose 5.2 percent, beating the 3.2 percent rise analysts had expected, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
While other grocery retailers like Wal-Mart Stores and Kroger have been cutting prices to compete with the likes of Amazon, Dollar Tree has been relying more on its smaller store sizes and smaller product assortments to draw in customers.
Net income rose to $239.9 million, or $1.01 per share, in the third quarter ended Oct. 28, from $171.6 million, or 72 cents per share, a year earlier.
Net sales rose 6.3 percent to $5.32 billion.
Analysts on average had expected earnings of 90 cents per share on sales of $5.28 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Shares of Dollar Tree, which is reporting its first quarterly results under the leadership of new Chief Executive Gary Philbin, where slightly up in premarket trading.


Next year will likely bring lower returns and perhaps a "pause" for the stock market, longtime bull Jeremy Siegel told CNBC on Monday.
In fact, he believes the market is "clearly near to a top."
"We have one more push and I think it's connected with the corporate tax reform," the Wharton School finance professor said in an interview with "Closing Bell."
While he's not warning everyone to sell everything, he sees valuations and political uncertainty slowing down the stock market in 2018.
"Clearly now at these valuations we're not going to get the double-digit returns that certainly we've gotten over the last six or seven years, on average," he said.
Siegel expects returns under 10 percent. "What do you look forward to in 2018 that could keep this market … as buoyant as it's been this year? It's been a great run," he said. "We might have a pause."
Siegel is known for his bullish predictions. In July 2015, he said the Dow Jones industrial average could hit 20,000 by year-end. In November of that year he pushed his timeline back to 2016. The Dow broke the mark on Jan. 25, 2017.
In February, he told CNBC that Dow 22,000 was "on the horizon." The blue chip index hit that level in August.
His latest call is for Dow 24,000 by the end of 2017, but has said it is predicated on the passage of tax reform.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told CNBC on Friday that he expects a GOP tax cut bill to be sent to President Donald Trump to sign by Christmas.
— CNBC's Tae Kim and Berkeley Lovelace Jr. contributed to this report.


Forecasts for the holiday shopping season are strong, because economic indicators generally are as well: the stock market, wages and consumer confidence are all up.
Bain & Company is forecasting growth 3.5 percent to 3.9 percent. The National Retail Federation is anticipating a rise between 3.6 percent and 4 percent.
Those numbers though, don't tell the whole story. An uptick in sales will not benefit all retailers uniformly. There will be winners and losers in the holiday season. This is what, and how, industry advisors and executives will be watching the next two months.
Discount spiral
Same-store sales is an important metric for the Street, but what industry advisors are most concerned about is how much money retailers make during the season.
Avoiding the discount spiral can be challenging. With a few clicks on a smartphone, shoppers can quickly see where they can buy the cheapest items. Further, retailers in bankruptcy — or trying to avoid bankruptcy — are likely to have blowout sales. Sears, for example, has already put the whole store on sale, offering "first-of-their-kind" discounts ranging from 10 to 50 percent at Sears stores, and 10 to 40 percent at Kmart. Those sales may have an impact on competitors like J.C. Penney, who has been looking to encroach on Sears' territory with appliance sales.


CNBC's Jim Cramer always pays attention to this week, the week where major Wall Street investors "anoint" and buy the stock market's best performers going into the end of the year.
"So how does a stock qualify to become anointed? Well, first, they need to be having a great year," the "Mad Money" host said. "Second, there has to be a long-term thesis to justify what would otherwise look like nosebleed valuations. Third, you need a belief that nothing can go wrong for the company between now and year-end."
Portfolio managers "anoint" stocks because they want to show their clients they invested in the year's winning names, Cramer said.
So Cramer went through the top 15 stocks he thinks will become "anointed" this year, in alphabetical order, to give homegamers a better picture of Wall Street's most wanted.


It's rare for CNBC's Jim Cramer to see an interview that "rocks [his] whole investment world," but David Faber's interview with Liberty Media Chairman John Malone last week did just that.
"Rarely do you come across an executive who's so comfortable in his own skin that he can speak his mind about so many different companies," the "Mad Money" host said. "Most execs insist they can only speak about their own businesses — they don't want to step on anyone else's toes."
But Malone isn't one of those executives, and he proved it by drawing the now-pervasive comparison between Amazon and the Death Star, the evil Empire's battle station in the "Star Wars" franchise that had the power to destroy entire planets.
By using scale, reduced cost and heightened convenience to reach consumers, Amazon is moving "into striking range of every industry on the planet," Malone said on Thursday.
Judging by the scramble among pharmacy operators after Amazon expressed interest in entering the drug retail business, Cramer thought Malone was spot-on.
And to Malone, scale — particularly the kind built on artificial intelligence and fueled by the stock market — will propel the success of giants like Amazon and Netflix in the future.
Backed by money from the market and major film studios, Netflix co-founder and CEO Reed Hastings has developed an international platform that uses AI and price controls to satisfy consumers while giving directors more free will than traditional studios.
"It's a built-in edge that puts Netflix on the path to world domination," the "Mad Money" host said. "Netflix will beat anyone trying to scale. They've got the directors willing to work for them. And that's why Malone said 'it's way too late' for the cable companies to band together to stop Netflix."
That got Cramer thinking about Netflix's $83 billion valuation, a far cry from CBS Corporation's $22 billion valuation or Twenty-First Century Fox's $57 billion.
While Cramer could argue that both CBS and Fox still have hidden value that could be unlocked by takeover bids, he was more taken by what Netflix may still have to offer.
"If anything, $83 billion seems too small a valuation for Netflix. Do we really think an international content distribution company with local artificial intelligence and the ability to make its own AI-driven programming should only be worth $83 billion?" Cramer wondered. "I could make a compelling case that this worldwide operator ought to be worth a lot more."
All in all, Malone's comments about Amazon and Netflix (and the echoes that followed) made Cramer even more bullish on the two companies' power to defeat any rival with scale, better information and AI.
"Amazon and Netflix are like Big Brother — they know you better than you know yourself. How can anyone beat that?" the "Mad Money" host said. "After watching that interview with Malone, I've gotta tell you that, if anything, I think Netflix's stock is cheap at these levels and I think it can go higher. Maybe much higher."


Investors who want a lucrative investment but can't sink their money into a $450 million Leonardo da Vinci painting should consider the stock of Intuitive Surgical, CNBC's Jim Cramer said on Monday.
"I think it's safe to say that this is the da Vinci of stocks, and not just because they stole the guy's name," the "Mad Money" host said, referring to the company's robotic surgical system named da Vinci. "Just like the painting that sold last week, Intuitive Surgical's share price keeps roaring higher, more than doubling over the past two years, up over 86 percent since the beginning of 2017."
Over the years, Intuitive Surgical has carved out a place for itself as one of the few providers of minimally-invasive, robotically-assisted surgical equipment.
And even after its last several quarterly earnings reports, both of which beat Wall Street estimates, the expectations for Intuitive Surgical are still too low, Cramer said.
"You may not be able to afford an actual painting by da Vinci, but you can absolutely try to participate in the upside from Intuitive Surgical's brilliant da Vinci machine," Cramer said. "The stock has been on fire. I don't blame anyone who wants to take some profits. But the next time you get a pullback in ISRG, remember that weakness in this name has often turned out to be an excellent buying opportunity."


Hardly anything has made CNBC's Jim Cramer want to reconsider his bullish thesis on discount retailer Ollie's Bargain Outlet Holdings since he recommended it in early 2016.
"Ollie's, both the store and the stock, [is] en fuego. And it makes sense. After all, this company is an off-price retailer, and that's the best acting portion [of retail]. It means when other merchants are struggling, Ollie's comes in and buys their excess inventory for very low prices," the "Mad Money" host said. "Very often, the rest of retail's pain is their gain."
With shares up nearly 63 percent year-to-date, it's hard to deny that Ollie's own version of "buy low, sell high" is working, Cramer said.
Merchants need to sell their excess inventory in order to get the financing for new products, and that's where Ollie's bargain comes in: the company buys the excess and sells it for more, still at a drastically reduced cost to the consumer.
"In a way, these off-price retailers are like scavengers," Cramer said. "When all sorts of big national chains are shutting down locations left and right, like they're doing right now, they generate a ton of closeout inventory. Ollie's feasts on that stuff."
That's why the "Mad Money" host was so surprised when a Citigroup analyst initiated coverage on Ollie's with a "sell" rating, slapping a $39 price target on the $46 stock.
The bearish note took guts in a landscape where most analysts still have "buy" ratings on Ollie's, Cramer said, unpacking both arguments to get a better picture of the debate.
"The bullish thesis has been the dominant theme here ever since Ollie's came public, and that was back in the summer of 2015," Cramer said.
Bullish analysts favored Ollie's off-price business model, which offered consumers deeper discounts than competitors, a "treasure hunt experience" in stores and a strong loyalty program, the "Mad Money" host said.
Analysts also liked the retailer's growth opportunities. When Ollie's came public, management planned to grow its 200 stores to around 950. Now, the company has 240 stores and a distribution network that can support 400, Cramer said.
And the earnings have so far supported the bulls' thesis. In Ollie's latest quarter, sales increased by 20.5 percent and earnings grew by 28.6 percent, beating Wall Street's expectations.
"The reason? Because while things might be very tough for retail in general, that's exactly the kind of environment where Ollie's thrives because it means they can get more merchandise from stores that are shutting down," Cramer explained.
But that didn't stop Citi from issuing its bearish call. That thesis hinged on lofty expectations for Ollie's, which could prompt a sell-off if it only narrowly beats them in its third-quarter earnings report.
Citi was also worried about competition from the dollar stores and other mass-market retailers including Amazon, even as manufacturers prohibit many of Ollie's brand-name products from being sold online.
Much of the bear thesis was forward-looking. The analyst raised concerns about the retailer's planned construction of a new distribution center narrowing its margins in 2020.
Citi also called into question the profitability of Ollie's newly opened stores, which analyst said could cannibalize their own market.
"That said, Citi's 'sell' recommendation has so many caveats that I have trouble considering it all that bearish," Cramer said. "Put it all together and Citi's basically saying that the stock has run very far very fast, and while the business sure looks good right now, there are all sorts of ways things could potentially go wrong."
All in all, Cramer wasn't swayed by Citi's thesis, even as he thought the stock was far from cheap at $46, trading at 32 times next year's earnings estimates.
"Here's the bottom line: when you're dealing with red-hot stocks, you always need to be cognizant of what the bears are saying," he said. "With Ollie's, I think the bulls are dead right about the fundamentals, but the bears have a point when they say that the stock has run a great deal. So let me give you a synthesis — let's hope Ollie's stock comes down, perhaps after it reports in less than three weeks — because this is exactly the kind of name that's worth buying into a pullback because the long-term story remains very much intact."
In an emailed response to CNBC's request for comment, Mark Butler, the president and CEO of Ollie's, wrote:
"We appreciate Jim's insight and analysis on Ollie's, and sharing our passionate pursuit to sell bargains. Our stores are loaded with brand names at drastically reduced prices, as America's love for a bargain will never, ever go out of style."


Investors are too optimistic and taking on too much risk in this low volatile environment, setting the stock market up for a potential downfall, according to strategists at investment bank Societe Generale.
"In a goldilocks scenario of low interest rates, abundant liquidity, stable growth and a focus on the 'good' Trump, investors continue to push asset prices, volatility and leverage to historical extremes," said Alain Bokobza, head of global asset allocation at Societe Generale, in a report Monday. "Yet, a low volatility carry environment with rather extreme positioning is a dangerous combination, which we recently likened to dancing on the rim of a volcano."
Bokobza also compared U.S. stocks to the boiling frog that doesn't realize the trouble surrounding it.
"Today's current dynamics put the US equity market at a similar risk as the frog," he said.
U.S. stocks have been on fire this year. The S&P 500 is up more than 15 percent in 2017, boosted by strong corporate earnings, expectations of a U.S. tax code overhaul and improving global economic conditions. Monetary policy — which has been a boon for stocks since the financial crisis — also remains loose compared with historical standards.
But Bokobza said the S&P 500 is richly valued despite the uncertainty around Congress and the Trump administration passing tax reform.
There is "a growing risk that tax cuts cannot be passed in Washington, or will be more modest than expected. Such an outcome could raise the risks of a recession," Bokobza said, adding that some expectations of tax reform have already been priced into the market.
The House passed a bill last week that would immediately lower corporate taxes to 20 percent from 35 percent. But the Senate still has to vote on its own bill and there are key differences between the two.
The most significant difference between the chambers' plans is the treatment of state and local tax deductions. The Senate plan would eliminate those deductions entirely. The measure could alienate some House Republicans who voted for the chamber's bill that would allow up to $10,000 in property tax deductions.
Valuations have also been boosted by investors' fear of missing out (FOMO) on the latest bull rally and continuous inflows from stocks via passive investment strategies, Bokobza said. "Passive flows into the US equity market have been high over the past few years as has the momentum trend, exacerbating the S&P 500's bullish trend."
Another red flag the market is raising is growth in margin debt levels among companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
"The growth in margin debt has not reached exorbitant levels yet, as was the case just before the 2000s and 2007s market crashes," he said. "However, we expect to enter a bear equity market environment, and the sell-off may be exacerbated by margin calls being triggered."
Overall, Bokobza said he and his team do not expect a market crash or a financial crisis to hit near term. "However, we believe that the S&P 500 is showing an asymmetric risk/reward profile," adding that a bear market "is not so far in the distant future."
Societe Generale expects the S&P 500 to fall 22.5 percent from its Monday levels to 2,000 by the end of 2019.
— CNBC's Patricia Martell contributed to this report.


If you are looking for easy answers or reassuring platitudes, do not check in with Jack Bogle, the 88-year-old founder and retired CEO of the world's largest mutual fund company, Vanguard, which manages $4.5 trillion in assets.
"I seek the truth," he said. "In my long experience, one thing I know is that truth is elusive."
And even when it's painful, he believes in facing up to it.
Forty-two years after he founded Vanguard, and nearly two decades after relinquishing the CEO spot the same year he had a heart transplant, Bogle still keeps up a grueling schedule.
This fall he released the 10th edition of one of his best-selling books, The Little Book of Common Sense Investing. In a few weeks he is sitting for a Q&A at the Council on Foreign Relations. In early December, Bogle is speaking at the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the accounting-industry watchdog at the center of a brewing controversy over the scant  qualifications of the Senate Republican staffer in line to be the new chairman. Bogle has consistently advocated to make the PCOAB a tough regulator.
In an interview with CNBC, he offered a handful of predictions on the global investment market in 2018 and beyond.


Amazon's dominance over multiple industries and markets will only get larger, according to one Wall Street firm.
Nomura Instinet reiterated its buy rating for Amazon shares, saying the internet giant will maintain its leadership position because of its massive investment spending.
"With nearly all retailers playing defense, the few willing & able to go on the offensive have been digging ever increasing moats to take ever increasing share," analyst Simeon Siegel wrote in a note to clients Monday titled "Analyzing the Forbidden: Margin Deep Dive LeavesUs w/Increased Optimism."
"To this end, we took a deep dive into Amazon's margin structure, & backing into segment GMs [gross profit margins], we believe that mix shift alone could drive 1000+bps of LT GM lift, powering a $160bn investment into deepening Amazon's moat."
Amazon shares have rallied 51 percent this year through Friday, compared with the market's 15 percent gain.
The analyst noted how the company's profit margins are expanding as it grows its more profitable businesses, such as cloud computing and the third-party marketplace seller platform. He estimates Amazon's grow margin can potentially rise to 45 to 46 percent by 2022 from an estimated 35 percent this year, enabling up to $160 billion of incremental investment spending.
Siegel increased his price target for Amazon shares to $1,360 from $1,100, representing 20 percent upside to Friday's close. The analyst's new target is the second-highest out of the 40 analysts who cover Amazon, according to FactSet.
Amazon shares were little changed on Monday after the report.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Wal-Mart – Goldman Sachs downgraded its outlook for the retail giant, lowering the firm's rating on Wal-Mart to "neutral" from "buy." In a note, Goldman said Wal-Mart "has solidified its transition to a winner" and sees the market's price for the stock as having caught up to the company's investments in its business.
General Motors – Guggenheim, anticipating GM's autonomous event on November 30, upgraded the stock to "buy" from "neutral." The firm also raised its price target to $52, saying it expects the automaker "to showcase the advanced status" of its autonomous technology. Guggenheim believes this announcement could give GM a competitive advantage in monetizing the next generation technology.
Cavium – Shares of the semiconductor builder popped more than 6 percent in premarket trading after chipmaker Marvell announced it would acquire Cavium for $40 per share in cash and 2.2 Marvell shares for each Cavium share. Marvell said the acquisition expands the company's addressable cloud data and service market to over $16 billion.
Verizon – The investment arm of Wells Fargo upgraded its outlook on Verizon's stock to "outperform" from "market perform." The firm said "much of the bad news is behind" the telecom giant and expects to hear "a convincing case for both revenue growth and cost containment" from Verizon's fiber initiative.
Qualcomm – The chipmaker is one step closer to completing its $38 billion acquisition of NXP Semiconductors, Reuters reported. The company is set to win antitrust approval in Japan, with the green light expected as early as the end of this year.
Live Nation Entertainment – The live concert specialist had its stock downgraded by Evercore to "inline" from "outperform." The firm said the market has caught up with Live Nation and now adequately values the business.
Equifax – Fidelity sold approximately 1.2 million shares of Equifax on Friday, according to FactSet. Fidelity is the fourth-largest shareholder among mutual funds.
Cardinal Health – Morgan Stanley cut its rating of the health-care services company to "underweight" from "equal-weight."


Most of the upside for Wal-Mart's stock is now behind it after its big run this year, according to Goldman Sachs.
The firm on Monday lowered its rating for Wal-Mart shares to neutral from buy, citing valuation.
In a note to clients, analyst Matthew Fassler wrote that Goldman downgraded Wal-Mart because of the company's "progress in growing earnings while investing in its business has been recognized by the market, as the stock's multiple has surged."
Shares of Wal-Mart were down more than 1 percent in Monday's premarket. Through Friday, they were up 41 percent this year versus the S&P 500's 15 percent return.
Fassler noted the retailer's forward price-to-earnings multiple is 21 times, which is a 15 percent valuation premium to the S&P 500.
"From here, though, the stock looks fairly valued," he wrote. "Benchmarked vs. global peers, even on our new, higher numbers, the stock does not offer value for its underlying growth."
The analyst raised his 12-month price target for the retailer to $100 from $91, representing 3 percent upside to Friday's close.
Wal-Mart declined to comment.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


Amazon is gearing up for a "blowout" holiday season with earnings in the fourth quarter likely to beat Wall Street expectations, one noted technology analyst said Monday.
Daniel Ives of GBH Insights said in a research note that he believes Prime customers, those signed up to Amazon's subscription service, are estimated to spend 20 to 25 percent more this holiday season from last year. This, coupled with growth in the number of U.S. and international Prime members is "setting the stage for a blowout holidays season," he said.
As a result, Amazon could beat the Street's fourth-quarter top-line estimate by 3 to 5 percent. Amazon is expected to report revenue in the three months to December of $59.7 billion, according to data from Thomson Reuters.
Ives raised his price target on the e-commerce giant's stock from $1,185 to $1,270. That would represent a more than 12 percent rise from Friday's close. Amazon shares were up fractionally in premarket trading Monday. They are up more than 50 percent this year.
"While shares have had an eye popping run to date, we believe there is more fuel left in the tank as Amazon only appears to be in the middle innings of an unprecedented growth cycle across both the consumer and enterprise segments," Ives said.
The analyst said that the $13.7 billion acquisition of Whole Foods will continue to help Amazon increase Prime membership and the cross-selling of products. Amazon has been cutting the price of Whole Foods items and integrating those products into its Prime offering. Ives called this a great "one-two punch" that should increase sales from Prime members for 2018 and is "still underappreciated by the Street."
Further investment in new areas such as health care and pharmacy will also help Amazon tap new markets, Ives said.


It's been hip to be Square this year.
Shares of the mobile payment stock have surged 222 percent in 2017, including 13 percent last week alone following the announcement that it would begin testing bitcoin on its app and a big analyst upgrade. Evercore ISI upgraded Square to outperform on Friday and doubled its price target, citing Square's "new products with strong, omni-channel capabilities."
Despite the rally, Miller Tabak's Matt Maley believes the red hot tech stock will soon cool off.
"It's [trading] at a 90 percent premium to its 200-day moving average," Maley said Friday in a "Trading Nation" segment of CNBC's "Power Lunch." "You look at Facebook and during its first two years as a public company, it didn't get to a premium even half that big."
Square, led by Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, celebrated its second anniversary of being public over the weekend with the stock up nearly 400 percent from its $9 IPO price.
"It's getting very stretched, and unless you think this is the next Facebook, this stock is going to have to pull back a bit before it goes any higher," Maley said. "And I question if it can go any higher from here at least in the near term."

Mark Tepper, CEO of Strategic Wealth Partners, also warns against Square's high valuation and what he perceives as weakness in their business model.
"Square has a good track record of losing money, and there's just no clear path to profitability in the near future," he said on "Power Lunch." "They've got good technology, but it's just not disruptive, and that's what you need in the industry."
In fact, Tepper finds the prospect of competition concerning for Square, given that its fees are high and its low profitability could put it in danger of other big names in the space like PayPal.
"When a competitor does enter their space, how will they be able to lower their fees so they can continue to compete?" Tepper asked. "We'd be staying away from Square at this point."
According to data from FactSet, 53 percent of Wall Street analysts covering Square have a buy rating on the stock, though the average price target is $38.56, well below Friday's levels.


In the week leading up to Black Friday and in the days thereafter, the clear outperformers in the stock market are the retailers participating in the holiday shopping phenomenon themselves.
The shares are already on the comeback trail heading into Thanksgiving week 2017, as companies including Nike, L Brands, Wal-Mart, Gap, Ulta Beauty and Foot Locker all finish the week on a positive note. The S&P 500 Retail ETF (XRT) was up more than 2.8 percent alone on Friday.
Since 2007, the top U.S. equities sector in the period spanning from one week before to one week after Black Friday has been retail, a CNBC analysis using hedge fund analytics tool Kensho found.
A grouping of S&P 500 retail stocks, on average, posts returns of 5 percent during that time frame, according to Kensho. That compares with the S&P 500 index's average return of about 3 percent, and consumer discretionary stocks seeing about 4.5 percent growth in their share prices.

The search looked at the last 10 Black Friday periods.
To be sure, competition is heightened this holiday season as traditional retailers pit themselves against e-commerce platforms such as Amazon.com.
But a recent slew of upbeat quarterly earnings hints that many companies are optimistic about their holiday plans, with some even upping their full-year outlooks as they bet on a spike in sales to round out 2017.
Wal-Mart shares reached an all-time high, surging more than 10 percent, on Thursday after the big-box retailer posted earnings and same-store sales that outpaced Street expectations. The company also raised its earnings forecast for fiscal 2018.
"As usual, we expect Walmart to largely set the tone on multiple fronts and in multiple categories for the Holiday season," Moody's retail analyst Charlie O'Shea wrote in a note to clients.
Retail rival Target held a more conservative tone when discussing the upcoming quarter, sparking an alarm among investors and sending shares lower Wednesday. But Target's stock was climbing again nearly 4 percent by Friday afternoon.
Off-price brands are giving retailers another reason to celebrate — shares of Ross Stores and Old Navy's parent company, Gap, were climbing 8.5 and 7 percent, respectively, by Friday afternoon. Both companies reported earnings and sales Thursday after the bell that topped analysts' expectations.


With the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate taking a few steps forward on tax reform this week, one strategist told CNBC he has identified the biggest winners from a GOP tax plan.
According to Bill Stone, chief investment strategist at PNC Asset Management Group, not only will tax reform pass before 2018, but the repatriation clause of the bill, in particular, could be a huge boon for certain companies. The current tax plan would cut the tax rate on U.S. companies' overseas income.
Stone believes that given the terms of repatriation as it currently stands in the tax bill, health care names like Pfizer would be a big beneficiary.
"I mention Pfizer because they recently beat on earnings and raised guidance, and they're also looking at perhaps spinning off their consumer health division," he told CNBC's "Trading Nation" on Friday. "Not to mention [the stock has a] pretty high dividend yield of over 3 percent."
In Pfizer's case, Stone believes the 'Big Pharma' name could use the cuts from repatriation to acquire the rights to more drugs.
Along with health care names, Stone believes tech names would be a strong bet given the amount of foreign cash they acquire. In this case, the strategist is picking Cisco for a rally, should the tax bill pass.
The company "finally had a nice beat on earnings and raised guidance," he said. "[We also] think you're going to see a bigger picture in the economy in capital expenditures. Usually capital expenditures is technology spending, so I think Cisco's in that spot."
"You would definitely see [Cisco] do a lot of stock buybacks and raise the dividend, which is already over 3 percent," he added.
On Thursday, House Republicans passed the $1.5 trillion tax cut seemingly without trouble, although 13 GOP representatives did vote against the bill. The Senate's version of the plan, however, has been met with more opposition.
The Senate is planning to vote on the full resolution after Thanksgiving.


This has been a good year for the global economy, and 2018 will follow that trend, analysts at Goldman Sachs said.
Economic growth around the world has picked up steam this year. Germany — Europe's largest economy — grew an unexpectedly strong 0.8 percent in the third quarter. In Japan, the economy has grown for seven straight quarters. Meanwhile, in the U.S., the economy grew 3 percent in the third quarter.
"2017 is shaping up to be the first year of the expansion in which growth surprises to the upside," Goldman analyst Charles Himmelberg said in a note to clients Thursday. "We expect 2018 to deliver more of the same."
Himmelberg and his team expect the global economy to grow 4 percent next year for several reasons, including strong growth momentum, easing financial conditions, global monetary policy remaining "highly accommodative by historical standards" and the likelihood of fiscal stimulus in the U.S.


Investors may want to take cover soon.
Art Cashin, UBS' director of floor operations at the New York Stock Exchange, says a "split personality" is manifesting itself in the stock market, and it could hit Wall Street where it hurts at any moment.
"We've been setting record new highs, and often the breadth has been negative. We've had more declines than advances," Cashin said Thursday on CNBC's "Futures Now."
"We're starting to get more new lows than new highs; 30 percent of the stocks in the S&P [500] are down for the year. Those are very unusual combinations with new record highs."
The divergences aren't the only factor creating concerns for Cashin, who's been a fixture at the New York Stock Exchange since 1964.
"I'm troubled by the market internals, and I'm very cautious about what is going in Washington," he added.
He's citing risks surrounding the viability of the GOP tax reform being debated in Congress. If lawmakers can't pull off passing a lower corporate tax rate, Cashin warned, stocks could "roll over" — and not in a good way.
"It's not expected, but it would be very negative," he said.
Even though he thinks a sell-off may be coming, Cashin isn't sure how deep it will be.
"We haven't had a drop of 3 to 5 percent in an abnormally long period. So, that would be my first target," said Cashin, who points out he's never seen an environment quite like this one. "You want to play it cautiously."


One week ago, a full buffet seemed to open up in front of Wall Street's underfed bears.
Stocks in Europe and Japan, leaders all year, were in sharp pullbacks and Chinese growth numbers fell a bit short. Prices for high-yield corporate debt, a key support for equities, were sagging and their yields rising from historically low levels. And the stock market, already expensive and perhaps over-loved, had itself entered a cautious phase in November — smaller stocks lagging, bank shares struggling, defensive sectors holding up the indexes, more new lows littering the tape.
It all came together in some concerted selling that in most times would be a routine retreat from near record highs but in this calm, relentless rally passed for real downside drama: The Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 150 points two mornings in a row, the S&P 500 Volatility Index spurted to a three-month high and cash fled from the junk-bond ETFs that many watch as gauges of risk appetite and market equanimity.

Then, as quickly as the worry surged, it ebbed, with the bears managing no more than a morsel.
Wednesday, traders gorged on cheap upside bets to buy the dip, with more call options trading on the International Securities Exchange relative to puts than any time in the past five years, according to Dana Lysons of J. Lyons Funds Management. Thursday stocks and junk-debt bounced hard, the key indexes holding right at levels below which the chart folks would have started sounding alarms.
Dow futures were lower by more than 50 points overnight Monday, but once again, the market rebounded and futures were about little changes by the time traders hit their desks in the morning.
Why the bounce? Because it's 2017 and that's how the market acts this year. We're on track to go an entire year without a 3 percent pullback for the first time since 1995. Economic data, especially on the industrial and housing fronts, came in strong. Overseas markets rebounded, banks got a lift as a hostile regulator exited, and Big Tech perked up again. Some of the bears' favorite hunting grounds — old media and traditional retail — caught a furious bid on media-merger buzz and encouraging results from several big store chains.

So was that the bears' last shot at a good feast for the year? It wouldn't be surprising of this soft patch in the markets — less severe even than the stunted pullbacks of March and August — has run its course. Beginning this week, seasonal tendencies start turning in favor of stocks (though Thanksgiving week has been less strong during the current bull market). Sure, seasonal patterns haven't been a great guide this year, but that's mostly been when weakness is indicated, such as after May or in September and October.
And every study of prior market years that acted like 2017 leaves the benefit of the doubt with the bulls. Whenever the S&P 500 has made a record high in September, or posted seven straight months of gains, or been up at least 15 percent through October (all applicable now) the ensuing months of the year have a better-than-average tendency to rise more than the norm.
Veteran market technician Mark Newton of Newton Advisors, assessing the mid-week recovery, says, it "likely puts the near-term bearish case back on the back burner for now." Newton has been emphasizing signs that the market could be vulnerable to waning momentum and other headwinds, but the market has refused so far to succumb. He now sees continued leadership from technology, and semiconductors in particular, as holding the key. The public seems to agree, for better or worse: Tech ETFs saw their two heaviest weeks of inflows the past two weeks.

One thing that has kept the market declines from gaining any momentum is that the market as a whole has not been blithely barreling higher. Correlations among stocks are near multi-decade lows, with many losers partially offsetting the winners. And the upside has been quite orderly and contained — the largest one-day gain this year of 1.38 percent is on track to be the smallest "best single day" of any year since 1964, according to Michael Batnick of Ritholtz Wealth Management.
Yet, even if last week was yet another fleeting wobble for stocks that quickly gives way to another run to record highs, the action showed how a real setback might unfold eventually. The tape grows ragged, with many stocks and sectors falling by the wayside as a narrower group of leaders rescue the indexes. Late-cycle characteristics surface here and there, such as pockets of souring corporate debt or profit-margin pressure from wage inflation. Overconfident investors get extended in a handful of trades and need to retrench. China gets the sniffles.

None of this might truly matter until 2018 corporate earnings forecasts are subjected to a true test. As long as the published projections of 11 percent further profit gains hold up for the first half next year and don't start seeming to need the help of a big, immediate tax-cut effect, it's tough to see the market failing in a dramatic way.

But fresh scrutiny might be cast on those 2018 expectations within the next few months, as a new Federal Reserve chair faces an economy running hot and financial conditions still inviting plenty of risk taking.


Gold prices are likely to be buoyed by the "new normal" of elevated geopolitical tensions over the coming years, Citi analysts said Monday.
The geopolitical case for gold investment has been emboldened in recent months and it seems as strong today than at any point over the last four decades, Citi analysts said. As a result, gold prices were forecast to "push north of $1,400 per ounce for sustained periods" through to 2020.
Elections and political votes, military attacks and macroeconomic crises were recognized by Citi as some of the key geopolitical events likely to influence investment into gold. And while analysts said there was not a consistent pattern for gold price performance amid such times of global uncertainty, prices were seen to have rallied more frequently during these periods.
Investors tend to move into safe-haven assets such as gold, the Swiss franc and the Japanese yen in times of geopolitical turmoil as traditional assets such as stocks and bonds are often perceived as a more volatile investment.


As stocks drifted down from their highs on Friday, CNBC's Jim Cramer urged investors not to blame earnings action for the market's failure to rally.
"Even the amazing numbers and the stock moves from Foot Locker, from Ross Stores, from Gap, even from Abercrombie & Fitch, they weren't enough to prop up the averages," the "Mad Money" host said. "But no one ever said the stock market had to be rational, and in fact, market irrationality often gives us exactly the kinds of great opportunities I talk about because we can try to make money by going against the grain."
Cramer said a lot of the market's moves have been mirroring overseas markets, a trend he called "stupidity" because foreign stocks often slide on a weakening dollar, which is a boon for U.S. companies.
"That said, while blowout earnings reports can't always save the broader market, a beat-and-raise quarter will almost always produce higher prices for the stock in question," Cramer said. "It's another reason why you have to pay attention to the individual earnings reports."
With that in mind, Cramer turned to the stocks and events he'll be watching next week:



As Amazon encroaches on nearly all aspects of retail, CNBC's Jim Cramer found himself asking a key question: "To be Amazon'ed or not to be Amazon'ed?"
"It's almost eerie that one company could play such a huge role in both the economy and, yes, for Cramerica, the stock market," the "Mad Money" host said. "As the legendary cable operator John Malone told David Faber yesterday, Amazon is a 'death star' moving in 'striking range of every industry on the planet.'"
Yes, Amazon has seemingly unlimited capital, a laser-focused founder, CEO and proverbial "evil emperor," Jeff Bezos, and a lack of exposure to the struggling brick-and-mortar landscape, rife with steep rents and crushing labor costs.
But Cramer said that its chief driver is that the consumer loves Amazon, which, which Prime, provides the most convenient and quickest way to get practically anything.
"For now, Amazon is indeed the death star," Cramer concluded. "As long as they continue to provide better goods at a better service, every conceivable competitor is right to be afraid. Be very afraid."


Initial public offerings seem to be coming back in style on Wall Street, so CNBC's Jim Cramer wanted to zoom in on one part of the market that caught CNBC's attention in recent weeks: Chinese IPOs.
"Now, it's not just that Chinese IPOs have been surging. According to the IPO experts at Renaissance Capital, we've had 149 deals so far in 2017, up more than 53 percent from this time last year," the "Mad Money" host said. "By my count, 11 of those IPOs were for Chinese companies. More important, we've gotten nine Chinese deals in just the past nine weeks."
Six of the eleven Chinese IPOs have gone up from where their deals priced:
China Rapid Finance, China's largest consumer lending firm; Bright Scholar Education, one of the country's biggest education groups; Best Inc., a logistics company with ties to e-commerce giant Alibaba; Zai Lab, a biopharmaceutical company; RYB Education, an education center operator; and Sogou, a search engine backed by Tencent.
Five of the eleven have gone down:
Secoo Holdings, a luxury online retailer; Qudian, an Alibaba-backed financial technology player; Four Seasons Education, a math education company; and Jianpu Technology, an online financial planning firm that came public on Thursday.
Cramer noted that "winners" Best Inc. and Zai Lab are down from when they started trading, having spiked the moment they came public and drifted down since.
"There's been a great deal of justifiable skepticism surrounding many of these names," the "Mad Money" host said.
For example, China Rapid Finance had to lower its IPO price range before coming public at the low end. That stock has since recovered, up almost 60 percent from the day of its IPO.
Best Inc. had to reduce the number of shares it was offering by 17 million and slash its price range by 25 percent, coming public at the bottom of its already-lowered range.
Cramer said Secoo Holdings' deal was also a "bust," with shares opening below its $13 IPO price at $12.10 and drifting down ever since.
Qudian, on the other hand, had a strong opening in October, opening $2 above the high end of its stated range and surging $10 on its first trading day.
"But QD got too hot too fast," Cramer said. "Investors quickly began to have second thoughts and by Oct. 26, barely more than a week after the IPO, the stock had traded down to $22.80 — more than a buck below where the deal priced — and it's only drifted lower since then. If you bought this thing when it started trading, you've been crushed."
Investors got tired of Rise Education quickly, too, selling the $16 IPO down to just above $12 in three days. This week, shares spent some time in the single digits before bouncing back.
Since then, the reception has only gotten worse, Cramer said. Four Seasons Education incurred a 5 percent loss on its first trading day. Shares of Sogou, so far the best-performing Chinese IPO from the last several months, have remained fairly flat since it came public last Thursday.
Jianpu Technology's stock opened for trading at $8 on Thursday and exited the week down over 10 percent, with shares at $7.17 as of Friday's close.
"Looking at all of these deals from the People's Republic, a couple of things jump out at me. For starters ... four of the 11 Chinese IPOs this year have been education companies," Cramer said.
This initially struck Cramer as odd, but then it made sense. The "Mad Money" host figured that, after seeing Bright Scholar Education's positive run, from $10.50 when it came public to just over $22 as of Friday, its competitors followed suit.
"Here's the bottom line of this sorry story: this recent spate of smaller Chinese IPOs are not for homegamers like you," Cramer concluded. "If you don't understand a company, you shouldn't be playing with its stock, which is why so many people have gotten burned on these deals. How the heck are you supposed to differentiate between BEDU, REDU and FEDU ... if you don't live in China? So if you want exposure to the resurgent Chinese economy, and I do want that, I say you stick with the big established names you can get your head around. Stick with Alibaba. Stick with Baidu. They have financials that look like American companies and they have been fabulous long-term winners. The others? Stay away."


Naming hedge-fund billionaire Nelson Peltz to the Procter & Gamble board will be beneficial to shareholders, Anne Sheehan, director of corporate governance at CalSTRS, told CNBC on Friday.
The activist investor won a proxy-vote recount for a board seat earlier this week after the initial results showed he failed to secure enough votes. P&G can still challenge the result.
Sheehan said after the vote is certified, P&G should give Peltz a seat at the table.
"Someone like Nelson would bring a fresh perspective to the boardroom at P&G. They really have had a lot of insiders there. They've done well over the years, but I think bringing a fresh set of eyes and a new start there would be beneficial to shareholders," she said in an interview with "Closing Bell."


Venezuela, one of Latin America's biggest oil producers, has an import problem that could shock the global market and send U.S. refiners on the hunt for replacement supplies.
Venezuela's crude production has been steadily declining as the oil-dependent state slogs through an economic crisis precipitated by years of government mismanagement and exacerbated by a prolonged oil price slump.
Now, a drop in critical energy imports has some analysts worried that state oil giant Petroleos de Venezuela, known as PDVSA, is struggling to fund its operations.


Traders are using options to make big bets on Deere, Palo Alto Networks, and Hewlett Packard Enterprise ahead of earnings next week.
Deere reports on Wednesday before the bell, and while traders are bullish on the stock ahead of the report, they're not anticipating a monster gain.
Last month traders bought more than 10,000 calls at the December 120 strike price, according to Jon Najarian,  Najarian Family Office co-founder and "Halftime Report" contributor. But they also sold more than 13,000 calls at the December 140 strike price, and more than 4,000 contracts at the 145 strike.
So while the options activity indicates a bullish view, the market doesn't expect the stock to far surpass $145. All of these calls expire at the end of December.

This could be part of a trading strategy to offset the cost of buying the more expensive in-the-money calls to execute a "call spread" – selling calls with a strike price above the stock's intrinsic value while simultaneously buying the in-the-money calls.
But this also limits the potential upside. In this case, the trader could have to hand over Deere at $140 or $145 if the stock price were to exceed these levels—should the buyer of the 140 or 145 calls exercise their right to purchase the stock. So the potential gains are capped.
Since an in-the-money call is essentially owning the stock, the stock option will move in tandem with the stock's performance. In this instance, the calls that were bought for $9.90 in mid-October were trading at $15.43 as of Thursday. In that same time frame, shares of Deere are up 5.24%.


Though stock market prices have held up in November, investors generally are running from risk at a near-record pace.
Judging from the flow of money out of high-yield bonds, investors are getting increasingly leery of a market that continues to hover around record levels, despite a handful of rough trading sessions in November and a rocky start Friday.
Funds that track junk bonds saw $6.8 billion of outflows over the past week through Wednesday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. That's the third-highest on record.
The sector is considered a key proxy for the stock market, with performance that has followed almost a perfect correlation with the S&P 500 in terms of direction. Bonds are normally thought as a safe-haven trade that benefits when stocks weaken, but high-yield represents a risk similar to equities.
The correlation in 2017 has varied: September was the high for the year at 76 percent, while June was just 42.4 percent, according to DataTrek Research. (100 percent would mean the assets move exactly in tandem.)
Despite the stock market rally, returns for high-yield this year are muted, with the iShares iBoxx $ High Yield Corporate Bond ETF up just 1.1 percent. The ETF has seen $1.4 billion in outflows over the past month, according to FactSet.
However, there's some optimism that the selling will be short-lived. Citigroup analyst Michael Anderson thinks high yield will rebound heading into the end of the year.
"Month to date, there have been more block-sized client buys than sells. This indicates to us that positioning is supportive and cash balances are fairly robust," Anderson said in a note to clients. "With a light pipeline ahead, we believe investors will not be looking to make room for new issues."
Funds that focus on stocks took in $3.2 billion for the week. However, that was distorted by a huge inflow of $9.9 billion into exchange-traded funds, while longer-term mutual funds suffered $6.7 billion in outflows, the most of 2017.
Investors were focused on safety, with investment-grade bonds gathering $4.8 billion in flows while Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities took in $400 million, the best showing in 38 weeks.
WATCH: High-yield bonds have a long history as a market tracker.


Shares of Foot Locker spiked 28 percent Friday after the shoe retailer posted stronger-than-expected earnings. If shares close at those levels, it will be the company's single best trading day since 1977.
Foot Locker posted adjusted earnings per share of 87 cents versus an average analyst estimate of 80 cents. The company also beat expectations on revenue, reporting $1.87 billion for the period.
"With the disruption we are witnessing in retail in general and the athletic industry more specifically, we will have to make many critical decisions as we shape our future," said Foot Locker Chairman and CEO Richard Johnson during Friday's earnings call.
"We are making solid progress on several fronts, including three of the biggest initiatives which I have discussed previously: our new digital e-commerce platform, our mobile app platform development, and our new point-of-sale technology," Johnson said. "Each of these multiyear projects will play a key role in enhancing how our customers experience and engage with our banners."
Third-quarter comparable-store sales decreased 3.7 percent.
The shoe store has been in hot water in recent months as Wall Street grows increasingly concerned with retailers. Fears that e-commerce giant Amazon.com may seek to expand into apparel have made it a tough year for Foot Locker shares, now down more than 50 percent since January.
In June, popular shoemaker Nike confirmed plans to sell a limited product assortment on Amazon's U.S. website. Since then, sales of Nike footwear on Amazon have outpaced those at Foot Locker, according to UBS analysis.
Thirteen percent of UBS survey respondents indicated that they prefer to purchase Nike products on Amazon compared with the 9 percent who said they prefer to purchase the same products at Foot Locker.
There have even been reports that the e-commerce behemoth may venture into its own line of athletic apparel. The company is said to be appealing to some of the biggest athletic apparel suppliers for the effort, according to Bloomberg.


Angry gamers are winning the war against Electronic Arts' in-game money-making strategy in its new "Star Wars Battlefront II" title.
Wall Street is taking notice and lowering its expectations for the video game's financial prospects.
The company announced Thursday it is temporarily turning off all in-game purchases in "Star Wars Battlefront II" in response to the negative sentiment from the gaming community.

"It's clear that many of you feel there are still challenges in the design. We've heard the concerns about potentially giving players unfair advantages. … Sorry we didn't get this right," EA wrote in the post. "We hear you loud and clear, so we're turning off all in-game purchases. … The ability to purchase crystals in-game will become available at a later date, only after we've made changes to the game."


Square's bitcoin testing adds to the company's innovative reputation and could spell earnings success down the road, according to one Wall Street analyst.
Evercore ISI upgraded shares of Square on Thursday, citing the company's new lineup of payment technology and rapid revenue growth.
"Following our meeting Wednesday with CFO Sarah Friar, we are upgrading Square to outperform," analyst Rayna Kumar wrote in a note to clients. "Square's introduction of bitcoin on Square Cash reflects its ability to innovate."
The analyst noted that while it may be a few years before Square sees any effect from the cryptocurrency on earnings, CEO Jack Dorsey's progressive outlook likely means good things for the payment company's bottom line.
"We believe Square could generate revenue growth of 40 percent and 35 percent in 2018 and 2019, respectively, similar to the 41 percent we estimate for 2017."
Square's stock jumped 5.4 percent Thursday after the company said it was testing support for bitcoin through its Cash payments app with a small number of customers. The stock was up more than 2 percent in early trading Friday.
Bitcoin was trading at $7,844.83 Friday morning after recovering from a sharp drop earlier this week. After news of Square's bitcoin testing broke on Wednesday, it bounced back from a 30 percent slide last weekend.
Shares of Square hit intraday and closing highs on Thursday, putting the payment processor up more than 200 percent this year.
"However, in the mid-term Square's early-stage, bitcoin pilot program remains immaterial to earnings," Kumar said.
While bitcoin reflects long-term ambitions, the analyst is also positive on the company's current ventures. In last week's impressive earnings report, Square launched Square Register, its first all-in-one point-of-sale hardware. The product offers more competitive pricing for larger volume merchants at 2.5 percent per transaction, below Square's usual pricing of 2.75 percent.
Square's gross payments topped Wall Street's expectations, posting volume of $17.4 billion, or 31 percent growth year over year.
"Products like Square Register and retail point-of-sale can attract larger customers, particularly restaurants, retail and services businesses who seek a full view of customer activity," said Kumar. "Square's new products with strong, omni-channel capabilities should advance its progression upmarket."
The analyst raised her price target to $51 from $25, representing 22 percent upside from Thursday's close.


Bitcoin hit a new record high Friday, coming within $2 of $8,000.
The cryptocurrency touched an all-time high of $7,998.40 in the early hours, U.K. time, according to industry website CoinDesk. The digital currency erased the days gains to trade slightly lower near $7,632 late Friday afternoon.
It's been a wild week for bitcoin, which sold off heavily last weekend, falling to around $5,500. Since Sunday, the cryptocurrency has risen from that low to Friday's high, marking a 45 percent increase.
In that time, bitcoin's market capitalization, or the total value of the digital coins in circulation, has risen from $92 billion to $133.5 billion, according to Coinmarketcap.com.
The price dip last weekend came after an upgrade to the bitcoin network, SegWit2x, which was planned for November 16, was called off. The aim was to increase the transaction speeds of SegWit2x, which has increasingly slowed down over the years. If the upgrade took place, it would have caused what is known as a "hard fork," causing a new bitcoin spin-off to be formed.
Two previous forks have already happened earlier this year, leading to the creation of bitcoin cash and bitcoin gold.
But support for the Segwit2x upgrade waned, causing developers to call off its planned implementation.
This appeared to be the initial catalyst for the sell-off.


CNBC's Jim Cramer didn't want to be so quick as to write off Thursday's rally to the House of Representatives passing its first iteration of tax reform.
Instead, the "Mad Money" host argued that much of the rally resulted from the performance of two stocks, Cisco and Wal-Mart, "which pleasantly surprised us with their numbers. These are both turnaround stories, people. Nothing proves the worth of a CEO like executing a turnaround."
Since Doug McMillon took on the role of Wal-Mart CEO four years ago, he has revamped the retail colossus to become one of Amazon's few formidable competitors.
"First thing he did, though, was drop a bomb: McMillon told us he'd spend as much as possible to take on Amazon, something that seemed fanciful at the time," Cramer said.
To Wall Street's dismay, McMillon lowered profit expectations while creating value and incentives for employees to provide better service and remain in Wal-Mart's workforce. Last year, he acquired Jet.com, which has only just started to really boost sales.
On Thursday, shares of Wal-Mart roared to an all-time high after the retailer reported a massive earnings beat with better-than-expected same-store sales numbers and 50 percent growth in online purchases.
"I can't tell you how unusual it is to see a large capitalization stock — Wal-Mart's now worth almost $300 billion — jumping $9.79, almost 11 percent in a single day," Cramer said. "But when you consider how much time and thought and effort McMillon put into this resurgence, all you can do is say, 'Congratulations, Mr. McMillon, for your visionary efforts.'"
Also worthy of congratulation is Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins, the "Mad Money" host said. Before Robbins took the helm, Cisco's revenue growth had ground to a halt.
When Robbins became CEO in 2015, he almost immediately went all in on the cloud, making strategic acquisitions to get Cisco's hands in the security systems and analytics areas.
Cramer added that Robbins was always frank with his shareholders, warning them two quarters ago that his changes would take time to pay off.
Sure enough, when the company reported on Thursday, shares of Cisco rallied roughly 6 percent on better-than-expected earnings and the possibility of 3 percent revenue growth next quarter.
"Must be taking share, right? And taking names, too," Cramer said. "Cisco may once again become a must-buy for businesses trying to build out their internet presence."
And with its cloud and security revenue lines gaining momentum and a large cash hoard under its belt, the $178 billion company could bring more bounty still to shareholders, Cramer said.
"Here's the bottom line: A successful turn requires the person at the top to truly change the company's culture while motivating the entire remaining workforce," the "Mad Money" host said. "These turns can occur, as Cisco's Chuck Robbins and Walmart's Doug McMillon showed us today. And when you find these stories, they are incredibly lucrative long term, as long as you can get into them right and stay in them for the long haul."


Shares of Nvidia have almost doubled this year, and Todd Gordon says the party's not over yet for one of the year's hottest chip stocks.
Nvidia shares have rallied more than 98 percent this year, making it the sixth-best-performing stock in the S&P 500.
"The strong story stock in the chip space here has done quite an interesting technical pattern here, pulling back into what I see is a good zone of established longs," the TradingAnalysis.com founder said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
Gordon is referring specifically to what he's calling an island reversal. In his own words, the trader describes an island reversal as consisting of a gap against a trend, in this case an uptrend, followed by a gap back in the initial trend direction. The stock has fallen 3 percent from its high last week, but a recent gap back up in Nvidia stock leads Gordon to believe that the chipmaker has returned to the uptrend it had followed, paving the way for more highs ahead.
"This stock is just all over the place. I love the upside here to go and retest the old highs up around $220," he said.

To play Nvidia for a move higher, Gordon wants to buy the Dec. 8 weekly 212.5-strike calls and sell the Dec. 8 220-strike calls for $3.10, or $310 per options spread. If Nvidia were to rally and close above $220, or roughly 4 percent from current levels, by Dec. 8 expiration, then Gordon could make a maximum reward of $440 on the trade.
But if Nvidia were to close below $212.50 on Dec. 8, then Gordon could lose the $310 premium he paid to make the trade. In order to avoid the loss, Gordon establishes a certain point for him to step out of the trade.
"If the $3.10 of premium we're outlaying gets cut in half, because the trade is not working, down to about $1.60 or so, cut the trade, contain the risk and simply move on," he said.
Nvidia rallied 1 percent on Thursday, still sitting near its all-time highs.


General Electric shares have fallen 42 percent this year, on pace for their worst annual performance since 2008.
While some may view the stock as a no-touch at current levels, Larry McDonald, founder of the Bear Traps Report, sees it as a "screaming buy," even with the company slashing it dividend in half. Here's why.  • "I'm watching GE because it's a spectacular opportunity. People are heading for the exits at a pace which we haven't seen since the Great Depression, or the 2008 financial crisis," McDonald said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." He added that this sets up a "very unusual opportunity" to buy the stock, which closed Thursday at $18.25 per share.  • Moody's Investors Service on Thursday downgraded GE's credit quality due in part to "extreme deterioration" in the company's energy business, though it maintained a stable outlook. This doesn't surprise McDonald, who said the credit markets are rather unconcerned with the company's credit quality.  • "It's really an intermediate story. Over the next six months the risk-reward on GE is fantastic, and it's really a screaming buy here," he said.  • The stock has fallen nearly 11 percent in the last week.  Bottom line: McDonald says General Electric stock is a buy at these levels given the risk-reward he sees, and how far the stock has tumbled.


Sweeping changes are coming to several key sectors in the S&P 500 next year, with big names like Amazon and Netflix likely finding a new home.
The changes don't take effect until September, 2018, but already Wall Street is trying to figure out what big names will will be moved around and which will affect those who own different slices of the S&P 500 through Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) and many mutual funds.
Late on Wednesday, the S&P Dow Jones Indices and MSCI jointly announced an overhaul of the Global Industry Classification system, which is how the industry divides the stock market into different sectors. The Telecommunications Services Sector will broaden out to include more internet and media stocks in a beefed-up new sector called Communication Services.
Many argue the move to expand and rebrand was long overdue.
Traders have often complained that the telecom space is far too small to even be given its own sector. Almost two decades ago, the sector encompassed 14 companies. But after several waves of consolidation, that number has dwindled to just three names - AT&T, Verizon and CenturyLink.


It may not be a comeback.
Cisco shares surged to 16-year highs this week, as the '90s tech darling posted better-than-expected earnings, but one strategist warns the rally is nothing more than a short squeeze.
According to Larry McDonald, founder of the Bear Traps Report, short interest ratio in Cisco has tripled since May. "Heading into earnings, the shorts were lining up," McDonald said Thursday in a "Trading Nation" segment on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
Cisco shares surged 5 percent on Thursday for their best day since February.
Over the past couple months, the percentage of tradable shares sold short in Cisco has gone from 1.2 percent to 3.4 percent, as investors have increasingly bet against the tech giant's run.

When investors go short a stock, they are betting it will go down by selling borrowed shares. As the market rises, many of those investors are forced to buy back those shares in hopes of avoiding future losses. That buying can drive a stock even higher, a dynamic known as a short squeeze, which is what McDonald thinks is happening with Cisco.
"That tells me you want to sell that because typically short covering rallies like this are usually short-lived, like a week or so, and then the stock will settle back down to a normal trading range," McDonald said.
The tech company is one of the four horsemen of '90s tech, along with Microsoft, Oracle and Intel — all seeing a big revival this year. But while Microsoft and Oracle have been hitting record highs, Cisco and Intel have failed to regain their dot-com bubble highs.
Like McDonald, Kim Forrest, senior portfolio manager at Fort Pitt Capital Group, said she has reservations about Cisco. "I don't buy into the stock, but I buy into the story."
Forrest said that while routers and switches are a large part of Cisco's business, profits have continued to decline precipitously. She emphasized that despite strong earnings, the company's guidance was rather conservative. "In a tech name, we'd like to be the owner of something growing faster," Forrest said.
Cisco is up nearly 19 percent this year but is still underperforming the tech sector, which is up more than 37 percent in 2017.
Disclosure: Kim Forrest's firm holds Cisco shares in some clients' taxable accounts. Neither she nor her family owns the stock.


Several stocks are trading at extreme levels, and a top technician says one name has even more room to run. In the S&P 500, 17 stocks are trading 25 percent or more above their 200-day moving average. Among them are Nvidia, Michael Kors, PayPal, Estee Lauder and PulteGroup.

Although retailer Michael Kors is trading 36 percent above its 200-day moving average, Craig Johnson, chief market technician at Piper Jaffray, said it's an attractive pick. The stock has recently broken a major downtrend, Johnson noted. Shares of Michael Kors have been cut in half since hitting an all-time high in mid-2014, but since bottoming out in June, the stock has rallied more than 70 percent. Despite the recent move, Johnson says the rally hasn't yet run its course, and he'd be a buyer on any pullback.

"When I see these kinds of charts, what you typically see happening is a very strong momentum response when you first reverse the downtrend and then you ultimately back up and retest where you broke out from. I think that's exactly what's happening in Michael Kors," Johnson said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." Another name that looks interesting, among stocks trading well above their benchmark moving averages, is semiconductor manufacturer Nvidia, said Boris Schlossberg, managing director of foreign exchange strategy at BK Asset Management. "Nvidia effectively is a trade on bitcoin," Schlossberg said Wednesday on "Trading Nation," adding that should bitcoin keep surging as it has this year, Nvidia will surely follow. Both the stock and the cryptocurrency have risen triple digits in the past year. Shares of Michael Kors were higher on Thursday, hitting their highest level in over a year, while shares of Nvidia rose over 1 percent on the session.


Activist hedge-fund billionaire Paul Singer has taken a 7 percent stake in small American health-care company Mednax and is asking the board of directors to consider a sale of the company.
Singer's hedge fund, Elliott Management, disclosed the new stock acquisition on Thursday in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Elliott, which holds at least $34 billion under management, owns a combined $84.9 million in Mednax Common Stock. Of that amount, Elliott International, a Cayman Islands-based subsidiary, owns shares worth $57.7 million at the Nov. 3 closing price of $43.37 apiece.
In the government filing, Elliott argues that shares of Mednax, a Florida health-care company providing subspecialty medical services across the country, are "undervalued." The hedge fund says it seeks to "engage in a constructive dialogue" with regard to "strategic options and operational opportunities to maximize shareholder value."
Among those options, Elliott is asking the Mednax board of directors to consider "without limitation, a sale of the Issuer or certain of its businesses or assets ... as a means of enhancing shareholder value."
Mednax stock jumped more than 11 percent to $51.07 per share on Thursday.




Intuitive Surgical's robots will expand to new applications and boost the company's sales, according to a top Wall Street firm.
Goldman Sachs reiterated its buy rating for the surgical robot maker, predicting the company will report earnings above expectations next year.
"Our latest checks with management and physician users leave us incrementally bullish on the new product pipeline and opportunities for robotic surgery to expand into new applications," analyst Isaac Ro wrote in a note to clients Thursday.
We "see the potential for further upside if lung biopsy and hernia markets become significant. Our higher price target is a function of higher target multiples, which we justify given our increased confidence in the growth outlook vs. Med Tech peers."


Shares of RH popped 25 percent on Thursday after the company issued guidance stronger than Wall Street analysts expected.
The company expects adjusted earnings per share between $1.02 a share and $1.04 a share. Analysts were expecting RH to issue guidance of about 80 cents per share.
"Our updated third quarter guidance demonstrates the earnings power of our new membership model, and a dramatically more efficient operating platform," Chairman and CEO Gary Friedman said in a statement.
RH also raised its net income outlook for 2018 to a range of $82 to $87 million from $70 to $77 million.
The improved guidance "tells us that sales continue to rebound, as do margins as the company gains back the lost profitability from past missteps," Deutsche Bank research analyst Adam Sindler said in a note Thursday.
The home furnishings company's stock has been having a stellar year, soaring more than 240 percent in 2017.



Republicans passing a tax reform bill would be nice for stocks, but strong earnings are really what will take the market higher, closely followed strategist Bob Doll told CNBC on Thursday.
Tax reform "is important, but it's not the whole ball game," said Doll, Nuveen Asset Management's chief equity strategist. "The ball game is earnings. And earnings have kind of been off the charts. And that's why stocks have gone up 40 percent in the last 20 months."
U.S. stocks were higher on Thursday after falling in their previous two sessions. The Dow rose more than 150 points after Dow components Cisco and Wal-Mart reported better-than-expected quarterly earnings.
"Yeah, the tax bill would be icing on the cake, no doubt about it," Doll told "Squawk Box." "I think Republicans know if they don't do something it is a political suicide."
The Senate unveiled their tax reform plan last week, and the House is expected to vote on their version of the bill later on Thursday. On Wednesday, GOP Sen. Ron Johnson said he would not back the Senate plan in its current form. Republicans hold only a two-seat majority in the Senate, so the GOP has little margin for defections because Democrats are uniformly opposed to the plan.
"They have to come together," Doll said. "If it's a simpler bill, watered down from what it is ... and the president will sign whatever comes across his desk."
Doll predicts the plan will take some "tinkering" and Republican lawmakers won't pass a bill until next year. "I don't think anything happens this year. A lot of noise," he said. "They can't lose too many votes."
Regarding the market, Doll said there will be some down months along the way, but believes, "we're shifting from a gallop-higher market to a grind-higher market." The bull market is not over, he added, because "the earnings environment is still good."


Chinese traders on the Shanghai Futures Exchange are increasingly influencing the price for copper, rather than on the London Metal Exchange, analysts say.
"We're seeing the center of gravity in the metals pricing shift to China," said Dane Davis, commodities research analyst at Barclays.
China accounts for nearly half of the world's consumption of copper, according to Reuters. While traders for years have looked at Chinese data as an indicator on future copper demand, pricing typically followed trading in copper futures contracts from the London Metal Exchange and Chicago-based CME.
In the last three years, analysts said increased trading activity on the Shanghai Futures Exchange has made it more and more important for global markets. The Shanghai market also has a timing advantage, since it begins the trading day ahead of London and Chicago.
"LME is the global benchmark, but the Shanghai center [has] increasing input in how the LME price trades," said Colin Hamilton, managing director, commodities research at BMO Capital Markets.
Asia metals trading is growing so rapidly for CME, the world's largest futures exchange, that it is planning to launch on Nov. 20 a futures contract settled against spot copper prices in Shanghai. CME said its contract will be the first financial settled exchange-traded futures product for hedging exposure to Chinese copper.


Tesla plans to reveal an electric commercial truck on Thursday night, which CEO Elon Musk said will "blow your mind out of your skull and into an alternate dimension."
That dimension would best be one where electric trucks can compete with diesel, say a number of analysts.
The three main boxes the truck will have to check are range, payload, and price, said Seaport Global analyst Kevin Sterling. How the Tesla semi compares with diesel on each of these metrics won't be known at least until Tesla unveils its truck at 11 p.m. Eastern Time.
But other electric trucks and buses brought to market so far tend to have lower range and higher prices, Stifel analyst Michael Baudendistel told CNBC in an interview. The demand for electric trucks among long haul carriers just isn't there, he said.
"It is hard to make a business case for electric trucks," Baudendistel said.
The price is a particular sticking point, said Sterling, since these vehicles tend to be more expensive than diesel, sometimes significantly so.
Companies might want to pay a bit more if they aren't going to be paying for diesel fuel," Sterling said. "But they aren't going to pay $100,000 more."
Where electric vehicles tend to succeed is in markets where trucks only have to drive short distances, and in areas where stringent air quality or pollution regulations make electric either favorable or a necessity.
Interested customers are often non-profits or public sector groups, such as municipalities, Baudendistel said. These customers might be a bit more free to spend the extra money on greener technologies.
Some for-profit firms have invested in alternative fuels. UPS, for example, has a fleet of electric trucks, which work well for some of its shorter routes, he said.
But UPS is also drawing on government assistance along the way.  UPS said in early November the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority will provide $500,000 to develop a system for converting UPS's New York fleet from diesel to electric. If the program is successful it could lead to the conversion of about 1,500 trucks, about 66 percent of UPS New York City fleet.
Regulations may also drive purchases.
For example, the Port of Los Angeles and Port of Long Beach in southern California in July approved a plan to replace their current fleets of mostly diesel trucks with zero- or near zero-emissions vehicles by 2030.
It might be, at least in the short term, that Tesla's target market would be strictly Southern California, and other places like it, Baudendistel said.
Bernstein analyst Toni Sacconaghi said in a recent note he expects the company to reveal a truck with 300-450 miles of range.
That is less than the 500-600 mile ranges trucking analysts say customers would want from a Class 8 long-haul truck.
Sacconaghi said the addition of the semi tractor-trailer doesn't change his investment thesis, primarily because the total market Tesla can address is small.
Whereas the automotive market is about 100 million units, Sacconaghi said on CNBC's Squawk Alley on Thursday. Sacconaghi estimates the total addressable market for trucks is about 1 million units a year, including those long range trucks that Tesla might not be able to compete with.
"So you are looking at a 100 million cars vs maybe a few hundred thousand trucks in terms of an addressable market. Even if Tesla does well, it's really not going to change the story. It is all about cars."


Citing the "extreme deterioration" in the company's energy business, Moody's Investors Service on Thursday downgraded General Electric's long-term debt.
The ratings agency knocked the senor unsecured bonds down to A2 from A1, which is still investment-grade debt but is now six steps away from Moody's highest rating. A2 is considered upper medium grade.
The move comes the same week that GE rocked investors with news that it was slashing its dividend in half and making a multitude of other changes at the 125-year-old industrial conglomerate. GE shares were rocked on the news and are down nearly 10 percent on the week.
Moody's indicated that it's unlikely GE makes the changes anytime soon that will justify the former rating on its bonds.
Specifically, Moody's takes GE to task for using $25 billion from asset sales in 2016 and 2017 to repurchase stock in an effort to boost share price, taking out $10 billion of debt to fund acquisitions, and paying out a dividend higher than cash flows and as the company was downsizing key operations.
"The downgrades reflect the severe deterioration in the financial performance of GE's Power segment that will last through at least 2019," Rene Lipsch, senior credit officer, said in a statement. "Along with the challenges in the Oil & Gas business posed by continued weakness in the global oil field services industry and the downturn in the North American market for freight locomotives, GE has to contend with weak earnings and cash flows in several segments that represent in aggregate about 50% of expected revenues in 2017."
During Monday's investor day presentation, GE CEO John Flannery said the energy business is "challenged." Officials indicated that GE would be exiting the oil and gas industry while still maintaining its footprint in other sectors.
GE Power CEO Russell Stokes said the unit was looking for $1 billion in cost cuts as it seeks to offset some missteps in equipment purchases. Stokes also said his unit is lowering the amount of equipment it expects to sell in 2018.
"Moody's does not anticipate that GE will allocate a meaningful portion of any proceeds from planned asset disposals to debt reduction in the near term to help expedite the restoration of its credit metrics," Lipsch said. "Over the last several years, GE pursued an aggressive financial  policy that contributed to the weakening of its credit profile."
Still, Lipsch said GE remains a "formidable industrial enterprise." The company also received plaudits for the dividend cut and its stated desire to focus on the growing aviation business.
GE shares traded slightly higher after Moody's released the ratings news. Company officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
WATCH: GE CEO John Flannery faces a steep challenge ahead.


Charter Communications director John Malone tells CNBC several firms have talked to the cable company about a potential merger or acquisition.
The company has received "four different approaches," Malone said in an exclusive interview with CNBC's David Faber Thursday at the Liberty Media annual investor meeting.
"The problem is none of them at this point have made a pitch that was worthy of bringing it to the board and proposing it seriously to the board."
He mentioned the names of executives from Altice, Softbank and Verizon as potential acquirers of Charter. When Faber asked for the identity of the fourth company, Malone said "I'm not going to tell ya."
The investor explained the company has valued Charter's business using growth projections for the next four to five years. The company would need to see a bid above this internal estimate on a risk-adjusted basis to consider a sale.
"We have a wonderful business and wonderful business plan," he said. "Anything I'm involved in is for sale every day of the week. The store is always open … Have we seen anything yet that gets even close to ringing the bell? No."
Charter shares rose off its low after Malone's remarks aired on CNBC. The stock is up 1 percent Thursday morning.
"Nobody has made any real or official offers," Charter CEO Thomas Rutledge said later.
Malone is widely respected as one of the most astute deal makers in the media and cable industries.


Iran-Saudi Arabia tensions, a potential debt default in Venezuela and a territorial dispute in Iraq — those are just some of the reasons that geopolitics matters to the price of oil right now, according to the chief oil analyst at Energy Aspects.
Speaking to CNBC on Thursday, Amrita Sen said that there were a number of issues that could affect the oil price, with a particular concern being the lack of "inventory buffer" — a cushion of oil supply — if production was to fall from major oil producers for economic or political reasons.
"Even if there is a flare up in Iran (with Saudi Arabia) we don't see exports and production being lost, but Iraq is probably a bigger issue right now with the dispute between Baghdad and Kurdistan, we have lost a decent chunk (of output), about 300,000 barrels per day of volume from the north (of the country). In Venezuela too, production is absolutely plummeting," she said.
"And the reason that of all these become far more important is that there is no oil inventory buffer anymore. OPEC spare capacity is a lot lower and that's why geopolitics matters. If you think about the last three years, we've hardly had any geopolitical premium in the price but now, because we don't have a buffer, geopolitics will matter a lot more which can lead to spikey-ness in oil prices next year."
Sen's comments come amid an improving outlook for oil prices following the sharp declines seen since 2014 due to a glut in supply and lackluster demand. Brent crude was trading at $61.58 per barrel on Thursday and West Texas Intermediate at $55.18. Prices have been helped by major oil producers OPEC and non-OPEC producers, including Russia, agreeing to limit oil output in a bid to support prices.


Shares of Cisco rallied on Thursday after the enterprise technology giant wowed Wall Street with better-than-expected earnings.
Cisco also said it expects 1 percent to 3 percent year-over-year revenue growth next quarter, the first inkling of an increase after 8 quarters of declines.
The stock rose about 5 percent Thursday after about a dozen Wall Street analysts listed in FactSet raised their earnings expectations for Cisco going forward.



Will the stock market boom go bust or at least slow — and if so, when and why?
Not for at least another 12 months — and perhaps not until sometime after 2019 — and then most likely only due to "natural" causes, said speakers at the opening Tuesday night keynote at the Charles Schwab IMPACT 2017 conference in Chicago.
"Stocks have been rooted in better fundamentals of growth around the world," Jeffrey Kleintop, chief global strategist and senior vice president at Schwab, told many of those of the 4,000 registered investment advisors in town for IMPACT, who had gathered in a cavernous hall at the McCormick Place conference center for the presentation.
"That's been true through the Brexit vote, through the U.S. election, through the shift in central bank policies — even the North Korea risks. Stocks have remained anchored in better growth prospects," he added, with every one of the top 45 largest world economies — including the U.S. — recording positive growth in 2017, according to the OECD.
More of the same is said to be on tap for 2018. "That is a fantastic environment for investors," Kleintop said.
More from the IMPACT Conference: The 12 end-of-life-documents you need The wall of worry advisors are facing Advisors fighting elder financial abuse
The current pace of growth, the best and broadest in 10 years, "is lifting earnings, with little sign [and] little risk of recession or a bear market or bubble-bursting in the next 12 months," Kleintop said, also noting that the yield curve — the difference between short- and long-term interest rates and, historically, a good predictor of a coming recession — seems to indicate the all-clear for at least another two to three years.
Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist and senior vice president at Schwab, agreed. The yield curve, she said, indicates "very minimal lift at this stage in the risk of recession, and I think we really probably don't have to really worry about that until about 2019 or so."
Good news for sure, but optimism can eventually morph into investor euphoria. And Sonders reminded attendees that the American-born British investor and fund manager Sir John Templeton once famously quipped that, in the end, bull markets die on euphoria.
"We all know this has been a unique bull market, so I have my own take on this: That this bull market was born on despair, grew on disbelief, has matured on skepticism and may die on acceptance," Sonders said, referring to the somewhat tempered (historically speaking) optimism typical of today's investor.


Liberty Media Chairman John Malone believes Amazon will dominate the future and is the only company that has a chance to beat Netflix.
Netflix CEO Reed Hastings "has been successful in throwing hail Mary passes and then growing into them. And I think he is going to continue doing that. He's got a great service. He's disintermediating the studio industry by going directly to the talent," Malone said in an exclusive interview with CNBC's David Faber Thursday at the Liberty Media annual investor meeting.
"The only outfit right now that has a chance of overtaking them would be Amazon."
The investor noted the cable industry missed its opportunity to compete with Netflix in the past and said "it's way too late" now. He added that in today's media world Netflix has the lead position due to its size and subscriber base.
The internet "makes scale even more important in the media business, where scale always was important. It's all about scale," he said. Netflix was "the first wave. And I think Jeff [Bezos] is gonna be the most disruptive. As [his] Death Star moves into striking range of every industry on the planet."


Wall Street is eager to see Tesla's new semi truck and hear updates on its autonomous driving technology ahead of the company's event Thursday.
Tesla's leadership in autopilot technology and the semi truck's performance is critical for one analyst at Nomura Instinet, who reiterated his buy rating on CEO Elon Musk's electric car maker.
The Tesla event "will be about unveiling an electric semi-truck that does more than just out torque Class 8 heavy diesel trucks," wrote Nomura analyst Romit Shah. "Demonstrating a substantially lower cost of operation, among other things, will also be important."
Tesla has been struggling with profitability as it deals with "production bottlenecks" and low output. Manufacturing complications have crippled production of the mass market electric Model 3, a car widely considered essential to Tesla's future.
Following the announcement of the most recent production holdup, shares of Tesla fell 5 percent. The company reported third-quarter earnings that missed Wall Street's already-low expectations, stoking concerns that Tesla is lagging in self-driving innovation. Shares closed up 0.4 percent Thursday.
Musk, who has said the new truck will "blow your mind clear out of your skull," had previously scheduled the semitractor announcement for October but was forced to delay after the Model 3 production bottlenecks. Though information on the truck is scarce, many expect the prototype to be futuristic, visually stimulating and environmentally friendly.

"We believe that Tesla must demonstrate a lower cost of operation for the new truck," Shah said. "And given that the cost of the driver is the largest component ($0.30-0.40 per mile), the company's self-driving technology is an important part of the cost equation."
The analyst's $500 12-month price target remains the highest on Wall Street and is 61 percent higher than the current stock price.
While Tesla's shiny new truck may make headlines across the automotive world, investors are also looking for more general updates on the company's autonomous innovation. The company has been working closely with up-and-coming chipmaker Nvidia in its quest for smart cars.

Nvidia recently introduced its latest computing platform Pegasus. Thought to be the state-of-the-art technology that will make driving fully autonomous, the new hardware is capable of 320 trillion operations per second, 16 times faster than Tesla's current Drive PX2.
"Autopilot is an option that increases revenue per vehicle sold; however, its real significance goes beyond a spreadsheet," said Shah. "Tesla is recognized for incorporating next-generation technologies such as an electric powertrain, responsive infotainment, and autonomous driving capabilities that provide a great user experience."
Tesla recently said its neural network for vision processing has been "figured out," leading many to anticipate a "major" autopilot software update in the near future.
In its recent investor letter, Tesla management wrote:
"Now that the foundation of the Tesla vision neural net is right, which was an exceptionally difficult problem, as it must fit into far less computing power than is typically used, we expect a rapid rollout of additional functionality over the next several months and are progressing rapidly towards our goal of a coast-to-coast drive with no one touching the controls."


Shares of L Brands sunk about 6 percent before the opening bell on Thursday, after it continued to struggle with weakness in its Victoria's Secret business.
The once high-flying brand now competes against a host of new competition including American Eagle's Aerie. The brand has also been hurt by a decline in mall traffic.
Third-quarter comparable-sales at Victoria's Secret fell 4 percent. The decline was steeper, some 5 percent, when considering only Victoria's Secret's stores.
"We believe fundamental issues remain at Victoria's Secret ... and L Brands can no longer rely on this division as a source of stability,"  said Randal J. Konik, an analyst at Jefferies.
A stronger performance at Bath & Body Works offset pains at Victoria's Secret. The fragrance and body-care store saw all sales increase 4 percent for the quarter on a comparable basis. Within its stores, comparable-sales rose 1 percent.
However, Konik said he's sees Bath & Body Works' strong performance as a risk because the business could be "closer to peaking."  Both sales and margins slowed at the division in the third quarter.
The company said its earnings per share fell 29 percent to 30 cents, compared to 42 cents for the same quarter the year prior. Its net sales of $2.62 billion were an increase of 1 percent.
L Brands last year announced Victoria's Secret would stop selling swim and apparel to help streamline the brand and focus on its more profitable goods, like its bras. The company is still feeling the effects of that change, and said it contributed to a 2 percent decline in its comparable sales.
The company also has been hurt by shoppers preference for bralettes, which usually sell at a lower margin. Victoria's Secret has been attempting to increase sales of its higher-margin constructed bras but so far has seen "limited success," according to Konik.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Wal-Mart – The retail giant earned an adjusted $1 per share for the third quarter, beating estimates by 3 cents a share. Revenue also beat forecasts, with comparable-store sales rising more than analysts had anticipated.
Best Buy – The electronics retailer matched Street forecasts with adjusted quarterly earnings of 78 cents per share, but revenue and comparable-store sales fell below estimates. Best Buy's results were impacted by the quarter's hurricanes, among other factors.
Viacom – The media company missed estimates by 9 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 77 cents per share. Revenue topped forecasts. Viacom's results were impacted by the loss of some cable subscribers, although it did post a revenue rise on the strength of improved theatrical results.
J.M. Smucker – The food company came in 12 cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of $2.02 per share. Revenue beat expectations, as well. Smucker also raised the upper end of its full-year guidance by 5 cents, now forecasting adjusted earnings of $7.75 to $7.95 per share compared to the consensus estimate of $7.72. Results were helped by improved results for pet food and Dunkin' Donuts coffee, among other factors.
Rockwell Automation – Emerson Electric has raised its bid for Rockwell, now offering $225 per share in cash and stock, or a total of about $29 billion. The prior offer, rejected by Rockwell, was worth $215 a share.
Pandora – BMO upgraded the online music service to "outperform" from "market perform," noting better-than-expected subscriber numbers and positive results from audio ads, among other factors.
Cisco Systems — The networking equipment maker reported adjusted quarterly earnings of 61 cents per share, 1 cent a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts, and Cisco also gave an upbeat forecast, thanks in part to a jump in sales of software applications.
Procter & Gamble – The company's proxy fight with investor Nelson Peltz re-emerged as a recount showed Peltz had won by 43,000 votes out of 2.6 billion. The consumer products giant has not yet conceded, however, and said those results are still subject to review and a possible challenge.
L Brands – L Brands reported quarterly profit that was in line with Wall Street forecasts at an adjusted 30 cents per share. The Victoria's Secret parent's revenue topped forecasts, however the company reported a drop in comparable-store sales, including a 4 percent decline at Victoria's Secret.
RH – RH raised its current-quarter guidance to an adjusted $1.02 to $1.04 per share, compared to the consensus estimate of 80 cents a share. The operator of Restoration Hardware furniture stores said the increased forecast reflects the success of its new membership model and more efficient operations.
NetApp – NetApp beat estimates by 12 cents a share, with quarterly profit of 81 cents per share. The data storage solutions company's revenue also topped Street forecasts and NetApp gave an upbeat current-quarter outlook.
Mattel – Mattel has rejected Hasbro's latest takeover approach, according to a Reuters report. Mattel is said to have told its rival toymaker that its bid undervalues the company and also does not take into account possible antitrust issues with regulators.
GlaxoSmithKline – The drugmaker won approval from European regulators for its new three-in-one inhaler drug for chronic lung disease.
Time Inc. – Time is in talks to sell itself to Meredith Corp., according to multiple reports, with several banks and the billionaire Koch brothers set to lend financial support to Meredith for its pursuit of its rival magazine publisher.
BHP Billiton – BHP is hoping to sell off its U.S. shale business in two years, with the mining giant also seeking to sell its Australian nickel business. The intention to divest those assets came at BHP's annual meeting in Melbourne, Australia.
Dollar General – Dollar General was upgraded to "buy" from "hold" at Deutsche Bank, which thinks the discount retailer's third-quarter comparable sales will come in above the Street consensus of a 2.6 percent gain and also sees momentum continuing into 2018.
Regions Financial – Regions was added to the "Conviction Buy" list at Goldman Sachs, which sees the regional bank performing better than consensus forecasts.


While many in Silicon Valley focus on futuristic technology — ranging from cryptocurrency to drone delivery — a quiet movement is afoot among young entrepreneurs that have audacious ideas to change the world and help society.
To help these start-ups take flight, the $25 million Kairos Fund was launched Thursday. It will provide $250,000 to $1 million in seed financing to fledglings, as well as management guidance to help scale up their business.


Apple will be the first $1 trillion company within the next year thanks to the iPhone X, a "major upgrade cycle" and a "renaissance" in China, GBH Insights said in a note Thursday.
The tech giant's market capitalization — which refers to the total value of all of a company's stock in circulation — currently sits at $868.1 billion.
Analyst Daniel Ives of GBH Insights said that over the next 12 months, Apple's shares could trade between $210 and $230. At the higher end of this range, it would represent nearly 35 percent upside from Wednesday's closing price.
Ives explained the factors he expects to drive the share price higher.
Firstly, he said the iPhone 8, 8 Plus and X launches will sell more than the peak iPhone 6 upgrade cycle. This would mean 258 million iPhone units for Apple's fiscal year to the end of September 2018, exceeding the record 231 million shipped in the fiscal year ending September 2015.
GBH Insights forecasts that there are over 350 million users with iPhone models that are at least two years old. A "sizeable portion" of these users could upgrade.


Shares of Rockwell Automation jumped as much as 7 percent Thursday after Emerson Electric increased its takeover bid of the company.
Emerson raised its bid to $225 per share, valuing Rockwell at $29 billion. Rockwell rejected Emerson's $215 a share bid last month. Rockwell shares finished Thursday's session up 2.6 percent at $193.61.
"The industrial logic for this combination is clear. A combination of Emerson and Rockwell would create a leader in the $200 billion global automation market," Emerson CEO David Farr said in a letter to Rockwell CEO Blake Moret. "The combination of Emerson and Rockwell would accelerate our combined growth and position us for success for many years to come."
Emerson has made multiple offers to acquire the automation company. Shares of  Rockwell — which provides industrial automation power, control and information solutions to manufacturers —  closed at $188.73 on Wednesday and have risen more than 40 percent in 2017.

Rockwell Automation confirmed in a separate release that it had received Emerson's bid. Rockwell said its board of directors "will carefully review Emerson's proposal to determine the course of action that it believes is in the best interest of the Company."





Shares of Pandora jumped over 4 percent in middday trading trading Thursday after BMO Capital Markets upgraded its outlook on shares of the music streaming company.
Pandora's move to grow "non-music content," such as podcasts, is a key part of the company's attempt to reverse its steady share price decline, the analyst said. Pandora's stock has fallen more than 62 percent this year through Wednesday's close, according to FactSet.
"Up until now, Pandora has primarily been focused on recorded music and has offered limited forms of other content," BMO analyst Daniel Salmon wrote in a note. "Pandora now plans to expand the content available and we expect this to accelerate in 2018."
Pandora reported mixed results earlier this month, as active listeners declined slightly more than expected. CEO Roger Lynch told investors "there's no silver bullet that's going to come in and solve these problems," emphasizing that investments in advertising would begin to have an effect next year.
Salmon says that Pandora's changes to its business model "are being underappreciated." He cited music industry executives who have said they are optimistic about the potential growth of audio advertisements next year.
He said investors are also overlooking the success of Pandora's subscription offerings. Salmon says the streaming service has stronger revenue than both the firm and Wall Street expected in the last quarter. Pandora Premium now has more than one million subscribers.


Norway's trillion-dollar sovereign wealth fund is proposing to drop oil and gas companies from its benchmark index, which would mean cutting its investments in those companies, the deputy central bank chief supervising the fund told Reuters, sending energy stocks lower.
If adopted by parliament, the fund would over time divest billions of dollars from oil and gas stocks, which now represent 6 percent — or around $37 billion — of the fund's benchmark equity index. The aim is to make the Norwegian government's wealth less vulnerable to a permanent drop in oil prices.
Europe's index of oil and gas shares hit its lowest level since mid-October on the news and was trading down 0.27 percent.
The proposal came in a letter sent by the central bank to the finance ministry and signed by its governor, Oeystein Olsen, and the chief executive of the fund, Yngve Slyngsad, Deputy Central Bank Governor Egil Matsen said in an interview.
"Our advice is to simply remove the oil and gas sector, as it is defined in the FTSE reference index, from the fund's reference index," Matsen said.
"That would mean all companies that the FTSE has classified with the sector, should be removed from our reference index."
The fund is the world's largest sovereign wealth fund. It invests Norway's revenues from oil and gas production for future generations in stocks, bonds and real estate abroad.
It is among the largest investors in a wide range of oil companies, holding stakes at the end of 2016 of 2.3 percent in Royal Dutch Shell, 1.7 percent of BP, 0.9 percent of Chevron, and 0.8 percent of Exxon Mobil.
"The risk for the oil sector is how many investment funds will downsize their exposure to extractive industries," said Jason Kenney, oil analyst at bank Santander.
The fund also held 1.7 percent of Italy's Eni, 1.6 percent of France's Total and 0.9 percent of Sweden's Lundin Petroleum, among others.
At the end of the third quarter, Royal Dutch Shell was the fund's third-biggest equity investment overall, worth around $5.34 billion and exceeded only by its ownership in Apple and Nestle.
"It clearly stands out, perhaps not surprisingly, but not obviously, that indeed there is a substantial difference ... in return between the oil and gas sector and the broad stock market in periods when the oil price changes substantially," Matsen said.
"Oil price exposure of the government's wealth position can be reduced by not having the fund invested in oil and gas stocks."
The fund could still invest in the sector if other parts of the fund's mandate are fulfilled by having some investments in some of the companies, Matsen said.
"But clearly the direction is that ... if the ministry and the politicians think it is good advice and they say yes to it, clearly the investments in the oil and gas sector will decrease over time," he added.
Green campaigners welcomed the news.
"This is a victory for common sense. We have argued this for some time and there is no reason for Parliament not to approve this," Martin Norman, Head of Sustainable Finance Campaign for Greenpeace Nordic, told Reuters.
"Bravo Norway, and let's hope it gets through because the future of fossil fuel investment is looking shaky indeed," said Rachel Kennerley, climate campaigners at Friends of the Earth.
Oil and gas stocks would be replaced by investments in other companies.
"The straight answer is that all other sectors would be weighted up in proportion ... (under) our current mandate," said Matsen.
At the end of 2016, the fund's equity investments were split between investments in the financial sector (23.3 percent), industrial companies (14.1 percent), consumer goods (13.7 percent), consumer services (10.3 percent), healthcare (10.2 percent), technology (9,5 percent), oil and gas (6.4 percent), basic materials (5.6 percent), telecoms (3.2 percent) and utilities (3.1 percent).
The timing of the coming divestments is as yet unclear. The proposal has to be reviewed by the Finance Ministry, which in turn needs to decide whether to propose it to parliament.
At the earliest, the ministry's first opportunity could come in the spring, with a vote in parliament in June.
In addition to its holdings via the fund, Norway has exposure to oil and gas via large untapped offshore hydrocarbon reserves, as well as its 67 percent stake in the national oil company, Statoil.
The fund has grown so large that even though the Norwegian state is taking less than 3 percent of the fund's value every year for its fiscal budget in recent years, oil spending now accounts for one in five crowns spent by the state.


There are some days in the market when taking cues from stocks' movements can be detrimental, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday.
"I see stupid things happening all over the place, so I'm urging you not to jump to any conclusions based on the tape," the "Mad Money" host said. "Remember, the big money managers who control the day-to-day gyrations in stocks get things wrong all the time."
One example was Home Depot. Ahead of the retailer's Tuesday earnings report, its stock opened down $2 as sellers braced themselves for what they expected to be a mediocre quarter.
To their dismay, the home furnishings giant reported a sweeping earnings beat with dramatically higher-than-expected same-store sales growth, a key metric for the retail sector. Same-store comparisons came in at 7.9 percent year over year when analysts were expecting 5.8 percent.
As a result, shares of Home Depot popped roughly 2 percent on the news.
"Now, if you were just taking your cue from the action you would've decided that Home Depot had a terrible quarter," Cramer said. "Of course, Home Depot's stock got dinged again today thanks to the market-wide sell-off and the usual worries about what Amazon's going to do next now that it's devastated the supermarket space with its newfound price cuts. But home improvement is still very much Home Depot's wheelhouse. I think the stock's a buy."


There are some days in the market when taking cues from stocks' movements can be detrimental, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday.
"I see stupid things happening all over the place, so I'm urging you not to jump to any conclusions based on the tape," the "Mad Money" host said. "Remember, the big money managers who control the day-to-day gyrations in stocks get things wrong all the time."
One example was Home Depot. Ahead of the retailer's Tuesday earnings report, its stock opened down $2 as sellers braced themselves for what they expected to be a mediocre quarter.
To their dismay, the home furnishings giant reported a sweeping earnings beat with dramatically higher-than-expected same-store sales growth, a key metric for the retail sector. Same-store comparisons came in at 7.9 percent year over year when analysts were expecting 5.8 percent.
On the post-earnings conference call, Home Depot's management touted strong e-commerce and outperforming categories, as well as customer growth as millennials become homeowners.
As a result, shares of Home Depot popped roughly 2 percent on the news.
"Now, if you were just taking your cue from the action you would've decided that Home Depot had a terrible quarter," Cramer said. "It was right there, at $163, down $2, and a lot of people sold. It's just that the sellers turned out to be wrong, and you really don't want to be wrong in this business — it's too expensive."
The stock of IBM was Cramer's second example. While the technology colossus' latest quarter wasn't stellar, the market seemed to embrace it as the last of the company's bad quarters, sending the stock up from $146 to $162 a share in three days.
But since then, shares of IBM have been clobbered, drifting back down to $147.10 as of Wednesday's close.
The declines were partially fueled by Tuesday's news that billionaire investor Warren Buffett was cutting his firm's stake in IBM by more than 30 percent.
"For starters, we have no idea when Buffett will be done selling, and few investors like to own a stock that he's given up on," Cramer said. "That said, at these levels IBM's stock yields 4 percent, and to me, the stock feels like it's become an emotional juggernaut. I believe in the turn here. I think the stock can go a little lower, but boy, is it getting intriguing."
Finally, Cramer turned to The Walt Disney Company. Shares of the entertainment giant took a hit after the company's earnings report on Nov. 9, which posted year-over-year declines in most of its key businesses.
Disney's stock, which closed up 1 percent on Wednesday at $103.69 a share, was sent down to the $90s after its report, leading some to believe that the quarter was awful, plagued by losses from the hurricanes, cord-cutting and ESPN weakness.
But with the company spending on BAMTech, its baseball streaming franchise, a new Star Wars slated for December and a surge in Shanghai Disney, Cramer said Disney simply offers "too much to like."
Sometimes, the "Mad Money" host finds that the entire market can be wrong, grasping at reasons to justify declines or to trade in tandem with international markets.
"These days, if Germany's market is down 1 percent and Britain's down 1 percent and Japan's down 1 percent, we'll find a reason to sell off, like the Senate insisting on rolling Obamacare repeal into their tax bill," Cramer said.
"But here's the bottom line: do not take your cue from the action," he continued. "In this business, stocks are often wrong. Instead, you need to do your own homework, pick your prices, and then patiently wait for the names you like to pull back for a bad reason, something that happens with alarming frequency."


CNBC's Jim Cramer has found that millennials both hate and love change.
They hate physical change, so much so that they'd rather pay for a $4.32 purchase with a credit card than have to keep 68 cents jingling in their pockets or wallets.
But they love other kinds of change, the kinds that make companies more efficient, more "green" and more cost-effective.
"I've spent a huge amount of time on this show trying to figure out how millennials tick because they hold the key to growth for so many industries," the "Mad Money" host said. "You can't run a consumer business without appealing to the younger generation, and I tire of all the so-called experts who find kids these days to be unfathomable. In truth, they're anything but."
Cramer also found that the few things millennials are willing to pay premiums for help define their generation's spending activity.
First are ride-hailing services like Uber, perhaps because younger age groups can't afford cars or don't see them as a necessity.
Second are smartphones, particularly Apple's iPhone, which most generations, but particularly millennials, use for everything from work to communication to entertainment.
Third are cosmetics. As smartphones' camera quality improves, younger folks are turning to higher quality makeup products like Estee Lauder's to look picture-perfect.
But there's also a darker underbelly to their spending. As millennials increasingly move out of their parents' houses to become new homeowners, their wallets get stretched between paying off student loans, paying rent and paying for health care.
At the same time, their "green" streak is only blossoming. Cramer pointed to Conagra Brands' moves of reinventing old brands like Healthy Choice, putting out foods with fewer artificial ingredients and replacing plastic packaging with compost paper to make its products more appealing to millennials.
"Being in the frozen food aisle" has also given companies an unexpected advantage with younger generations, Cramer said.
Convenience, lower prices and the ability to stay at home draw millennials to frozen foods, so long as they have "clean labels," like International Flavors & Fragrances CEO Andreas Fibig told Cramer on Monday.
"If you can cut out the preservatives by flash freezing this stuff and keep the costs down, the freezer aisle can be a real profit generator," the "Mad Money" host said.
And while Conagra's no cruise line operator, many of which are getting boosts from bookings by millennials looking for Instagram-ready vacations, Cramer said it will still benefit from keeping pace with the changing landscape.
"Conagra understands and embraces the change that millennials are demanding. That's how you stay fresh. That's how you win, because my cohort? We think we're important ... but we're no longer clued in," Cramer said. "People my age are actually fine with antibiotics ... in our chickens and plastic? Oh, what the heck. It's fine. Millennials aren't fine with it. And like it or not, they're the future. I feel like my generation's become an irrelevant vestige of a branded past."
"Forget what you want," the "Mad Money" host concluded. "You need to know what the younger generation wants if you're going to pick winners in this stock market."


The stock market's best days are likely behind it as central banks around the world take away the high levels of stimulus they've provided over the past decade, Janus Henderson portfolio manager Bill Gross said Wednesday.
Though normally known for his bond expertise, Gross in recent days has been chiming in on the equity side, with a pessimistic view of the landscape.
"I'm not supporting a bear market, but sort of a market where you move into an old-age retirement community where the pace of activity and prices behave more maturely," he told CNBC's "Power Lunch" program. "So I think sort of the halcyon days are over."
Gross spoke as the bull market that began in March 2009 has hit a bit of a soft patch lately. The S&P 500 and Dow industrials are down narrowly in November after enjoying a powerful and almost uninterrupted run through most of 2017.
The culprit, he said, is the Fed and its global cohorts finally pulling back on stimulus after years of bargain-basement interest rates and trillions in money printing. With that support fading, investors are going to have to get used to lower returns, he said.
"I think double-digit increases are over, simply because the credit cycle itself is pulling back," Gross said. "The Fed is raising interest rates, the Fed is reducing its balance sheet, the ECB is reducing its balance sheet by half and ultimately raising interest rates. These are slight negatives that argue against a continuing bull market."
Such warnings, though, aren't terribly new for Gross, particularly since he left Pimco, the bond giant he co-founded, and began running the Janus Henderson Global Unconstrained Bond fund, which now has $2.2 billion in assets. The three-star fund has been a laggard this year, with a total return of 2.4 percent that places it in the bottom-third of similar funds, according to Morningstar rankings.
Nevertheless, he has been consistent in his warnings that stocks and bonds are in for lower returns.
He also is taking a dim view of the current tax plans in Washington, saying they are too focused on giving companies a break.
"Consumers haven't been getting a fair break," he said. "Without consumers, without tax breaks going to people as opposed to corporations, ultimately capitalism fails."




As it has been for the last five years, overall inflation in the U.S. was pretty tame: Prices were up just 2 percent in October from a year ago.
But that number is just an average. The headlines from the government's latest monthly report on consumer prices typically overlook the real impact on your pocketbook. Among the more than 300 categories of goods and services tracked by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, some items were up or down by as much as 10 percent.
A closer look at the data shows that your individual inflation rate depends a lot on your personal household budget.


General Electric, a member of the Dow longer than any other company, could get kicked out because of its sinking stock price.
The workings of the committee that determines which stocks stay in and which ones drop out of the blue chip index are a bit mysterious. For example, there's no clear price threshold that automatically gets a stock thrown out.
GE is $18 right now. But AT&T was $33 when it was removed in 2015, and Alcoa was $8 and Bank of America was $14 when both were removed in September 2013. Hewlett Packard was $22 when it was removed, and Kraft was $39. Citigroup had dropped to $3 when it was removed in June 2009, at the same time GM was dropped at 27 cents a share.
The price relationship between GE and other stocks may be important because the Dow is price-weighted. David Blitzer, the chairman of the index committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices, has said he prefers the ratio of highest- to lowest-price stocks to be less than 10-to-1.
By that standard, GE is definitely a candidate to get thrown out. The highest-priced stock in the index is Boeing, which at $261 is nearly 15 times the price of GE.
Another way to look at this is not by the price of the stock but by the state of the company. The committee dropped Alcoa because raw material companies weren't as important as they used to be.
But the best parallel to today's General Electric may be Hewlett Packard. The computer company was dropped from the Dow in 2013 because it was a former tech giant that had fallen on hard times. Back then, Hewlett's board of directors was struggling, and the company seemed unsure of what it should be doing next.
Sounds familiar.


As market volatility increases, Rich Ross of Evercore ISI has three stocks to buy on the dip.
The Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq opened lower for the sixth straight session on Wednesday, as the S&P tracks for its worst day in nearly three months.
"When volatility picks up in the broad market, I like to go back to a place where I know I'm loved," Ross said. And one of those places is tech giant Facebook.


Bitcoin has again recovered quickly from a sharp drop.
The digital currency briefly surged more than 11 percent Wednesday to a high of $7,336.80 , according to CoinDesk. That's within 10 percent of its record high of $7,879.06 hit last Wednesday. Bitcoin had fallen 30 percent below that record over the weekend amid controversy over the digital currency's future.
In the established stock market, a decline of at least 10 percent from a recent high sends a stock into "correction" territory, and a drop of at least 20 percent marks "bear market" territory.
Wednesday's gains in bitcoin came after news that Jack Dorsey's company Square is testing support for bitcoin through its payments app Cash. Early on Wednesday, Credit Suisse analysts published a report on the Square news describing how the "bitcoin buying option could help stock."


Apple shares have crushed the market's performance so far this year. But investors should not expect easy gains going forward, according to the newest Wall Street analyst on the stock.
Wells Fargo's Aaron Rakers began coverage on Apple shares with a market perform rating, saying the smart phone maker's immediate prospects are more uncertain after its recent iPhone product launches. Rakers joined the firm last month as its new IT hardware and networking equipment analyst.
The company's iPhone 8 and iPhone X were released on Sept. 22 and Nov. 3 respectively.
"We believe strength in shares of Apple have, in part, been driven by a 'chase-the-performance' trade ahead of the iPhone 8/X product cycle," wrote Rakers, whose LinkedIn profile shows he previously worked at Stifel Nicolaus, in the Tuesday note. "We think the shares could now see increased volatility, with a focus on incremental derivative demand and mix data points over the coming months."
Apple shares fell 1.2 percent in early trading Wednesday after the report. Its shares are up 48 percent year to date through Tuesday versus the S&P 500's 15 percent gain.
The analyst noted the risk of higher memory chip prices, which are essential components for the company's computing and smartphone products.
"Given the tight memory supply/demand dynamics, Apple's results could be negatively affected by lack of supply or higher-than-expected prices," he wrote.
Rakers started his price target for Apple shares at $195, representing 14 percent upside from Tuesday's close.
"While we applaud Apple's execution and continual ecosystem buildout, the inevitable shift to what's next should once again surface post the iPhone 8/X cycle," he wrote. "We expect some investors to continually question Apple's rate of innovation (focus on Apple's significant R&D investments) for the iPhone as competitors offer similar features and cheaper smartphones."
Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment.


Mobile payment company Square's willingness to test bitcoin on its app is "big" and could potentially drive the stock even higher, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday.
Shares of Square were 2.5 percent higher Wednesday, trading near $41 share, in the wake of the reports that the company is testing support for bitcoin through its Cash payments app. Square said the test does not allow individuals or businesses to send or accept bitcoin.
"I think this is something big and it's going to drive Square up, and it's going to make people feel better about bitcoin," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
Bitcoin traded more than 9 percent higher on Wednesday, according to CoinDesk, and has hit new record highs several times this year. The digital currency has risen more than 600 percent year to date.
Not everyone on Wall Street has bitcoin fever. JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon said in September that bitcoin is "a fraud" and that "eventually it will be closed." The CEO later said he would no longer talk about the cryptocurrency.
—CNBC's Evelyn Cheng contributed to this report.


A downbeat outlook for oil demand from a top energy watchdog and fears of rising U.S. output sparked a sell-off in crude futures this week, but analysts say the market was already poised for a pullback.
International benchmark Brent and U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude have both shed about $3 a barrel, or nearly 5 percent, from more than two-year highs struck last week.
Brent was trading at $61.63 on Wednesday, while WTI was at $55.15, both down about 1 percent after posting their worst daily performance in about a month on Tuesday.
It is a pullback from a recent spike fueled by signs of improving oil demand and a month of escalating tensions in the Middle East that threatened output from top OPEC producers.
U.S. crude 15-day performance

But on Tuesday, the International Energy Agency lowered its outlook for demand growth in both 2017 and 2018, in part because of warmer than expected winter weather. The energy policy adviser to developed nations knocked down its growth forecast by 100,000 barrels a day for each year, projecting that oil markets will remain oversupplied in the first half of 2018.
Global demand will struggle to sop up rising output by producers outside the 14-member OPEC cartel, particularly from the United States, IEA said in its monthly oil report. Recent weekly figures show U.S. drillers are pumping near all-time high levels.
"This is why, absent any geopolitical premium, we may not have seen a 'new normal' for oil prices," IEA concluded.
That view contradicted OPEC's projection, which had been released one day earlier. The producer group raised its forecast for demand growth by 130,000 barrels a day in 2018.
Adding to the commotion, oil futures got caught in a general commodities sell-off following weaker-than-expected economic data from China, which drives global commodity consumption.


George Soros' investment fund dumped its stock holdings in Apple and Snap in the last quarter while reducing stakes in other major tech giants including Facebook and Twitter, regulatory filings show.
The billionaire investor's hedge fund, Soros Fund Management, sold 1,700 shares of Apple, and 1.55 million of Snap stock in the September quarter. This wiped out the hedge fund's stake in both companies, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings released Tuesday revealed.
It's important to note that the fund's holdings in Apple were relatively small, worth just $291,278 at Tuesday's market close.
However the Snap holding is significant. The 1.55 million shares were worth $19.48 million at Tuesday's close.
There is a lot of bearishness around Snap, which has continued to miss earnings expectations and failed to grow its user base significantly. Snap shares are down over 48 percent since it went public in March. Wall Street analysts are also not sold on Snap. The stock has 19 "hold" ratings, nine "sell," and one "strong sell," according to Reuters data.
Soros Fund Management also reduced its stake in Twitter by 5,700 shares. It still holds 18,400 shares of the social media site.
Facebook also fell out of favor with Soros. The investor dumped 367,262 shares of the social networking giant in the last quarter. Soros Fund Management still owns 109,451 Facebook shares.
But not all names in the technology sector were sold off. Soros upped his stake in Microsoft by 99,000 shares and Amazon by 2,500 shares.
The SEC filings only show the change in share ownership of Soros' fund, but no commentary as to his fund's thinking behind the trades.
Major technology stocks have been on a tear this year, although some of the newly-listed names such as Snap have struggled.
Apple, which Soros' hedge fund also sold all its shares in, is up nearly 48 percent year-to-date. Analysts are excited at the potential of the new iPhone X, released earlier this month. Apple shares hit a record high last week.
Soros' position contrasts to Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway, which topped up on Apple shares in the last quarter. Buffett's conglomerate increased its holdings of the iPhone maker's stock by 3.9 million to 134.1 million, a SEC filing released Tuesday showed.


Stocks may have opened lower for the sixth session in a row, but veteran market watcher Ed Yardeni argues bullish activity in commodities suggests the stock market will break more records.
He says the rise in oil and industrial metal prices is likely to continue — a sign that demand is stimulating economies across the world. As a result, it should give the equities rally more juice.
"I watch commodities very closely," Yardeni Research' president said Tuesday on CNBC's "Futures Now." "They are really, really good at telling us what is going on in the global economy."
West Texas Intermediate crude oil has rallied 21 percent in just the past four months, even though it fell by 1.9 percent to settle at $55.70 a barrel on Tuesday.
"The old adage in the commodity pits is 'the best cure for high commodity prices is high commodity prices'," said Yardeni.
As for industrial metals, Yardeni notes they've been accurately reflecting the improving global economy since 2016, despite some recent, temporary sluggishness.
"It's still sort of Goldilocks for the global economy. It's strong, but not too strong," he said.
Yardeni has been one of Wall Street's most consistent bulls. He turned positive a few days after the S&P 500 hit an intraday low of 666 on March 6, 2009.
"The latest version of the bull case got started late last year, and it wasn't just President Trump winning and the perception we were going to have tax reform, less regulation and tax cuts," said Yardeni. "The global economy started to show more strength, and I think that had a lot to do with earnings turning around and showing better comparisons this year."
On July 27, he told CNBC the S&P 500 could "melt up" 8 percent more by year-end. Since then, the index has risen 4 percent.
Yardeni is taking a somewhat conservative approach for 2018. His price target is 2,600 to 2,700 — about a 1 to 5 percent increase from where the index currently sits.
But it may not stay there.
"I am a happy bull. I am in a position where I can keep raising my targets," Yardeni said.


Gamers are angry over Electronic Arts' money-making strategy in its new "Star Wars" game. Wall Street is taking notice and getting concerned over the title's financial prospects.
The uproar centered on in-game purchases in "Star Wars Battlefront II." They allowed players to save time by paying extra money to accelerate the "unlock" of major characters like Darth Vader.

The gaming community flooded social media and Reddit with thousands of negative posts, saying the company is unfairly compelling consumers to spend more money for content that should be part of the initial $60 game price.
EA's "Star Wars Battlefront II" officially launches on Friday, but portions of the game went live on Nov. 9 for the company's EA Access and Origin Access subscribers.
The company has already partly backtracked as it announced Monday it reduced the cost to unlock key characters by 75 percent.
At a Bank of America Merrill Lynch investor meeting, Electronic Arts Chief Financial Officer Blake Jorgensen was asked about the issues.
In a note to clients Wednesday, analyst Justin Post said: "Management highlighted game depth and quality, but did not provide an update on unit expectations. As for the Battlefront 2 hero costs controversy, EA indicated the original hero costs were established based on targeted rate of game play progression and balance (not economics)."
Post added: "We see recent controversies as a potential risk for unit sales vs buyside expectations, although EA has conservative estimates for Battlefront Live Services."
Post maintained his buy rating and $137 price target for Electronic Arts shares, representing 22 percent upside to Tuesday's close.
Piper Jaffray noted the controversy is also detracting from the game's review scores.
"Early reviews have been impacted by negative sentiment around a character progression system that publications and consumers believe overemphasize microtransactions," analyst Michael Olson wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "We believe review scores for a game like Star Wars Battlefront are less important, given the strength of the Star Wars brand, but recognize the negative sentiment is a challenge."
Olson reaffirmed his overweight rating and $130 price target for Electronic Arts shares.
Even before the recent social media controversy, other analysts were concerned over "Star Wars Battlefront II" prospects.
Jefferies' analyst Timothy O'Shea questioned whether "Star Wars" game buyers will pay more like consumers of EA's popular sports titles.
"If Star Wars can encourage users to spend real money on virtual goods (like FIFA) the game could drive meaningful upside to F'18 and '19 EPS, but this is not a certainty," O'Shea wrote in a note to clients Nov. 1 entitled "Star Wars Battlefront 2: A Trick Or a Treat?"
EA's stock is up 43 percent year to date through Tuesday compared with the S&P 500's 15 percent gain.
The company did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
—CNBC's Sara Salinas contributed to this report.


There's an odd chill in the air on Wall Street, but many analysts are shrugging it off as a temporary cooling of a market that still has room to run.
Continuing a choppy trend of the last several sessions, stocks Tuesday seesawed and closed lower. The dollar weakened, as commodities like copper and oil sold off. The high yield debt market was under pressure, as buyers moved into safety at the long end of the Treasury curve.
"We're just taking a little bit of a break," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities.
The stock market hiccupped in morning trading, with the Dow dipping nearly 170 points, but it later closed down just 30 at 23,409, its third loss in four sessions. Traders blamed the mid-morning move in bonds and stocks on concerns that tax reform may not make its way through Congress successfully. The House votes on its version Thursday, and the Senate is still ironing out its version.
"People are just saying there's jitters about tax reform," said Marc Chandler, the head of foreign exchange strategy at Brown Brothers. "Going into the year-end people are nervous. lt's not only about taxes."
The cranky mood began in China and Asian markets overnight, after Chinese economic reports missed the mark.  There was also a jump in Chinese bond yields, with the 10-year temporarily hitting 4 percent, a three-year high.
"As for the junk bond sell off last week, it was very narrowly based. It was low valued credits and telecom," said Chandler. "Most people I talk to are not convinced taxes are going to be passed this year." Chandler said Congress has little time after the Thanksgiving break to get the bill passed by year end.
Hogan said Congress, nonetheless, is making progress on a bill.
However, one of the nagging issues for the stock market has been the flattening of the yield curve. Hogan said the market is nervous about the "flattening" difference between the 2-year yield and the 10-year Treasury yield, which have been moving closer together. The curve dipped to 68 basis points Tuesday, a 10-year low. Hogan said 70 has become a line in the sand, and when it falls below that traders get nervous.
A flattening curve can signal that the curve will invert, which historically means a recession is on the horizon. But Hogan dismissed that and said there's less than a 20 percent chance for recession next year. The move is more to do with the rising 2-year yield, which was as high as 1.69 percent Tuesday.
"We have a Fed that's locked and loaded and ready to raise rates in December and probably be on a path for three rate hikes next year. That's affecting the 2-year," said Hogan.
Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at Lindsey Group, said the market could also be anticipating tighter monetary policy next year when the Fed continues to pare back its bond buying and the European Central Bank also slows its purchases.
"You're talking about $165 billion of less liquidity, just in Q1 alone. This has not been an earnings driven market," said Boockvar. "Every day we get closer to 2019, we get closer to that liquidity flow turning into more of a drip."  Boockvar and others say the markets are also getting antsy going into year end, worried that the high yield market is signaling broader concerns about credit. There was some chatter about asset allocation programs influencing trading.
""In this kind of crazy market, as we head into 2018, anything is possible. If we do sell off, it's going to get exaggerated," he said.
The S&P 500 is up 15.2 percent year-to-date, and at 2578, it's just about 20 points off its high.
Commodities markets were also on the move Tuesday, with copper reacting to China growth concerns.
Copper futures for December fell 1.7 percent to $3.065 a pound on concerns about growth, after the China data. Oil also slumped, with West Texas Intermediate futures losing 1.9 percent to $55.70per barrel. Oil slid on a gloomier demand outlook from the International Energy Agency, which also was upbeat about growth in U.S. oil production and exports.
"It shows a lack of risk appetite," said Bart Melek, head of commodities strategy at TD Securities. "Oil got ahead of itself so it's responding to concerns shale is going to grow more rapidly."
Markets could react to CPI and retail sales data Wednesday, both released at 8:30 a.m. ET. There is also U.S. government oil supply data, released at 10:30 a.m. ET.


Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway bought more Apple shares before their latest jump to all-time highs.
Berkshire also cut its stake in IBM by 32 percent, or 17.06 million shares, in the third quarter, according to a required quarterly filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission released Tuesday. The stock is the third-worst performer in the Dow Jones industrial average this year, down 10.3 percent.
Buffett's conglomerate increased its holdings of the iPhone maker's stock by 3.9 million to 134.1 million, the filing showed.


Every time the market pulls back, CNBC's Jim Cramer sees tons of people get scared out of their wits about a potential crash.
"Don't get me wrong, it's OK to be concerned. You should always keep a close eye on your stocks — they're not cash," the "Mad Money" host said. "But I think worries about a devastating sell-off lurking just around the corner are indeed overblown, because there are a lot more benign forces at work in this market and not many malignant ones that can cause fortunes to be lost in the blink of an eye."
Cramer acknowledged why investors might have been particularly perturbed by Tuesday's dip. There was no immediate cause for the sell-off, there's very little volatility despite geopolitical tensions, tax reform seems like it's a long way away and stocks have run up quite high.
"All that said, I remain cautiously optimistic and think you need to use these dips — yes, indeed, I know — as buying opportunities. Why? Five reasons," Cramer said.


CNBC's Jim Cramer loves the technology sector, but right now, it's developing a bad sign: most of the gains are narrowly spread among a few major winners, a sign of bad breadth.
With Apple, Alphabet, Microsoft and Intel driving most of the technology sector's surge, the "Mad Money" host turned to technician Bob Moreno, the publisher of RightViewTrading.com and his colleague at RealMoney.com, for help sorting out the moves.
"Moreno thinks the fabulous bull market in tech might be less solid than it seems," Cramer said. "As much as I'm a fan of many tech stocks here ... you always need to have a diversified portfolio in case any one particular sector gives up the ghost."


CNBC's Jim Cramer was looking for some reassurance when he and his "Squawk on the Street" colleagues Carl Quintanilla and David Faber interviewed the CEO of General Electric on Tuesday.
"While I'm very interested in his plans for the future, I did want some sort of 'truth and reconciliation' before I'd be willing to recommend the stock, even down here," the "Mad Money" host said, borrowing a phrase from the legendary human rights activist Archbishop Desmond Tutu. "FYI, GE's now 12 points below where it was when the former CEO, Jeff Immelt, came on the show and assured us everything's fine."
In that February interview, Immelt pushed back against Wall Street analysts who had put "sell" ratings on General Electric's stock, saying that GE would have "a really good year."
"That was just nine months ago! And look, this is a huge conglomerate that should be able to forecast at least somewhat ... what it might earn," Cramer said. "Turns out the negative analysts that Immelt showed just disdain for were spot on and dead right."
Due to GE's cash problems and poor performance, its new CEO, John Flannery, announced a widespread restructuring plan on Monday to slash the dividend in half and shed under-performing divisions.
But when Cramer asked Flannery about his company's past transgressions on Tuesday, the new CEO didn't seem interested in reconciling with the mistakes GE made in the past.
"What matters to him is the future, not the past. Normally, I'm all for that kind of attitude, but as someone who believed that GE was doing much better than it was, I need to know two things: was the old management misleading us or were they misleading themselves?" Cramer said.
Cramer argued that such major pitfalls should have been evident to GE's leadership, particularly its board of directors, who signed off on all of the company's shoddy transactions.
Flannery did announce on Monday that he would replace much of the company's board, but said that he would leave its lead director, former Vanguard CEO Jack Brennan, in place.
"I'm so tempted just to put GE's whole board on the Wall of Shame for agreeing to offer $30 billion in buybacks and dividends last year with money the company so desperately needs now," the "Mad Money" host said. "I want to put them up there on that Wall of Shame for not holding management accountable for its sins."
By not addressing GE's past mistakes, Cramer said Flannery runs the risk of unearthing more wrongdoing as he tries to push forward and remodel the company.
More importantly, Cramer said he would risk alienating GE's shareholders, who need to know what went wrong to make them lose so much by way of the stock's drastic declines.
"If we don't try to understand how things went so wrong at GE, if we don't unearth all of the accounting issues and the misinformation or, conceivably, outright dishonesty that was presented to us, how the heck can we trust this company to get anything right going forward?" Cramer wondered.
As Flannery embarks on his self-proclaimed "massive heavy lift" in 2018, the "Mad Money" host remained disappointed by the CEO's refusal to reflect.
"At the very least, the board owes us an explanation," Cramer said. "After all, how can we tell that Flannery's going to fix everything when we don't even know what needs to be fixed? Hence my position on General Electric's stock: until we get some truth, there will be no reconciliation."


Tuesday was the "worst day of my business life," former General Electric vice chairman Bob Wright told CNBC, after shares plunged for the second day in a row.
However, he doesn't plan on selling the stock now.
"I'm going to trust the history of this company, the quality of the people that are there," he said in an interview with "Closing Bell" on Tuesday. "They just need to be given a chance to lead."
Shares of GE closed at 17.90 on Tuesday, down 5.9 percent. On Monday, the stock had its worst day since 2009, falling 7 percent after the firm chopped its dividend by 50 percent and announced a sweeping restructuring plan.
GE's new CEO, John Flannery, said Tuesday he wasn't surprised by the stock's reaction, telling CNBC, "We have a long-term plan. We have a lot of work to do."  GE plans to focus on health care, aviation and energy, becoming a "more focused industrial company," Flannery said Monday in announcing the plans.
Wright said he would like to see the turnaround happen a little quicker than has been suggested but called the remaining assets "extraordinarily good businesses."
He also said he wishes Flannery would be a little more transparent about the balance sheet, which he called a "lurking issue."
"You can just say 'I've looked at the balance sheet. I've gone through the assets and liabilities and we're OK.' That would help a lot," he said.
Michael Useem, a Wharton professor and director of the school's Center for Leadership and Change Management, said Flannery's work is going to be extremely difficult.
"A remake of this scale … it's like turning a battleship. It's going to take some serious time," he said in an interview with "Power Lunch."
"With a tough-minded executive in charge you can do it and the betting is probably going to be on Flannery doing it," he added.
While investors have been fleeing the stock over the last couple of days, Useem said many big holders of the stock include investment companies such as Vanguard and BlackRock.
Flannery's challenge is to keep them in the stock while he executes the turnaround, he said.
"For that, the strategy story is going to be essential," he said.
— CNBC's Berkeley Lovelace contributed to this report.
Disclaimer


One of the top three worries for investors right now is a crash in global bond markets.
When asked what poses the biggest "tail risk," or worry for the financial market, 22 percent of global investors considered the biggest risk to be a sharp drop in bonds, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch's November Global Fund Manager Survey out Tuesday.
That's just below the 27 percent of respondents that fear mistake in monetary policy by the Federal Reserve or European Central Bank the most.
Just 13 percent were most worried about a "market structure"-generated flash crash.
What do you consider the biggest "tail risk"?

Source: Bank of America Merrill Lynch, November Fund Manager Survey
Bond prices fall when yields rise, and some key global bond yields have climbed to multi-year highs in the last few days. The iShares iBoxx $ High Yield Corporate Bond ETF (HYG) was tracking Tuesday for its lowest close since March.
"If you see further weakening in bond markets, particularly credit bond markets or corporate bond markets, it's going to have a negative impact on stock markets," Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at BofAML, told CNBC in a phone interview Tuesday.
Global bond yields have come a long way since hitting historic lows on July 11, 2016, a date Hartnett has called "a massive, secular inflection point" that will have major effects.
In the U.S., Treasury yields have climbed in the last few weeks amid expectations of tighter monetary policy and an increased deficit under tax reform. In China, Beijing's focus on reducing dependence on high credit growth has raised worries about tighter monetary policy and slower economic growth.
The Chinese 10-year sovereign bond yield hit 4.033 percent overnight, its highest since Oct. 14, 2014.
"China's bond [yield] hitting that 4 percent level has to do with post [National Communist Party] Congress, people are concerned about deleveraging," said Marc Chandler, chief currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman.
The U.S. 2-year Treasury yield traded Tuesday near 1.69 percent, near its highest since Oct. 21, 2008. The Federal Reserve began unwinding its balance sheet in October by reducing its bond purchases and is expected to raise short-term interest rates in December.
The benchmark U.S. 10-year Treasury yield traded mildly lower around 2.38 percent, near the higher end of a post-election trading range. German and Japanese 10-year sovereign bond yields have also climbed solidly into positive territory after turning negative last year.
When BofAML conducted the survey from Nov. 3 to 9, a near-record 81 percent of respondents said bond markets are overvalued.
Top "tail risk" for fund managers (Oct. 2015 - Nov. 2017)

Source: Bank of America Merrill Lynch, November Fund Manager Survey
The latest BofAML survey had 178 participants with $533 billion in assets under management.
To be sure, fund manager fears can be misplaced. The top worry from July to September last year was "GOP wins White House." U.S. stock index futures plunged on election night but quickly recovered and have surged to record highs following Republican President Donald Trump's surprise election win.
"There is no fear of the Fed. None. And until there is it's going to be difficult for markets to go down in a big way," Hartnett said.
"The catalyst has to be inflation, especially wage inflation," he said.
Average hourly earnings posted a 2.4 percent increase in the 12 months through October, down from a 2.9 percent annualized increase in September.
— CNBC's Patti Domm contributed to this report.


The decision by General Electric to cut its dividend in half as the company restructures should be a warning to investors: Don't count on income from dividends.
GE's move reduces its quarterly dividend to 12 cents a share from 24 cents and will give its shareholders $4.1 billion less each year.
Because the company has only cut its dividend twice since 1899, the move may come as a surprise to some shareholders. Yet experts caution that investors need to be ready for such moves when investing in dividend stocks.
"There are no guarantees and the marketplace can change, so you need to be flexible," said financial advisor Greg Ghodsi, managing director, investments at 360 Wealth Management Group of Raymond James.


While many of its peers are giving up on General Electric, Bank of America Merrill Lynch still recommends the industrial giant's stock.
We are "sticking with a buy despite a disappointing outlook," analyst Andrew Obin wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "We believe that GE has significant cost cutting opportunities under the new leadership. We note that the company has undergone a significant reinvestment cycle, positioning the company well from a competitive standpoint."
General Electric shares had their worst day since 2009 on Monday, falling 7 percent after the company reduced its dividend and unveiled a restructuring plan during its investor day. It was the company's first investor day under CEO John Flannery, who replaced Jeff Immelt in August.
The shares fell some more on Tuesday, down another 6 percent midway through the trading day.


Analyst Ed Clissold shared his thoughts on the market outlook and where investors may want to look if the economy runs out of steam in an exclusive interview with CNBC PRO's 
 Mike Santoli.
"When you're in this slow growth environment, you want to continue to focus on companies that can deliver the growth anyway – they don't need the economy to do well. It's almost by definition: growth stocks," explained Clissold. "This comes from the technology sector, health care as well – although obviously Washington is going to have a say in that. Discretionary is the other one, although that one is definitely our least favorite of the growth sectors."
"Globally, we actually like emerging markets. Multiples there are more attractive and economic growth looks to be a little bit better there than what you're seeing in the developed world."
Clissold is chief U.S. strategist for Ned Davis Research Group. He and his team are responsible for the firm's U.S. equity, asset allocation, style, sector and equity theme analysis. Previously, Ed worked at Strong Capital Management and as a market strategist at J.C. Bradford & Co.
As a part of his interview, Clissold also revealed his thoughts on tax reform.
"The tax cut really could be a game changer and kind of save the consensus numbers. If you do a back-of-the-envelope analysis of what a tax cut would mean," he explained. "If you took the tax rate down to 20 percent, which is the latest proposal, it could be around a 7 percent boost to S&P 500 earnings."
"And again, that could be the difference between the numbers coming in where analysts are expecting and a pretty big mess."


GE shares broke below $18 for the first time since December 2011 on Tuesday, as the stock's electric slide continued for the second-straight session.
The ailing behemoth saw its shares slide as much as 7 percent on Monday, for its worst trading day since 2009, following a dividend cut and a weak 2018 forecast released at its investors meeting. But if recent history is any indication, the cut may not spell doom for GE shares.
According to S&P Global, the companies with the biggest dividend cuts outside of the financial crisis are Pfizer in January 2009, Abbott Labs in December 2012, Kinder Morgan in December 2015 and Conoco Phillips in February 2016.
One year after cutting those dividends, three of the four companies surged. Shares of Pfizer, Abbott and ConocoPhillips soared 28, 44, and 49 percent respectively, while Kinder Morgan was lower by about 4 percent. This suggests that GE may possibly follow in their footsteps, a relief for the battered name that has fallen 40 percent this year and tracking for its worst annual performance since 2008.

While it's been a tough year for General Electric shareholders, Matt Maley of Miller Tabak says the dividend cut is not the final nail in the coffin for the stock. "You need a little bit of faith there that the new CEO can turn things around, but you pick away at it over the next couple of years and it may take a while. But I think you look at 10 years from now and you're going to look really good," he said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "Other things will outperform … [but] I think it's going to be a solid one.  GE's not going out of business."
Chad Morganlander, portfolio manager at Washington Crossing Advisors, believes certain fundamentals need to change for GE to be worth buying. Even as the company has transitioned to new CEO in John Flannery, Morganlander believes the water still looks murky for GE, and Monday's investor meeting did nothing to quell any concerns.
This is especially true, says Morganlander, about the company's three main branches as GE continues to sell off parts of its business. Flannery confirmed that the company was looking to sell its lighting division and would focus on its health, power and aviation branches.
"They have to show some consistency on the free cash flow before we would go and buy," Morganlander said on "Trading Nation." "You could see, potentially 36 months out or more, that they actually break up three divisions that they're hoping to consolidate in 2019, but it remains to be seen."
"This is perhaps an information situation where we need to see additional information to confirm if you should be fully engaged in the company," he added. "At this point, we would hold, and we'd be underweight if we did on it."
GE stock price was down 5 percent Tuesday.


One of the country's greatest economic minds is questioning the value and role passive investing is playing in the bull market.
Nobel Prize-winning economist Robert Shiller is seeing worrisome issues surrounding the growing popularity of index funds and ETFs among retail investors.
"The strength of this country was built on people who watched individual companies. They had opinions about them. All this talk of indexes, it's a little bit diluting of our intellect. It becomes more of a game," Shiller said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "It's a chaotic system."
Shiller, a Yale University economics professor, compares passive investing to seeing a green light at an intersection and crossing the street without looking both ways.
According to data published by Morningstar earlier this year, investors poured more than a half trillion dollars into passive funds in 2016. The number could break more records this year with investors coming off the sidelines to participate in the record rally.
"The problem is that if you are talking about passive indexing, that is something that is really free-riding on other people's work," Shiller said. "So people say, 'I'm not going to try to beat the market. The market is all-knowing.' But how in the world can the market be all-knowing, if nobody is trying — well, not as many people — are trying to beat it?"
It's a conundrum that Shiller finds perplexing. When asked what passive investing could look like in 10 years, he wasn't sure.
"It's kind of pseudoscience to think these indexes are perfect, and all I need is some kind of computer model instead of thinking about business," Shiller said.


Coca-Cola shares are set for a breakout thanks to successes overseas and its mission to expand its beverage lineup, according to Wells Fargo, which upgraded the stock to outperform.
But probably most interesting in analyst Bonnie Herzog's note was speculation that the 125-year-old purveyor of sugary beverages may make a move into alcoholic beverages. She expects management to make some hints of this at the company's investor day on Thursday.
"We expect management will highlight a lot of this innovation," Herzog wrote on Monday, as well as "expand on CEO [James] Quincey's recent commentary to: grow and incubate high-growth brands in the U.S. through its Venturing & Emerging Brands unit (VEB); build and nurture small brands internationally, similar to what it has achieved with success in the U.S. with VEB and through local partnerships; expand into other premium segments such as adult craft beverages."
Wells Fargo raised its 12-month price target on the company to $51 from $45, representing 9 percent upside from Monday's close.
A Coca-Cola spokesperson told CNBC that questions on beverage expansion will not be addressed until investor day.
The soft drink giant bought Fuze and Vitamin Water in 2007, Honest Tea in 2011 and Keurig Green Mountain in 2014. Coca-Cola that year also took a 16.7 percent stake in Monster Beverage, a popular energy drink maker. But since then, Coke's acquisition game-plan seems to have stalled.
In her list of key questions for management on investor day, Herzog writes, "To what extent does KO intend to expand into adult craft beverages, and will that include alcoholic beverages (or just mixers)?"
Coca-Cola is the world's largest non-alcoholic beverage maker with a market value of $199.6 billion. AB InBev is the world's largest maker of alcoholic beverages with a market value of $197.2 billion. The maker of Budweiser just replaced its North America president in an effort to revive slumping beer sales.
Herzog also said Coca-Cola's stake in Monster is a potential area for excitement, noting that the press has been quick to jump on any signs of a potential deal.
"We continue to believe Coca-Cola's best-in-class distribution and strong brand portfolio will allow it to retain its premium valuation and believe that investments in productivity and marketing today will pay off in years to come," added Herzog. "We think Coca-Cola can support roughly 5 to 6 percent organic revenue growth over the next several years, ahead of current consensus estimates."
During the company's upcoming investor day, the analyst also expects the business to highlight diminished headwinds in Venezuela and Brazil, and cost savings in North America.
"With a new reinvigorated management team, and renewed focus on accelerating top-line growth while maintaining discipline around costs, we believe Coca-Cola's next chapter of growth is around the corner."


Sign of the times: It is shaping up to be the hottest year in a decade to raise investor money for companies in the development stage with no specific business plan or purpose.
This week, a former hedge fund manager and a former real estate executive are raising $500 million to hunt for buyouts in the "blank check company" in the hospitality and real estate sectors.
Landscape Acquisition Holdings, run by Man GLG founder Noam Gottesman and former Vornado President Mike Fascitelli, could begin trading in London as early as this week. The two are putting $40 million of their own money into the blank check company and raising the rest from outside investors.
It comes the same week as former Procter & Gamble executives prepare for their $345 million Legacy Acquisition to begin trading in the U.S., focused on snapping up companies in consumer packaged goods, food, retail and restaurant sectors.
Blank check companies, also called special purpose acquisition companies, raise money from investors first and use it to buy companies later, usually within a specified time range. They are often run by former executives of the industry or sector they target. So far this year, 27 of them have begun trading in the U.S., raising $7.7 billion, the most active year since 2007, according to Renaissance Capital.
Low interest rates and high market valuations are making hedge funds and other investors itch for opportunities. Blank check companies are a place for them to put money and hope to reap any gains if the companies are successful, but recover their money if the companies fail to find suitable investments.
In September, former Facebook executive Chamath Palihapitiya rolled out a $690 million blank check company dedicated to buying a Silicon Valley "unicorn" and taking it public.
The largest this year was the $1 billion raised by Silver Run Acquisition Corp., according to Dealogic. Silver Run is managed by former Anadarko Petroleum CEO James Hackett to focus on deals in the energy sector. It recently struck a deal to combine with two Houston-area companies.
The former CEO of Starwood Hotels, Steve Heyer, recently raised $300 million for Haymaker Acquisition Corp., to look at deals in consumer-related products and services. And the private equity firm TPG raised nearly $700 million for its TPG Pace Energy Holdings earlier this year, to be run by former Occidental Petroleum CEO Stephen Chazen.
Last year, special purpose acquisition companies were 3 percent of overall IPO volume, according to Dealogic, the highest percentage since 2008 as global IPO volume fell. Exchanges have been fighting for the business as well, with Nasdaq recently proposing rule changes to make listing a blank check company there easier.
Gottesman is the former chairman and co-CEO of GLG Partners, a hedge fund sold to Man Group in 2010. He is also the co-founder of Nomad Foods, billed as Europe's largest frozen foods company, and TOMS Capital, owner of the New York restaurant Eleven Madison Park as well as the restaurant at the NoMad Hotel.
Fascitelli is the former president and CEO of Vornado Realty Trust, a real estate giant that owns Chicago's Merchandise Mart and One Penn Plaza in New York, among other properties. Both are alumni of Goldman Sachs.
The range of Landscape Acquisition's potential deals includes hotels, resorts, restaurants and gaming. The initial public offering is being handled by Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs.


Renowned economist Jim O'Neill said Tuesday that investors "have to believe" the dollar is not going to be the kingpin currency forever.
The greenback's status as the world's most powerful currency has been questioned for decades, but contracts based on the U.S. dollar continue to dominate global markets. However, in recent months, speculation has intensified that China could be poised to make a major move against the dollar's dominance.
When asked to what extent he felt the dollar's influence could be dwindling, the former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management told an audience at the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition Conference (ADIPEC): "I hold two contradictory views on this. Firstly, it's never going to happen because the dollar is the dollar.
"However… Germany has recently become China's number one trade partner and it is when you start to see things like this that you have to believe the dollar is not going to be kingpin in the future like it is today."
China is the world's top oil importer, and so Beijing sees it as only logical that its own currency should price the global economy's most important commodity. But beyond that, moving away from the dollar is a strategic priority for countries like China and Russia. Both aim to ultimately reduce their dependency on the greenback, limiting their exposure to U.S. currency risk and the politics of American sanctions regimes.The plan is to price oil in yuan using a gold-backed futures contract in Shanghai, but the road will be long and arduous.
"I don't think you can say with confidence that over the next decade the dollar is finished, but the ongoing geopolitical developments suggest that could change in the future," he said.
— CNBC's Sri Jegarajah contributed to this report.


Appetite for risk has increased among money managers to a new high, according to the latest fund manager survey by Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BoAML).
A total of 16 percent of investors said they are taking above normal levels of risk when choosing where to put their money, even though 48 percent of respondents said that equities were overvalued.
"Icarus is flying ever closer to the sun and investors' risk-taking has hit an all-time high," Michael Hartnett, chief investment strategist at BoAML, said in a statement Tuesday, borrowing a phrase from Greek mythology.
"A record high percentage of investors say equities are overvalued yet cash levels are simultaneously falling, an indicator of irrational exuberance," he added.
This means that though investors think that stocks are too expensive, they are still pushing money into those equities, which indicates that they think markets will continue to rise despite these lofty valuations.


Renowned economist Jim O'Neill says investors should overlook the growing debt pile in China, highlighting various positive factors for the world's second-largest economy.
"I can't get excited about the debt issue," Jim O'Neill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, told CNBC Tuesday.
"Not least because in the past few months there's evidence that the rise of debt growth has slowed pretty dramatically and indeed with nominal GDP (gross domestic product) growth accelerating, I think even some of the doom and gloom people about China would concede that the scale of the debt problem has come down a little," O'Neill added.
The credit-fueled economy has been criticized for presenting one of the greatest risks to the global economy. China wants to double the size of its economy between 2010 and 2020, even if that means growing debt in the non-financial sector.
The International Monetary Fund said in August that "international experience suggests that China's credit growth is on a dangerous trajectory, with increasing risks of a disruptive adjustment and/or a marked growth slowdown." The fund projected at the time that non-financial sector debt, which includes households, corporates and government debt is set to reach almost 300 percent of its GDP by 2022.


Wal-Mart is having its best year since 1999, and it's about to get a lot better, according to one market watcher.
Shares of the big-box retailer have surged more than 30 percent in 2017, putting it on pace for its best annual performance in nearly three decades. This is happening as the broader retail ETF, the XRT, tracks for its worst year since 2008. And as the company gears up for earnings later this week, Stacey Gilbert, head of derivatives strategy at Susquehanna, says that not only is the Wal-Mart still worth buying, it is her firm's favorite stock in the space.
"From a trading sentiment heading into earnings, it's an implied move of around 4 percent," she said Friday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "Nothing crazy, but the sentiment is really suggesting that there isn't expected to be anything crazy mentioned and downside is likely limited."
Gilbert believes the company's fundamentals will continue to improve. "Management has done a great job of balancing the growth of earnings as well as all of the investments needed to let it continue to be a premium U.S. leading omnichannel retailer," she added.
Wal-Mart hit another all-time high on Monday, as the retailer upped prices for some online items in an effort to compete with Amazon. But Cowen's head of sales trading, David Seaburg, believes that the online presence Wal-Mart is trying to build for itself is actually the company's biggest headwind.
"They are investing [in their e-commerce business] and talking about it loudly," he said on "Power Lunch." "The reality is it's going to take a lot of investment to get this to a $100 billion e-commerce business versus a $26, $27 billion e-commerce business."
Furthermore, the increased competition in the grocery space thanks to Amazon's Whole Foods acquisition could also hurt the big box giant's margins, according to Seaburg. Thanks to the "gross margin risk, I wouldn't be buying Wal-Mart, I'd be a seller here," he said.
Wal-Mart reports earnings Thursday morning. Analysts polled by FactSet expect the company to earn 97 cents per share on $121 billion in revenue.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are down after Monday's very modest gains.
-Small business optimism rose in October.
-The federal government hauled in a record $235.3 billion in tax revenue in October, but still ran a $63 billion deficit.
RETAIL WARS
-Home Depot same store sales in the third quarter crushed Wall Street expectations.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Home Depot – The home improvement chain reported quarterly profit of $1.84 per share, 2 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts, and a 7.9 percent increase in comparable-store sales came in above the consensus Thomson Reuters estimate of a 5.8 percent increase. Home Depot also raised its full-year forecast.
General Electric – RBC Capital downgraded the stock to "sector perform" from "outperform," saying the turnaround plan announced Monday fell short of what many on the Street had hoped to see. GE shares had their biggest one-day fall since April 2009 in Monday trading.
Advance Auto Parts – The auto parts retailer earned an adjusted $1.43 per share for its latest quarter, beating estimates of $1.21 a share. Revenue missed forecasts, however, as comparable-store sales fell 3.4 percent. Analysts surveyed by FactSet had estimated that same-store sales would fall by 2 percent.
Dick's Sporting Goods – The sporting goods retailer beat estimates by 4 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 30 cents share. Revenue beat forecasts, and although same-store sales fell 0.9 percent that was a smaller drop than the 2.9 percent decline anticipated by analysts. Dick's raised its full-year forecast, but also said 2018 earnings would decline by as much as 20 percent.
Buffalo Wild Wings — Private-equity firm Roark Capital reportedly made a more than $2.3 billion takeover offer for the restaurant chain. The Wall Street Journal reports that it isn't clear how receptive the company will be to the more than $150 per share bid.
Coca-Cola – Coca-Cola stock was upgraded to "outperform" from "market perform" at Wells Fargo, which said the beverage maker's positive momentum should continue to accelerate and that the Street is underestimating Coke's revenue growth potential.
Goldman Sachs – Goldman reportedly marked its stake in The Weinstein Co. down to zero following sexual assault allegations against co-chairman Harvey Weinstein, according to a source quoted by Reuters. It is not known how much of The Weinstein Co. is owned by Goldman, but the source described the stake as "small."
Citrix – Citrix added $1.7 billion to its common stock buyback authorization. That brings the cloud computing solutions company's total authorization to more than $2 billion.
Taubman Centers – Taubman has seen Elliott Management amass a "sizable" stake in the shopping center operator, according to a Bloomberg report, though the stake remains below 5 percent. The report said the activist investment firm has spoken with Taubman about various options including going private.
Wal-Mart – The retailer will operate a flagship store for retail chain Lord & Taylor on its Walmart.com website, with a launch expected in the spring of 2018.
Vodafone – Vodafone increased its full-year earnings forecast after the telecom company matched bottom line estimates with its latest results and reported better than expected revenue.
AT&T – AT&T is said to be planning an investigation of the White House's opposition to its acquisition of Time Warner, according to a Bloomberg report.
Delphi Automotive – Delphi's board of directors approved the spinoff of the auto parts maker's Powertrain Systems unit into a new publicly traded company called Delphi Technologies.
Hilton Worldwide – The hotel operator's stock was removed from the "Conviction Buy" list at Goldman Sachs due to valuation, although it remains on the firm's "Buy" list. The stock is up more than 25 percent in 2017 and more than 40 percent over the past 12 months.
WisdomTree Investments – WisdomTree was upgraded to "market perform" from "underperform" at Keefe Bruyette & Woods, following the ETF company's acquisition of the commodity and currency businesses from European counterpart ETF Securities.


General Electric's dividend could still be in danger even after the industrial giant slashed it in half, an analyst at JPMorgan said Tuesday.
"The cut was within the realm of possibility, and is fundable in the near term with debt and asset sales, though a downturn or spin/split would make for another chapter in this debate," JPMorgan analyst C. Stephen Tusa said in a note to investors.
GE cut its dividend by 50 percent to 12 cents a share on Monday, the largest dividend cut by a U.S. company outside of the financial crisis. Prior to Monday, GE had cut its dividend only twice since 1899. The cut was made as CEO John Flannery tries to turn around the 125-year-old conglomerate.
Cutting the dividend yield, which was the second-highest among Dow Jones industrial stocks, could give Flannery more capital to fund GE's turnaround but also could make long-time shareholders flee.
At current prices, GE's yield under the new dividend (effective in December) would be 2.5 percent.
GE on Monday also cut its 2018 earnings forecast to $1 per share to $1.07 per share.
Tusa said he was concerned because the new dividend "still represents a 65 percent payout."
GE is by far the worst-performing stock in the Dow this year, falling nearly 40 percent. It is also one of only six Dow components that were are lower for 2017 as of Monday's close. In contrast, the Dow has risen sharply this year, gaining 18.6 percent.

The company also issued profit and free cash flow guidance for 2018 on Monday that disappointed Wall Street analysts. GE also announced it would cut its number of board seats and that it will focus on its health care, aviation and energy businesses moving forward.
GE shares dropped 7.2 percent on Monday, marking their worst day since 2009. On Tuesday, the stock fell 2 percent in early trade.
"We, like Bulls, had expected more, and most notably the cost out targets here were not as ambitious as most expected," Tusa said.


The rough year for General Electric shareholders will not end anytime soon because the company's new turnaround plan did not meet expectations, according to Wall Street analysts.
GE shares had their worst day since 2009 on Monday, falling 7 percent after the company reduced its dividend and unveiled a restructuring plan during its investor day. It was the company's first investor day under CEO John Flannery, who replaced Jeff Immelt in August.
RBC Capital Markets lowered its rating to sector perform from outperform for General Electric shares, saying the company did not present a credible plan to fix its businesses.
"We attribute the sharply negative stock reaction to the Nov-13 unveiling of new CEO John Flannery's turnaround plan to a number of disappointments and unsettling disclosures," analyst Deane Dray wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "Turnaround plan fell short of the sweeping reset of the business model/portfolio many had hoped for. [There are] few reasons to believe the stock bottoms here."
Dray reduced his price target for General Electric shares to $20 from $25, representing 5 percent upside to Monday's close.
GE's stock declined 5.9 percent Tuesday to $17.90, bringing its two-day loss to more than 12 percent. The shares were at levels last seen in 2011.

The analyst said the company's admission that it paid out a dividend that was more than its industrial cash flow for years was "particularly damaging."
"We believe the new disclosures at GE's analyst meeting suggest deeper structural problems than we had anticipated," he added.
Goldman Sachs is concerned over the company's 2018 financial guidance.
"The weaker than expected 2018 EPS/FCF guide and a lack of clarity around the path to improvement in 2019/20 surprised us negatively," analyst Joe Ritchie wrote in a note to clients Tuesday entitled "Investor day recap: Reset happened, guide worse than expected, questions loom."
General Electric guided 2018 earnings before interest and taxes for its industrials business to $14 billion versus Goldman's $16 billion estimate.
"We believe a firmer view that 2018 is the bottom or 'last cut' and a quantifiable path to improvement beyond 2018 is needed to have a more constructive view on the shares," Ritchie wrote.
The analyst said his earnings estimates and price target for General Electric are under review.
Deutsche Bank believes credit analysts will now downgrade General Electric's debt.
"GE's analyst meeting surprised on several fronts. … The dividend cut to 48 cents was steeper than we expected," analyst John Inch wrote in a note to clients Tuesday. "We continue to expect downgrades of GE's debt to be forthcoming. While credit analysts will likely welcome the cut to GE's dividend, the company also laid out a framework of still difficult cash generation over the next 2 years."
Inch reiterated his sell rating and $18 price target for General Electric shares.
General Electric stock is significantly underperforming the market this year. Its shares have declined nearly 40 percent year to date through Monday versus the S&P 500's 15.5 percent return.
The company did not immediately respond to a request for comment.


Commodities guru Dennis Gartman is not backing off his dramatically bearish stance on bitcoin.
"This is a market ... for criminals, this is a market for millennials," Gartman told CNBC's "Fast Money" on Monday. "This is a market for pure punters, but there is no value here whatsoever."
Even the cryptocurrency's tendency to bounce back in a big way from steep declines is not swaying Gartman.
"How can you buy or sell a painting using bitcoin, when the change in volatility is 20-30-40 percent in the course of a week? It's nonsense," he said. "I shall not trade it."
Bitcoin fell about 20 percent over the weekend, but regained much of its losses. Historically, the cryptocurrency has gained about 28 percent in the weeks following a drop of 20 percent or more.


Usually, CNBC's Jim Cramer is a big fan of corporate takeovers.
"When one company buys another, it can create so much value that you want to slap yourself in the face, wondering why the heck they didn't merge years ago," the "Mad Money" host said. "Then there's the pin action: whenever you get a deal, it tends to boost the value of all stocks in the same sector, which in turn drives up the entire market."
That's why Cramer was so bullish on Hasbro's offer to buy competing toymaker Mattel, which was reported by the Wall Street Journal over the weekend.
Not only would the deal create plenty of powerful synergies, but it would be a smart move by Hasbro, which would be taking advantage of Mattel's declines after the Toys R Us bankruptcy, he said.
But then there's the fallen-from-grace General Electric, a company Cramer said has "become the poster child for bad acquisitions."


Usually, CNBC's Jim Cramer is a big fan of corporate takeovers.
"When one company buys another, it can create so much value that you want to slap yourself in the face, wondering why the heck they didn't merge years ago," the "Mad Money" host said. "Then there's the pin action: whenever you get a deal, it tends to boost the value of all stocks in the same sector, which in turn drives up the entire market."
That's why Cramer was so bullish on Hasbro's offer to buy competing toymaker Mattel, which was reported by the Wall Street Journal over the weekend.
Not only would the deal create plenty of powerful synergies, but it would be a smart move by Hasbro, which would be taking advantage of Mattel's declines after the Toys R Us bankruptcy, he said.
Or take the now-dissolved deal between semiconductor giants Broadcom and Qualcomm, which was unanimously rejected by Qualcomm's board on Monday.
Cramer agreed with the board's reasoning — that the $103 billion bid undervalued Qualcomm — but said he would advise holding shares of Qualcomm in case its dispute with Apple ended sourly and the Broadcom "safety net" would have to be put to use.
But then there's the fallen-from-grace General Electric, a company Cramer said has "become the poster child for bad acquisitions."
Shares of GE tanked 7 percent on Monday after the industrial giant announced a company overhaul replete with a 50 percent dividend cut and slashed guidance.
Not long after on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street," Cramer called his investment in GE "one of the biggest mistakes of my career."
After all, GE spent billions buying into the energy and power markets at their peaks, Cramer said. At the same time, it sold NBC to Comcast and let go of some solid financial businesses.
"It's like they were deliberately trying to get everything wrong," the "Mad Money" host said.
That said, Cramer had some faith in GE's new CEO, John Flannery, who vowed on Monday to sell parts of the company to raise money and bring new faces to the board of directors, which was partially accountable for many of GE's unsuccessful decisions.
"Is GE the stock a buy down here? That's a rough one. Flannery said today that next year is a 'massive heavy lift.' I don't know, I don't like to lift massively," Cramer said.
But if Flannery is at all successful in his major restructuring plans, Cramer said the stock would end up being too cheap to ignore.
"But Flannery has to act fast. There can be no sacred cows. No more hype. No more unfulfilled promises," Cramer said. "Out-of-control expenses must be reduced, divisions have to be separated, and, if necessary, GE may need to to disappear. Why? ... Because the previous management wrecked this once great American industrial."
"I often talk about how important management is to the value of a company," the "Mad Money" host continued. "But if you want to know the damage bad management can do to an enterprise, just look at GE, the only industrial of this whole era that's actually gone backwards during a renaissance of American manufacturing."


As dramatic as the downturn in bitcoin's price was over the weekend, history indicates future returns will likely be greater.
Bitcoin fell about 20 percent over the weekend before recovering much of its losses. The last four times bitcoin has fallen more than 20 percent this year, it has gained an average 28 percent in the two weeks following, according to digital currency trading firm Genesis Global Trading.
Four weeks out, the digital currency has gained an average 61.5 percent, the data showed.
Bitcoin performance in the weeks after a drop of more than 20%

Source: Genesis Global Trading
The digital currency plunged to a low of $5,507 this weekend amid uncertainty over bitcoin's future. Developers have disagreed over the best way to improve bitcoin's transaction speeds and costs, resulting in splits in the digital currency.
After some developers last Wednesday called off an upgrade proposal called SegWit2x, investors began buying "bitcoin cash," the bitcoin offshoot formed in August. Another alternative version of bitcoin, "bitcoin gold," launched Sunday in an effort to make the process of creating, or "mining," the digital currency less dependent on specialized hardware.
The original bitcoin has proved resilient so far this year. Bitcoin hit record highs after the August split into bitcoin and bitcoin cash. Bitcoin also more than recovered from a $2,000 drop in September after a Chinese crackdown on digital currencies. Digital currency enthusiasts attribute the gains to growing interest from institutional investors, especially as the planned launch of bitcoin futures later this year may allow other products such as a bitcoin exchange-traded fund to launch.
Bitcoin this year

Source: CoinDesk
Bitcoin traded more than 9 percent higher, near $6,392, Monday afternoon, according to CoinDesk.
Fundstrat's Tom Lee predicts bitcoin could hit $25,000 or more by 2022. Former Fortress hedge-fund manager Mike Novogratz also said on CNBC's "Fast Money" in October that bitcoin will likely top $10,000 in the next six to 10 months.
But that's no guarantee that bitcoin will keep rising.
Novogratz has also said the digital currency "is going to be the largest bubble of our lifetimes." He's just willing to bet on gains on the way up, before a crash.
— With reporting by CNBC's Seema Mody.


Value investor Seth Klarman's Baupost Group hedge fund has eliminated its stake in Qualcomm just two quarters after taking it.
Baupost acquired 5.2 million shares of Qualcomm in the first quarter, and sold them all in the third quarter, according to a required quarterly filing Monday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Sometimes compared to Warren Buffett, investor Klarman is reclusive and tends to focus on the long-term. Klarman has generated tens of billions of dollars in gains for his clients across decades.
The hedge fund also initiated a stake in AMC Entertainment with 3.6 million shares, the third quarter filing showed.

Qualcomm shares fell almost 9.6 percent between the end of the first quarter and the end of the third quarter, although it's unclear from the filings exactly when Baupost bought and sold.
Shares fell nearly 6.7 percent on Oct. 31 after The Wall Street Journal reported that Apple was designing products for next year that would not include Qualcomm components. Both companies declined to comment.
But Qualcomm shares have subsequently surged 30 percent to their highest since January. Broadcom made a more than $100-billion unsolicited takeover bid for the rival chipmaker, which Qualcomm rejected Monday. Qualcomm shares closed up nearly 3 percent.
— CNBC's Tae Kim contributed to this report.


Investors are going to be thirsty for the kind of returns to which they become accustomed now that the Federal Reserve is taking their "juice" away from them, market expert Jim Paulsen said.
Since the darkest days of the financial crisis, the Fed has been keeping interest rates low and making sure liquidity is flowing through the financial pipes thanks to the way the central bank has been managing its $4.5 trillion debt-laden balance sheet.
But as the Fed continues to raise rates and starts shrinking its bond portfolio, investors in both stocks and bonds face a different world.
"This bull market has been driven by several persistent themes including chronic investor fear, disinflation, falling yields, Fed accommodation, and yes, Juice!" Paulsen, chief investment strategist at the Leuthold Group, wrote in a note to clients. "The pillars of this bull market are waning and the sand under investors' feet is shifting."
The tone of his remarks is notable because Paulsen over the years has been a reliable bull who has advocated for stocks even when the market appeared shaky.
However, he has turned cautious lately as the Fed has indicated it is determined to begin rolling back some of the highly accommodative policy moves it has taken since the crisis.
"As financial markets are weaned off the juice they have been drinking for almost a decade, investors should prepare for a very different bull market in the balance of this recovery," he said. "Without a chronic injection of financial liquidity, the stock market may struggle more frequently, overall returns are likely to be far lower, and bond yields may customarily rise."
Paulsen's remarks come amid a split in market sentiment: The latest Yale School of Management survey shows individual investors at their least optimistic point in the history of the survey, going back to 1989, while institutional investors also are losing confidence and at their lowest level of bullishness since late-2016.

To be sure, Paulsen is not predicting a market collapse. Instead, he suggests investors will need to shift strategy away from the cyclical U.S.-centric approach that has worked for most of the past 8½ years, due to the likely contraction of money supply compared to nominal GDP growth.
That means value over growth stocks, international over domestic, and inflationary sectors, like energy, materials and industrials, over disinflationary groups like telecom and utilities.
Paulsen points out that growth in the money supply has decelerated from 8 percent at the start of 2016 to 4.6 percent over the past six months. Declines in financial liquidity have coincided with just a 4.3 percent gain in the S&P 500 since 1959, while increases have pushed the index higher an average 12 percent, he said.
"The U.S. economy has returned to full employment, wage inflation has turned higher, global economic activity has synchronized, and the Federal Reserve is tightening monetary conditions," he said. "If the juice runs out, history suggests stock market returns could decline by two-thirds!"
WATCH: Art Cashin of UBS looks at the stock market's lackluster recent performance.


As trade negotiators prepare to meet in Mexico this week, Wall Street is increasingly worried the 23-year-old NAFTA trade deal could fall apart, creating the potential for new trade clashes in North America and around the globe.
Analysts say tough "America first" trade talk from President Donald Trump in Vietnam last week raised new concerns about his opposition to deals like the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico and Canada. Trump has pushed for the renegotiation of NAFTA, and he has also threatened to withdraw from it, something analysts say appears to be increasingly possible.
The talks enter a fifth round Wednesday, and the U.S. has been attempting to narrow a $60 billion trade deficit with Mexico and modernize the agreement on such things as intellectual property, digital trade and financial services. After the last round, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said he was "surprised and disappointed by the resistance to change" by Mexico and Canada on these fronts but added there has been some movement on modernization.
"There are lots of scenarios where this thing just dies. You can't rule that out," said Greg Valliere, chief global strategist at Horizon Investments. "I think that [Trump] just sent a signal in that speech that he doesn't want any kind of multilateral deals. He just wants bilateral deals. To be fair, you could say we could cut a deal with [Canadian Prime Minister Justin] Trudeau, maybe with Mexico. And with [U.K. Prime Minister] Theresa May. There are options."
But there is also downside and the potential for increased U.S. protectionism. "There are already trade disputes between the U.S. and Canada on lumber and dairy products. We slapped tariffs on their aircraft. There are already issues. There could be a fight with China over aluminum and steel. I just worry these things become more numerous," Valliere said. Trump is expected to make a trade announcement Wednesday, but analysts do not expect it to be about NAFTA.
Sticking points in the negotiations have been over new rules of origin, with the U.S. seeking that 85 percent of any automobile to be sourced to NAFTA countries, with 50 percent of the total coming from the U.S., whereas current sourcing rules are for 62.5 percent to be made in NAFTA countries. The U.S. imports billions of dollars in car parts from Mexico annually, in addition to actual automobiles. Other points of disagreement have been the U.S. insistence on dropping a process to resolve disputes and also the addition of a five-year termination clause.
"They're making great progress in the Congress on the tax bill. Is this really where you want to go and offset some of those benefits? But polling is strong on this on NAFTA, and this may be something they want to do," said Daniel Clifton, head of policy research at Strategas Research. "I think the market will extrapolate a larger global trade war if that happens."
Jens Nordvig, Exante Data CEO, sent out a warning note Monday that his firm now sees a 30 to 40 percent chance of NAFTA "blowing up" by March.
While Ian Bremmer, president of Eurasia Group said in a note Monday that he has long thought there was 50/50 chance NAFTA would fall apart, but he is also becoming increasingly concerned.
"The big risk is that trade tension in NAFTA spreads to a more global stage, for example if the EU sides with Mexico in WTO disputes. This is where the global risk grows very large," Nordvig said in an email.
The potential economic impact is unclear but there would be an immediate response in the currency markets. Nordvig points out that the peso fell to a low of 22 vs. the dollar in January. It was at about 19.15 Monday.
"If NAFTA blows up, it is very vulnerable," Nordvig notes, adding Mexico could turn politically to the left in its upcoming presidential election. "Hence, we are talking about potentially very significant [peso] weakness in a NAFTA blow-up scenario, especially if it drives political changes in Mexico also."
He said the Canadian dollar would also against the U.S. dollar if NAFTA ended. "But that is not the case globally. In fact, I think over the medium-term, [euro] and [Chinese yuan] would benefit from the U.S. "America First" policy, as it has to make the [dollar] a less attractive reserve currency," Nordvig noted.
The economic consequences of the end of NAFTA are unclear but Valliere notes that American farmers could be among the groups that feel impact since they are big exporters.  The U.S. had a $12.5 billion surplus with Canada in 2016, and it traded $628 billion in goods and services with the U.S. last year, compared with Mexico's $580 billion.
Bremmer said Canada and Mexico also see the potential for the talks to fall apart. "Both now have plans well underway for how to respond to what a NAFTA-less North America looks like. The economic hit is equally clear for both, but the politics are another matter," he wrote. "Anti-Trump sentiment in Canada is so high that there's not likely to be much fallout for Trudeau and his liberal party if the relationship falls apart. Meanwhile, Mexican president Enrique Pena Nieto is ostensibly the pro-Trump guy; this has a huge impact on next year's elections."
The bigger impact would clearly be on Mexico's economy and businesses. There has been a significant decline in stocks of Mexican companies that have large exposure to the U.S., according to Strategas.

Source: Strategas Research
"The Mexican authorities are trying to downplay the affects so they're putting out numbers about how much trade already goes under WTO rules and non NAFTA rules. They're trying to talk about diversification of markets. They talk about the growth of imports from Argentina and Brazil," said Juan Carlos Hartasanchez, senior director at Albright Stonebridge Group. He said imports, largely grain, have grown 10 to 15 percent in the last year from Brazil and Argentina. "They logically have to boost confidence. However, the impact is still strong. I think GDP would suffer…It definitely would be an important hit to GDP just because of the sheer size of Mexican U.S. trade."
Hartasanchez said if the U.S. does withdraw from NAFTA, Mexico has said it would not remain at the table though the actual withdraw would be six months away. "The way [the U.S.] could justify getting out is saying the blame falls on Mexico and Canada and saying they weren't willing to renegotiate," he said.
In an editorial, the Wall Street Journal Sunday said the biggest threat to Trump's economy is his trade agenda. The newspaper pointed to its own poll that said 82 percent of economists surveyed said the economy would grow more slowly for the next two years that it would have otherwise, but only 7 percent expected recession. "That underestimates the risks of recession in our view, given the political shock from such a reckless act by a U.S. President and the damage that would ensue to North American and even global supply chains," the editorial said.
Valliere said free trade has become a target of both the left and far right. "People don't like free trade anymore. It's unpopular," he said. "I think you could make a compelling case that it's helped the U.S. It's helped our export sector. It's brought in goods that are low priced and that's been good for consumers… But there is a focus on the people who have been hurt."


If you want to hedge your bets on media, Comcast is your best choice according to IAC/InterActiveCorp and Expedia chairman and senior executive Barry Diller.
"Of all those companies, Comcast is the most perfectly positioned because they are really on the distribution side in a significant way, and they're on the production side also in a significant way," Diller told CNBC's Julia Boorstin on "Power Lunch" at the Internet Association's Virtuous Circle Summit on Monday. "Whichever one you bet on for having the ability to grow in the period when big technology companies take over almost anything, that's a pretty good bet."
The era of a handful of traditional media companies dominating the landscape is over as more technology giants get in the game, Diller said. Existing media companies can still survive, but they'll never have the monopoly over entertainment and advertising while Facebook and Google have such large user bases.
Cord-cutting is less of a risk for companies like Comcast, Diller explained. If people stop buying its cable bundle, it still owns the data pipeline.
Diller also applauded Disney's current strategy of investing in ways to bring its content direct to consumers through streaming services and moving its content off other services like Netflix. It will need a lot of original content to pull it off so reports Disney was interested in buying most of 21st Century Fox make sense, Diller said. However he added he has no idea if the deal will take place.
Note: Comcast owns CNBC parent company NBCUniversal.


Investors should not overlook Intel's artificial intelligence prowess, according to one Wall Street firm.
Barclays reiterated its overweight rating and raised its price target for Intel shares, predicting the chipmaker will thrive in multiple secular growth markets.
The company's shares are roughly flat midday Monday after the report.
"Intel has a better position in the AI inference market than they get credit for, which we expect to begin to play out in 2018," analyst Blayne Curtis wrote in a note to clients Monday.
Intel is the market leader in CPUs [central processing units], while Nvidia dominates the GPU [graphics processing units] chip industry.
The company has an "unappreciated advantage vs. GPUs … While a GPU can show performance advantages vs. a CPU in a controlled favorable setting, a CPU offers a greater ease of use and better real world performance" for AI applications.
Curtis increased his price target for Intel shares to $55 from $45, representing 21 percent upside to Friday's close.
The analyst noted Intel's Skylake chip platform doubled machine learning performance.
"We expect large improvements in future generations as that workload takes off," he wrote.
The analyst is also optimistic on the company's acquisition of Mobileye, a leader in autonomous driving technology solutions and Intel's wireless modem business.
"With the PC market stabilizing and a declining piece of the overall mix, we believe DCG [Intel's data center group] can increasingly drive top-line growth along with other diversification initiatives," he wrote. "We also look for a rotation into Intel as it is one of the cheapest names in the large cap semi space."
Intel's stock is up 26 percent year to date through Friday compared with the S&P 500's 15 percent gain.


Start-ups are worried about one part of the Senate's tax reform proposal that would hurt their ability to compete: taxing stock options when they vest, instead of when they are exercised, as is currently done.
Companies, often Silicon Valley start-ups such as Twitter, typically compensate employees with the promise of being able to cash out on the company's stock in the future. Usually, the right to those shares is distributed over time, a process known as vesting. Stock options are currently taxed when they're exercised, or sold at a set price.
The Senate bill if it became law "would be the end of equity compensation in startups as we know it," Fred Wilson, managing partner at venture capital firm Union Square Ventures, said in a blog post Monday.
"If this provision becomes law, startup and growth tech companies will not be able to offer equity compensation to their employees," Wilson said. "We will see equity compensation replaced with cash compensation and the ability to share in the wealth creation at your employer will be taken away. This has profound implications for those who work in tech companies and equally profound implications for the competitiveness of the US tech sector."


China's growth rate and the burgeoning relevance of its consumers are "easily" the most important influences on the global economy, according to the former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management.
Jim O'Neill said Monday that while it had been "fashionable" to talk about India outpacing China as the fastest-growing major economy, it should not be forgotten that Beijing's gross domestic product (GDP) remains five times larger than New Delhi.
And it's the role of the Chinese consumer that's pivotal to its economic success story, O'Neill said at the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition Conference (ADIPEC).
On Saturday, China held its ninth annual 11.11 Global Shopping Festival — otherwise known as Singles Day. In just short of a decade, it has become the largest shopping event in the world.
Alibaba announced over the weekend that Singles Day sales had ballooned up to $25.4 billion in 2017 — up 42 percent when compared to the previous year.
That figure not only set a new record for the e-commerce giant, but it also topped Black Friday and Cyber Monday U.S. sales combined.
"Singles Day in China makes the U.S. consumer look like an irrelevance," O'Neill said.
China aims to double GDP and per capita income by 2020, from 2010 levels — a target set in 2012 — and growth is on track to hit those goals.The International Monetary Fund (IMF) and many economists have urged Beijing to lower or do away with official growth targets altogether to reduce the country's reliance on debt-fueled stimulus and get higher quality growth.
— Reuters contributed to this report.


It doesn't sound like much: General Electric is cutting its dividend from 96 cents a year to 48 cents. But GE has a lot of shares outstanding: 8.67 billion.
Reducing the dividend by 48 cents with 8.67 billion shares outstanding means shareholders are getting $4.1 billion less in dividends each year.
On an historic basis, that's a lot.
It's the eighth-largest dividend cut in the history of the S&P 500 by dollar value:

Two points to make:
That means GE's most recent cut would be the biggest cut of all time on a dollar basis outside the financial crisis, according to S&P Global data.
You have to go to Kinder Morgan, which cut its dividend by $3.4 billion in December 2015, and ConocoPhillips, which cut the dividend $2.5 billion in February 2016, to find dividend cuts around this size outside the financial crisis. Both, of course, are energy stocks.
Dividend cuts are fairly rare, and with good reason: Investors have been willing to pay a lot for higher yields.
Through Friday, 310 companies in the S&P 500 have increased their dividend this year, only nine have decreased them. GE makes it 10.
The other dividend cutters this year include DowDuPont, Mosaic (twice), Mattel (twice), Xerox, and Progressive.
What's all this mean? For the moment, it appears that GE is a bit of a one-off.
Howard Silverblatt, who watches dividends for S&P, noted that the "overall dividend picture is very positive, as companies have record earnings, with cash also at a record, and cash-flow good; additionally the bleeding in energy related issues appears to have stopped."
Indeed, Silverblatt notes that dividend payments for the S&P 500 are at a record in Q3,'17: $105.4 billion, same for Q4. This would be a sixth-consecutive annual record.


General Electric has a lot that's wrong with it, and the stock is not worth $20 per share — around the level where it opened on Monday, CNBC's Jim Cramer said.
Shares of GE were off sharply — and even went below $20 per share in early trading —   after the conglomerate said before the market opened that it would cut its quarterly dividend in half to help free up capital to fund a turnaround. GE also announced an aggressive corporate restructuring.
Cramer — whose charitable trust owns the stock — said, "GE is one of the biggest mistakes of my career." Last month, when speculation about the dividend cut and some sort of restructuring were circulating, Cramer had said, "Rarely have I felt this stupid," while questioning what investors should do with the stock.
"I don't want to talk against my [investment], but I don't know how it's possible anyone thinks it should be worth $20," Cramer on Monday. "There's just a lot that's wrong." It should be "a 17 times earnings" stock, he added. GE said it now sees adjusted earnings for the year ahead of between $1 per share and $1.07 per share.
Cramer also calls GE's forecast of free cash flow between $6 billion and $7 billion "suspect," adding some analysts were skeptical. If new Chairman and CEO John Flannery "is approaching this pretty vigorously, why not just lower it [even further] if that's the case?" he asked.
There are divisions in the company that are not "up to snuff," said Cramer. But he added Flannery is a "no-nonsense guy" who has acknowledged GE's problems.
"Even though there is a lot that's not great here, Flannery is going to make it look like a regular company," Cramer said. "You're going to be able to look at it and say maybe it's not where Honeywell is but it can get there," he said, referring the very different story at industrial rival Honeywell, which has seen its stock surge 25 percent this year compared to GE's 37 percent decline since in 2017.


Wall Street rarely talks about its mistakes, but BMO Capital Markets admitted in a note to clients that it messed up with its bearish call for Nvidia shares.
The firm's analyst raised his rating for the chipmaker to market perform from underperform, saying his predictions and forecasts were way off base.
"We have been reluctant to change our view, but now recognize that our underperform call did not work out," BMO's Ambrish Srivastava wrote in a note to clients Sunday.
"Our negative stance to date was based largely on our view that the gaming business would see a marked deceleration in CY17 vs. CY16. However, the diversity in the business with wins at Nintendo, and help from the cryptocurrency market, has enabled the business to sustain at a higher level than what we were modeling." Nvidia shares closed at an all-time high Friday, a day after it reported stronger-than-expected third-quarter earnings results. The stock is up 102.5 percent year to date through Friday compared with the S&P 500's 15 percent gain. That performance ranks No. 4 in the entire S&P 500.
Srivastava raised his price target for Nvidia shares to $200 from $135. The new target is 7.5 percent below Friday's closing price.
About 19 percent of Nvidia's sales are in its data center segment, where its cards are used for machine learning and artificial intelligence applications.
"NVIDIA has done a very good job in capitalizing on the demand for AI/ML, and primarily on the training side, where the company really has no competition," Srivastava wrote. "While we are ourselves believers in the secular trend to heterogeneous computing, we have been wrong on the tailwind for NVIDIA's business in this market."
Srivastava lowered his rating for the company's shares to underperform from market perform on Feb. 23. Nvidia stock is up 115 percent since the downgrade through Friday.
"Additionally, NVIDIA has also demonstrated a far higher amount of leverage in its model than we had been anticipating. The recently-reported quarter was an example of the earnings power in the model," he wrote.
Nvidia stock traded down 1.3 percent on Monday.


Bitcoin rallied more than 11 percent in just over half a day on Monday, following a dramatic plunge in the cryptocurrency over the weekend.
The digital currency started trading at $5,857.32 on Monday and rose nearly 15.6 percent to a session high of $6,770.37, according to data from industry website CoinDesk. Bitcoin last traded around 11.3 percent higher near $6,520.
Bitcoin's market capitalization, or the total value of all the virtual coins in circulation, rose over $10 billion in the same time period, according to industry website Coinmarketcap.com.
Bitcoin one-week performance

Source: CoinDesk
Just last week, bitcoin hit a record high of $7,879.06 that was attributed to factors including CME Group announcing plans to offer bitcoin futures contracts, and some favorable regulation in countries like Japan, which has legalized bitcoin as a method of payment.
The bitcoin network was also due to undergo an upgrade called SegWit2x, which was initially planned for November 16. Its aim was to increase the transactions speed of the bitcoin network. But support for the upgrade has waned causing developers to call off its planned implementation.
This appeared to be the catalyst for the sell-off that began Friday.


United Parcel Services and FedEx could see as much as 50 percent earnings upside thanks to accelerating global trade, according to Goldman Sachs.
Analysts at Goldman initiated coverage on UPS and FedEx with  buy ratings, citing a strong international outlook and overblown worries about Amazon's foray into airfreight and logistics.
"We think the market is overlooking acceleration in global trade," analyst Matt Reustle wrote in Monday's note to clients. "Concerns about margins and what impact Amazon may have on the airfreight and logistics industries are overstated and point to dependency on the US Postal Service and the $125 billion capex hurdle we think it would cost to compete in airfreight and logistics on a global scale."
"Lost in the shuffle of 'e-commerce'" has been growth in UPS' export business and strength in FedEx's international business, according to Reustle. He said that although more than 95 percent of residential deliveries in the U.S. are made by the Postal Service, UPS and FedEx, the companies should benefit from growth abroad.
The Goldman analyst cites UPS' $2 billion investment in its international network as evidence for its buy rating and optimism abroad.
But while UPS may see upside abroad, shares tumbled last month after reports that Amazon is experimenting with a new delivery service hit the Street.
Bloomberg reported that Amazon's new service would be aimed at making more items available for free two-day shipping. It would also relieve overcrowding in the company's warehouses.
Shares of UPS and FedEx fell after the news in October.
UPS also made headlines in domestic markets after making an unprecedented move for the holidays, announcing it will charge extra during peak shipping weeks in November and December. Citi Research said the move suggests UPS "is in the process of accelerating" its business, and raised its forecast for the company's stock in August.
Reustle established a $148 price target on UPS, representing 31 percent upside from Friday's close. Shares closed up 1.4 percent on Monday.
As for FedEx, the analyst also sees significant upside over the next 12 months as the company recovers from a major cyberattack on its new European subsidiary TNT Express.
FedEx announced in June that TNT was attacked, disrupting operations and communications. While the company said that no data had been breached, some Wall Street firms grew skeptical that the hack would leave FexEx strapped for volume. But with the holiday season fast approaching, those concerns may take a backseat to speedy deliveries.
"We believe that the upcoming peak season and ongoing restoration of the TNT systems are catalysts for FDX shares," wrote the analyst. "While fiscal year 2018 likely carries noise from TNT integration, we estimate FedEx will meet its more than 10 percent earnings per share growth and 10 percent or more operating margins in fiscal year 2019.
The analyst's $270 price target on FedEx represents 24 percent upside from Friday's close. Shares closed up 1.5 percent on Monday.


General Electric is trying to turn things around, as the company announced Monday it was slashing its dividend in half and restructuring to focus primarily on three units.
"To really turn this company around operationally and culturally, it's going to take CEO John Flannery — if he does it right — five years," industrial analyst Brian Langenberg said on CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Langenberg compares GE's current situation to that of Honeywell over a decade ago. He says Honeywell went from being "a burned-out husk" of a company to "about four or five years" later being "credible with investors" again.
"There is a path to doing that, but it is not going to be a quick fix," Langenberg said.
GE spent years "buying high and selling low," according to Langenberg. For years the company overpaid for acquisitions and crippled its cash flow, a reality Vertical Research Partners founder Jeffrey Sprague also identified on "Squawk Box."
"It could have been fixable but there were many capital allocation mistakes over the years," Sprague said. "GE was slow to admit or recognize the pressures there, but they've been coming for awhile."
As a result, GE "absolutely had to cut the dividend," Sprague says. He says he fully expected GE's announcement to cut its quarterly dividend in half,  to 12 cents a share from 24 cents a share, effective in December.
"It's very clear the power markets are in bad shape, and that's the biggest business at GE," Sprague said. "They have gotten themselves extended on cash flow here over the last several years and then had their biggest market turn on them."
"It really just left them no out," Sprague added.
Shares of GE were down 33 percent this year as of Friday's close, according to FactSet.
The shares were down 1.6 percent on Monday shortly after the open.


It's been a wild ride for bitcoin investors in the last week.
The news that the CME Group would launch a futures contract on the first and most highly valued cryptocurrency in the market sent the price of each bitcoin flying to a record high of $7,879 last week — more than 10 times its price of just a year ago.
On Wednesday, however, sentiment reversed sharply, as a plan to make the bitcoin network more practical for users fell apart. It was reason enough for scores of hedge funds now trading the digital currency to take some profits. Bitcoin was down 30 percent by Saturday.
"Bitcoin [and other cryptocurrencies] are not for the faint of heart," said Ian Weinberg, CEO of Family Wealth & Pension Management. "I expect a lot more upside and downside volatility.
"It's getting on the radar screen of Wall Street now, but this is speculation. I don't consider it an investable asset class yet," he added.
Neither does Amy Hubble, a certified financial planner and founder of Radix Financial. Like Weinberg, she is fascinated with the potential of bitcoin and the blockchain technology underlying it. The run-up in price hasn't escaped her notice, either.
"Advisors should not stick their head in the sand about an asset class that returns over 800 percent in a year," said Hubble. "As a fiduciary, I have a responsibility to research and be conversant on emerging investment opportunities."
More from Smart Investing: Bitcoin too risky for "serious" investing, say advisors Millennials lack confidence to invest: Bank executive What investors should do before market gets gored
Hubble, however, has gone deep enough into the weeds on bitcoin to know that she's not yet ready to invest in it. "Bitcoin and other protocol tokens don't have any cash flows, they don't pay dividends, there is no way to systematically determine demand growth for them, and I don't have the technical expertise to determine the value of one cryptocurrency over another," she said.
The investment story for bitcoin and cryptocurrencies is attractive to more than just techies and libertarians, however. The blockchain technology employed by cryptocurrencies is a major innovation. It offers a secure way to execute transactions worldwide without intermediaries taking their pounds of flesh: no central bank, no clearing firm, no "trusted" third party. It has the potential to lower costs and improve security by cutting out financial middlemen for all sorts of transactions in a wide range of markets.
"It's an alternative currency with no third-party mediator audited on a daily basis by its own users," said Samuel Boyd, an advisor with Capital Asset Management Group. "If cryptocurrencies become widely accepted, bitcoin is the gold standard."
Bitcoin: The pros and cons
Pros
• Volatility • Big gains • Interesting topic for cocktail parties
Cons
• Volatility • Manipulation of the ledger • Government regulation • Total loss of money
The so-called blockchain underlying cryptocurrencies essentially constructs a public ledger of transactions and replicates it across all the computers in a network, making it virtually impossible for people to reverse transactions or to double-spend currency. Bitcoin owners have a continuously updated record of every transaction in the currency since it was created by the mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto in 2009. Every 10 minutes a new block of transactions is added to the chain and transmitted across the network.
Theoretically, people with enough computing power — such as a coalition of bitcoin miners, who help maintain the integrity of the network and get rewarded with new bitcoins — could manipulate the blockchain, but it would likely not be in their best interest to do so.
"There could be malicious actors, but as bitcoin owners, they would probably hurt themselves more than anyone else," said Matt Green, a professor of computer science at Johns Hopkins University.
As a medium of exchange, bitcoin has thus far been a flop. While plenty of companies will accept bitcoin as payment for their products and services, few consumers have taken advantage. It takes a lot of computing power and is inconvenient for small-value transactions.


Amazon may reach the $1 trillion market value milestone in the next year, according to a top Wall Street firm.
Morgan Stanley reiterated its overweight rating for Amazon shares, presenting a "bull case" 12-month price target of $2,000 per share or roughly a $1 trillion market cap.
"Amazon's high margin [revenue] disclosure speaks to the $1trln ($2,000/sh) sum of parts bull case," analyst Brian Nowak wrote in a note to clients Sunday entitled "The Math Behind the Trillion Dollar Bull Case."
"Our sum of the parts methodology looks out to 2022 for the 5 various segments (1P, 3P, AWS, Subscription, and Advertising/Other) and applies multiples based on what we view are appropriate peer groups, factoring in relative growth rates and margin profiles. We discount each segment back to year-end 2018 to arrive at a $2,000/share value or ~$1 trillion bull case."
Nowak shared his valuation methodology and key forecasts for each of Amazon's businesses to reach the $2,000 share price target.
The analyst valued Amazon's core retail business at $600 billion, estimating 13 percent annual sales growth for its e-commerce business in 2022 and a 5.5 percent operating profit margin that year. He also estimates its third-party marketplace business will achieve a 25 percent earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) profit margin in five years.
Nowak gives a $270 billion valuation for Amazon Web Services, the company's cloud computing arm, forecasting 18 percent annual sales growth and a 50 percent EBITDA margin in year 2022. He also assigns a $70 billion value to the company's growing subscription business and $55 billion for its advertising segment.
Even as he outlined the positive optimistic scenario, the analyst reiterated his $1,250 price target for Amazon shares, representing 11 percent upside to Friday's close.
Amazon shares have rallied 50 percent year to date through Friday, compared with the S&P 500's 15 percent return.


It is hard to imagine the Dow Jones industrial average without General Electric. The U.S. industrial conglomerate's stock is the lone original component of the venerable blue-chip index that debuted in 1896.
But GE's dwindling share price and the likelihood that its new chief executive will dramatically slim down its sprawling operations is leading some index-watchers to consider the possibility of the company losing its membership in the elite 30-stock Dow.
"Since it is trading at a low share price and has a small weighting in the index, that does put it at an increased risk of getting removed," said Alex Bryan, director of passive strategies research at Morningstar in Chicago. "I don't think it's obvious that it is going to be removed from the index, but it certainly is at risk."
GE's shares last week closed under $20 for the first time in more than five years, its struggles made clear by a disappointing third-quarter earnings report last month. The stock closed at $20.49 on Friday, marking a 35 percent decline in 2017.
The stock price is now the lowest among Dow members. Because the Dow is a price-weighted index, unlike the benchmark S&P 500. which is influenced by the market values of its constituents, that means GE has the least impact on the Dow's daily swings.
As of Friday, GE's weight stood at only 0.6 percent. By comparison, aircraft maker Boeing, whose stock is above $260, has a 7.7 percent weight.
Changes to the Dow are made on an as-needed basis and selection is not governed by quantitative rules, according to the published methodology for the index.
A spokesman for S&P Dow Jones Indices said the committee that oversees the Dow index meets regularly and that its discussions are confidential. GE declined to comment.
Ivan Cajic, vice president for index and ETF research for ITG, said if the Dow were to make a change in the near future, GE is the likeliest to be removed.
"I wouldn't be surprised if the company is safe for the time being and Dow Jones adopts a wait-and-see approach over the next few months to see how both the stock price and what the overall company looks like in the coming months," Cajic said.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
General Electric — GE announced a 50 percent cut in its quarterly dividend to 12 cents per share. The announcement came ahead of GE's Investor Day, at which CEO John Flannery will lay out his long-term vision for the company. The Wall Street Journal reports that GE plans to focus on three of its biggest businesses — aviation, power, and health care. Flannery will be a guest on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" Tuesday at 9:30 a.m. ET.
Tyson Foods – The beef and poultry producer reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.43 per share, beating estimates by 5 cents a share. Revenue also beat forecasts. Tyson said performance in its beef and pork segments was particularly strong.
Qualcomm – Qualcomm is preparing to reject rival chipmaker Broadcom's $103 billion takeover offer as early as this week, according to Reuters quoting four people familiar with the matter.
United Parcel Service, FedEx – Goldman initiated coverage on both delivery companies with "buy" ratings and added UPS to its "conviction buy" list. Goldman thinks concerns over Amazon.com's foray into logistics and delivery are overplayed.
Sony – Sony shares could rise by 20 percent in the coming year, according to an article in Barron's. The paper said such a rise could be driven by stronger sales of smartphone camera chips and video game systems and software.
Boeing — Boeing got a $15 billion order from Emirates for 40 787-10 Dreamliner jets. The news was unveiled at the Dubai Airshow, which got underway this past weekend.
JD.com – JD.com said Singles Day-related sales have totaled more than $19.1 billion, up 50 percent from a year ago. Those numbers for the China-based e-commerce company include 11 days of sales running through Singles Day.
Mattel – Mattel recently received a takeover offer from rival toymaker Hasbro, according to The Wall Street Journal. The details of the offer couldn't be learned and no deal may result from the approach.
GGP – GGP received a $23 per share offer from Brookfield Property Partners to buy the shares of the mall owner that it doesn't already own, according to The Wall Street Journal. The offer is worth $14.8 billion, half in stock and half in cash.
Wal-Mart – Wal-Mart is raising online prices for products also available in its stores, according to the Journal, which said that the retail giant is trying to boost profits and drive more traffic to its stores.
Equifax – Equifax was downgraded to "hold" from "buy" at Stifel Nicolaus, with the firm saying it expected the credit reporting agency to take time to recover from the effects of its cybersecurity breach.
Teva Pharmaceutical – The drugmaker's stock was downgraded to "underweight" from "neutral" at JPMorgan, which cites several factors including the stock's relative valuation to its peers in what's already a challenged generic drug industry.
Nvidia – The graphics chipmaker's shares were upgraded to "market perform" from "underperform" at BMO Capital, which also increased its price target to $200 per share from $135. The firm said Nvidia's data center business is far stronger than it had anticipated.


High volatility isn't going away for bitcoin, raising questions about whether the digital currency can be a sustainable investment asset.
Late Saturday, the crypto-currency plunged 15 percent from nearly $6,500 to a low of $5,507, before intermittently shooting back up to near $6,400, according to CoinDesk. Bitcoin last traded near $6,060, down about 4 percent on the day.
Trading in a U.S. stock index is typically halted after such an extreme drop, not to mention repeated swings higher or lower. However, more than 120 "cryptofunds" have emerged to invest in bitcoin, other digital currencies and related business projects, according to financial research firm Autonomous Next.
Analysts say a major factor behind bitcoin's seven-fold surge to record highs this year is increased interest from institutional developers.
Bitcoin in the last 24 hours

Source: CoinDesk
Critically, the latest swings in bitcoin also reflect disagreement among digital currency developers about the future of bitcoin. As the original bitcoin tumbled, supporters of offshoot bitcoin cash, took to promoting it over the weekend on Twitter.
Bitcoin has retraced in the last few days, despite initially rising to a record high of $7,879. Last week,  developers called off an upgrade called SegWit2x, initially planned for around Nov. 16.
The proposal was an attempt to improve bitcoin's transaction speed and cost. But support for SegWit2x waned in the last few months.
Meanwhile, bitcoin cash soared to a record high of around $2,477 overnight, before crashing about 50 percent to a low near $1,224 Sunday afternoon, according to CoinMarketCap.  Trading volume in bitcoin cash over the last 24 hours was around $7.9 billion, versus $8.6 billion for the original bitcoin, according to CoinMarketCap.



As General Electric shares continued making new lows ahead of its widely anticipated shareholder meeting on Monday, bulls clung to the notion of a potential breakup of the company as a reason to own the stock. But that argument may not work out, according to one widely followed analyst.
GE shares were slightly higher in premarket trading Monday after the conglomerate slashed its dividend by 50 percent and the Wall Street Journal reported new CEO John Flannery will restructure GE to focus just on the aviation, power and health-care divisions. The company will look to exit operations unrelated to those three units, the report said.
The company's investor day gets underway at 9am ET.
In a recent note from Cowen, analyst Gautam Khanna wrote that a sum-of-the-parts analysis of GE suggests its breakup valuation is in the range of $11 to $15 per share, implying between 27 and 46 percent downside to the stock's current value even after this potential restructuring.  Khanna argues that investors are failing to consider some of the debt-like liabilities that would need to be ascribed to those individual units, if a breakup were to occur.  "A major difference in our analysis vs. GE bulls who argue for [sum of the parts] upside is that we penalize GE's enterprise value for debt-like items (underfunded pension; GE Capital's net debt) that would be ascribed to assets if sold," wrote Khanna.  Shares of GE have tumbled 35 percent this year, shedding over $416 billion in market value since topping out in August 2000.  "There is no quick fix for GE and the stock remains biased to the downside," Khanna added.  The company's investor day is likely to be a market-moving event, according to Stacey Gilbert, head of derivatives strategy at Susquehanna, who said Friday on CNBC's "Trading Nation" that the options market is implying a dividend cut ahead.  Other investors have pointed to the company's considerable dividend as reason to own the stock. GE's dividend yield was 4.69 percent, compared with the S&P 500's dividend yield of 1.94 percent. Now that's been cut in half.  While there are many reasons shareholders should expect to get "excess yield" from holding GE, Gilbert said, "it's a really difficult company to own and justify, particularly as it continues to go down." Prices for puts and calls for GE shares implied a dividend cut between 30 and 50 percent, according to Gilbert so Monday's move should come as no surprise.
The options market is implying 5 percent move in either direction for the stock on the back of the investor day Monday.
That's a substantial implied move for its investor day, she said, "so this really is a big deal. The world is watching, trying to figure out exactly what's going to happen with GE."  In late October, new CEO John Flannery declined to say whether the company would cut its dividend.  "From a philosophy perspective, we manage for total shareholder return. So it's going to be a mix of capital that goes into a dividend, and a mix that goes into organic and inorganic investment, and that has to be balanced," Flannery told CNBC's David Faber.  Investors will get their answer on Monday.  Disclosure: Stacey Gilbert personally owns shares of General Electric.


There used to be a widespread understanding in the stock market that stocks could be here today and gone tomorrow, but CNBC's Jim Cramer finds that that's not the case anymore.
"We've gone well beyond that," the "Mad Money" host said. "Those days are long over, and if you recommend a stock for a trade, even if you say, 'Buy it today for the analyst meeting and sell it tomorrow,' there will always be a YouTube video kicking around that shows you liked the stock but never gave it the 'sell' call."
That is why Cramer wanted to explain the concept of suitability — an idea that suggests certain stocks are right for some investors, but wrong for others.
Cramer first heard about suitability when he started working at Goldman Sachs as a summer intern for the group helping small businesses and individuals.
He had already been buying individual stocks for himself and others for five years before he started at Goldman, even setting up answering machines messages recommending various stocks to buy.
Not long after Cramer got the Goldman position, an employee from the firm contacted him, got the answering machine message, and told Cramer to call him as soon as possible.
"I did, and he asked me if I knew what suitability was. I had no idea. So he introduced me to the concept," Cramer said. "He asked me: Did I ever consider that many people who called me and got my answering machine might not be ready for the stock of the hottest semiconductor company in the land, and that I was recommending it to them one-on-one without any sense of it was right for them?"
Cramer replied that he thought it was obvious stocks came with no guarantees, a "caveat emptor" situation. The executive explained the worth of knowing what an individual investor wants based on what he needs out of a stock and the risks he is willing to take while investing.
That opened the "Mad Money" host's eyes to the importance of risk tolerance. Clothes, cars, devices and houses either come with some level of insurance or can be returned. Stocks cannot.
"You buy a share of Nike and the next day Goldman Sachs downgrades it and the day after Foot Locker says there's been a slowdown in Jordans. You can't go back to your broker and say, 'Hey, chief, you never told me this could happen. I'm down $3 on 2000 shares. I'm out $6,000. I want that six grand. I want it back," Cramer said.
There is no real insurance when it comes to stocks, except for complicated and expensive put options, which give owners the right to sell their shares of a given stock when it hits a particular price, Cramer explained.
These days, all electronic brokers do in the way of protecting investors from risk is give them a form to sign saying they know what they are getting into and accept responsibility.
"That stops here," Cramer said. "Caveat emptor? No, just 'buyer be a-little-more-aware of what you might be committing your hard earned dollars to when you pull the trigger on a buy."


All of those experts on Wall Street who thought the market rally wasn't dependent on tax reform might want to spend some time this week giving it a little more thought.
The stock market showed last week that, as a matter of fact, it actually is sensitive to what's happening with the economic agenda in Washington. The week ahead points to more of the same.





JPMorgan health care expert Lisa Gill shared her views on the impact Amazon is having on the pharmaceutical space in an exclusive interview 
 with CNBC PRO's 
 Mike Santoli.
"That's all anybody wants to talk about – I think myself, every sell-side shop has put out something with their thoughts around this," said Gill. "We would not be surprised if they get into mail order pharmacy around prescriptions."
Gill is managing director of U.S. healthcare technology at JPMorgan, where she's been a member of the health care team since 1998. Her coverage includes health care distribution, pharmacy benefit managers and drug retail. Prior to her work at JPMorgan, she was part of an audit group specializing in health care facilities at Ernst & Young.
And while she told CNBC she wouldn't be surprised to see Amazon enter the health care space, Gill argued that its impact on traditional retailers may not be what most expect.
"A pharmacist has to oversee the facility; when they pour the pills into the cylinder to fill the prescription, only a pharmacy tech can do that," she explained. "So that's a different type of workforce, a much more expensive workforce because they're pharmacy techs and pharmacists."
Amazon, which regularly sends fears racing through the retail space, has specialized in delivering consumer products both at reduced prices and with fast delivery. But health care's comparatively strict regulation may be too burdensome for the e-commerce giant to make a meaningful impact.
Drugs, unlike most goods Amazon sells, cannot be shipped together with other products.
"Wal-Mart got into this business with a $4 generic back in 2006, took a lot of market cap out of the drug retailers at that point like Amazon is doing today," Gill added. "They ultimately got into mail order in 2007-2008 and had 4,000 locations to pick up a prescription, but yet we don't really think of them as being that disruptive."


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are down as investors focus on more incoming earnings and the fate of the tax reform bill in Congress.
-Bitcoin prices took massive losses over the weekend, falling by 25 percent over the last 4 days, as disagreements arose over which form of Bitcoin will be the most dominant one used.
TAX REFORM
-House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady says the final tax reform bill in the House will not totally eliminate the federal tax deduction for state and local taxes.


JPMorgan health care expert Lisa Gill shared her thoughts on the drug pricing debate as well as potential stock picks in an exclusive interview with CNBC PRO's 
 Mike Santoli.
"As we think about drug pricing, [pharmacy benefit managers] don't set the price at the end of the day," explained Gill. "The drug distributors distribute a product and, yes, when there's drug price inflation they make a fee off of the average wholesale price of the drug."
"When you think about what the pharmacy benefit management companies are trying to do, they're trying to manage and negotiate a better price."
Gill is managing director of U.S. healthcare technology at JPMorgan, where she's been a member of the health care team since 1998. Her coverage includes health care distribution, pharmacy benefit managers and drug retail. Prior to her work at JPMorgan, she was part of an audit group specializing in health care facilities at Ernst & Young.
As a part of her interview, Gill also revealed some of her favorite names in the health care space.
"We have historically have liked the PBM industry and we think that CVS is very well positioned because of that," she said. "The other one I like – I like Lab Corp – and I think Lab Corp is well positioned. It's a lab as well as on the CRO side so if we think about incremental innovation on the side of new products coming to markets, that's another name that we like."
Note: CNBC's interview with Lisa Gill occurred before reports that CVS Health was looking to acquire health insurer Aetna.


Bitcoin has defied gravity this year, and it's taken one retail stock along with it.
Shares of Overstock.com are on pace for their best year since 2004, largely due to the growing interest in cryptocurrencies, but some market participants are wary of the stock continuing its run.
In January 2014, Overstock became the first U.S. merchant to accept bitcoin, but in late July the company announced it would accept other forms of digital currencies and the stock has been on a straight line up ever since.
The company's involvement with cryptocurrencies deepened in September, when it announced that one of its subsidiaries, tZero, would enter into the digital coin trading business with a joint venture that utilizes initial coin offerings and blockchain technology. The stock surged on the announcement; since then the shares have rallied 122 percent alone, making its year-to-date gains a whopping 198 percent.
Overstock plans to raise up to $500 million in an initial coin offering (ICO) expected next week, lasting until year-end.

Before the recent run, the stock had been consolidating for about a decade. On Thursday, the stock soared 31 percent after its earnings report released Wednesday evening.
In a note to clients on Thursday, D.A. Davidson analyst Tom Forte said Overstock shares could surge more than 60 percent if the company decides to focus more so on its foray into bitcoin At this point, there are several cautionary signs surrounding the recent boom, said Larry McDonald, founder of the Bear Traps Report.
"If you look around the Street in terms of the opinions of the analysts ... there's one analyst that covers the stock. That's dangerous for any equity investor, forget about Overstock. And this summer that analyst had a $25 price target, and the stock is now double that price," McDonald said Thursday in a "Trading Nation" segment on CNBC's "Power Lunch."
Furthermore, McDonald isn't keen on the company's involvement in the cryptocurrency space boosting its stock.
"If you go back to the dot-com era, go back over the last 30 years, from time to time there's a phenomenon like cryptocurrencies today, dot-coms in '99. And just because you move into a space doesn't necessarily mean you can have a sustainable, higher multiple just because you're going into a new sector," he said on "Power Lunch."
Options in the name are quite expensive, and did not correctly anticipate the strong move on Thursday after its earnings report, said Dennis Davitt, portfolio manager at Harvest Volatility Management.
"You look at the volume in this stock yesterday, prior to this big move, and it was all put-buying in the stock. So that was completely wrong. What we're seeing now is all call-buying in this stock. And you know if they stay true to form as yesterday, the options guys are not the place to look for any insight on this stock," Davitt said Thursday on "Power Lunch."
He wouldn't be a buyer of options in Overstock, he said, adding that "if you have an opinion in this stock, get long it or get short it, and then sell the options against it to lower. This is one of the few areas in volatility nowadays where we have a 100-plus volatility in an underlying asset. They're going into bitcoin, so all bets are off."
Shares of Overstock were up nearly 2 percent in Friday trading.
— CNBC's Evelyn Cheng contributed to this article. Disclosure: Neither Dennis Davitt nor his firm have positions in Overstock.


A real-life Model 3 demonstration did not alter one Wall Street analyst's skeptical view of Tesla.
"We had the opportunity to see and test drive the Model 3 at Tesla's showroom in Red Hook Brooklyn, NY … Fit and finish on the two demo cars we saw – perhaps not surprisingly – was relatively poor," Bernstein analyst Toni Sacconaghi wrote in a note to clients Friday.
"While we doubt that it would impact (or even be noticed by) most prospective buyers, we do worry that poor overall initial quality could undermine Tesla's brand and potentially overwhelm its service network."
Sacconaghi reiterated his market perform rating and $265 price target on Tesla shares, representing 12.5 percent downside to Thursday's close.


Shares of Overstock.com could soar more than 60 percent, according to the primary Wall Street analyst covering the e-commerce company.
D.A. Davidson analyst Tom Forte is the only analyst listed on FactSet covering the stock, which has topped $1 billion in market value only in the last few weeks. Forte said in a Thursday note that after Overstock indicated in an earnings call it could sell its home e-commerce business, he is raising his target price on the stock to $85 from $57 a share.
"We now see the possibility of unlocking value in its two most significant assets — its home e-commerce effort and Medici Ventures (portfolio of nine companies that, to varying degrees, leverage the blockchain)," Forte said. He has a buy rating on the stock and said the market still doesn't fully appreciate the value of Medici Ventures, the blockchain-focused division Overstock launched in 2014.
Blockchain is the technology of bitcoin and other digital currencies that have caught Wall Street's attention this year. Independent investor and longtime short seller Marc Cohodes cited Overstock's work in blockchain when he predicted in October that shares can reach $100.

Overstock is an online retailer of home goods and clothes that has quietly invested in and developed businesses focused on digital currencies and their blockchain technology.
Shares leaped 31 percent Thursday to $52.40, leaving about 62 percent potential gains in order to reach Forte's target. Shares rose more than 5 percent Friday, on pace for gains of more than 20 percent for the week.
Late Wednesday, the company reported diluted net loss per share of 3 cents in the third quarter, better than its 12-cent loss per share in the third quarter last year. The Medici division posted a pretax loss of $3.7 million, greater than the $3 million reported in the same period last year, according to a presentation.
The stock has surged in the last several weeks after CEO Patrick Byrne announced the company's majority-owned subsidiary tZero is launching a digital coin-trading platform. The company has a license for a U.S. alternative trading system.
The news drew attention to Overstock's work in blockchain development since 2014 amid increased interest in this year's surge in bitcoin to record highs. In the last few weeks, two small stocks that added "blockchain" to their names saw their shares leap dramatically as traders bet on the companies as a way to play the momentum behind bitcoin and the potential of its blockchain technology.
Reflecting the high interest in bitcoin and blockchain, Byrne said about 850 people dialed into Overstock's third-quarter earnings call, according to a StreetAccount transcript. Byrne also said the call could be his last with the company as it currently exists.
The e-commerce company said in its third-quarter earnings release that Quantum Partners, a private investment fund managed by Soros Fund Management, bought a $4 million warrant to purchase nearly 10 percent of Overstock's common shares at $40.45 each until early January.


Gold futures dropped suddenly earlier on Friday to trade almost 1 percent lower.

Trading volume also picked up during the selling activity.
Gold futures for December delivery were down 0.9 percent at $1,275.60 per ounce as of 2:22 p.m. in New York after stabilizing following the sudden decline.
It was not immediately clear what caused the drop.
Gold was set for a weekly gain as stocks fell and uncertainty about the timing of the U.S. tax reform plan increased, pushing investors into the arms of the safe-haven trade.


Disney shares are rising Friday as analysts are bullish on its upcoming internet video streaming services, despite the company's earnings miss.
The media giant reported weaker-than-expected fiscal fourth-quarter earnings Thursday. It generated earnings per share of $1.07 versus the $1.12 Thomson Reuters consensus estimate. But analysts got excited after the company said it would price its upcoming streaming service "substantially below" Netflix during the earnings conference call.
The stock rose 3 percent Friday morning.
"We finally got some glimpse into pricing ... to convert Disney's 'gigantic' customer base into subs – with pricing likely to move higher as more and more content is added," Wells Fargo analyst Marci Ryvicker wrote in a note to clients Friday. "Given how just about all of our stocks tend to trade on sub numbers, we view this strategic comment as an incremental positive."
Disney announced plans in August to launch a branded direct-to-consumer streaming service in 2019 and an ESPN streaming service in 2018.
Ryvicker reiterated her outperform rating and $116 price target for Disney shares.
In similar fashion, Goldman Sachs is bullish on Disney's upcoming ESPN streaming offering.
Disney's "EPS growth is poised to accelerate reflecting a bigger and better film slate (2 Star Wars, 4 Marvel, 2 PIXAR) with ample consumer products opportunities, tailwinds from new attractions (Avatar in Orlando, Toy Story Land in Orlando and Shanghai), and an improving outlook for ESPN driven by benefits from virtual MVPDs and ESPN Plus – the new OTT launching this spring," analyst Drew Borst wrote in a note to clients Friday.
Borst reaffirmed his buy rating and raised his price target to $120 from $115 for Disney shares.
Disney has underperformed the market this year with its shares down 1.5 percent in 2017 through Thursday, compared with the S&P 500's 15.5 percent return.
One analyst is also optimistic on the future prospects of other Disney businesses.
"While the quarter largely missed our expectations, looking ahead, we remain upbeat on DIS shares as we head into a strong film slate, growth from recent and upcoming carriage renewals, and continued momentum at the Parks," Piper Jaffray analyst Stan Meyers wrote in a note to clients Friday.
"The company remains best positioned in the current fragmented media landscape to leverage its content across a growing number of distribution channels, its own global theme parks and consumer products."
Meyers reiterated his overweight rating and lowered his price target to $120 from $130 for Disney shares, representing 17 percent upside to Thursday's close.
— CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


Next week key technology and retail names are set to release earnings, and traders are making big bets ahead of those reports.
In keeping with the recent market trends, they are betting that Cisco moves higher after earnings, while retailer Best Buy will trade down.
This week bullish investors bought more than 11,000 Cisco calls with a November 34.50 strike price. The San Jose, California-based company is scheduled to report earnings Wednesday after the bell. The calls expire next Friday and so as long as the stock trades above $34.50 by then, the investors can exercise their right to buy the stock and collect a profit (minus their cost to purchase the option).

Options can be a less costly way to play the market because if the stock fails to reach the strike price, the investor is only out the price he or she paid for the option. But they do hold big risks too since they are just a contract and so their value can go to zero quickly.


Not that long ago, General Electric was seen as the very model of corporate success, the American capitalist system in action under a sprawling umbrella of synergized interests.
No more.
As the company limps into its investor day presentation Monday, it has gone from a paradigm of success to a morass of excess. Where GE once was held as a beacon of how a multinational conglomerate is supposed to function, it now faces an uncertain future and a bevy of questions from investors and analysts.
The crisis is not quite existential, but conditions are critical. Company executives must convince their constituency that there is a viable path forward.
"That will be up to GE," said Eric Ause, who covers GE for Fitch Ratings. "How they do it will be up to GE's management team. They've got a new CEO and a new CFO, and they've been making some changes to the board. That will all play into their long-term decisions, what the mix of their business should be and how they get there."
Investors have shown little confidence that even with the management shake-up, GE has a clear direction forward. The company has pledged to trim the parts of the operation that don't work, like GE Capital and the industrial solutions business, and focus on the future with core industrial businesses and GE Digital.
The market, though, has been hard to please.

GE shares have tumbled 37 percent in 2017 and are less than half where they stood when Jeffrey Immelt took over as CEO in September 2001. Immelt left the company in October, leaving behind a bevy of questions that likely will be addressed at Monday's event.
The shares traded higher by more than 2 percent on Friday as it appeared the company had already begun taking some of the hard steps it will unveil Monday by reportedly cutting staff in its GE Digital division.


Investors poured a record $1.3 billion into funds managing tech shares over the past week, contrasting with a picture of ebbing inflow into world equity vehicles and losses on U.S. stock funds, Bank of America/Merrill Lynch (BAML) said on Friday.
The data, which tracks flows through Wednesday, also showed some alarm over junk debt, with some $600 million in outflows from high-yield bond funds, an eight-week high.
World stocks are witnessing their second day of losses, albeit after the longest daily winning streak in almost 11 years. A 0.4 percent pullback in U.S. tech shares on Thursday came after a 40 percent jump in 2017 alone.
"The recent pullback is a 'dress rehearsal' not the Big One," BAML told clients, noting the fall had been preceded by "insane gains" which had pushed for instance the value of U.S. tech firms and their U.S.-listed Chinese peers past the entire market capitalization of Germany's DAX index.
U.S. as well as European junk bond yields have hit record lows in recent months, with the latter having fallen below U.S. Treasurys, the bank noted.
A meltdown would "require recession risk or moves higher in wage inflation, bond yields, and volatility or credit spreads."
Equity funds received a net $3.9 billion, slowing from the previous week's $5 billion, though mutual funds witnessed $1 billion in outflow.
U.S. equities suffered outflows of $5.6 billion while European funds took in $2.9 billion, having enjoyed gains in nine of the past 10 weeks.
Bonds took in $6.5 billion, with the 46th straight week of flow to investment-grade funds and $500 million going to emerging debt funds, the latter slowing from recent weeks.


Media giants Disney and 21st Century Fox haven't given up on the idea of combining movie and television production operations, CNBC's David Faber said Friday.
"Pencils aren't down," he said, citing sources.
Shares of 21 Century Fox rose 4 percent in early trading Friday.
Earlier this week, Faber broke the news that Disney had approached 21 Century Fox about a deal to acquire the movie and television assets, leaving 21 Century Fox with a tighter focus on news and sports. The talks had taken place recently, he said, but they were not currently in discussions.
On Friday, Faber said that although the two companies have not been engaged in conversations "it does appear at the very least that they have not abandoned the idea of that combination."
Shares of Disney rose 2.9 percent in trading Friday after the company reported earnings the day before.
Disney is up 7 percent week to date and Fox has risen 18 percent so far this week, according to FactSet.


The Nasdaq composite has begun showing clear signs of weakness, according to a strategist who sees trouble ahead for high-flying growth stocks. The Nasdaq on Thursday posted its largest single-day drop in over two weeks. Larry McDonald, founder of the Bear Traps Report, said cracks beneath the surface of the tech-heavy index are signaling further downside, particularly after a historically strong year for growth stocks and the broader market. Here's why:
Bottom line... McDonald says a bevy of technical and fundamental signs are pointing to trouble ahead for the tech-heavy Nasdaq, and he recommends investors begin moving into value names instead.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
J.C. Penney – The retailer lost an adjusted 33 cents per share for the third quarter, smaller than the 43 cent loss anticipated by analysts. Revenue beat forecasts, and the comparable-store sales increase of 1.7 percent was higher than the Thomson Reuters consensus of a 0.5 percent rise.
Walt Disney – Disney reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.07 per share, missing consensus estimates by 5 cents a share. Revenue also fell short of forecasts, with results falling at Disney's TV networks and movie studio. Subscribers and ad revenue at ESPN also posted a decline.
Nordstrom – Nordstrom beat estimates by 4 cents a share, with quarterly profit of 67 cents per share. The retailer's revenue came in slightly above Street forecasts, however comparable-store sales were down a bigger-than-expected 0.9 percent. Nordstrom is the latest company to cite the negative impact of hurricanes.
Altice USA – Altice CEO Dexter Goei was given the additional title of CEO of the French parent company, Altice NV. Michael Combes resigned as CEO after only a little more than a year on the job, following a weak earnings report that sent the stock spiraling lower.
Hertz Global — Hertz earned an adjusted $1.42 per share for its latest quarter, beating estimates by 7 cents a share. The car rental company's revenue was marginally above consensus. Hertz reported more canceled reservations because of the recent hurricanes, and also warned that it was entering a period of weak demand and increased investment.
Equifax – Equifax reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.53 per share, 4 cents a share above expectations. The credit reporting agency's revenue missed estimates in its first quarterly report since its massive data breach was revealed. Equifax said the breach had caused customers to withhold business and could not estimate how much various expenses related to the breach would cost.
Nvidia – Nvidia beat estimates by 39 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.33 per share. The graphics chipmaker's revenue also beat forecasts. Strong demand for gaming and data center chips helped drive Nvidia's results.
Finish Line – The athletic apparel retailer was downgraded to "underperform" from "market perform" at Cowen, which said that Finish Line's strategy of aggressively undercutting rivals like Nike and Under Armour on price is not sustainable.
Redfin – Redfin edged estimates by a penny a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 12 cents per share. The residential real estate company's revenue fell below consensus forecasts. Redfin said it saw broad-based market share gains during the quarter amid increasing sales across all its businesses.
Alibaba — Fund operator Third Point increased its stake in Alibaba by 2.1 million shares to a total of 6.6 million shares, according to Third Point's latest 13F filing. That makes the China-based e-commerce giant Third Point's largest holding.
Carlyle Group – The private-equity firm is exploring either a sale or initial public offering of Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, according to Reuters. The diagnostics company could be valued at more than $7 billion, according to the report.
News Corp. – News Corp. earned an adjusted 7 cents per share for its first quarter, easily beating estimates of 1 cent. The Wall Street Journal publisher also saw revenue beat forecasts. News Corp. saw revenue gains in all its segments during the quarter.
General Electric – GE won a $643 million Pentagon contract to provide aircraft engines and related equipment to Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and Bahrain.
Electronic Arts – Electronic Arts bought fellow video game developer Respawn Entertainment, the company behind the popular video game series "Titanfall."
Correction: A previous version of this story misspelled Goei.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.

STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are down after Thursday's broad losses. We get consumer sentiment data at 10am Eastern Time.
-J.C. Penney just announced a smaller than expected loss and better than expected sales.
TRUMP TRIP
-Speaking at an Asian regional conference in Vietnam today, President Trump said the U.S. and the world can no longer "tolerate these chronic trade abuses."


Apple could soon surpass a major milestone, according to TradingAnalysis.com founder Todd Gordon.
Looking at a chart of the tech giant, Gordon points out what he describes as a "very strong" uptrend going back to the summer of 2016. Drawing a parallel channel line leads the technician to conclude that Apple could rally to meet the top line or the parallel channel, which sits at around $200.
That's a nearly 14 percent rise from current levels and would put the company market cap north of $1 trillion.
"At that point, technically speaking, we would be considered overbought. But for now, we can use that for the upside target [through the end of the year]," he said Thursday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
What's more, Gordon pointed out that on a day where the broad markets posted their worst sessions in two weeks, Apple emerged relatively unscathed.
"Apple's showing some pretty good relative strength in this pretty good pocket of volatility we're seeing here," he said.

Given his bullish stance on Apple, Gordon wants to buy the December monthly 180-strike call and sell the December 185-strike call for about $1.23, or $123 per options spread. This means that if Apple were to rally and close above $185 on Dec. 15, then Gordon could make a maximum profit of $377 on his trade.
But if Apple were to close below $180, then Gordon could lose the $123 he paid to make the trade. So that he doesn't lose the entire premium paid, Gordon establishes a point for him to stop out of the trade.
"Let's go ahead and stop out of the trade at around 61 cents or around 62 cents of premium remaining to contain the risk on Apple," he said.
Shares of Apple closed down slightly at $175.88 on Thursday. Apple is up 52 percent year to date.


Nvidia shares are surging as Wall Street is growing more bullish on the company's opportunities in key secular growth markets. The chipmaker reported better-than-expected fiscal third-quarter earnings and guidance Thursday.
Its data center segment sales, where its cards are used for machine learning and artificial intelligence applications, came in at $501 million versus the $461 million FactSet consensus estimate. Gaming-related sales also beat expectations with $1.56 billion in revenue versus the $1.28 billion estimate.
The quarter and outlook was "well above our recently raised expectations, with upside coming primarily from the gaming segment," Morgan Stanley analyst Joseph Moore wrote in a note to clients Friday.
Nvidia shares closed at an all-time high Friday, rising more than 5 percent. The stock is up 203 percent in the past 12 months through Thursday compared with the S&P 500's 19 percent gain. That performance ranks No. 1 in the entire S&P 500.
Analysts believe Nvidia has an unstoppable leadership position in the key technology growth trends.
"The most important reason to own NVDA is its 10+ year heritage developing and expanding a single hardware (GPU) + software (CUDA) platform. This platform has proven to be continuously leverage-able in some of the biggest and fastest growing markets in technology including gaming, artificial intelligence (AI), autonomous cars, and virtual reality," Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst Vivek Arya wrote in a note to clients Thursday.
"NVDA's proprietary CUDA application programming interface has become the de-facto software platform for AI."
Arya reiterated his buy rating and increased his price target to $251 a share from $210, representing 22 percent upside to Thursday's close.
Even the company's skeptics are giving up on their negative views after the results.
"We've been bearish for most of this year, anticipating that a slowdown in gaming would drive sharp revenue deceleration in 2017," Nomura Instinet analyst Romit Shah wrote in a note to clients Friday entitled "Falling On Our Sword and Upgrading."
"However, Nvidia demonstrated good diversity in gaming with Nintendo Switch and crypto-currency, offsetting weakness in core gaming earlier in the year. In addition, Datacenter results have been stronger than forecast and we underestimated the value the market would assign to this franchise."
Shah raised his rating to neutral from reduce and his price target to $190 from $110 for Nvidia shares. — CNBC's Michael Bloom contributed to this story.


The market fluctuated during trading Thursday after details emerged about the Senate's tax reform plan. Some traders said they expected more movement from the market, given the uncertainty of tax reform.
"The market does get a little jittery as we are trading at the highs. So what we saw today was exactly that. Investors had a reason to sell this morning. But I think as the day went on, investors felt a little more comfortable with the news we were seeing," Jonathan Corpina of Meridian Equity Partners said on CNBC's "Closing Bell."
The Dow Jones Index briefly fell 250 points Thursday, but recovered losses throughout the afternoon, finishing the day about 100 points lower.
Traders attributed the volatility to details of the Senate's tax reform plan that broke throughout the day. The proposed plan would seek to postpone the corporate tax cut — from 35 percent to 20 percent — until 2019. Conversely, the House bill sought to impose the change immediately.
"When we talk about tax reform — uncertainty and delays — those two words have been thrown around all day today. I'm surprised they haven't had a more negative effect on the markets," Corpina added.
Jack Bouroudjian, trader and co-founder of UCX, agreed, adding that delays will likely bring economic stagnation. He noted the bond market is anticipating slower growth, despite what Republicans backing the plan have claimed.
"If we are going to see dysfunction with this tax reform, look for the market to get worried and pull back a little," he said.
Despite tax reform pressures, neither traders seemed particularly concerned with the Dow's behavior Thursday.  Corpina even welcomed a market pullback, especially in tech.
"I'm not concerned with the sell-off; this is natural," he said. "I'd like to see the market consolidate at these levels that we are at here. We went from 2,550 to 2,595 in the S&P really quick. It needs to come back in a little and settle in for a bit of time," he said.


The government must collaborate with businesses if it wants to solve some of society's most pressing problems, Johnson & Johnson Chairman and CEO Alex Gorsky told CNBC on Thursday.
"It takes all of us working together," Gorsky told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer in a special Veterans Day show at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. "If we're going to solve issues like health care, if we're going to take on issues about how do we grow our economy, how do we create more high-paying jobs, that requires industry and the government working together."
Gorsky spoke to tax reform, which The Washington Post reported on Thursday was facing competing bills from Senate and House Republicans.
The Trump administration has been pushing for sweeping tax reform that lawmakers say will make filing taxes easier on the layman and make U.S. companies more competitive.
"It starts with smart tax policy," Gorsky said. "How do we make sure that we have competitive tax policy so that companies, frankly, aren't making bad decisions about moving their things around based on tax alone? It should be based on the strategy."
And for Gorsky, a West Point graduate, a successful strategy has two components: innovation and execution.
"You've got to have a very clear plan, make sure you're delivering on that, that you're crossing the T's, dotting the I's," the CEO said.
Gorsky added that he learned much of the strategy he now employs at the massive pharmaceutical and consumer goods company he runs at West Point.
But the CEO also delivered a harrowing public service announcement about veterans that he thinks goes largely unnoticed.
"We owe the men and women of this country who have served … the millions who have served, who really protect us, keep us safe, such a deep debt," Gorsky said. "That whole theme of make sure you say 'Thank you for your service,' I think that's a great gesture, it's awesome to do, but it's not enough."
In reality, scores of veterans suffer from serious mental conditions, and an average of 20 veterans are lost to suicide per day, the CEO said.
"We cannot leave them behind," Gorsky told Cramer. "The [Department of Veterans Affairs] has a lot of great programs and we've got to make sure these people know where and how to get help. We've got to make sure they know how to reach out to the VA, to other veteran service organizations. And frankly, sometimes all it takes is a friend to make a call, to connect, to reach out, so we've got to get communities, cities, churches, everybody working together because they deserve our best."


The increasingly complicated deal talks between AT&T, Time Warner and the Department of Justice didn't stop CNBC's Jim Cramer from being bullish on the potential merger.
"The combined companies actually have better cash flow than if you break them up," the "Mad Money" host said during a special Veterans Day show at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. "But [in] either case, AT&T represents a bedrock institution that has a lot of cash flow. I've been recommending it. It's got a 5 percent yield. I think it can go higher."
Cramer added that, if AT&T were to merge with Time Warner, the combined entity's dividend would be safer than if they remained separate companies.
"I want the deal to go through because I think the combined companies would be terrific, but I'm not against it, particularly for income," Cramer said.


CNBC's Jim Cramer knows that the cybersecurity industry isn't going anywhere but up anytime soon.
"Cybersecurity is, unfortunately, a secular growth business, meaning that long term, hackers and digital terrorists [are] going to keep trying to steal our data and mess up our systems," the "Mad Money" host said. "That's why I think it's worth circling back to the companies that combat this stuff, especially since the whole cohort pulled back today, so it's a good opportunity. When a secular growth group pulls back, you need to use the weakness to dip your toe in the water."
Cramer started with Mimecast, a cloud-based data security company that came public less than two years ago. With shares up 72 percent so far in 2017, Mimecast specializes in protecting employees' email accounts at large companies.
Emails may not sound like the most exciting medium for mitigating cyberattacks, but it's anything but stale: in September, Mimecast's CEO told Cramer that hackers are increasingly realizing that humans, not computers, are the "weakest links" when it comes to breaches.
While the company's second-quarter results took the stock down slightly on Thursday, Cramer said that the metrics still looked good and that investors might be getting a rare buying opportunity.
Israeli cybersecurity firm Cyberark was another one of Cramer's picks. The company protects administrator accounts, which hackers often target because they can unlock digital ecosystems.
Cyberark has a strong long-term track record, but the stock is down 3 percent for 2017 due to management's full-year guidance cut in May and a weak earnings pre-announcement in July.
But Cyberark's third-quarter earnings report last Thursday showed improvement, beating top- and bottom-line estimates and raising full-year guidance.
"The stock rallied more than 11 percent on the news, but since then, it's pulled back a bit, including today," Cramer said. "I think you're getting a buying opportunity in Cyberark."
Cramer also liked the stock of Proofpoint, which helps companies handle advanced cyberattacks that occur via email, mobile and social media.
"Sure, defending mobile apps may not seem as important as defending the demilitarized zone in Korea or crushing ISIS, but there's no denying that Proofpoint is a lucrative business," the "Mad Money" host quipped to a room full of cadets at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point.
Shares of Proofpoint have rallied almost 700 percent over the last five years, including a 24 percent run just in 2017. The stock declined on Thursday, so Cramer blessed the strategy of scaling into it slowly on the way down.
But Cramer's favorite pick in the space was the stock of Palo Alto Networks, an enterprise-level cybersecurity giant led by West Point alumnus Mark McLaughlin.
Even though the company boasts 42,000 customers in more than 150 countries, Palo Alto's stock has been struggling, far off its 52-week highs due to sales issues in its second quarter. That said, some analysts on Wall Street have re-valued the company's platform and since upgraded the stock, lifting it off its April lows.
Cramer agreed with the upgrades, recommending that investors carefully buy into some shares ahead of the company's next earnings report.
"Here's the bottom line: Some of these cybersecurity stocks have been consistent winners while others, like Palo Alto, have been humbled. But this theme's not going away, which is why it's safe to pick up stocks like Palo Alto into weakness, and you have a ton of weakness right now," the "Mad Money" host said.


CNBC's Jim Cramer has noticed that some folks on Wall Street find it difficult to reconcile how veterans relate to the world of business.
"I think there is some commonality, because leading an enterprise these days is all about the same processes that cadets learn here," the "Mad Money" host said from a special Veterans Day show held at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point.
"No wonder veterans do so well in business," he continued. "A winning strategy is a winning strategy — doesn't matter whether you're talking about the military or the private sector."
On a difficult day for the major averages, which slid on reports of a Senate Republican proposal to push tax reform back to 2019, Cramer thought it was important to note some key traits often taught to the military that have helped executives lead their companies through hard times.


One of the most successful hedge funds over the last two decades is betting on global growth through stakes in a mall operator, an energy company and a payments processor.
In the third quarter, Dan Loeb's Third Point hedge fund made new investments in Macerich, a real estate investment trust for mall properties, oil refiner and seller Marathon Petroleum and Ohio-based payments processor Vantiv, according to a required quarterly filing released Thursday.
The hedge fund also increased its bet on growth-sensitive industrial stocks by adding a stake in Dover and raising its investment in Vulcan Materials.
Loeb has roughly doubled the S&P 500's return over the last two decades and managed $18 billion, as of late October. Loeb told investors then in a letter he expects U.S. stocks will lead global markets higher.
Thursday's filing also showed Loeb's Third Point fund bought new stakes in Argentina-based financial services companies Grupo Financiero Galicia and Grupo Supervielle. Loeb also increased his holdings of China's e-commerce giant Alibaba.
Third Point dissolved its stake in Hewlett Packard Enterprise and reduced its holdings of Google parent Alphabet in the third quarter, the filing showed.
— CNBC's Tae Kim contributed to this report.


Facebook and Micron are among the favorite ways to play the boom in artificial intelligence, according to top technology analysts.
The analysts were identified by looking at the average return of their recommendations and their success rate in those calls, as tracked by TipRanks, a Wall Street analyst database.
Here are five favorite AI stocks recommended by the best-performing technology analysts.
1) Microsoft (MSFT)
In 2017, Microsoft changed its strategy from a "mobile-first and cloud-first world" to "an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge infused with AI." And this strategy shift seems to be paying off. The company is now one of the leaders in AI, and has just teamed up withl Amazon to offer developers new tools to develop and share open source AI software.
In the last three months, 13 top analysts have published buy ratings on Microsoft shares, versus just one hold rating.
One bullish analyst is Oppenheimer's Timothy Horan. Following strong earnings results for the quarter, he assigned a buy rating to Microsoft on October 26. He also raised his price target to $92, from $80.
"Microsoft is focused on embedding all products and services with AI capabilities. Microsoft has proven it can execute on its hybrid cloud strategy, and we expect accelerating growth on both the top and bottom lines," says Horan. The analyst has a proven track record on Microsoft with a 100 percent success rate and 25 percent average return across his 11 Microsoft ratings.
2) Yext (YEXT)
Yext is a fast-growing tech company that makes it possible for restaurants, banks, doctors, and other businesses to centrally control online data in near real time. On November 5, KeyBanc analyst Brent Bracelin assigned a buy rating to Yext with a $16 price target. Given that the stock is currently trading at just $12, this suggests upside of 33 percent for the next 12 months.
Voice search and AI are underappreciated positive factors "that could sustain high revenue growth for Yext in excess of 30 percent for an extended period of time, in our view," the analyst said.
Overall, this 'Strong Buy' stock has received three recent buy ratings from top-ranked analysts. With shares down 20 percent, the risk/ reward appears increasingly compelling say analysts. TipRanks shows that the average analyst price target of $17 suggests potential gains of over 40 percent from the current share price.
3) Facebook (FB)
Social media giant Facebook says it "wants to solve AI." The company boasts an impressive AI research team led by deep learning pioneer Yann LeCun and has listed AI as one of its major initiatives for 2018.
In the last three months, FB has received 29 buy ratings from analysts and only two bearish ratings. The average price target from these analysts is $207, which suggests big upside potential of 15 percent from the current price.


Check out the companies making headlines after the bell:
Disney shares climbed 2 percent in the extended session after the mass media company missed fourth quarter earnings estimates. Operating income for most of Disney's businesses declined year over year. Media networks, the company's biggest segment, saw that figure decline 12 percent year over year.
Nordstrom's stock tumbled about 3 percent in extended trading after the retailer posted quarterly earnings. Comparable store sales were light, which overshadowed positive third quarter results. The company also narrowed its full-year guidance due to impact from hurricanes.
Shares of News Corp. rose 3 percent in extended trading after the company smashed first quarter earnings expectations.
Nvidia shares gained 1.5 percent in the extended session after the technology company posted third quarter earnings. Revenue came in 32 percent higher than the year-ago quarter, and earnings jumped 41 percent year over year, according to a company release.
Hertz Global's stock jumped more than 11 percent in extended trading after the company posted third quarter earnings. Earnings per share beat Wall Street expectations while revenue fell in line with estimates.
Redfin shares fell 5 percent in the extended session after posting mixed quarterly results in its first earnings report as a public company.


Two technology giants in China are vying for gains through initial public offerings on major U.S. stock exchanges.
"You've got this indirect battle going on between Tencent and Alibaba," said Kathleen Smith, principal and manager of IPO ETFs at Renaissance Capital. "The forces are all lining up when it comes to commerce, payments. It's pretty hard to come up against these companies."
Chinese Search engine Sogou (SOGO) debuted at $13 a share on the New York Stock Exchange Thursday, giving the company a market value of about $5.4 billion. Tencent has a 43.7 percent holding of Sogou's Class A and Class B shares, according to Sogou's September filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, accessed through S&P Capital IQ.


Another U.S. mall landlord could be facing activist pressure.
Dan Loeb's hedge fund, Third Point, has reportedly built a position in retail real estate investment trust Macerich, people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg.
Macerich shares jumped more than 12 percent Thursday afternoon on the news.
Representatives from Third Point and Macerich didn't immediately respond to CNBC's requests for comment.
Third Point now owns nearly 5 percent of the California-based REIT and could push for a potential sale, among other changes, sources told Bloomberg.
Macerich was last targeted by activist investors in 2015, when Jonathan Litt's Land & Buildings Investment Management and Orange Capital built a position in the company. At the time, Macerich had just rejected a near $17 billion takeover bid from REIT rival Simon Property Group.
Macerich currently owns 54 million square feet of real estate, consisting primarily of interests in 48 regional shopping centers, according to its website.
In 2017, the retail real estate industry has increasingly faced pressure from outsiders, as news of retail bankruptcies and store closures threatens the future health of their properties. More shoppers are ringing up purchases online, forcing mall owners to think outside the box when renovating vacated spaces.
"Despite recent, well-documented, bankruptcies of certain traditional retailers, few of which have come as much of a surprise, Macerich achieved solid re-leasing spreads and tenant sales growth," Chief Executive Arthur Coppola said when the company reported earnings last month.
Just earlier this week, it was reported that another U.S. mall landlord, General Growth Properties, could be taken private by Brookfield Property Partners. GGP shares surged on the news.
In regard to Loeb's investment strategy 
, Third Point materials describe its philosophy as "event-driven, value-oriented," with an "emphasis on special situation equities." The firm "seeks to identify situations where we anticipate a catalyst will unlock value."
Third Point had $18 billion of assets under management as of late June.
According to Bloomberg, it's still unclear if there have been talks between the activist investor and Macerich.
Even with Thursday's gains, Macerich's stock has lost a little more than 10 percent in 2017.
— CNBC's Tae Kim contributed to this report.


Equity markets in the U.S. have notched record after record in 2017, but emerging markets are on pace for a record year of their own.
One popular emerging markets-tracking exchange-traded fund, the iShares MSCI emerging markets ETF (EEM), has rallied 32 percent this year, on pace for its best annual performance since 2009. Its strong performance comes on the heels of a historically weak U.S. dollar relative to rival currencies, and some believe emerging markets could continue thriving.
"There are a lot of reasons to be very bullish on emerging markets right now. Their economies are doing well, a lot of them are commodity-based, and we've seen copper and oil rally back nicely," said Matt Maley, equity strategy at Miller Tabak.
He pointed out that the EEM, top holdings of which are Asian technology giants like Tencent and Alibaba, has held firm even as the dollar index bounced in early September.
Examining a chart of the ETF, Maley said Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation" that the EEM's 50-day moving average has proved "rock-solid support" all year, and he'll be watching that level closely for any indication it's beginning to break down.

Indeed, the EEM has not yet "rolled over" in the face of a strengthening dollar, he said. However, he noted that an emerging markets bond ETF, the EMB, has begun showing weakness as it has begun diverging from the EEM. They typically move in tandem.
A stronger U.S. dollar and higher interest rates in the U.S. typically hurt emerging market equities, as a stronger greenback may appear more attractive to foreign investors. Furthermore, some emerging markets are tethered to dollar-denominated commodities such as oil.
The dollar is unlikely to strengthen substantially from here, which should prove further support for emerging markets, said Gina Sanchez, CEO of Chantico Global.
"We like emerging markets because of the expansion of trade, and the fact that that has yet to make its way into the bottom line in terms of sales," Sanchez said Wednesday on "Trading Nation," adding that sales in many emerging markets' firms are continuing to grow.
Sanchez said even as price-earnings ratios in the space have expanded, much of that has simply been evident in emerging market technology stocks, and she still likes emerging markets.
The EEM fell in Thursday trading.


Markets may be a little "fatigued," but there are no major warning signs that the rally will end anytime soon, strategist Tom Lee told CNBC on Thursday.
"There are some divergences. I think the leadership really has been increasingly from a handful of stocks," said Lee, managing partner and head of research at Fundstrat Global Advisors.
"But underlying fundamentals have been good, so I'd say for most investors it's not necessarily a warning sign," Lee told "Squawk Box."
Lee added that it appears valuations are making markets "nervous," but "for the most part, as long as inflation remains tame, I think this all holds together. I think inflation is the big scare."
U.S. stock futures were lower on Thursday, as investors awaited details on the Senate's version of a tax reform bill. House Republicans unveiled a bill last week. There is some worry the Senate's version could delay certain measures, including a corporate tax cut.
Last month, Lee told CNBC that President Donald Trump's proposed tax cuts have been positive for stocks. Lee, who had been bearish several months ago after years as one of Wall Street's biggest bulls, returned to the optimist camp when he raised his price target for the S&P 500.
Leuthold Group Chief Investment Officer Doug Ramsey told "Squawk Box" on Thursday that with tax cuts "you take it when you can get it," but added there should be more focus on the deficit.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says the GOP bill would increase the federal budget deficit by $1.7 trillion over 10 years.
"The interesting thing that no one is remarking on is here we are with a deficit that 3.4 percent of GDP with unemployment at 4.1," Ramsey said. "The idea of putting a little more fiscal fuel on the fire at a time like this when rates are only a point off their lows is interesting."


Roku shares popped nearly 55 percent on Thursday, a day after the company posted a narrower-than-expected loss.
In its first earnings report after its initial public offering, the streaming technology company also beat expectations for sales.


One leading indicator for the equity market is breaking below a key support level, a move that could have negative implications for stocks.
The iShares high-yield corporate bond exchange-traded fund, the HYG, has fallen below its 200-day moving average, which it had held above for much of this year. This move concerns Matt Maley, equity strategist at Miller Tabak. Here's why.

• The high-yield market has begun selling off in the past week, Maley wrote in an email to CNBC, leading the HYG to decline. As the 200-day moving average has proved solid support for the ETF, "this raises some concerns in my mind," he wrote.

• However, it would have to fall below its August lows of 87.15 to "raise a yellow warning flag on this asset class," he added. • While the drop below the moving average is not a major problem just yet, he said, he'll be watching closely to see if the market shows further signs of weakness in the weeks ahead given the ETF's record as a strong leading indicator for stocks. • The HYG and the S&P 500 have been closely correlated since late 2015, and the ETF is barely positive on the year. Bottom line: The high-yield market is beginning to flash a warning sign for the broader market.


The battle over the red-hot graphics chip market just got more interesting.
Intel announced on Wednesday it hired the former head of AMD's graphics business and will start a new high-performance graphics group inside the company.
Raja Koduri was named Intel's chief architect and senior vice president of the newly formed Core and Visual Computing Group and general manager of a new initiative to drive edge computing solutions.
"In this position, Koduri will expand Intel's leading position in integrated graphics for the PC market with high-end discrete graphics solutions for a broad range of computing segments," the company said in a news release.
Shares of AMD fell 5 percent following the report. Nvidia and Intel stock fell 1.8 percent and 0.9 percent, respectively.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Kohl's – The retailer missed estimates by 2 cents a share, with quarterly profit of 70 cents per share. It did post a surprise rise in comparable-store sales, and overall revenue did beat Street forecasts, but investors appear to be focusing on the revenue miss and an increase in expenses.
Norwegian Cruise Line – The cruise line operator earned an adjusted $1.86 per share for its latest quarter, four cents a share above estimates. Revenue beat forecasts, as well. Norwegian said its results were impacted by the recent hurricanes, but that bookings have now rebounded to pre-storm levels.
Office Depot – The office supplies retailer earned an adjusted 14 cents per share for the third quarter, 1 cent a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts. Comparable-store sales dropped by 5 percent, but that was smaller than the 5.7 percent decline expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.
Party City – The retailer of party supplies matched estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 13 cents per share, but revenue missed forecasts and the company gave a full-year forecast that falls below current analysts' estimates. Party City mentioned hurricane disruptions as one negative factor in the most recent quarter.
Time Inc. – The magazine publisher reported adjusted quarterly profit of 36 cents per share, 7 cents a share above estimates. Revenue came in below forecasts. Time saw greater online advertising, but not enough to negate a drop in print advertising volume.
Dish Network – The satellite TV provider came in 2 cents a share below estimates, with quarterly profit of 57 cents per share. Revenue also fell short of consensus. Dish's results were impacted by the quarter's hurricanes, with many customers unable to receive service, and the company expects to incur one-time expenses in restoring lost service.
Edgewell Personal Care – The company behind brands such as Edge, Playtex, Stayfree, and Hawaiian Tropic fell a penny a share short of expectations, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1 per share. Revenue also fell short of estimates. The company said the year has been "challenging" due to unprecedented competitive pressure.
DR Horton – The home builder came in 1 cent a share ahead of estimates, with quarterly earnings of 82 cents per share. Revenue also beat forecasts. The company saw an 18.2 percent jump in sales orders compared to a year earlier, and also announced a quarterly dividend hike to 12 1/2 cents per share from 10 cents a share.
Coty – The cosmetics company beat estimates by 3 cents a share, with quarterly profit of 10 cents per share. Revenue also beat forecasts. Coty said results may be uneven over the next few quarters but that it is pleased with overall improvements resulting from its growth strategy.
21st Century Fox – Fox matched consensus estimates with adjusted quarterly profit of 49 cents per share, while revenue beat forecasts. Fox saw higher ad sales during the quarter, with revenue rising by 10 percent at its cable division.
Square – Square came in 2 cents a share ahead of estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 7 cents per share. The mobile payments company also beat forecasts with its revenue. Square saw a growing number of businesses adopt its payment platform during the quarter, and raised its full-year profit and revenue forecast.
Roku – Roku lost an adjusted 10 cents per share for its latest quarter, far smaller than the $1.37 per share loss that analysts were expecting. The maker of streaming video players reported better-than-expected revenue, as it saw a jump in active accounts and streaming hours.
IAC/InterActiveCorp – IAC reported adjusted quarterly profit of 55 cents per share, compared to a consensus estimate of 83 cents. Revenue beat forecasts for the website operator, thanks in large part of the performance of majority-owned dating site Match, but the bottom line was impacted by an increase in expenses.
Hostess Brands – Hostess came in 6 cents a share higher than consensus forecasts, with adjusted quarterly profit of 18 cents per share. The snack maker's revenue was below forecasts. Hostess said supply constraints at one of its manufacturers was an issue that cost it more than $3 million.
AstraZeneca – AstraZeneca saw sales fall during its third quarter as it faces increasing generic competition, although the decline in the drugmaker's revenue was slower than in prior quarters.
Perrigo – Perrigo reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.39 per share, compared to the consensus estimates of $1.11 a share. The health products maker's revenue beat forecasts, and Perrigo also raised its full-year outlook as it outperforms peers amid tough competition in the generic drug business.
Snap – Snap is on watch once again, following the news that China's Tencent had acquired a 10 percent stake. Tencent issued a statement today saying it could help the Snapchat owner publish video games and improve ad sales.
Twilio – Twilio matched estimates with a quarterly loss of 8 cents per share, but the cloud communications company did see revenue top estimates and it also gave strong current quarter revenue guidance.


T-Mobile will still thrive on a stand-alone basis, according to a Wall Street firm.
Talks between Sprint and T-Mobile over a possible merger have come to a halt, both companies announced Saturday. Deutsche Bank on Thursday raised its rating for T-Mobile shares to buy from hold, predicting the company will increase its dividend and stock buybacks.
"The 'new reality' of US Wireless includes maturing/slowing growth, and rising competition (both from T-Mobile/Sprint, as well as new Cable MVNOs). Amidst this backdrop, we think T-Mobile is best positioned," analyst Matthew Niknam wrote in the note to clients.
"Relative to service provider peers, we believe T-Mobile is a stand out given the combination of growth, profitability/FCF and accelerating shareholder returns."
Niknam reaffirmed his $65 price target for T-Mobile shares, representing 16 percent upside from Wednesday's close.
The analyst said the company's current debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) multiple is 2.6 times versus the company's target range of 3 times to 4 times. As a result, he believes T-Mobile can take on more debt enabling increased shareholder capital return.
"We see an increasing likelihood of buybacks/dividends in upcoming periods," he wrote. "If we assume TMUS were to go to the low-end of its leverage target (3x), it could (theoretically) return 50% of its market cap in the form of shareholder returns by 2020."
The company currently does not have a dividend, according to FactSet.
T-Mobile shares are underperforming the market so far this year. Its stock is down 2 percent year to date through Wednesday compared with the S&P 500's 16 percent return.


Sage Therapeutics said Thursday its drug to treat moderate and severe postpartum depression met the main goal in two late-stage studies.
The stock soared as much as 50 percent in premarket on Thursday.
The drug, brexanolone, achieved lower rates of depression in patients compared with a placebo in both trials.
Postpartum depression is a common complication of childbirth that affects about 10 to 20 percent of women giving birth in the United States, the company said.
—CNBC's Berkeley Lovelace Jr. contributed to this report.


One Wall Street analyst is beginning to doubt whether Sears Holdings will ever be profitable again, as the 124-year-old retailer struggles for liquidity and same-store sales evaporate.
"Sears' operational performance is clearly NOT improving, and we grow increasingly concerned whether the company will ever return to profitability," wrote Susquehanna analyst Bill Dreher in a note to clients Wednesday. "Further highlighting the company's weakened position is the reality that manufacturers are increasingly demanding tighter payment and/or withholding products."
Shares of Sears sank 6 percent on Wednesday after the company warned that its same-store sales fell more than 15 percent in the third quarter and that it will sell more than 100 properties to help keep its pension afloat.
In light of the disappointing sales news, Dreher cut his third-quarter adjusted earnings per share estimate to a loss of $4.46 from a loss of $3.23, while also reducing his year-end outlook to a loss of $11.07. Dreher noted that the 15 percent decline in same-store sales in the third quarter comes on the heels of two quarters of more than 11 percent declines in comp sales.
Sears did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
Sears also announced Wednesday that it had struck an agreement with the wardens of its underfunded pension fund — the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. (PBGC) — to allow for the sale of 140 Sears properties in an attempt to free up some cash.
"While the ongoing initiatives should help alleviate some pressure going forward, we believe these are only temporary fixes and Sears' long-term success remains in doubt," he added. "Sears is still in violation of the agreement with the PBGC, and will have to continue to sell assets in coordination with the PBGC's approval."
The PBGC is a federal oversight group that guarantees individual pensions should a company go bankrupt. PBGC has the right to involuntarily terminate Sears' pension if the company fails to put up enough collateral.


AT&T and the Justice Department could be on their way to a major court battle, which one analyst believes the company stands a strong chance of winning.
The fight centers on AT&T's hopes to acquire Time Warner and news Wednesday that the government wants the company to first sell Turner Broadcasting, which includes CNN, or sell DirecTV. AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson said the company has no intentions of divesting itself of those holdings.
Paul Gallant, a Washington analyst at Cowen Research, thinks the company won't have to.
"If this does go to court, we think AT&T holds a strong position and would likely prevail," Cowen said Thursday in a note to clients.
The company has three advantages, according to Gallant: The deal is "vertical" so it would be difficult to prove harm to the marketplace as it does not eliminate a rival; the DOJ would bear the burden of proof that the deal is anti-competitive; and the department's earlier attempts to negotiate behavioral conditions for approval indicate that it knows a legal case isn't strong.


Snap shares were downgraded Thursday for the second-straight day, this time by Morgan Stanley, following the social media company's disappointing third-quarter results.
Morgan Stanley analysts lowered their rating on the stock to underweight from equal weight. They also reduced their price target to $11 a share from $14. Shares of Snapchat's parent fell 4.1 percent to $12.38. This follows a 15 percent plunge during Wednesday's trading.
In a note to clients, Morgan Stanley analyst Brian Nowak said the company's weak results "speak to growing challenges facing SNAP's monetization potential and user opportunity."
On Wednesday, analysts from RBC Capital Markets, UBS and Stifel —among others — downgraded Snap in the wake of the earnings report.
Snap on Tuesday reported third-quarter revenue of $207.9 million, well below the expected sales figure of $236.9 million. Daily active users — a key metric of engagement for Snap — totaled 178 million, below an estimated 181.8 million.
Nowak also said he sees "structural hurdles to SNAP's core ad unit format," and that "the pending app redesign creates further engagement/execution risks." After the results were released, Snap CEO Evan Spiegel said Snapchat would get a redesign that will include a new feed inspired by Twitter and Facebook. He said the redesign would make it easier for more people to use the app.
"Lastly, FB/Instagram competition is only increasing," Nowak said. Snap has been losing market share to Facebook-owned Instagram, especially since the latter launched its Stories feature last year.


On Oct. 27, ETF Managers Group filed for a new ETF, the Alternative Agroscience ETF, a first-of-its-kind fund to track the burgeoning legal marijuana industry.
Except the Alternative Agroscience ETF isn't precisely a new fund.
Instead, ETFMG is retrofitting an existing ETF, the Tierra XP Latin America Real Estate ETF (LARE), with a new strategy. Effective Dec. 26, LARE's index will change from a Solactive benchmark that tracks mostly Mexico and Brazil REITs to a Prime Indexes benchmark tracking cannabis cultivators, producers and distributors, as well as cannabinoid drug makers, fertilizer producers and tobacco companies.

The Alternative Agroscience ETF would be the first marijuana ETF to come to market in the United States. As such, its first-mover advantage could be significant.
More from ETF.com:
The 4 horsemen of stock ETFs Surging Japan ETFs ride new tailwind Top volatility ETF takes a unique approach
"As an issuer, we've seen increasing demand from investors looking for solutions to gain access to this space," said Sam Masucci, chief executive officer and founder of ETF Managers Group, the fund's investment advisor.
But the index transition also means radically altering LARE's focus and risk/return profile, as well as eliminating the market's only pure-play Latin American real estate fund.
The move has left some investors fuming.
"I think it's a little scummy what they're doing," said Peter DeCaprio, portfolio manager and principal at Crow Point Partners in Hingham, Massachusetts. Crow Point is the largest investor in LARE, owning a 22 percent stake, according to most recent 13-F filings.
"But as long as they have support at the board level, if they want to change up the strategy, then they can," he added.


The powerful 2017 stock market rally will continue through next year even if it slows down just a little, according to a forecast from one of Wall Street's most optimistic strategists.
Piper Jaffray correctly anticipated the current strong market performance, with a 2,575 full-year target for the S&P 500 that the index just recently surpassed.
Looking ahead, the firm sees more of the same.
"We see a favorable backdrop for U.S. equities as market fundamentals suggest the path of least resistance remains higher," strategists Craig Johnson and Adam Turnquist said in a year-ahead preview released Wednesday. "We believe the growth story will continue to drive price action and cut through the day-to-day noise."
Just as the firm has been at the forefront of optimism since the bull market began in 2009, it is taking the lead for the year ahead, with a 2,850 price target for 2018. That represents about a 10 percent gain from Tuesday's closing price.
"As we look ahead to next year, we believe it will continue to be a fundamental storyline with several upside catalysts for stocks on the horizon," the analysts wrote.
In addition to fundamental factors like strong global growth, low interest rates and a mostly friendly political climate, technical factors are at play. For instance, they cite strong market breadth when looking at advancing vs. declining stocks, the solid performance of transportation stocks against the Dow industrials and longer-term indicators of new highs and techniques pointing to more upside.


Bitcoin jumped Wednesday after the developers behind an upcoming split in the digital currency through an upgrade called SegWit2x announced they were suspending plans for the upgrade.
The digital currency hit a record high of $7,879.06, according to CoinDesk. Bitcoin gave up much of those gains Wednesday afternoon to trade near $7,212 after hitting a session low of $7,078.96.
The SegWit2x upgrade was scheduled to take effect around November 16 in an effort to increase the speed and cost of bitcoin transactions. However, more and more major bitcoin developers dropped their support in the last few months.
Bitcoin in the last 24 hours

Source: CoinDesk
"Our goal has always been a smooth upgrade for Bitcoin," a group of leaders in bitcoin development told members of the SegWit2x mailing list Wednesday. "Unfortunately, it is clear that we have not built sufficient consensus for a clean blocksize upgrade at this time. Continuing on the current path could divide the community and be a setback to Bitcoin's growth. This was never the goal of Segwit2x."
As fees rise for bitcoin transactions, the developers said they hoped the digital currency community could find agreement on how to solve the problem. "Until then, we are suspending our plans for the upcoming 2MB upgrade."
The statement ended with the names of six major figures in the bitcoin business community:
BitGo CEO Mike Belshe, Xapo CEO Wences Casares, Bitmain co-founder Jihan Wu, BloqInc co-founder Jeff Garzik, Blockchain CEO and co-founder Peter Smith and ShapeShift CEO Erik Voorhees.
For most of this year, investors have had a negative view on bitcoin splits out of uncertainty over the digital currency's future. However, since bitcoin rose to record highs after its August split into bitcoin and bitcoin cash, investors began betting that subsequent splits would send the price of the original bitcoin higher. Investors at the time of a split also technically receive an equivalent amount of the offshoot currency.
Bitcoin cash traded mildly higher near $619 Wednesday, according to CoinMarketCap. Another digital currency, ethereum, rose about 4.5 percent to $307.55, according to CoinDesk.


As the U.S. stock marketheralds the "Trumpiversary" — the one-year mark of the 2016 presidential election and a 21 percent gain in the Standard & Poor's 500 — pundits of both politics and business are asking the same question.
Did investor confidence in President Donald Trump do this?
One answer comes from international markets, which have been outpacing the U.S. year-to-date, driven by a roaring comeback in emerging markets. As much as Trump wants to claim credit for reviving animal spirits in America, a good chunk of U.S. economic and earnings momentum can be traced to trade with countries whose access to U.S. markets Trump vowed to restrict, and especially to a resurgence in China, which during the campaign Trump vowed to declare a currency manipulator and to slap tariffs on Chinese goods.
Indeed, the S&P 500's gains are trailing gains in exchange-traded funds that track all world markets but the U.S. — the iShares MSCI ACWI ex-U.S. ETF and the SPDR MSCI ACWI ex-U.S. ETF.
More from Global Investing Hot Spots:Dollar surge could send shockwaves to global investors
Jack Bogle eases on investing bias Here's why investors have reaped 50% in stock gains this year
"Emerging markets' macro fundamentals are extremely good," said Ajay Kapur, a Hong Kong based EM strategist for Bank of America Merrill Lynch. "Most, except for China, have low debt. All of them have trade surpluses. They've cut back on capital expenditures the last few years. It all sets up for a pickup in returns on equity and expanding profit margins. This seems to be a synchronized global recovery, and it has been a long time since that has happened.''
Indeed, history and fundamentals indicate that U.S. markets rarely get much of a push from new presidents, said Sam Stovall, chief equity strategist at CFRA. Still, CFRA says consensus earnings estimates for the year are rising, with S&P Global now predicting a 12.6 percent gain in S&P 500 profits for the four quarters ending in September 2018, with sales rising 6 percent. That gives U.S. markets more room to run.
Prospects for rising interest rates make bonds less attractive, leaving even more room for the S&P 500 to rise more, CFRA says. Prospects for a tax cut from Trump add to the potential, Stovall said.


It's the best performing stock in the last year that Wall Street just can't catch up to.
Shares of Nvidia are up 194 percent over the last 12 months, but the stock has one of the biggest gaps between Wall Street analysts' target price and its actual price. According to one portfolio manager, however, the Street may actually have grounds for their more cautious approach.
With the stock sitting around 15 percent above the average analyst price target, Mike Binger of Gradient Investments says there's a disconnect between how analysts and investors view the stock, which has accounted for the gap.
"Investors see this as a concept or a theme stock, whereas Wall Street analysts see it as part of the semiconductor industry," he said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "So investors consider it an artificial intelligence, driverless car company, and they figure whatever valuation is put on it, the company will grow into that." Nvidia currently sports a P/E of around 60, rich compared with the S&P 500 technology sector's overall 24 times multiple.
Wall street analysts, however, "are more putting some kind of industry multiple maybe at the high end of the industry, but still an industry multiple on this stock," Binger said.
And despite the company's big earnings beats, Binger believes the Street's predictions on Nvidia could actually be coming to fruition.
"I think analysts and the company's trajectory on profits and earnings are starting to converge," he said. "So at the end of the day, I wouldn't own it right now, I'd wait for a better entry point." According to FactSet, of the 37 analysts that cover the stock, the average rating is overweight with a $179.25 price target.
Nvidia was trading 1.8 percent lower, at $208, on Wednesday after hitting an all-time high in the previous session.
The company is set to report earnings after the closing bell on Thursday. Analysts polled by FactSet are expecting the company to earn 95 cents per share on $2.36 billion in revenue.


Weekly U.S. crude oil production hit the highest level on record last week, according to preliminary government data, in another sign of the resilience of American shale drillers.
The United States produced 9.62 million barrels of oil a day in the week through Nov. 3, the U.S. Energy Information Administration reported on Wednesday. That just slightly topped a record high struck in June 2015, just before the oil price crash sparked a more than one-year decline that sent U.S. output to about 8.4 million barrels a day.
It's important to note that this is not the highest all-time level of U.S. oil production. The record still stands at just over 10 million barrels a day in November 1970. The EIA's weekly data only goes back to 1983.


Traditional money managers are racing to sell their own exchange traded funds as investors continue to pour money into a business that has been dominated by a handful of giant fund companies.
"The industry is following the flows. Passive strategies and smart beta are gaining market share and no one wants to be left out of the ETF gold rush," said David Lafferty, chief market strategist at Natixis Global Asset Management.
On Monday, 70-year-old Franklin Templeton began trading its first passive ETFs — a group of 16 funds focused on a single country or region. The news followed the launch of the first ETFs with the USAA brand on October 26. USAA is a financial services company for members of the military and their families.
Passive investment products, including index mutual funds and index ETFs, account for nearly 47 percent of assets under management in U.S. stock funds, Goldman Sachs analyst Alexander Blostein said in a note on Monday.
Passive has nearly reached 50% of the retail equity market

Source: Morningstar, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
Passive investing is a style that minimizes trading by tracking an index, the opposite of actively managed funds that try to beat the index by buying and selling securities frequently to generate extra return. So-called smart beta is an extra twist, tracking an index by reweighting it or using other objectives.
As the passive approach has grown more popular among investors in the last few years, passive funds have been a major source of new money for the money management industry and are only expected to grow from here.
Global assets under management are expected to almost double to $145.4 trillion by 2025, and the share of money managed passively will grow to 25 percent of that total, from 17 percent last year, PricewaterhouseCoopers predicted in an Oct. 30 report.
Traditional asset managers "have to be involved, or they're going to get left behind," said Mike Venuto, chief investing officer and co-founder of Tosoro Investments, which this April launched an ETF to track ETF companies. The ETF Industry Exposure & Financial Services ETF (TETF) is up 16 percent over the last six months.


The world's largest futures exchange wants to guard against extreme volatility in its planned bitcoin futures product.
CME will implement special price fluctuation limits at 7 percent and 13 percent above or below the prior settlement price, and prevent trading outside the 20 percent range, according to details the exchange released Tuesday afternoon.
The trading ranges are similar to what is allowed for U.S. stock index futures. But the limits could be more relevant for the notoriously volatile digital currency and could ease investor concerns about investing in the bitcoin product.
Bitcoin can swing several hundred dollars in one day. In just the last few days, bitcoin hit a record high of $7,601.53 Sunday, then dropped below $7,000 before recovering to $7,500 Wednesday morning, according to CoinDesk. In September, bitcoin crashed about 40 percent from above $5,000 to below $3,000 in about two weeks.
That said, some analysts have pointed out that intraday volatility in bitcoin has fallen since the early days of the digital currency.

CME announced last week it is launching bitcoin futures by the end of the year, pending regulatory review. CME Chairman and CEO Terry Duffy said on CNBC's "Closing Bell" after the announcement that he is "confident" the CME's self-certification process at the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and full application process will go through.
A spokesman for the CFTC did not immediately respond to a CNBC request for comment.
Other details now available on CME's website about the bitcoin futures contract include the months for the initial listing: December 2017, January 2018, February 2018 and March 2018. Contracts expire at 4 p.m. London time, typically 11 a.m. ET, on the last Friday of the contract month, according to CME's website.
The website also shows trading hours are scheduled for 6 p.m. ET to 5 p.m., Sunday to Friday on CME's electronic trading system Globex and CME's over-the-counter market ClearPort.


One year after the U.S. presidential election, CNBC's Jim Cramer says President Donald Trump is unlikely to hurt the stock market.
"When you have a president who grades himself by how stocks do, you know he's just not going to hurt the market," Cramer said Wednesday on "Squawk on the Street." "Most of the president haven't really cared about the market."
"It's been a great run," the host of CNBC's "Mad Money" added.
Since the Nov. 8, 2016, election, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen more than 28 percent as of Tuesday's close. The S&P 500 has gained more than 21 percent and the Nasdaq is up more than 30 percent.
Trump has repeatedly claimed credit for the stock market rally. Some analysts have attributed the market rise to Trump's planned tax reform and other business-friendly proposals, though some argue they haven't had a real influence.
At the first anniversary of Trump's election, the subsequent stock market's gain ranks No. 3 in first-term, postelection markets since the Eisenhower days, according to a CNBC analysis.


Activision Blizzard's "Call of Duty: WWII" game sales are coming in significantly above last year's iteration of the blockbuster franchise.
The game publisher announced Wednesday this year's "Call of Duty" game sold more than $500 million worldwide in its first three days of sales or double the unit sales of last year's three-day launch weekend.
"We challenged our players to get their squads back together and they answered the call, with the highest number of players we've ever seen on current gen consoles and PC," Activision CEO Eric Hirshberg said in the news release. "'Call of Duty: WWII' returns the franchise to its roots and the results are incredible, selling twice as many units in its opening weekend as last year."
The game launched Friday.
Shares of Activision Blizzard rose 4 percent Wednesday morning following the news.
Wall Street is impressed with the game's sales results.
"We think this was another positive data point for the Call of Duty franchise, following the update from the U.K. earlier this week, with preliminary sales trending ahead of our expectations," Stifel analyst Drew Crum wrote in a note to clients Wednesday.
Activision Blizzard shares are outperforming the market this year. Its stock is up 76 percent year to date through Wednesday morning versus the S&P 500's 16 percent return.


JPMorgan shared with clients its favorite department store stock picks ahead of a slew of earnings reports in the next week.
While analyst Matthew Boss expects "mixed performance" across his coverage, a number of "wildcards" should keep investors on their toes through year-end.
"With the heart of third-quarter earnings kicking off Thursday with the Department Stores - we expect mixed performance across our coverage with the bifurcation between retail winners and losers," wrote Boss on Wednesday. "On the long-side we take a concentrated approach with five 'core names.'"
Boss made key adjustments to his coverage, including multiple downgrades, but still sees upside for these three big names.


Snap's post-earnings call was "horrible," and the stock doesn't represent any value to investors, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Wednesday.
Cramer spoke after Snap's stock plunged in after-hours trade Tuesday following its huge third-quarter revenue miss. The shares whipsawed Wednesday after Chinese internet giant Tencent said it has taken a roughly 10 percent stake in the company. Also on Wednesday, Wall Street analysts, disappointed by Snap's earnings results and management's execution, downgraded the stock.
During the post-earnings call, Snap CEO Evan Spiegel said the company is working on a redesign of its app to "make it easier to use," and said it could be disruptive to the business in the short term.
"They basically said, 'Don't worry, all the things you hear about us that are bad ... they're bad. We're getting to them. Give us some time,'" Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
"You can't have a conference call like that," Cramer added. "What I didn't know before I read this, was how badly everything is working for Snap."
Spiegel appeared to sound like he was "disappointed" or "sad" during the call, Cramer said.
When asked about the Tencent deal, Cramer responded by saying, "There's nothing to buy here."
"Frankly, I don't care if its Tencent or 50 Cent. There's nothing to buy here," the host of CNBC's "Mad Money said. "The great thing about Tencent is they can average down and get a better price."Snap did not immediately respond to a request for comment from CNBC.


Even if Qualcomm declines Broadcom's $103 billion buyout bid, shares of the chipmaker still have plenty of ways of climbing higher over the next year, according to one Wall Street analyst.
RBC Capital Markets upgraded Qualcomm shares to outperform from sector perform Tuesday, with a $70 price target, noting that Broadcom's recent bid implied the stock could gain another 10 percent. But "with or without" Broadcom, analyst Amit Daryanani contends the stock could still gain over the next year.
"The probability of the initial unsolicited bid becoming the final bid is low and therefore think there is an upside narrative here," wrote Daryanani in a note to clients. But even "if QCOM board rejects the offer, we think the roadmap for value creation is fairly distinct."
Qualcomm shares have risen roughly 17 percent since Friday, when reports of a potential bid from Broadcom first surfaced.

The $70 per share cash and stock offer would be the largest technology acquisition ever.
Shares of Qualcomm were up 1.4 percent Wednesday.
But even without a deal, Daryanani believes the company can grow on its own. Qualcomm's deal with NXP Semiconductors is expected to close within the next few months, adding $1.20 to earnings per share. Qualcomm announced that it agreed to buy NXP for about $38 billion last year, as it seeks to expand the reach of its chips from phones to cars.
Improving relations with Apple would also bode well for Qualcomm, which supplies chips for the iPhone. The two companies have been locked in a multinational legal battle throughout the year; Apple teed off the dispute in January by suing Qualcomm for $1 billion for excessive royalties.
"Our investment thesis assumes Qualcomm and Apple should be able to resolve the dispute in calendar year 2018, possibly with Qualcomm offering some level of concessions," added the analyst. "Should Apple and Qualcomm settle the dispute, we believe payments from Apple will resume and Qualcomm should expect catch-up payments from Apple as well."


Chinese internet giant Tencent has taken a roughly 10 percent stake in Snapchat parent Snap, according to documents released Wednesday.
In a quarterly filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Snap said Tencent notified the company this month of the purchase. Tencent runs the WeChat messaging app, as well as online payment platforms and games. Earlier this year, it bought a 5 percent stake in Tesla.
Sources told CNBC earlier that Tencent had purchased 145.8 million nonvoting shares of Snap on the open market over the last quarter. China's largest messaging app has invested in social messaging company before, in 2012 and 2013, in private rounds.
News of the investment comes as a vote of confidence in Snap, one day after the company posted a huge revenue miss for the third quarter.
Average revenue per user was up 39 percent compared with the third quarter last year, falling short of Wall Street's estimates. Snap did beat expectations on the bottom line by a penny a share.
Shares of Snap, which plunged nearly 20 percent in after-hours on Tuesday's revenue miss, erased all of the losses to trade slightly higher on the Tencent filing before losing momentum. In early trading Wednesday, it was nearly 10 percent lower.
Disclosure: CNBC parent NBCUniversal is an investor in Snap.
—The Associated Press contributed to this report.


Square has surged 167 percent this year alone, but Fort Pitt Capital senior equity analyst Kim Forrest says it could be time to pump the brakes on the payment stock.
"We don't own it, and this looks like a very dangerous momentum stock," she said Tuesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "Momentum people love growth, and it looks like it may be topping out here right now, especially with respect to the real transaction revenue."
"It's a cautionary tale," she added. "It's been great, but if I owned it I would certainly sell some of it now just to take some money off the table."
Square, whose CEO is Twitter chief Jack Dorsey, has been part of the high-flying payments space, which has also seen credit card stocks like American Express and Visa soaring to new all-time highs. But Mike Binger, portfolio manager at Gradient Investments, also believes other names in the group might actually be a better buy.
"Square is in the financial payments sector of the market. In our portfolios, we own Visa and PayPal there," he said. "We prefer their profitability and their more mature business models."
According to Binger, Square has become too expensive, and a possible change to its business model could also impact the stock.
"Don't forget that Square has applied for a banking license," he said. "If they get that license, they want to be a lender, and that's a whole different game that comes with a whole different multiple."
"I think Square is a stock priced to perfection, and I would wait for a better entry point on it," he added.
On Tuesday, Square was still trading around its all-time highs at $36.


President Donald Trump likes to claim credit for the stock market rally, but there are other factors at work. He gets partial credit, but only partial.
The Trump trade gave a dramatic boost to the market shortly after the election one year ago Wednesday. While the components of that trade are still alive, others are arguably more important.
Let's take a look.
After the election, the market came to believe that a combination of tax cuts, infrastructure spending and regulatory reform would give an added boost to corporate profits. The S&P 500 rose roughly 6 percent in the first month after Trump's election, and that was certainly very real.
Stocks have often moved on perceptions of a tax cut. Most traders believe there is some kind of premium in the market for the cuts, so that if Trump tweeted, "There will be no tax cut deal," the market would react negatively. How negatively is debated, but a 5 percent drop in the S&P 500 is fairly frequently cited to me by traders.
Yet at the moment, it's popular to argue that tax cuts have not had any real influence on the stock market. Credit Suisse, for example, is one of many firms that developed a basket of high- tax stocks that would benefit from tax cuts. Its conclusion: "The market rewarded firms with high effective tax rates for only three weeks post-election, but not since."
Goldman Sachs' High Tax Rate basket has also posted weaker returns than the overall market, but David Kostin, the bank's chief equity strategist, had a different interpretation. He noted that stocks in the high tax basket generate a whopping 84 percent of their sales within the United States. He believes their underperformance has been hurt primarily by the weak dollar, which benefits firms with high foreign sales and penalizes those with lower foreign sales.
"The High Tax basket's performance this year has been influenced by exposures other than tax sentiment," Kostin said.
One feature of the Trump trade that is prominent is a basket of companies that get most of their sales from small- and mid-sized business customers. This basket is up 38 percent since the election, since small-business owners have been "thrilled at the prospect of deregulation under the Trump administration," Kostin wrote in a note to clients.
And tax cuts, should they materialize, definitely can influence future earnings estimates. Kostin is modeling roughly $139 for S&P earnings per share next year, a 7 percent increase from this year. But that is without tax cuts.
He figures tax cuts have the potential to add another $9 per share in earnings, to bring S&P earnings to $148 EPS next year, which would be 13 percent growth.
By the way, Kostin does believe that the market's perception of tax cuts has lifted stocks. He told me that without tax reform, the market would be closer to 2,400 than its current 2,590. That's about 8 percent lower.
What all these factors have in common is the perception that the administration is far more business friendly than the previous administration. Tim Anderson at MND Partners is one of many who believe that perception is a factor in the rally.
"Businesses are spending at a faster pace than they have in years, and there is no doubt that a more business friendly regulatory climate is a big catalyst," he said. "It's something the economists have a very difficult time plugging into their model."
While the whole infrastructure story has fallen by the wayside, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said last week the Trump administration would focus on infrastructure spending right after tax reform.
The U.S. stock market also is at a record high because earnings are at record highs and because the market believes that record high earnings will continue for at least the next couple quarters.
S&P 500 EPS
2015: $117.46
2016: $118.10
2017 (est) $130.90
Source: Thomson Reuters
Estimates are north of $140 for 2018.
Global growth has also returned. This is the largest contributor to the global rally we have seen this year. Upon surveying this landscape, Goldman Sachs concluded, "Most foreign equity markets have benefited from an upswing in global growth."
It's a rare event when the major global markets are all — almost without exception — up double digits, but that is indeed what has happened:
Global markets 2017
Hong Kong: up 32 percent
Vietnam: up 27.9 percent
Korea: up 25.6 percent
India: up 25 percent
Japan: up 20 percent
Germany: up 16.5 percent
Indonesia: up 14 percent
France: up 12.7 percent
Thailand: up 11 percent
Shanghai: up 10 percent
The only laggard is the U.K., up only 5 percent on Brexit concerns.
You can give credit to the ocean of liquidity provided by central banks if you want, but one key point is that the U.S. has dramatically outperformed the rest of the world over the past five years. The better growth this year was really overseas. Several traders noted to me that emerging markets went through a vicious bear market from 2011 to 2016. Japan badly lagged until this year. Even Germany didn't make a new high until this year.
Some have argued that the market is ignoring the Fed's raising of interest rates, but that is a stretch, since the Fed has been moving at a glacial pace, and its intentions have been well telegraphed. There's no reason to believe that incoming Fed Chairman Jerome Powell will mark a radical departure from this policy. Next year, though, is a different question, and I do agree that a key risk to the market is the Fed moving to tighten too fast.
The bottom line is Trump gets some credit for the rally, but only some. And a lot of it could vanish if we don't get more progress on tax reform.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Humana – The health insurer earned an adjusted $3.39 per share for the third quarter, 12 cents a share above estimates. Revenue was slightly below forecasts, but Humana also raised its full-year earnings forecast on the strength of its Medicare Advantage business.
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals – The drugmaker beat forecasts by 14 cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $3.99 per share. Revenue was also above forecasts, helped by stronger sales of the company's eye treatment Eylea.
Twitter — The company expanded tweets to 280 characters for all users from the current 140. The expanded limit had been tested for a limited number of users in September.
Snap – Snap saw its shares recover off early lows following news that China's Tencent has acquired a roughly 10 percent stake. That follows news that Snap lost an adjusted 14 cents per share for its latest quarter, one cent a share smaller than anticipated. The operator of the popular SnapChat service saw revenue miss estimates and it reported 178 million daily active users, also below analysts' estimates. Snap said it planned to redesign SnapChat.
Zillow – Zillow reported adjusted quarterly profit of 19 cents per share, two cents a share above estimates. The real estate website operator's revenue also beating forecasts. Zillow also gave strong current-quarter revenue guidance as real estate agents step up spending on Zillow's information.
LendingClub – LendingCLub matched estimates with adjusted quarterly earnings of three cents per share, but the online lender saw revenue fall short of Street forecasts and the company also gave weaker-than-expected current-quarter revenue guidance.
Marriott – Marriott came in 11 cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly earnings of $1.10 per share. The hotel operator's revenue topped forecasts, as well. Marriott also raised its full-year forecast as demand from business travelers increases.
Take-Two Interactive – Take-Two gave a stronger-than-expected holiday season sales forecast, contrary to outlooks from video-game publishing rivals Activision Blizzard and Electronic Arts. Take-Two is getting a boost from the popularity of its latest NBA video game and the ongoing strength of its "Grand Theft Auto" franchise.
Match Group – Match Group fell three cents a share shy of estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 19 cents per share. The online dating service saw revenue beat estimates, however, with a 19 percent year-over-year rise. The company reported that the average paying member count at its Tinder service is now more than 2.5 million and that it is seeing stabilization for its OKCupid unit.
Target – Target plans to close about a dozen underperforming stores in Michigan, Florida, Illinois, and Texas, with those locations closing in February of 2018.
21st Century Fox – Fox's planned takeover of British broadcaster Sky may get some help from its target, with Sky saying it may shut down its British news operation if that unit is considered a regulatory hurdle to getting Fox's bid approved.
General Mills – General Mills was upgraded to "hold" from "sell" at Societe Generale, which points to both increased spending by the food company, as well as the potential for a takeover bid from rival Kraft Heinz.
Fossil Group – Fossil lost three cents per share for the third quarter, smaller than the 28-cent-a-share loss anticipated by Wall Street. The fashion accessories company's revenue also exceeded estimates however its the shares are under pressure after Fossil forecast a wider-than-expected loss for the full year.
Vitamin Shoppe – The nutritional products retailer lost an adjusted three cents per share for the third quarter, compared to an expected profit of 17 cents per share. Comparable-store sales were down 6.6 percent, more than the consensus Thomson Reuters estimate of a 5.6 percent drop. Vitamin Shoppe said its sales were hurt by the quarter's hurricanes.
Wolverine World Wide – The company behind shoe brands like Stride Rite, Sperry, Wolverine, Hush Puppies, and Saucony earned an adjusted 43 cents per share for its latest quarter, six cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are a bit down after Tuesday's flat close.
-Mortgage applications were unchanged last week even as interest rates fell a bit.
DEALS/NO DEALS
-China's Tencent is taking 10 percent stake in Snapchat parent Snap. That's helping Snap shares recover after they tanked in the wake of Tuesday's weak earnings report.


It's been exactly one year since President Donald Trump was elected and investors in defense stocks have benefited greatly.
The aerospace and defense industry has risen more than 40 percent since Nov. 8, 2016. The only two industries that have outperformed defense are computers and peripherals and semiconductors.
Of the 11 stocks in the defense industry, 10 are up at least 15 percent. But the biggest advancer in the space has been Boeing, which is up 87 percent since the election.
Overall, the aerospace and defense sector has benefited from dealmaking activity and increasing geopolitical tensions, especially between the U.S. and North Korea. In September, the isolated Asian nation successfully tested a hydrogen bomb that can be mounted onto an intercontinental ballistic missile.
The chart below shows the 10 best- and worst-performing industries since the election.  (Industry gains and losses through Monday, Nov 6, 2017).


Broadcom's $103 billion unsolicited offer to buy Qualcomm on Monday was just the latest in a recent binge of large transactions underway or being contemplated as Wall Street reboots its deal-making engine.
Also on Monday, CNBC reported that Walt Disney Co. had talked to 21 Century Fox about acquiring its film studio and television production operations. Last month, CVS Health was said to be mulling a deal the insurance giant Aetna, a move believed to be spurred by possible competition from e-commerce giant Amazon.com in the pharmacy industry.
Industries from technology, media and telecommunications to health care are being pushed by irreversible shifts in consumer behavior and fierce competition from technology-savvy competitors. With market valuations at all-time highs and interest rates low with plenty of financing available, company managements are springing to action.
Bankers and lawyers who advise on transactions say three years of low growth have left corporate CEOs thirsty for bold transactions that add scale and boost their companies' bottom lines. Greater clarity on the prospect of lower corporate tax rates and a general sense that the Trump administration won't be as aggressive on anti-trust issues as regulators during the latter half of the Obama years, are also making conditions ripe for deals.


As the dollar closes in on four-month highs and West Texas Intermediate crude takes a pause, here are some moves I'm watching for Tuesday.  1. The dollar index is poised for further gains after an aggressive downside rejection on Thursday. If the December dollar index can settle above 95.05, I expect significant upside. Remember, the fundamental argument for the dollar is a slow and steady march toward genuine tax reform.
2. Gold futures were lower on Tuesday; should the dollar rally further, gold will likely continue its medium-term weakness. Realistically, if gold can't rally while Saudi Arabia is undergoing a real-life "Game of Thrones," I'm not sure what is left to provide a tailwind. If the December contract trades down to $1,260, I'll expect it to plummet to $1,240 quickly.
3. The U.S. 10-year Treasury note yield was lower in Tuesday trading, near 2.31 percent. I see no reason to own bonds during this historic, endless creep higher in stocks with low volatility;  2.8 percent is my medium- to long-term objective.
4. I remain a bull on stocks. I believe the biggest fundamental argument for stocks is impending pro-business tax policy, coupled with low rates. However, I believe that once the details of the tax plan are agreed upon, and its passing is a foregone conclusion, the equity rally will be over in the short- to medium-term.
5. Crude oil is inching closer to my objective of $60 per barrel. I believe we will fill in those last few bucks but may have some trouble beyond this level. The Saudis want crude oil higher, and they're doing a good job in achieving that end. If the crude oil December contract makes a new daily high of $57.70, I will consider a long position in the commodity.


Vanguard founder and former CEO Jack Bogle is not a believer in trading 'FANG' stocks.
When asked about Intercontinental Exchange launching a FANG+ index futures contract for traders on Wednesday, Bogle blasted the idea.
The product enables investors to trade an index that tracks the performance of Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix, and Google-parent Alphabet, along with Alibaba, Baidu, Nvidia, Tesla and Twitter.
"If you want to do such a crazy thing, it certainly makes it easy to do. ... I have no doubt it's a liability," Bogle said on CNBC's "Power Lunch" Tuesday. "I think the odds are very bad. It appeals to the trading instincts in investors. ... If you like gambling, if you like casinos, these things are really, really, really good."
Instead he recommended investors focus on the long term with a multidecade time horizon by buying index funds that minimize trading transaction costs.
"Anything that gets investors into trading is a negative," he said. "Trading is a loser's game. Trading is short term speculation."
Bogle founded Vanguard Group in 1975. The firm is widely regarded as the leader of passive index investing. It has approximately $4.7 trillion in assets under management, according to its president.


President Donald Trump's election led to a boom in the stock market and a resulting surge of money into the investment funds.
In fact, since the Republican's victory — Wednesday will mark the one-year anniversary — assets under management for mutual and exchange-traded funds surged about 16 percent, or $2.9 trillion, to $21.1 trillion, according to figures Thomson Reuters released Tuesday.
That total combines inflows and returns, which have been substantial. The Dow industrials are up 29 percent over the past 12 months, while the broader S&P 500 is 21.6 percent higher.
"Performance has been the primary contributor to asset accretion since the 2016 presidential election," Thomson Reuters said in an analysis.
Investors have flocked to funds of almost all stripes since the Trump election, though the balance in absolute cash flow has been to passive funds. While mutual funds, most of which are passively managed, still have far more assets than mostly passively managed exchange-traded funds, the gap is closing.
Since Sept 30, 2016, passive funds have taken in just shy of $686 billion against just $5.2 billion net for active. However, the breakdown is more nuanced, with actively managed bond funds still popular, while investors looking for stock-focused funds prefer passive.


Since last year's election, stock market investors have been betting big that President Donald Trump will enact policies that will boost corporate profits, cut taxes, slash regulations and sustain a postelection rally not seen in decades.Now, many investors are still waiting for the White House and GOP Congress to deliver on Trump's campaign promises.
At the first anniversary of Trump's Nov. 8 election, the subsequent stock market's gain ranks No. 3 in first-term, postelection markets since Dwight Eisenhower won the 1952 election. Over these decades, though, stock market rallies in the early days of a new administration aren't necessarily a great predictor of investor returns over the full term of the incoming president. The stock market's jubilant response to Trump's election, for example, was initially compared to the reaction to Ronald Reagan's 1980 defeat of Jimmy Carter. Both Trump and Reagan campaigned on a platform that promised tax cuts and sweeping deregulation, a prospect that investors assume will help companies boost profits. But Reagan's postelection rally fizzled within weeks, thanks to an aggressive series of interest rates hikes in late 1980 aimed at snuffing out double-digit inflation. Between Election Day and the end of the year, short-term rates surged from 14 percent to above 20 percent.


Snap is soaring ahead of its earnings Tuesday after the bell, and traders are expecting an even bigger move for the stock following its report.
Since Snap's IPO on March 2, shares have fallen more than 12 percent. As the company gears up for its third earnings report as a public company, the options market is implying about a 13 percent move in either direction.
Dan Nathan of RiskReversal.com pointed out on CNBC's "Options Action" on Monday that after past earnings reports, Snap shares fell steeply the following day. The stock tumbled 21 percent the day following its first report and 14 percent following its second report.
In comparison, rival Twitter also saw very large moves following its first two earnings reports. Shares dropped 24 percent following its first earnings report in February 2014 and then fell 9 percent after its second report. Meanwhile, Facebook's stock sunk 12 percent after its first earnings release, but then jumped 19 percent after its second.

Nathan pointed out that the implied move of about 13 percent, or $2, could potentially place the stock at around $17. "If you look at this chart, $17 is significant. That was the IPO price, [and] that was also the September high. That $2 from here looks to be resistance, [and] the September low is also $2 lower."
On Monday, the most active strikes were the Nov. 10 weekly 20 and 21 calls, meaning traders see Snap shares closing above $20 by Friday, which is 30 percent higher than Tuesday's trading price.
According to FactSet, analysts are expecting Snap to report an earnings loss of 33 cents on $237 million of revenue.


The global stock rally has even more room to run, according to Credit Suisse's top equity analysts.
Global shares should see a healthy 6 percent surge until the middle of next year as a solid macro backdrop and earnings fuel the current wave of "rational exuberance," according to  Andrew Garthwaite, global equity strategist at Credit Suisse.
"We have the most broad-based upturn in global growth since 2010 and macro breadth and earnings revisions are closely correlated," wrote Garthwaite in Monday's note. "There are clear signs of investment-led growth, and we show this is typically good for both markets and earnings."
In the U.S. alone, the S&P 500 has added 16 percent since January while the Dow continued to notch all-time highs Tuesday morning. Meanwhile in Europe, the German DAX index is up nearly 15 percent this year and the British FTSE 100 has climbed more than 10 percent. Economists have dubbed the widespread success a synchronized global recovery.
"In Europe, despite the appreciation of the euro, PMI new orders have not rolled over, and remain consistent with nearly 3 percent GDP growth," added Garthwaite. "The proportion of countries that are experiencing PMI new orders in excess of 52 is now the highest since the immediate recovery from the global financial crisis."
Even central bank policy seems to be positive for equities for now. Despite announcing the rollback of its extensive portfolio this fall, the Federal Reserve's efforts will likely not have much impact until late 2018, according to the report.
In September, the U.S. central bank announced it will begin to roll off its $4.5 trillion balance sheet. The majority of the assets are comprised of federal bonds and mortgage-backed securities it acquired under a program known as quantitative easing.
But Garthwaite says some investors "exaggerate" the importance of the Fed's actions in the near term. Credit Suisse analysts estimate that the Fed's balance sheet is likely to be only $360 billion smaller by the end of 2018.
The overall rise in exuberance does have some Wall Street analysts cautious that the bull market may be nearing an untimely pullback. While Credit Suisse does see gains for global stocks in the near term, even Garthwaite said he believes the bull market is in its "late stages."
"In our view, we are in the late stages of the equity bull market. Equities are 39 percent above their previous peak in real terms, which is similar to the average post-war bull market," he cautioned.


Despite bad news for Snap — download rates are lower, Instagram is beating it in ad sales, and Wall Street expects it to report another loss — there are signs the company might be gaining traction among advertisers.
Companies like the fact that Snap's users often don't overlap with those of chief rival Instagram, meaning advertisers can reach a different group of consumers. And while many of its features are being copied by Instagram Stories, it excels in some desirable ad features such as location tracking and augmented reality, several companies told CNBC.
Snap reports earnings after the bell on Tuesday and is expected to report revenue of $236.9 million and a loss of 15 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
Snap's download rates seem to be declining. Social data company Likefolio found Snap download or install mentions are at its lowest point since its IPO in March 2017.


Morgan Stanley has raised its forecast for oil prices through 2020, saying the world is hungry for more U.S. shale crude at a time when it's uncertain American drillers can deliver it.
The bank now sees international benchmark Brent crude fetching $62 a barrel in the final quarter of the year, up from an earlier estimate of $55. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude is poised to average $56 for the quarter, up from Morgan Stanley's prior $48 call.
By the second quarter of 2018, Morgan Stanley forecasts Brent will average $63 and WTI will trade at $58 a barrel.
Demand for oil is growing at a surprisingly high rate, leading to a rapid drop in U.S. crude inventories, Morgan Stanley says. At the same time, OPEC and other oil exporters including Russia are likely to extend a deal to keep 1.8 million barrels off the market through next year.
Outside of OPEC, there is little growth in oil supplies, with the exception of the United States, where drillers can quickly tap shale wells, the bank notes. But even in the U.S. Lower 48, the number of rigs operating in oilfields has been falling.
To balance the market, U.S. shale drillers will have to grow production from about 5.9 million barrels a day this year to 7 million barrels a day in 2018, more than previously thought, Morgan Stanley analysts conclude. That would require drillers to start standing up 8 to 10 new rigs each month, but the analysts are uncertain that will happen.
"Right when the world's reliance on shale is growing, its limits are starting to become apparent, and there seem to be two aspects to this: ability and willingness," they wrote in a research note on Monday.
Companies say bottlenecks are forming because they cannot book the crews and equipment needed to carry out hydraulic fracturing, the process of injecting water, minerals and chemicals underground to break up shale rock formations and allow oil and gas to flow to the wellhead. Costs for oilfield services are also rising.
At the same time, exploration and production companies are reining in production growth in order to put their finances in order. Drillers may be reluctant to dive deeper into the red to fund growth at a time when investors are asking for financial discipline.


Analyst Dick Bove is beating up on Goldman Sachs again, recommending that clients sell the investment banking giant's stock and again calling for the ouster of CEO Lloyd Blankfein.
Two recent developments have soured Bove even more on Goldman: Its decision to drop its market-making role in U.S. options exchanges, and some business dealings with the deeply troubled Venezuelan government.
The complaints are just the latest salvos from Bove, who sees the bank as being in need of new management. He had first called for Blankfein to be removed in July, and earlier in the year had lowered his rating on the bank from "buy" to "hold."
"I am not a fan of Goldman Sachs and have repeatedly expressed my concern aboutthe company's leadership," the Vertical Trading Group analyst wrote in a note to clients. "My problem is that Goldman never understood the changes in its core businesses and, therefore, continued to pursue its traditional business model when it was evident that this model was no longer relevant."
After a sharp rally following President Donald Trump's election in November, Goldman has been a laggard, underperforming both the broader market and its peers. Shares are up just 2.2 percent this year at a time when the S&P 500 has rallied nearly 16 percent and the SPDR Bank ETF has gained 4.6 percent.
Bove charged that the bank has missed out on the big move to passive investing and exchange-traded funds, while also taking on questionable dealings with Venezuela. Goldman has lost money on bonds it bought from the country's state-run oil company and still is shadowed by a transaction it made with a Portuguese bank that lent to Venezuela, which is on the edge of a potential debt default, he said.
Goldman's market-making revenue has dropped from $29.7 billion in 2007 to $14.8 billion in 2017, according to Bove, coming as the market has switched to passive investing and automated trading.
"What is being revealed by the business model errors and the Venezuelan activities is bad judgment," he wrote. "This bad judgment has led to 10 years of earnings weakness. This company has an insular management team that sees itself as a partnership. It is not. It is a publicly owned company that, in my opinion, needs outside blood to change its direction."
Goldman again beat Wall Street estimates for third-quarter earnings, turning in profit of $5.02 a share vs. expectations of $4.17, but the company again came up light in trading revenue. In fact, a company official said the commodities side was on its way to its worst full-year performance since the company went public in 1999.
Though analysts had expected the earnings performance to boost investor sentiment, shares have been flat since the report.
Goldman officials declined comment.
WATCH: An analyst talks about why Goldman doesn't get any respect


21st Century Fox shares are surging as Wall Street loves the idea of media industry consolidation to compete with Netflix.
CNBC reported Monday that 21st Century Fox has been holding talks to sell most of the company to Disney, leaving behind a media company tightly focused on news and sports, according to people familiar with the situation.
The two sides are not currently talking at this moment, but given the on-again, off-again nature of the talks, they could be revisited, the sources said.
Shares of 21st Century Fox rose 10 percent Monday following the CNBC report, while Disney shares traded up 2 percent. The gains continued on Tuesday with 21st Century Fox up 3.5 percent mid-morning and Disney shares up another 2 percent.
"By combining the library assets and production spend of Disney and Fox, [the] pro forma firm apt to more effectively compete with emerging OTT platforms like Netflix and Amazon," Citi Research analyst Jason Bazinet wrote in a note to clients Monday entitled "Disney + Fox Makes Sense."
The "pro forma firm would allow Disney to rapidly achieve direct-to-consumer scale … Transaction [is] likely to help Disney's multiple as it accelerates direct-to-consumer roll-out."
The analyst reiterated his buy ratings for both Disney and 21st Century Fox shares and his price targets of $119 and $36 respectively.
Bazinet noted how the media industry needs scale to compete Netflix's more than $10 billion a year in content spending.
In similar fashion, Credit Suisse is bullish on the potential asset deal between the companies.
"Our initial view is that it would be hard to argue against the rationale for this deal … creating a combined company with greater scale to invest in original content," analyst Omar Sheikh wrote Monday. "If confirmed, this transaction would obviously be welcomed by both sets of shareholders, and would also drive a re-rating of the whole sector, in our view."
Sheikh also reaffirmed his outperform ratings for Disney and 21st Century Fox shares.
One Wall Street said any potential asset sale will not come cheap.
"Based on our SOTP [sum of the parts] analysis in a deal, we believe FOX is worth about $39/share, 40% above current levels. Our analysis assumes Disney would have to pay FOX close to $37B for the assets," Jefferies analyst John Janedis wrote Tuesday.
21st Century Fox stock closed at $27.45 Monday.


CNBC's Jim Cramer said Tuesday that a deal between Walt Disney and 21st Century Fox would make "so much sense" and could represent a threat to streaming giant Netflix.
Shares of 21st Century Fox and Disney were higher Tuesday after CNBC reported Monday, citing sources, that Fox has been in talks to sell most of the company to Disney.
CNBC reported Tuesday that Disney approached 21st Century Fox on the deal.
Officials at Disney and Fox declined to comment.
Fox has "a fantastic slate, but looks like the slate that Disney would want to have. So, I do think this deal makes so much sense," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "I can't believe they don't take it to the finish line."
TV content that Disney would want include Fox's long-running sitcom "The Simpsons" as well as the popular comedy "Family Guy," Cramer said.
"Why has Fox not levered 'Simpsons' far more than it has?" the host of CNBC's "Mad Money asked. "I think the answer is because they don't really have a place to put it. But Disney does."
Disney also would be interested in capitalizing on Fox's movie franchise, Cramer said. Additionally, a deal could represent a threat to Netflix's dominance, he said.
"If you get Hulu, which is a household name, suddenly you have something that looks like Netflix," Cramer said.
Fox and Disney are among the co-owners of Hulu.
Last year, analysts were talking about "stopping Amazon," Cramer added. "This year I keep hearing Netflix. This is the way to stop Netflix."


Avis Budget Group stock plunged nearly 12 percent in midday trading Tuesday after reporting rising costs for its fleet of automobiles.
The car rental company  reported third quarter profits after Monday's close above estimates, but revenue of $2.75 billion was below Wall Street's expectations of $2.78 billion in a FactSet survey of analysts. Avis' costs per vehicle rose 3 percent, which company management has previously said is due to increasing the rental fleet too quickly in the first half of the year.
MKM Partners remained optimistic despite the lackluster results, saying "the outlook for fleet costs is more sanguine" looking into 2018.
"Hurricane headwinds in the third quarter should not mask improvement in underlying trends," MKM analyst Christopher Agnew wrote in a note Tuesday."
While Agnew noted that the costs from hurricanes battering the southeast were greater than expected, he says "the market should and ultimately will look through noise from the storms."
"We believe the strength in underlying trends are more important going forward," Agnew added.
Avis lowered the higher end of its revenue forecast by $50 million for 2017, saying it now expects to generate between $8.9 billion and $8.8 billion.


The worst is over for Under Armour shareholders this year, according to one Wall Street firm.
Susquehanna raised its rating on the sports apparel company's shares to neutral from negative, saying pessimistic expectations are now priced into the stock's valuation.
Under Armour reported third-quarter revenue last month that fell short of analysts' expectations and the company also reduced its full-year outlook.Our negative "thesis largely played out. Downside now more limited as Under Armour may have set the bar low enough to allow the company to hit the reset button," analyst Sam Poser wrote in a note to clients Tuesday entitled "Upgrading to Neutral; Downside Limited, but UAA Must Protect Their House Better."
"In any case, while North America will continue to be lackluster, weak trends are already baked into the Street's base case."
Under Armour shares are underperforming the market this year. Its stock is down 59 percent year to date through Monday versus the S&P 500's 16 percent return.
Poser noted the company's nearly 30 percent share drop after its third-quarter earnings results.
"After CEO [Kevin] Plank's commentary about continued challenges in North America (NA) into FY18, the Street is already bracing for poor results for the foreseeable future," he wrote. "Further, we believe Under Armour is becoming somewhat more cognizant of its recent mistakes."
The analyst lowered his price target to $11 from $15 for Under Armour shares, representing 8.5 percent downside to Monday's close.


Priceline and TripAdvisor shares both plunged Tuesday after the online travel firms warned about future results because of in increase in spending in response to mounting competition.
Shares of TripAdvisor closed more than 23 percent lower, its worst day since Nov. 2016. Priceline shares fell 14 percent.
As hotels become better at incentivizing guests to book directly and companies like Airbnb compete for vacation customers, online bookings have been under pressure to define their role. Hoping to tackle the issue head-on, Priceline issued conservative fourth-quarter guidance as it embarks on new branding investments to help accelerate volume.
"Like its closest competitor, Expedia, Priceline has entered a period of increased spend, combined with a shift in customer acquisition strategy (towards more direct traffic flow)," wrote Piper Jaffray analyst Michael Olson in a note to clients. ­­"While this is likely the right long-term strategy to drive higher repeat traffic rates and an improving overall advertising return on investment, we expect some degree of ongoing negative impact into 2018."
The company now expects fourth-quarter room-night growth to 8 to 13 percent and earnings per share 10 percent below Street consensus, according to Olson's Tuesday note. The analyst reiterated his buy rating but lowered his 12-month price target to $2,000, representing 5 percent upside from Monday's close.
TripAdvisor missed revenue expectations in its own third-quarter report and saw key growth metrics like revenue per hotel shopper fall 11 percent year over year. The analyst highlighted that TripAdvisor maintained guidance for 2017 of "flat to down" year over year to earnings, adding to the stock's downturn.
Though analyst Olson reiterated his neutral rating, he also cut his price target on TripAdvisor, even after the company's 15 percent decline year to date.
"The decline [in revenue] was attributed to advertising partners reducing spend on TripAdvisor, along with the company's decision to 'manage to greater efficiency on performance-based marketing channels,'" wrote Olson. "We anticipate the trajectory of TripAdvisor Click & Transaction revenue growth will continue its downward run through 2017, as the company absorbs the negative effects of weaker spend from advertising partners and a growing mix of lower monetizing mobile users."
Olson's new $40 price target represents 1 percent upside from Monday's close.
—CNBC's Gina Francolla contributed to this report.


World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) is setting its sights on the two most populous countries in the world to enhance an already "astronomical" growth rate, according to one of WWE's biggest players.
Speaking at the Web Summit technology conference in Lisbon, Portugal, on Tuesday, Paul Michael Levesque — better known by his ring name Triple H — said WWE would look to stimulate the most growth in China and India over the coming months.
The 14-time WWE champion stressed that while 70 percent of the WWE's viewership were internationally based, it currently accounted for just 30 percent of the franchise's overall revenue.
"What we need to do is create a talent pipeline, we need to do it globally and we need to do it now," Triple H said.
He described the opportunity in China as "massive," before adding that wrestling's popularity in India had soared to such an extent that it had become second only to the national sport of cricket.
Last year, the WWE launched a new tournament in London in order to try and find the next breed of British superstars. Triple H said Tuesday that it would continue to be this type of "localized content" that would help expand the WWE's global presence.


In a move worthy of Michael Corleone of The Godfather movie fame, the 32-year old crown prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed Bin Salman, consolidated his power, over the weekend, by trotting a tried-and-true method of vanquishing political rivals in a monarchy: charge them with corruption.
This move changes the set up in the kingdom. Power used to be shared among the several descendant children and families of the former King Abdullah. Now, power is wholly within the grasp of the Bin Salman branch.
It was shocking to see the familiar face of billionaire investor Prince Alaweed Bin Talal get caught up in the purge, but you had to know something was amiss for him when he failed to attend any of the "Davos in the Desert" festivities last week.
The conference, Future Investment Initiative 2017, was a who's who of international finance, and it was the articulation of the crown prince's vision for the future of the kingdom. The presentation was replete with high stylized presentations and the announcement of a futuristic $500 billion business city called Neom.
In order to achieve these lofty goals, the crown prince is going to need a lot of investment capital, and low oil prices, below $50, are not part of the planning.
The Saudis led the charge to get OPEC members and Russia to limit production to alleviate the global supply glut, and even reduced their own output more than required. Initially, while production volumes were reduced, exports continued apace, but the Saudis awoke to that issue. They have steadily decreased export volumes this year, especially to the U.S.


Weight Watchers International shares are rapidly gaining weight.
The stock is on a tear after the company raised its full-year earnings outlook, calling a push within its massive subscriber base to round out fiscal 2017.
"We are excited about the upcoming winter season," Chief Executive Mindy Grossman said in a statement. "We are confident our business momentum will continue throughout the balance of the year."
Weight Watchers shares were climbing more than 15 percent Tuesday morning on the news. Its shares have risen more than 360 percent in 2017.
On Monday evening, Weight Watchers reported net income of $44.7 million, or 67 cents a share, for its fiscal third quarter, up from $34.7 million, or 53 cents per share, one year earlier.
Analysts were calling for earnings of 51 cents a share, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters.
Weight Watchers' quarterly revenue climbed 15 percent, to $323.7 million, up from $280.8 million last year. Analysts were calling for sales of $316 million, Thomson Reuters said.
Not expecting to slow down anytime soon, Weight Watchers has raised its earnings outlook for the full year, now expecting to earn $1.77 to $1.83 a share versus a prior forecast of $1.57 to $1.67.
The weight-loss company ended the latest quarter with 3.4 million subscribers, up 18 percent from last year.
Weight Watchers owes some of its success to Oprah Winfrey, who acquired a stake in the business about two years ago and became the face of its campaigns. Since then, Weight Watchers has posted eight-consecutive quarters of membership increases.


A daily morning look at the financial stories you need to know to start the day.
STOCKS/ECONOMY
-Stock futures are mixed after Monday's slight gains. It's still a busy day for earnings reports and we get some jobs and consumer credit data.
-More millennials are buying homes, which is spooking the rental market.
DEALS/NO DEALS
-Investors are listening closely for updates after reports surfaced Monday that Disney has been in talks to buy most of 21st Century Fox.



If you're looking to get into the stock market, there are three mistakes you'll want to avoid in order to be successful, says John D. Spooner, author of "No One Ever Told Us That: Money And Life Lessons For Young Adults."
Spooner is a Harvard University graduate and a Boston Globe No. 1 best-selling author. He has been named one of the 100 best financial advisors in America by financial-investment website Barron's.
"There are endless ways to analyze the stock market, its trends, fads and individual companies," Spooner writes.
"My style is to be a contrarian, to go against popular sentiment. When I identify areas I think are undervalued and unappreciated, I move into them aggressively." And this strategy, he says, can been very successful.
As long as you avoid these errors:


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Tapestry – The company formerly known as Coach reported adjusted quarterly profit of 42 cents per share, six cents a share above estimates. Sales fell short of forecasts, however, with the company pointing to inventory challenges as well as the impact of the recent hurricanes.
Valeant Pharmaceuticals – The drugmaker earned an adjusted $1.04 per share for the third quarter, compared to the consensus estimates of 88 cents a share. Revenue also beat forecasts, with strong sales for the Bausch and Lomb eyecare business helping results.
Dean Foods – The food and beverage company missed estimates by a penny with adjusted quarterly profit of 20 cents per share, and its revenue also missed Street forecasts. The company also said it is in the early stages of a company-wide effort to cut costs and operate more efficiently.
Mallinckrodt – The drugmaker earned an adjusted $1.97 per share for the third quarter, 16 cents a share above estimates. Revenue fell below forecasts, however, partly due to pricing pressure in its specialty generics segment.
Under Armour – The athletic apparel maker's stock was upgraded to "neutral" from "negative" at Susquehanna, which said business will be challenging for some time but that expectations have been set low enough to guard against further downside.
Lowe's – KeyBanc rates the home improvement retailer "overweight" in new coverage with a $98 price target, based on a positive view of the housing market and the view that Lowe's is positioned for improved execution.
Salesforce.com – Salesforce announced a partnership with Alphabet's Google unit focusing on the international expansion of cloud infrastructure services. Salesforce will use Google Cloud as its preferred cloud provider.
Priceline Group – Priceline reported adjusted quarterly profit of $35.22 per share, beating the consensus estimate of $34.25 a share. The travel website operator's revenue also came in above forecasts, but Priceline gave current-quarter earnings guidance that is somewhat weaker than analysts were anticipating.
TripAdvisor – TripAdvisor came in one cent above consensus forecasts with adjusted quarterly profit of 36 cents per share, but the travel review website company saw revenue come in below estimates. TripAdvisor also made cautious comments about the prospects for a near-term rebound, citing recent trends by its travel partners.
Skyworks Solutions – Skyworks beat estimates by seven cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.82 per share. Revenue beat forecasts, as well. The chip maker's stock is under pressure following those results, however, after a nearly 56 percent gain so far this year.
TrueCar – TrueCar earned an adjusted two cents per share for its latest quarter, compared to a consensus estimate of one cent a share. The car pricing service's revenue came in below forecasts, however, as did its current-quarter guidance.
Weight Watchers – Weight Watchers reported quarterly profit of 65 cents per share, beating estimates by 14 cents a share. Revenue also topped forecasts. The weight loss service's results helped it hit record high levels in off-hours trading. The company also said it was testing meal-delivery services.
Avis Budget – Avis Budget came in six cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of $3.10 per share. The car rental company's revenue missed forecasts and it gave weaker-than-expected full-year guidance. Avis Budget cited the negative impact of the recent hurricanes as the key factor in its lowered forecast.
Red Robin Gourmet Burgers – Red Robin fell eight cents a share shy of Street forecasts, with adjusted quarterly profit of 21 cents per share. The restaurant chain's revenue also missed estimates. Additionally, Red Robin gave weaker-than-expected current-quarter guidance, Red Robin's average spending per guest fell, and overall guest counts were flat during the most recent quarter.
Etsy – Etsy beat estimates on the top and bottom lines, with the online crafts seller seeing revenue growing 21.5 percent from a year earlier.
Tenet Healthcare – Tenet lost 17 cents per share for its latest quarter, smaller than the 38 cent-a-share loss anticipated by analysts. Revenue missed expectations, however, with the hospital operator's results impacted by hurricanes as well as Medicaid cuts.
Kraft Heinz – The food maker said it would restate cash flow statements for two quarters after inadvertently putting a new accounting standard in place at the start of 2017 instead of 2018 as intended.
Toyota – The automaker raised its full-year profit forecast due to the effects of a weaker yen. The currency fluctuation is anticipated to offset pressure on Toyota's North American sales.
Apple – Apple's iPhone X has a larger profit margin than its iPhone 8, according to an analysis by teardown firm TechInsights. The iPhone X has a profit margin of 64 percent, compared to 59 percent for the iPhone 8.


Fear? What fear? That's the attitude exhibited by investors right now, according to strategists at Academy Securities. In fact, the biggest worry on Wall Street right now might be that no one is worried, they said.
In a note to clients Sunday, they point out that the CBOE Volatility Index (Vix) — which is widely used to gauge fear in the market — closed at 9.14 on Friday, its lowest level since calculations on the index began in 1990. It traded up 3 percent at 9.42 on Monday.
"This is just a good old-fashioned VIX beatdown because there is little left to scare markets," said Peter Tchir, head of macro strategy at Academy Securities, in the note titled "Nothing to Fear but Lack of Fear Itself."
Stocks have levitated to record highs this year, as investors continuously shrug off policy and geopolitical risks. So what's driving Wall Street's fearless attitude? Tchir points out several factors, including earnings and tax reform.
This earnings season has been a stellar one. According to FactSet, S&P 500 third-quarter earnings have grown 6.2 percent.
"Earnings, at least of the companies that matter most to market valuations and sentiment, have been good," said Tchir. "Earnings in the market-driving companies have been strong enough, and in the cases where there was disappointment, hope for future products overcame that concern."
This season follows two previously astounding ones. In the first and second quarter of the year, S&P 500 earnings grew 15.5 percent and 10.8 percent, respectively.
On the tax-reform front, the House released last week a bill aimed at overhauling the U.S. tax code. Among the biggest changes would be permanently lowering the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent.
"The bill itself seemed to deliver on a lot of what was promised, especially for corporations — which should be good for markets," Tchir said.
Other factors mentioned by Tchir were seasonality (stocks have historically performed well this time of the year) and seemingly diminished geopolitical risks out of North Korea (at least in the market's eyes).





Investors are witnessing the second leg of the bull market, and stocks likely have eight to 10 more years to grow, closely followed strategist Jeff Saut told CNBC on Tuesday.
"The second leg is usually the longest and the strongest. That's where earnings start to come on stronger and the economy improves. I think that's where we are now," said Saut, Raymond James' chief investment strategist.
"I think this market's got another seven, eight, nine, 10 years left in it," Saut told "Squawk Box."
The current bull market is 8 years old, the second longest advance in S&P 500 since World War II without at least a 20 percent drop.
Stock futures were mixed on Tuesday, one day after U.S. equities closed at record highs. The Dow Jones industrial average has closed at a record high 57 times this year, while the S&P 500 has closed at a record high 52 times.


Investors should avoid buying CVS Health due to Amazon's competitive threat and the pharmacy chain's overly ambitious acquisitions strategy, according to one Wall Street firm.
Jefferies reduced its price target to $76 from $86 and reaffirmed its hold rating for CVS Health shares, telling its clients to stay on the sidelines until the uncertainty passes.
Despite the report, CVS' share prices were up 1 percent Tuesday morning.
CVS reported better-than-expected third-quarter earnings Monday morning. The company also revealed a next-day and same-day prescription drug delivery service in select markets. Its stock declined 3.5 percent Monday, closing at $66.80 after the announcements.
"Based on recent trading patterns (including yday's reaction to CVS's introduction of same-day/next-day Rx delivery that some viewed as a defensive move against a supposed Amazon's entry into Rx), it is evident that overhangs related to speculation of an Aetna purchase and Amazon's supposed pharmacy plans are the more relevant drivers of [near term] stock performance," analyst Brian Tanquilut wrote Tuesday.
"Since it is difficult to refute either overhang, we believe investors will continue to put a discount on CVS shares until some clarity emerges on these issues."
The company's shares have underperformed the market this year due to concerns Amazon is considering selling prescription drugs online. CVS Health stock is down 15 percent in 2017 through Monday, compared with the S&P 500's 16 percent return
Reports last month said CVS Health is in talks to buy health insurance company Aetna in potential health-care megadeal. Some analysts have speculated CVS Health may be considering the acquisition of Aetna to protect itself from potential Amazon disruption.
"They needed to defend the business from encroachment by Amazon," RBC Capital Markets analyst George Hill told CNBC on Oct. 26. "Amazon's ability to impact the business over the near to mid term is low, but the ability to impact the stock is high." CVS Health did not immediately respond to a request for comment.


Despite threats posed by North Korea's nuclear missile program, continuing political crisis in the European Union and delays in the execution of pro-business policies in the United States, business leaders in the United States, Europe and Asia continue to express optimism about economic prospects for the next 12 months.
That's based on the latest YPO Global Pulse survey, a quarterly reading of CEO sentiment across the globe, which increased slightly in the third quarter. Regionally, confidence from business leaders in the United States and Asia were both up, while the index for the EU dipped slightly.


Is there such a thing as too much momentum in today's market? Not according to one technician, who says stocks haven't seen this much force since 1999.
Jonathan Krinsky of MKM Partners compared the MSCI Momentum index, which tracks stocks with the best performance over the prior year, with the S&P 500.
"The spread between the two is 15 percent for the year right now," he said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation." "That's the biggest spread in favor of momentum since 1999, so it's not surprising that we're getting people thinking that we've gone too far."
While the market's sustained momentum has some investors nervous, Krinsky said it isn't showing hints of two key indicators that show the trade is going too far.
The first is when momentum stocks stop outperforming and start breaking down below their moving averages. The second is when they extend even higher from their moving averages, creating what the technical analyst calls a "blowoff scenario," where essentially the stock runs up too far and "exhausts all the buyers."
Since neither scenario looks to be on the horizon, Krinsky says the typical high momentum stocks, namely the FANG stocks, banks and some of the semiconductor stocks, still have room to run.
But if investors are looking for more of a catch-up trade, Krinsky also believes energy stocks are looking more attractive. The "anti-momentum trade," as he refers to the sector, has actually seen heavier trading volume on positive days despite still being the second worst-performing sector of the year.
The Dow, S&P 500 and Nasdaq all closed at all-time record highs on Monday.


Walt Disney Co. is set to report its quarterly earnings on Thursday after the closing bell, and AdvisorShares portfolio manager Eddy Elfenbein will be watching the report closely. Here's why.  • CNBC reported on Monday that 21st Century Fox has been in talks to sell most of the company to Disney. "We don't know if a deal will come out, but we know they're serious about it. I think we'll very likely see more deals like this over the coming years," he said Monday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."  • Aside from the prospect of the reported deal, Disney is of great importance as a bellwether for the strength of the consumer, Elfenbein said, with their wide-reaching properties across entertainment, news, cruises and amusement parks.  • As for ESPN, which falls under Disney's umbrella, "It will be interesting this quarter to watch because they have their ESPN subsidiary, and they have not been doing well over the past few years. They really have been shedding subscribers," Elfenbein said.  • Ultimately, Disney stock is a hold right now, he said. "If you have it, keep holding on. It's a great long-term investment. For those who don't have a position, I would hold off for now, because you may see a better entry point over the next six to 18 months," he said.  Bottom line: Ahead of earnings, Elfenbein wouldn't get into Disney shares if an investor does not already hold a position in the stock.  Disclaimer: Eddy Elfenbein does not own shares of Disney.


Oil prices surged to their highest levels since the summer of 2015 on Monday as a major political shakeup in Saudi Arabia underpinned a rally fueled by geopolitical risk, analysts said.
Crude futures hit the new highs overnight after the powerful Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman coordinated the arrest of several princes and ministers, ostensibly as part of crackdown on corruption.
Prices pulled back in morning trade as the market digested a wealth of analysis on the Saudi purge, but futures suddenly shot higher at midday. International benchmark Brent crude oil topped $64 a barrel for the first time since June 2015. Meanwhile U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude broke above $57, a level the market has not seen since July 2015.
WTI finished Monday's session $1.71 or 3.1 percent, higher at $57.35. Brent was trading up $2.04, or 3.3 percent, at $64.11 by 2:27 p.m. ET.
U.S. crude intraday performance

Analysts cautioned against pinning the surge on any one headline, or even the Saudi arrests alone. Instead, they said a growing cloud of geopolitical uncertainty was unleashing animal spirits in an already bullish market.
"You can grab all sorts of different headlines when you have a runaway market, and this is a runaway market right now," said Tom Kloza, global head of energy analysis at Oil Price Information Service.
In this kind of environment, "people throw caution to the wind, and this is like the grand finale of fireworks," he said.
On Monday, Nigeria's oil minister signaled his country might be ready to contribute to OPEC-led output cuts to help bolster the market. OPEC has aimed to keep 1.8 million barrels a day off the market this year to shrink brimming global crude stockpiles. Nigeria, OPEC'a biggest African producer, was exempt because a wave of attacks sidelined much of its oil supply last year.
"We're in a bullish phase, so any kind of comment like this, the market seems to be reacting strongly to," said John Kilduff, founding partner at energy hedge fund Again Capital.
Andy Lipow, president of Lipow Oil Associates, also noted that the Niger Delta Avengers, the group behind energy sector sabotage in Nigeria, backed out of a ceasefire on Friday.


Pershing Square Capital's Bill Ackman still has high hopes that Chipotle will rebound and become a big winner for his hedge-fund.
"We're going to work hard to help the company turn," Ackman said on CNBC's "Halftime Report" Monday. "This is an eminently fixable company ... This is still a great concept."
The hedge fund manager said Chipotle can improve its financial results by adding drive-throughs, longer hours and a breakfast offering and by expanding overseas. The burrito chain restaurant has struggled to win back customers after a series of food safety issues.
"We're not just betting on a recovery from the food safety issue," Ackman said on CNBC. "This is one of the least optimized of the quick service restaurants."
The investor also shared how he is valuing the restaurant chain.
"The right way to look at it in our view is not just to put a multiple on next year's" earnings, he said. Instead he looks at "what's a reasonable trajectory for a recovery and what will the earnings be two years out? Four years out? ... And then discount those earnings back in time. On that basis it's a very cheap stock if they can perform."
Chipotle dropped 15 percent on Oct. 25, a day after the company reported disappointing third-quarter results. Its shares are down 27.5 percent year to date through Friday compared to the S&P 500's 15.6 percent gain.
Pershing Square is the largest shareholder of Chipotle. The firm owned 2.9 million shares, or 10.2 percent of the company, as of the end of June, according to FactSet.
Ackman has stumbled in recent years with high-profile losing bets like Valeant Pharmaceuticals.
Pershing Square Holdings has been underperforming the stock market this year. The fund is down 3.3 percent year-to-date return through Oct. 31, according to its website.


Oil prices surged Monday, hitting the highest level in more than two years, and one market watcher says the political shake-up in Saudi Arabia over the weekend leads him to believe that the rally could just be getting started.
Arrests made on Saturday in Saudi Arabia of prominent leaders, including billionaire investor Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, appeared to buoy oil prices early Monday, sending the price of crude higher by more than 2 percent. The prospect of destabilization within the oil-rich kingdom could stand to benefit crude prices.The oil outlook is bullish at these levels, said Phil Streible, senior market strategist at RJO Futures, in a note Monday morning to clients. Crude's leg higher last Friday, he wrote, triggered a bullish breakout over a previous weekly high.
"A combination of internal political trouble in Saudi Arabia combined with another decline in U.S. rig operating counts and a definitive extension in 'risk on' psychology leaves the past of least resistance pointing upward," he added.
Kevin Caron, senior portfolio manager at Washington Crossing Advisors, is less optimistic on the space, cutting his rating on the energy sector from overweight to neutral. As oil prices have remained volatile this year among supply concerns, the S&P 500 energy sector has badly lagged the market as the second-worst performing sector in 2017.
"The stock market has rallied strong in anticipation of a better economy and here it is — oil prices are up in the last year or so, but supply concerns are ahead. So at this point, we're fairly neutral on the commodity, and the group," Caron said Friday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." WTI oil on Monday hit its highest level since July 2015, trading as high as $57.33 per barrel, up 35 percent from its 2017 low in June.
Disclaimer


The value of the Knicks basketball franchise is surging, according to a top Wall Street firm.
JPMorgan reaffirmed his overweight rating and raised its price target for Madison Square Garden shares to $260 from $245, citing a higher estimate for the Knicks worth.
"We estimate MSG shares trade at ~40% discount to the private market value of its assets," analyst David Karnovsky wrote in a note to clients Friday. "We expect the value of those assets, in particular the New York Knicks and New York Rangers, to rise, driven by higher team revenues and a favorable supply/demand dynamic for professional sports franchises."
MSG shares are up 33.5 percent year to date through Friday compared to the S&P 500's 15.6 percent return. The company's stock closed at $228.90 on Friday.
Karnovsky noted how the Houston Rockets sold for $2.2 billion or a 33 percent premium to the Forbes' value estimate. In addition, 49 percent of the Brooklyn Nets sold for a $2.3 billion valuation or a 28 percent premium to Forbes' estimate.
As a result, the analyst is increasing his appraisal for the New York Knicks value to $3.7 billion from $3.3 billion, the current Forbes' estimate.
The price target "increase is driven by a higher estimated value for the New York Knicks," he wrote.
Madison Square Garden Company owns multiple sports franchises including the New York Knicks, the New York Rangers and the New York Liberty. The company also produces live entertainment in a number of venues such as New York's Madison Square Garden and Radio City Music Hall.
The New York Knicks have outperformed low expectations this year with a 5-4 winning record and breakout performances from Kristaps Porzingis. The budding star is averaging more than 30 points per game.


Macy's is getting slammed, and one technician says the charts are pointing to even more pain ahead of earnings this week.
It's been a tough year for retailers — the retail ETF XRT has fallen nearly 10 percent, while the S&P 500 is up more than 15 percent in 2017. "Look at these numbers, it is something out of a horror movie. These are declines that are epic," Carter Worth of Cornerstone Macro said Friday on CNBC's "Options Action."

Macy's has been one of the hardest-hit retailers as the stock has lost half of its value and tumbled to multiyear lows. While some may be trying to pick a bottom, Worth cautioned that "often the greatest moves come from things that are already down a lot, and Macy's is at risk."

Looking at a long-term chart of Macy's, Worth pointed out that the stock broke its trend 2 to 3 years ago, and could retest its all-time low of $5.07.
"Why can't it go [back down] there? ... If you own it, get out," he added.
Analysts polled by FactSet are expecting the company to post earnings of 19 cents on $5.3 billion of revenue.


Wall Street is buzzing over Broadcom's blockbuster unsolicited $70 per share offer to buy Qualcomm, which values the chipmaker at more than $130 billion including debt.
If completed, the deal would be the largest technology acquisition on record, according to Dealogic.

The size of the deal also ranks as the third biggest overall since 1995, the research firm added.

Shares of Qualcomm rose 2.3 percent midday Monday following the bid announcement, while Broadcom's stock was roughly flat.
Qualcomm rose 12.7 percent Friday, when reports of a potential bid from Broadcom were first released.


Credit Suisse updated clients on its favorite stock ideas, adding eight new names to its top list.
This is our "'one-stop shop' for the research team's best ideas. Every U.S. research analyst identifies and ranks up to three top stock picks," Credit Suisse analyst Arbin Sherchan wrote in a report Monday. The analysts are "highlighting only high conviction ideas."
Each pick is based on a six- to 12-month time horizon and includes a synopsis of the stock's performance and analyst outlook.
Here are five companies that made Credit Suisse's recommended list and their price targets.


Oil prices are more likely to rise toward $70 a barrel than sink back to $50 in the wake of the biggest political shakeup in Saudi Arabia in decades, according to Roberto Friedlander, head of energy trading at Seaport Global Securities.
Crude futures rose to highs going back to mid-2015 overnight after Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman orchestrated the arrest of several princes and ministers over the weekend. The Saudis framed the purge as a crackdown on corruption, though some analysts said it was likely a move by bin Salman to consolidate power as he embarks on an ambitious effort to reshape Saudi Arabia's economy.
Following three years of soft oil prices, the Saudis have drained budget surpluses and now need to return to economic growth in order for the crown prince to survive, Friedlander said in an email briefing on Monday. The purge of powerful figures such as Prince Miteb bin Abdullah, the former head of the National Guard, appears calculated to remove opposition to bin Salman's plans, he said.
"The Saudi Situation means $70 before $50," Friedlander wrote.
Bin Salman, who is widely expected to soon become king, is trying to generate growth by transforming the Saudi economy. Selling off a stake in state oil giant Saudi Aramco next year is the cornerstone of the plan, called Vision 2030.


Archrivals Intel and AMD teaming up to launch a chip for thin and lightweight laptops is "gutsy," CNBC's Jim Cramer said Monday.
AMD shares surged Monday after the announcement that the two companies will produce a laptop-computer chip that combines an Intel processor and an AMD graphics unit for complex video gaming.
The Wall Street Journal first reported the deal Monday morning.
"Intel and AMD have hated each other since their formation," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "So, this is amazing."





President Donald Trumponce again claimed that he is responsible for the U.S. stock market's yearlong rally.
Onboard Air Force One, Trump told reporters that he's the reason major equity indexes are trading at record highs.
"The reason our stock market is so successful is because of me," the president said. "I've always been great with money, I've always been great with jobs, that's what I do. And I've done it well, I've done it really well, much better than people understand and they understand I've done well."
It's not the first time the president has boasted that his presidency has propelled the market higher. "Stock Market has increased by 5.2 Trillion dollars since the election on November 8th, a 25% increase," Trump tweeted last month.

Many corporate executives agree that Trump should get some credit for the rally.
In September, more than three-quarters of respondents to the CNBC Global CFO Council poll said Trump deserves at least some of the credit for the stock market's record run in 2017, with 17.1 percent saying he deserves "most of the credit."
The CNBC Global CFO Council represents some of the largest public and private companies in the world, collectively managing more than $4 trillion in market capitalization across a wide variety of sectors. The quarterly poll was conducted Sept. 5-13.
— CNBC's David Spiegel contributed to this report.


The noise out of Washington regarding changes to the Affordable Care Act and health care seems to never end. Despite the lingering uncertainty, there are several longer-term industry trends worth highlighting.
For advisors, it's important to spot areas most likely affected by those trends and evaluate whether they represent potential growth opportunities for client portfolios.


When the stock market acts unexpectedly, CNBC's Jim Cramer says you just have to roll with the punches, like investors did with the stocks of Activision Blizzard and Starbucks on Friday.
Both companies reported their quarterly earnings after Thursday's bell. Activision Blizzard, the video game giant behind "Call of Duty" and "Candy Crush," beat analyst estimates and raised its full-year guidance. Shares popped in early-hours trading on the better-than-expected results.
Meanwhile, shares of Starbucks shed more than 3 percent after the coffeemaker reported a revenue miss, slowing domestic same-store sales and slashed long-term guidance.
"But when the market opened this morning, Activision Blizzard's stock collapsed while Starbucks' stock soared," the "Mad Money" host said. "How the heck is that even possible? Well, you see, it's all in the expectations."
When a company's earnings results are lower than Wall Street's expectations, its stock typically declines. When they are higher than what the Street expects, the company's stock tends to rally.
In Starbucks' case, most of its larger shareholders saw the growth rate cut as "a given," Cramer said. Smaller investors who weren't expecting the guidedown sold the stock on Thursday, but buyers who expected it bought into Starbucks on Friday morning, erasing its losses.
The stock soared further after Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson's interview on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street," in which he talked about the company's 20 percent dividend increase, share buyback program, mobile pay improvements and accelerating growth in China.
Activision Blizzard's management, on the other hand, made the mistake of talking about holiday sales competition on its post-earnings conference call, the "Mad Money" host said.
News of the company's expanding esports business and professional Overwatch league fell on deaf ears.
"What's ironic here is that I think that Activision Blizzard should be bought and bought aggressively, which is something we told members of the ActionAlertsPlus.com club many times today," the "Mad Money" host said. "But you know what? I would not chase the stock of Starbucks here unless we knew for sure that the guidance they gave, the new guidance, wasn't too optimistic."


The Fed's campaign to reduce its $4.4 trillion balance sheet is now taking effect and showing up in the data.
Thursday's Federal Reserve report on its portfolio holdings shows a near $6 billion decline in its holdings of Treasury securities. It's the biggest outright weekly decline since 2012.

It's just the leading edge of more to come as the Fed gradually ramps up its effort to "normalize" its balance sheet. The Fed hasn't explicitly said what level it's aiming for, only that it will ramp up its sales of Treasurys and mortgage-backed securities to a point where it eventually is reducing them at a clip of $50 billion a month.
The decline in mortgage-backed securities, which is already taking place, should begin showing up in the data next month.


CNBC's Jim Cramer told investors to hang on to the stock market's "benign" action on Friday ahead of another potentially raucous week of earnings.
"You combine a good, not too hot, not too cold non-farm payroll number from the Labor Department that had little wage inflation, throw in some blockbuster earnings and voila, you get the kind of benign action that gives you multiple opportunities to make money," the "Mad Money" host said.
From the skyrocketing shares of Apple and the stabilizing health care space, Cramer saw plenty of opportunities in Friday's market, but wondered if they would follow through to next week.
With that in mind, Cramer turned to the stocks and events he'll be watching next week:



After DuPont spun off paint manufacturer Axalta in 2012, the new stock initially spiked before spending a year trading sideways. This year, AkzoNobel expressed interest in buying Axalta, and Axalta's stock surged.
It's no secret that CNBC's Jim Cramer loves corporate breakups, but spinoffs, when a company separates from a smaller, undervalued segment, are slightly different.
"Look, not every spinoff is a success. I mean, it's just not that easy, right? But if you know what to look for, a good spinoff can often became a big winner," the "Mad Money" host said. "So let's talk about what works in a spinoff, what leads to an Axalta-type situation, and who could be the next Axalta."
In 2015, DuPont (which merged with Dow Chemical in September 2017 to become DowDuPont) spun off its commodity chemical business into a new company called Chemours.
Cramer recommended Chemours for speculation in 2016 because its core business, titanium dioxide, started showing signs of a turnaround, and the new entity's management was aggressively cutting costs.
"My only regret is that I didn't pound the table even harder," Cramer said. "Since then, Chemours has vaulted from $7 to $55. That's a 647 percent gain, monster, crushing the performance of the broader market and its old parent company."
Cramer also got enthusiastic when Johnson Controls spun out Adient, its automotive seating business, in October 2016. He recommended Adient's stock in January of this year, and sure enough, it has rallied 41 percent since, outpacing both Johnson Controls and the S&P 500.
"That's after Adient's stock sold off hard [Thursday], down 5 percent when the company reported what many people thought was a disappointing quarter," Cramer said. "I didn't see anything wrong with it. This might be the buying opportunity."
Not every spinoff works right away though, Cramer said, turning back to Axalta. Private equity giant The Carlyle Group bought Axalta from DuPont in 2012, taking it public shortly after.
Shares of Axalta surged until mid-2015, when sales weakness and Carlyle selling its majority stake in Axalta put pressure on its shares.
Since then, the stock has traded mostly sideways, even after Valspar sold its North American coatings business to Axalta cheaply as a part of its merger with Sherwin-Williams.
But chemical giant AkzoNobel's interest in Axalta restored the stocks momentum. Axalta shares popped 22 percent on the news, even as the company had just reported a sub-par quarter.
"Which brings me, again, to the other reason I love spinoffs: They can make very attractive takeover targets," Cramer said. "Often times, a big conglomerate will resist selling off one of its divisions to a competitor, but split that division off as a separate company, give it its own board of directors and its own shareholders, and suddenly, they become a lot more amenable to a takeover."
Where can investors find the next spinoff winners? Cramer pointed to Honeywell's plans to spin off two of its segments, car parts and home systems, into separate companies; DowDuPont's three-part breakup; and FMC Corp.'s potential spinoff of its lithium arm.
"Here's the bottom line: Spinoffs can be very lucrative. Even when they don't seem to be working, you can win anyway, maybe from a takeover if the stock just sits there like we saw in Axalta," the "Mad Money" host said.


CNBC's Jim Cramer told investors to hang on to the stock market's "benign" action on Friday ahead of another potentially raucous week of earnings.
"You combine a good, not too hot, not too cold non-farm payroll number from the Labor Department that had little wage inflation, throw in some blockbuster earnings and voila, you get the kind of benign action that gives you multiple opportunities to make money," the "Mad Money" host said.
From the skyrocketing shares of Apple and the stabilizing health care space, Cramer saw plenty of opportunities in Friday's market, but wondered if they would follow through to next week, which will get an earnings report from Nvidia on Thursday.
Even though this Cramer-fave semiconductor stock has run so much, Cramer still sees a lot to like, particularly given the strong demand for chips for self-driving cars and graphics processors used for gaming systems like the Nintendo Switch.
"But the stock does have a habit of trading down after it reports, so I want you to wait until we hear the conference call before you do any buying," Cramer said.


The only major Wall Street strategist with an official price forecast for bitcoin turned "cautious" as the digital currency soared above $7,000 to record highs.
We are "cautious short-term on bitcoin," Fundstrat co-founder Tom Lee said in a Thursday report. He said bitcoin has gained far more than fundamentals warrant right now.
Fundstrat's model for bitcoin factors in the number of unique bitcoin addresses — a string of letters and numbers used to identify accounts — and the estimated number of transactions per user. In August, the model indicated that bitcoin would rise to $6,000 by the middle of 2018.
Bitcoin shot past that figure to an all-time high of $7,454.04 on Friday, according to CoinDesk. A surge of investor interest in the digital currency has sent it soaring more than seven times in price this year.
Bitcoin 12-month performance

Source: CoinDesk
DataTrek Research co-founder Nick Colas, a market strategist who began writing about bitcoin several years ago, also pointed out in a Friday note that digital currencies are still not an asset class by traditional criteria of size and fundamentals.
"Crypto currencies do not yet have as robust a regulatory framework around them as stocks, bond, currencies or other traditional asset classes," Colas said. "Some prominent financial markets professionals even think that governments may eventually ban them. No one talks that way about stocks and bonds."
Several major investors and banking executives have said in the past several months that bitcoin is a bubble that may soon burst. Elliott Prechter of The Elliott Wave Theorist newsletter predicted nearly seven years ago that bitcoin would surge from 6 cents. But Prechter said in July that the mania around bitcoin now dwarfs the tulip bulb mania from nearly 400 years ago.
With bitcoin just above $7,000 on Thursday, Lee said in his report that the currency is overwhelmingly in "weak hands," or held by investors who are chasing price gains and who would quickly sell on any negative turn in sentiment.
Lee maintained a 2022 target of $25,000 for bitcoin. His team's technical analysis indicates if bitcoin falls below $6,450, the lowest it will fall is $5,000, the September high. Before starting Fundstrat in 2014, Lee was chief equity strategist at JPMorgan.
The world's largest futures exchange, CME, said Tuesday that in response to client interest it plans to launch bitcoin futures by the end of the year. Amazon.com this week also registered three website domains that include references to cryptocurrencies, although the move may be more to protect the company's brand name. The e-commerce giant has said it has no plans accept cryptocurrency.
In contrast to Lee's cautious turn, stock analyst Ronnie Moas of Standpoint Research said Friday that following the latest headlines, he is raising his 2018 price target on bitcoin from $7,500 to $11,000. Moas began covering bitcoin this summer around the same time as Fundstrat and has a $50,000 target for 2027, a nearly sevenfold gain from Friday's prices.
Bitcoin has come a long way from being followed by a small group of enthusiasts to the focus of a new product from a major exchange. More than 120 so-called cryptofunds have launched to invest in bitcoin and other projects related to cryptocurrencies, according to financial research firm Autonomous Next.
Not meeting the traditional criteria of an asset class is "no reason to avoid" digital currencies, Colas said. "By the time they meet the high hurdles of 'Asset class' status, much of the high-powered return potential will be in the past."


October's flat wage growth and big drop in labor participation look like negatives for an economy that has been steaming along, but economists are writing it off as storm damage and expect the Fed to raise interest rates.
October job growth was 261,000, less than the 310,000 expected by economists in a spring-back from September's hurricane-related decline. September data was revised upwards by 51,000 jobs, so job creation is now a positive 18,000 for the month. Job growth for the two months averages 140,000, below the recent trend.


Bears are known for hibernating, but its the bulls in the oil market that might as well settle in for a long nap, according to Wells Fargo.
The bank expects the current bear market for oil to last another five to 10 years, Wells Fargo Investment Institute analyst Austin Pickle wrote in a new research note. During that time, U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude prices are likely to remain stuck between $30 and $60 a barrel.
If that call is correct, it means there's little upside for WTI, which came just 2 cents shy of its 2017 high of $55.24 on Wednesday.
U.S. crude 40-day performance

Supercycle bear markets typically last 20 years, but this one may not run that long, according to Pickle. These prolonged slumps have been shortening over the course of the last century. The last commodity bear supercycle lasted about 16 years from 1983 to 1999.
"Why do bear markets last so long? After the excesses of the bull market, and the wake-up call of a spike in bust rate, the companies that remain cut costs anywhere they can, prioritize investments, and become more efficient," Pickle wrote.
"Money is no longer being thrown at every imaginable oil play, and only the most cost-effective oil producers remain. As a result, the remaining companies survive low oil prices for longer," he said.
The current cycle, sparked by a "flash flood of production" as U.S. drillers learned to extract oil and gas from shale rock formations, sent prices spiraling to $26 a barrel in February 2016 from more than $100 a barrel in the summer of 2014.
"Bear markets in commodities are a consequence of human behavior in the preceding bull market. Higher prices invite investment in new technology (such as shale oil extraction) — and then production, production and more production — until, eventually, supply overwhelms demand," Pickle said.

The bear market has already gone through the first step of the healing process: weeding out the weakest players. Roughly 22 percent of exploration and production companies went bust during this phase, compared with about 26 percent in the 1986 oil price crash, according to Wells Fargo.
But the second step of the process — crude stuck within a certain range of prices — typically drags on for years, Pickle warned. It lasted more than 12 years from the '86 crash to the start of the new bull market in 1999 during the previous bear supercycle. So far, the current downturn is following the same price trend.
The last step is exasperation, when companies and investors, exasperated by years of little to no profits, throw in the towel. Drillers shut down and investors look for other opportunities. As investment in the industry dwindles, demand for the commodity overtakes supply, and a new bull market is born.


Pandora Media stock plunged 26 percent on Friday as things went from bad to worse after its third-quarter earnings report.
The company revised its fourth-quarter revenue forecast downward, to a range of $365 million to $380 million, Pandora CFO Naveen Chopra revealed on a conference call with investors Thursday evening. That is well below the consensus estimate of $413 million before the report, according to FactSet.
Pandora also reported weak revenue for the third quarter. Four firms downgraded the company's stock in response, lowering expectations for the company from buy to hold.
The shares were down 26 percent to $5.44 Friday afternoon.
"We have been trying to stick with Pandora through its multiple management changes and multi-year turnaround process," JPMorgan analyst Doug Anmuth wrote in a note. "However, near-term advertising trends are deteriorating and we believe it will take time for the company to realize the benefits of its ad tech investments."
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Stifel Nicolaus and FBR joined JPMorgan in revising ratings of Pandora's stock lower.
"We are a bit taken back as the company appears much further behind in its ad tech product map than we have appreciated and the company's deficiencies appear more severe," SunTrust analyst Matthew Thornton wrote in a note.
Pandora's revenue in the last quarter was $379 million, below expectations of $380.6 million in a Thomson Reuters survey of analysts. Advertising revenue, which accounts for the bulk of Pandora's overall revenue, grew 1 percent year over year but missed analyst expectations. Pandora reported $275.7 million in advertising revenue, which also came in below the $289.3 million projected by StreetAccount.
"There's no silver bullet that's going to come in and solve these problems," CEO Roger Lynch said in a conference call with investors. He said investments in ad targeting and reporting technology would start to have an effect throughout 2018.
The stock was already struggling this year, falling 43 percent for 2017 through Thursday's close, according to FactSet.


CNBC's Jim Cramer sees the Federal Reserve raising interest rates next month after Friday's strong jobs number.
The Labor Department said Friday the economy added 261,000 jobs in October, a pickup from September, and the unemployment rate dropped to 4.1 percent.
"I'm going to just stick with what we need on this and say you're going to get a rate hike on this," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street." "You can do it. There's less slack."
"It's all systems go," Cramer added.
As widely expected, the Fed did not raise interest rates at its policy meeting this week, but there was little indication a December rate hike was off the table.
The CME FedWatch tool on Friday morning put the chances of a rate increase in December at about 96 percent.
The central bank has raised rates twice this year as part of a program for a normalization of monetary policy.
Cramer also said the jobs numbers are in sync with the stock market's rally. "Growth without inflation is still the single-best thing you can have for stocks, and that's what this number gave," the "Mad Money" host said.
Stocks were mixed Friday morning as the major averages looked to extend a string of weekly wins, which has Wall Street hitting record after record this year.
Friday's job report showed wage growth disappointing, with earnings off by 1 cent an hour.
"It's certainly not based on average hourly earnings, which it's really incredible how you can be this tight at 4.1 and people not getting 40 cents or 30 cents more," Cramer said.
But, he added: "It's growth without inflation which has been historically unbelievable for the stock market."



If you don't know exactly what a "bull market" is, you're in good company.
According to results from a financial fitness quiz conducted by American Century Investments and Investopedia, more than half of the 2,260 respondents could not define the financial term.
CNBC spoke with Nick Holeman, certified financial planner at Betterment, who explained everything you need to know about a bull market.


The job market rebounded strongly in October from the hurricane induced job slump in September. Averaging the job gains of the past several months shows a jobs gain of closer to 175,000. This is probably not too far off the economy's underlying job growth – abstracting from temporary factors, like the hurricanes, and the monthly vagaries of the data, which there are always many.
Job growth is thus close to double the growth in the labor force. The labor force has been growing more quickly as of late, last month's dip aside, as labor force participation has improved somewhat with the better job market. Workers disenfranchised during the tough economy of the past decade have been coming back to work. However, this has largely played out, and participation will soon begin declining again as the large baby boomer cohort continues to retire en masse.
The tight labor market is getting tighter. Unemployment fell again last month, and is on track to fall through 4 percent by early next year. The last time we experienced sub-4 percent unemployment was briefly at the end of the technology boom around Y2K. Like then, labor shortage are becoming a big problem for businesses in many industries and regions of the country – there are a record number of open job positions – and this problem is sure to become even more acute.


Wall Street titan Jeff Vinik told CNBC on Friday there's still plenty of money to be made in the stock market despite record high levels.
"Look at the economic conditions we have right now. We've got good economic growth, and we have low inflation," said Vinik, once head of the largest U.S. mutual fund, Fidelity Magellan.
"Yes, valuations are as high as they've been in a long time, but I maintain economic conditions are as good as they've been in a long time," Vinik said on CNBC's "Squawk Box." "While there will be corrections along the way, I think valuations are going to stay high for a long period time, and I think there's money to be made in the stock market."
U.S. stock futures were modestly higher on Friday as the major averages looked to extend a string of weekly wins, which has Wall Street hitting record after record this year.
When asked about the GOP tax bill, Vinik, owner of pro hockey team Tampa Bay Lightning, said there's likely to be several changes.
"The easy work has been done. The hard work is ahead," he said. "When we look at things like that, in terms of sports facilities being built, there's usually a way to get these things done."
After months of work, House Republicans on Thursday released the details of their new tax plan. The bill would lower the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent. It would also take away tax-exempt bonds for private stadiums being built.


Bitcoin skyrocketed past $7,400 on Friday, hitting yet another record high.
The virtual currency had shot past the $7,000 mark for the first time Thursday and finished on  $6,895.41 toward the end of the session.
According to CoinDesk, the cryptocurrency reached a renewed all-time high of $7,454.04 at 6:40 a.m. ET Friday, after opening at $7,030. The jump in price saw bitcoin rise 6 percent.
Analysts believe more institutional investors could warm to the digital token after derivatives operator CME Group announced it would introduce bitcoin futures contracts this year.
"This is bitcoin crossing the divide from the wild west of finance to the mainstream," Charles Hayter, CEO of cryptocurrency comparison website Crypto Compare, told CNBC in an email Thursday.
"Futures from an incumbent exchange bring bitcoin and cryptocurrencies into the regulatory fold. This allows more complex financial products to be created and will eventually open the doors to institutional money."
CME's futures will be cash-settled and based on the CME CF Bitcoin Reference Rate (BRR), launched in November last year with Crypto Facilities, a digital cryptocurrency trading platform.
The bullish activity that followed CME's announcement also saw the total value of all cryptocurrencies surge past $200 billion for the first time. The market cap of bitcoin alone is more than $124 billion.
Bitcoin's price has risen 640 percent since the start of the year.


Apple shares are surging as Wall Street is growing more bullish on the smartphone maker's iPhone X launch Friday.
The company reported better-than-expected September quarter earnings results and gave a December quarter sales guidance range above Wall Street expectations at the midpoint Thursday evening.
Apple shares hit an all-time high, opening up 3.5 percent Friday as notes poured in from Wall Street that were positive on last quarter's earnings and even more optimistic about the iPhone X.
"Apple closed FY17 on a solid note then offered healthy guidance for the first quarter of the iPhone X," Nomura Instinet analyst Jeffrey Kvaal wrote in a note to clients Friday.
"Recent supply chain improvements allay concerns of severe supply constraints. We expect consensus to come towards our high end estimates."
The iPhone X is available in stores Friday at a base model price of $999. Thousands have lined up around the world to be among the first to get their hands on the much anticipated phone.
Kvaal reiterated his buy rating and $185 price target for Apple shares, representing 10 percent upside to Thursday's close.
Morgan Stanley is confident the new higher-priced model will spur current iPhone users to upgrade.
"We see iPhone X unlocking pent-up iPhone upgrades, especially in China," analyst Katy Huberty wrote on Friday. "Near-term, we see pent-up demand heading into a significant form factor change that is likely to accelerate iPhone unit growth."
Huberty reaffirmed her overweight rating and raised her price target to $200 from $199 for Apple shares.
On the flip side, one Wall Street analyst doesn't believe iPhone X's success is assured.
While the September quarter "results were solid, we believe investors' main focus is on whether Apple can sell a $1,000 premium phone in significant quantities, something we won't have a good sense of until later this year, at the earliest," Deutsche Bank analyst Sherri Scribner wrote on Thursday. "Until then, we expect bulls and bears to remain in their own camps, with this quarter's results unlikely to sway views."
Scribner maintained her hold rating for Apple shares.
Apple's stock is up 45 percent year to date through Thursday compared with the S&P 500's 15 percent gain.


I'm watching the Russell 2000 closely, as it's begun diverging from the S&P 500 recently, and that could signal trouble ahead for the broader market. The small-cap Russell 2000 typically moves in tandem with the S&P 500, and has begun underperforming. While the small caps have fallen nearly 1 percent over the course of the last month, the S&P has rallied 2 percent in the same time. Looking back at the history of such a divergence, I think of the trend we saw in 2015, when the Russell 2000 topped out two months before the S&P 500 did the same. This began a 14 percent decline for the S&P. This isn't a major problem just yet, so I'm not waving a red warning flag on this index. However, if its recent mild underperformance becomes more substantial, it will raise questions about the durability of the U.S. economy heading into next year. That, in turn, will raise concern for the rest of the market, too. After all, the Russell 2000 index should be the main beneficiary of Trump's tax reform package if (and I repeat, if!) Congress can pass it somewhat intact. That being said, passing it somewhat intact is going to be very difficult, so this index could and should be a good indicator for the tax package. Given that so many personal deductions are being done away with in this new package, as we learned on Thursday, it's going to be very tough to get it through the Senate. Much of the reason behind this year's rally has been based upon "synchronized global growth," but the U.S. economy is still the most important economy in the world, and if we don't see an extensive tax package passed, the U.S. economy will have a tough time sustaining its recent strong growth. This is also something the flattening yield curve is already telling us.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Apple – Apple reported quarterly profit of $2.07 per share, compared to consensus estimates of $1.87. Revenue also beat forecasts and Apple also gave strong current-quarter guidance. Shipments of iPhones, iPads, and Mac computers all came in above Street projections. Separately, long lines have been reported overseas as the company's new iPhone X hits stores today.
Starbucks – Starbucks matched estimates by reporting adjusted quarterly profit of 55 cents per share, but the coffee chain's revenue came in below forecasts and it also trimmed its profit forecast as competition heats up. Starbucks saw its sales impacted by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
Moody's – The credit rating agency reported adjusted quarterly profit of $1.52 per share, 13 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also topped analysts' forecasts. Moody's saw the strongest revenue gains from its corporate and structured finance businesses.
Sotheby's – The auction house lost 45 cents per share for its latest quarter, smaller than the 68 cent loss anticipated by analysts. Revenue also exceeded forecasts, with the company benefitting from improved sales and better results from financing activities.
Bloomin' Brands – The operator of Outback Steakhouse and other restaurant chains missed estimates by three cents a share, with adjusted quarterly profit of 12 cents per share. Revenue did beat forecasts. The company also cut its full-year forecast to an adjusted $1.31 to $1.36 per share, below the current consensus estimates of $1.40. The company said its results were impacted significantly by hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
CBS – CBS beat estimates by four cents with adjusted quarterly profit of $1.11 per share, although the media giant's revenue missed forecasts. Ad revenue fell by three percent, with the quarter containing one less National Football League broadcast than the year-ago quarter.
AIG – AIG lost $1.22 per share for its latest quarter, wider than the 79-cent-a-share loss that Wall Street was expecting. Revenue missed forecasts, as the insurance company absorbed sizable hits from hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria.
Activision Blizzard – Activision reported adjusted quarterly profit of 60 cents per share, 11 cents a share above estimates. The video game maker's revenue also topping forecasts. Activision raised its full-year forecast, as well, with results boosted by the success of its "Destiny 2" game.
Pandora – Pandora posted a quarterly loss of six cents per share, two cents a share smaller than Wall Street had projected. The streaming music service's revenue came in below forecasts, however, as Pandora faces intense competition from services like Spotify and Apple Music, and is having difficulty increasing ad sales.
Tableau Software – Tableau fell a penny a share short of expectations, with an adjusted quarterly profit of eight cents per share. The analytics software maker revenue missed estimates, however, and the company gave a downbeat current-quarter forecast. Tableau's short-term results are being impacted by its ongoing shift to a subscription model.
T-Mobile US – T-Mobile has made a revised offer to merge with rival Sprint, according to The Wall Street Journal, after the talks had reached an impasse. The paper said Sprint is considering the offer from its wireless service rival.
Amazon.com – Amazon is ending its AmazonFresh grocery delivery service in some areas, according to a statement. A spokeswoman for Amazon told Reuters the move had nothing to do with the company's acquisition of Whole Foods earlier this year.
Paccar, Navistar, Cummins – These and other truck and engine makers could get a boost today after industry tracker FTR reported that North American orders for Class 8 semi-trucks more than doubled in October from a year earlier.
Boingo Wireless – Boingo lost nine cents per share for its latest quarter, four cents a share less than Wall Street had anticipated. The provider of airline WiFi services also posted better-than-expected quarterly revenue. It also raised its full-year forecast as it signs agreements with more carriers.
Stamps.com – The company earned $2.68 per share for its latest quarter, well above estimates of $1.95 a share. The postage services provider also saw revenue beat forecasts. The company also raised its full-year outlook.


The long-awaited tax bill has finally arrived, and it does indeed reduce the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent. But buried in the bill (page 217 of the 429-page bill) are a few short paragraphs that appear to limit the deductibility of corporate debt.
The outcome of this is not exactly clear, but it has Wall Street talking.
"This may curtail issuance of corporate debt to buy back stock, and it may limit some LBO [Leveraged Buyout] activity, which creates high levels of debt," said Peter Tchir of Academy Securities.
Shares of private equity players like KKR and Blackstone, which are heavily involved in LBOs, tumbled today on the news.
Here are the three relevant paragraphs:
''(1) IN GENERAL.-In the case of any taxpayer for any taxable year, the amount allowed as a deduction under this chapter for business interest shall not exceed the sum of-
'(A) the business interest income of such taxpayer for such taxable year, plus
'(B) 30 percent of the adjusted taxable income of such taxpayer for such taxable year "
I spoke with Andrew Brenner at NatAlliance Securities, who provided me an example of how this might affect a company's deductions.
Say you are a company that has $1 billion in adjusted taxable income and $200 million in interest expenses. Under this bill, it appears you will be able to deduct the entire expense because it is only 20 percent of adjusted taxable income.
However, things would be different if interest expenses were $400 million. In that case, you would only be able to deduct $300 million, or 30 percent of your adjusted income. The remaining $100 million could not be deducted that year.
Does that means it's lost forever? Not necessarily.
Buried even deeper in the bill is a paragraph called "Carryforward of disallowed interest." This proposal allows you to deduct the remaining $100 million of interest expense in the following year up to the fifth year after the expense is incurred.
What's going on?
"They seem to be interested in trying to curtail issuance of debt," Tchir noted, probably because the deductibility of interest makes debt financing more attractive than equity financing.
Curtailing debt issuance would have one obvious effect, Tchir told me. It would reduce supply in the corporate bond market, which may be good for bond prices.
But one thing's for sure, anything that curtails buybacks will catch the attention of the Street.
Corporations bought back roughly $250 billion in the first half of this year, according to Standard & Poor's. Goldman just released its 2018 forecast of fund flows and forecasts that next year corporations will again be the single biggest buyers of stock because of share buybacks.
Corporations are not just the single biggest buyers of stock. Without their participation, flows would be negative, according to Goldman.
2018 Equity Demand Forecast: Who will buy stock?
Corporations                  $590 billion inflows
ETFs                                $400 billion inflows
Foreign                            $100 billion inflows
Households                    $  10 billion inflows
Mutual funds                  $125 billion outflows
Pensions                         $250 billion outflows
Foreign equities by US  $250 billion outflows
Credit ETF                       $  75 billion outflows
Source: Goldman Sachs, Federal Reserve Board
See what I mean? Without buybacks, instead of net equity demand of $400 billion in 2018, there would be nearly $200 billion of outflows.
Yikes! No wonder the Street is worried about anything that upsets this apple cart.


CNBC's Jim Cramer knows that sentiment matters when stocks are constantly being driven higher by a raging bull market.
But the "Mad Money" host also knows that sentiment is extremely difficult to measure. So Cramer has started asking people why they don't like the market. So far, he's been met with a cacophony of eye-opening answers.
One major reason Cramer has heard is that people can't afford to invest in the stock market, despite Cramer's advice to start with small investments and build on their gains.
Often times, Cramer asks if they like their iPhones. When they say they do, he asks why they wouldn't go buy shares of Apple.
"They typically screw up their faces and say, 'I don't know. I have no idea.' Well, let me tell you something. The company that is Apple reported tonight and it was one of the greatest blowouts I have ever seen," Cramer said. "Spectacular revenue growth, amazing earnings, a re-acceleration in China, bountiful services stream, and you just try getting an [iPhone] 10. Just try."
Cramer said that he was proud of his faith in Apple CEO Tim Cook, adding that so many people are "oblivious" to Apple's stock and the plays that benefit when it soars, like Broadcom.
"No one got Apple right except for us," he said. "What a shame, as this company, with a market cap approaching what could be $1 trillion, could have made fortunes for people if they would just understand that you can own — not trade, but own — a piece of this amazing company."


After negative reactions to Facebook's and Tesla's respective earnings reports on Wall Street, CNBC's Jim Cramer made a somewhat contrarian call.
"You know what? I think the stocks of these two companies could reverse and go higher after a couple of days of selling," the "Mad Money" host said. "It has to do with the way they handle their conference calls after they report their earnings, and how they approach their investor bases and make their promises."
Cramer began with Tesla. The automaker posted a larger-than-expected loss in the third quarter due to production problems with its Model 3 sedan.
Elon Musk, Tesla's outspoken CEO, tried to mitigate analysts' concerns on the conference call, acknowledging the production issues but saying that, once they're fixed, Tesla could become a production machine with the highest profitability in the industry.
The Street responded in kind, sending shares of Tesla down nearly 10 percent on Wednesday. But individual investors could respond differently, Cramer said.
"There's a retail investor cohort who actually cares about different things," Cramer said. "You gotta have faith, and individual investors, they've got just that when it comes to the stock of Tesla. They believe in Tesla, which is why they'll soon come in to buy the stock because they love the car and they don't care about things like profit or gross margins or earnings per share."
Musk's followers tend to forgive his over-promising and under-delivering, even if the analysts who cover Tesla don't. Cramer said that he could see Tesla's stock withstanding another round of financing on the faith of its fans.
Facebook's third-quarter earnings report beat analyst estimates, but the company's situation is different, Cramer said.
The social media giant's management tends to under-promise on conference calls, like in 2016 when they said they expected Facebook's ad revenue growth rate to "come down meaningfully."
After this quarter, shares of Facebook fell on the company's statements that countering bad actors like Russian hackers on its platform will significantly impact profitability.
"Facebook's stock was up 4 [basis] points before [CEO Mark] Zuckerberg said that and added, 'protecting our community is more important than maximizing our profits,'" Cramer said. "I think this comment's just like the ad slowdown comment. It's done to temper expectations as well as make it clear to Congress that Facebook's good actors."
So, even as neither conference call inspired much near-term confidence, Cramer pointed to the statistics: Tesla's stock is up 50 percent for 2017 and Facebook's stock is up 58 percent.
"They both have their narratives, one hopelessly upbeat, the other ridiculously downbeat, and both work longer term even with the short-term pressure they're under," the "Mad Money" host said. "Two different strategies, same stock results a few weeks later, as the stocks first go lower and then climb right back up again."


CNBC's Jim Cramer has been following the bull market in payment processing and the rise of digital transactions for a while, pounding the table on plays like Visa and PayPal.
But there are more ways to play the global cash-to-credit shift besides credit card companies and payment processors, so Cramer decided to analyze Global Payments, an international merchant acquirer that enables retailers to accept electronic payments.
"The stock of Global Payments has rocketed up more than 48 percent year to date, so good that, yes, I'm kicking myself. I wish I had highlighted it earlier," the "Mad Money" host said. "These guys own the client relationships in the payments business and they're the ones who set pricing. They also have some e-commerce, cross-border and gambling-related solutions."
When somebody makes a purchase with a credit card, it sets off a complex chain of events. First, the retailer that sold the item sends transaction information to its merchant acquirer (Global Payments, for example), which sends it to the credit card network (say, Visa).
The credit card operator then gives the information to the customer's bank, which validates and pays for the transaction. In the end, the credit card network only makes less than one-fifth of 1 percent of each transaction. The merchant acquirer — in this case, Global Payments — makes a 2 to 3 percent cut.
Cramer said Global Payments' outlook drastically improved when it bought Heartland Payment Systems in 2015 for $3.8 billion.
The deal, which was completed in April 2016, gave Global Payments an array of new small- and medium-sized clients, helping boost its exposure to new industries like restaurants. It also added 1,400 salespeople across North America to Global Payments' roster.
All together, the Heartland acquisition is expected to produce $1 billion in added revenues and $60 million in cost savings in 2017 alone. Long term, it is expected to boost Global Payments' revenue growth by up to 2 percent, part of the reason why the stock has caught fire this year.
"Meanwhile, Global Payments is looking to expand internationally," Cramer said. "Right now, the rest of the world accounts for roughly a quarter of the company's sales. Asia, Europe, [the] Middle East, Africa, [and] Latin America is where the real growth is, so they're aggressively trying to take share overseas."
Typically, Cramer doesn't like to invest solely on earnings reports. But given Global Payments' bullish guidance, strategic partnership with Vista Equity Partners and e-commerce expansion, he made an exception to his rule regarding the company's third-quarter earnings report on Nov. 8.
"I don't like to game the earnings reports, but if Global Payments delivers another good quarter next week and the stock gets dinged anyway, I wouldn't be surprised if you're getting another buying opportunity," he said.
And shares of Global Payments are trading at less than 22 times next year's earnings estimates, slightly more expensive than its closest rival, Vantiv, but much cheaper than payment networks than Visa, which trades at 27 times next year's earnings.
"Bottom line: I love the payments space. That's why we own the cheapest one for my charitable trust — club members know First Data, which hasn't been acting well but is so inexpensive, is the one that has got the best value — but if you want a little-known company that's essential to the payments food chain, then you could do a whole lot worse than Global Payments," Cramer said. "Only concern? [The] stock's run a lot this year. Yeah, ideally, you could wait for a pullback. How about this: half before, half after."


CNBC's Jim Cramer knows that sentiment matters when stocks are constantly being driven higher by a raging bull market.
But the "Mad Money" host also knows that sentiment is extremely difficult to measure. Financial newsletters, which often lean bullish or bearish, are falling out of style. Mutual fund data offers an empirical look, but can be incomplete or disappointing.
"[Mutual fund inflows] remain pretty dismal, [with] more money coming out in the last month than going in despite the stunning gains we've seen," Cramer said. "Many weeks still produce big outflows from stocks, good weeks where people make money. Call that negative sentiment for certain."
Then there's anecdotal evidence. Cramer often gathers this from roundtables and conferences he attends. Lately, people seem to be getting more interested in the stock market (not committed, but interested, he noted).
"And you know what? I like that. I think the lack of warmth or love or even nodding acceptance of stocks as something that can make you money is downright wonderful for the bulls. See, if investors were all in, I would have to be very concerned," the "Mad Money" host said. "When everybody already loves stocks, you've got no tinder to start the fire."
The lack of enthusiasm suggests that there's still money on the sidelines that hasn't entered the market and, in Cramer's view, could be the key the bull market's next leg higher.
In the stock market's heyday, Cramer said he couldn't walk 5 feet down Wall Street without being asked about a stock.
Nowadays, people may ask him for photos or what he thinks about the unregulated cryptocurrency bitcoin, but very few ask him about individual stocks.
(Regarding bitcoin, Cramer usually points them to a  2012 episode of The Good Wife in which he vouched for bitcoin as a guest star in the courtroom.)
So Cramer has started asking people why they don't like the market. So far, he's been met with a cacophony of eye-opening answers.
"I'd say about a third of them tell me, 'I'm just not interested because it's too dangerous,'" the "Mad Money" host said.
Most of those people told Cramer that they lost everything in the 2008 financial crisis or the 2000 dotcom crash and would rather keep cash than invest in stocks.
"[It's] pretty amazing given how poorly cash has done versus stocks. The risk aversion is tremendous," he said.
Cramer has also heard from people who have been waiting for ages for a pullback and say they "missed the rally." A third group told Cramer that they didn't invest because of politics.
The fourth reason Cramer has heard is that people can't afford to invest in the stock market, despite Cramer's advice to start with small investments and build on their gains.
"The belief that only the rich own stocks and make money in them because the market's rigged against the little guy is a pretty constant refrain," the "Mad Money" host said.
All in all, Cramer has not ignored the trajectory of this rally. With the exception of the drug stocks, the consumer foods plays and the retailers, the bull market has been surging. But he has noticed that the sentiment doesn't match the gains.
"I believe that as long as people are incredulous or disdainful or scared of this market ... then there's trillions of dollars of tinder on the sidelines that can come in and take stocks higher," Cramer concluded. "And that process is pretty self-fulfilling; as they take stocks up, their old memories of the bad times disappear [and] new ones are created based on a better economy and a realization that the stock market, and even the most obvious of companies as plain as the nose on my face, can make you a heck of a lot more money than any other asset class under the sun."


Cliff Asness believes financial markets will offer weak returns from these levels.
"More expensive markets lead to lower expected returns," Asness said at the 2nd Annual Evidence-Based Investing Conference in New York on Thursday. He added that "both stocks and bonds [will offer] lower expected returns than normal."
Asness predicts investors with a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds will only generate 2 percent real annual returns.
The portfolio manager warned however not to bet against or short the market.
"Don't market time with this. Valuation of markets is a disastrous market timing tool and a super weak strategy," he said. "Evidence is strong over long-term, high CAPE [multiples mean returns for the] next 10 years are low."
Nobel Prize-winning economist Robert Shiller developed the "cyclically adjusted price-to-earnings ratio" (CAPE) market valuation measure, which is calculated using price divided by the index's average historical 10-year earnings, adjusted for inflation.
Asness is founder and chief investment officer of AQR Capital Management, a leading quantitative investing firm. AQR has $208 billion of assets under management, according to its website.


Shares of T. Rowe Price and other asset managers rose Thursday after the House Republican tax plan preserved popular retirement savings plans, including 401(k)s.
Shares of the company rose 1.8 percent Thursday after slipping about 4 percent over the past two weeks on fears that legislators in Washington were considering reforms to the popular savings plan.
Certain Republican lawmakers had toyed with the idea of cutting contribution limits to $2,400 as Congress looked to make up for other tax cuts. Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas, a top tax writer in the House of Representatives, said cuts to how much people can contribute were still on the table as recently as last week.
The GOP tax plan leaves current contribution limits in place, meaning $18,000 for 401(k) plans for 2017. Those 50 and over can contribute as much as $24,000.
Experts were concerned that lowering limits on pre-tax 401(k) contributions would indirectly encourage workers to save less for retirement. Most Americans already save too little for their retirement needs.
Shares of BlackRock, Invesco and Ameriprise Financial all traded higher after details of the plan were released.
The Republican tax reform plan will also permanently lower the corporate tax rate to 20 percent.



U.S. crude prices retreated after coming within striking distance of their 2017 high on Wednesday, raising questions about whether a rally that started in June has reached its peak.
On the one hand, the trend of future oil prices suggests that a prolonged global glut of crude is coming to an end. But at these elevated levels, prices are also susceptible to disappointing data points and profit-taking as traders look to cash in on recent gains.
Crude futures shed more than $1 a barrel on Wednesday after government data showed U.S. crude stockpiles declined less than earlier industry figures indicated. The Energy Department's report also showed U.S. oil exports hit an all-time high, while the nation's production crept toward record levels.
U.S crude 4-day performance

U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude prices ended the session down 8 cents at $54.30 a barrel and were trading near that level on Thursday. International benchmark Brent crude settled 45 cents lower at $60.49 and was slumping toward $60 a barrel on Thursday.


Bond yields fell and the dollar weakened as markets greeted the House tax bill with skepticism and concern about how hefty corporate and individual tax cuts will ultimately get paid for without ballooning the federal deficit.
Details of the House plan trickled out with traders watching headline by headline. The plan cuts the corporate tax rate to 20 percent permanently, compresses individual tax brackets and would repeal estate taxes in 2024.
But some of the contentious elements of the plan, like a limit on mortgage deductions to $500,000 and a new $10,000 limit on the deduction of state and local taxes, are expected to put heat on lawmakers as they attempt to create a final bill.
"It's pretty ambitious, and now the real fighting is going to begin. Now you see who is going to pay the price as opposed to what people get," said Michael Schumacher, director, rate strategy at Wells Fargo.
Yields fell across the Treasury curve, but less at the short end. The dollar also slid with the dollar index down 0.2 percent at 94.65. Stocks were mixed but homebuilding stocks were under pressure and the XHB, SPDR S&P Homebuilders ETF, was down 2.5 percent, its worst day since October 2016.
The S&P 500 was off slightly, while the Dow was higher. The Russell 2000 was also up slightly. The small caps in the Russell would benefit disproportionately compared with larger companies, which pay a lower average tax rate.
"It did seem like there was a little bit of buy the rumor, sell the fact. Treasury yields fell, and that weighed on the dollar," said Win Thin, senior currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman. "We know this is the first stab. I think the mortgage deduction is a bit of a nonstarter. There's going to be pushback. I'm not sure why you would trade on this. There's nothing built in stone."
Aaron Kohli, BMO director, fixed income strategy, said there was skepticism that revenue streams in the plan would be able to win approval from Congress.
"The math doesn't add up," he said. "The market is skeptical of how the warring factions within the GOP and between the GOP and Democrats will really come together enough on this to get the necessary votes."
Schumacher said the Treasury curve was continuing a flattening move Thursday, meaning the yields at the long end, or on the 10-year note, are getting closer to those at the short end, the 2-year note. He said if the bill was expected to pass as is, there would be a steepening with long end rates rising, in anticipation of more government bonds to pay for the tax package.
The yield curve has also been flattening on Treasury announcements on refunding which suggest there will be more issuance at the short end, impacting bills and the 2-year.
Schumacher said the move in the 2-year reflected that as well as the tax package. The 2-year yield was 1.61 percent, off slightly from Wednesday, while the 10-year slid to 2.34 percent from 2.38 percent Wednesday.


Shares of Activision Blizzard have soared 81 percent this year, and Oppenheimer technician Ari Wald says the stock's about to fly even higher.
"Activision is a high momentum stock and it does warrant a buy rating in our work," he said Wednesday on CNBC's "Power Lunch." "The thing with these high momentum stocks is they could do nothing for months at a time, but the longer-term strength ultimately continues higher and I think that's what's going on for Activision."
While the video game maker has traded between $60 and $66 since July, Wald pointed to three key factors that he thinks will ultimately get the stock to break out.
"Our bet is that given the positive momentum, the rising 200-day moving average and top-down tail winds from a relatively broadly structured tech sector, we think it is more likely that you get an upside breakout than a downside break," he added.

But not everyone is as excited about the gaming stock. Cowen's David Seaburg, for instance, believes the shares have risen almost too far, too fast, and has already priced in some key events.
"[Our analysts at Cowen believe] that competition is heating up immensely, and 2018 growth assumptions are just too high and not achievable," Seaburg, the firm's head of sales trading, said on "Power Lunch." "So he expects that the quarter will be fine, but earnings expectations are baked into the stock price here."
In other words, "any pop on Friday morning out of earnings is a sell," said Seaburg.
Despite falling Wednesday, Activision is still hovering near all-time highs ahead of its earnings report after Thursday's close.


Tesla shares dropped more than 5 percent Thursday as Wall Street questioned how much leeway it should continue to give the automaker's outspoken founder, Elon Musk.
Tesla reported a wider-than-expected loss Wednesday evening and said the production of its mass market Model 3 sedan won't meet previous forecasts for another three months. That sparked a sell-off in the shares in after hours trading that continued into Thursday morning as Wall Street analysts voiced their disappointment with Musk's comments on a conference call to discuss the numbers.
Tesla now expects to reach a Model 3 production rate of 5,000 cars a week late in the first quarter of 2018. Previously, the electric car maker said it expected to reach that rate by the end of 2017.
"We left the call frustrated with the lack of transparency from Tesla management," Cowen's Jeffrey Osborne wrote in a note to investors.
More than one analyst remarked about the company's lack of commitment to a date when it would reach production of 10,000 Model 3 units per week, which it has previously put at some point in 2018.
"Perhaps more disconcerting was the electing to not guide to the time when it would reach 10K per week (previously said to be sometime during 2018)," said JPMorgan analyst Ryan Brinkman. "The combination of these two guidance changes is likely to result in a significant reduction in production expectations."
JPMorgan slashed its projection for Model 3 production in the fourth quarter to 10,000 from 15,000.
Analysts are focused on Model 3 production because Tesla has said it plans to use cash from that business to fund new projects, said Goldman Sachs analyst David Tamberrino. Tesla plans to reveal a semitractor-trailer on Nov.16, a crossover called the Model Y at some point in the next few years, a pickup truck and the second generation Tesla Roadster.
"We see the timeline for these products as likely pushed out," Tamberrino said.
There are some bright spots, said Deutsche Bank analyst Rod Lache.
"On the positive side, we can see scenarios in which TSLA is able to overcome temporary production challenges, manage distribution/service challenges, execute on growth, achieve aggressive margin targets, and build a cash generative/self-sustaining growth engine (if Tesla's production and margin targets are achieved, the company could reach FCFbreakeven by late-2018)," Lache said in a note. "However, given the company's current cash burn and potential for delays in achieving production targets, we believe that the margin for error is once again becoming uncomfortably thin."


Bitcoin hit another all-time high Thursday morning, surpassing $7,000 for the first time.
The cryptocurrency has had a bullish streak throughout the week following the CME's announcement that it will introduce bitcoin futures contracts.
According to data from CoinDesk, the virtual currency reached an all-time high of $7,355.35 at about 7:16 a.m. ET before trading at $6,895.41. The jump in price saw the virtual coin rise by more than 7 percent on the day.
A surge in the digital coin's value saw the total market value of all cryptocurrencies top $189 billion for the first time Thursday. The market cap of bitcoin alone is currently more than $121 billion, according to data from industry website Coinmarketcap.


Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:
Alibaba – The China-based e-commerce beat estimates on both the top and bottom lines, and reported a 3.8 percent increase in mobile monthly active users to a total of 549 million.
Yum Brands – The restaurant chain operator earned an adjusted 68 cents per share for its latest quarter, one cent a share above estimates. Revenue also exceeded forecasts, as comparable-store sales rose at KFC, Taco Bell, and Pizza Hut.
ADP – The payroll processor beat estimates by six cents a share, with quarterly profit of 91 cents per share. Revenue also beat forecasts and the company raised its full-year revenue outlook.
Wayfair – The high-end furniture retailer lost 65 cents per share for its latest quarter, 20 cents a share wider than the loss that Wall Street was expecting. Revenue also missed forecasts, although the company said it was taking more market share and improving its shopping experience for customers.
Blue Apron – The meal kit company lost 47 cents per share for its latest quarter, five cents a share more than estimates. Revenue beat forecasts, however, as Blue Apron's average revenue per customer rose.
Teva Pharmaceutical – The drugmaker earned an adjusted $1 per share for the quarter, four cents a share shy of estimates. The drugmaker's revenue also missed estimates. Teva said it experienced lower-than-expected sales contributions from new generic drug launches in the U.S.
AutoNation – The car retailer beat estimates by 16 cents a share, with quarterly profit of $1 per share. Revenue was short of forecasts. Same-dealership sales surged from a year ago, and AutoNation also announced an agreement with Waymo to service the self-driving operation's robovans.
Facebook – Facebook reported quarterly profit of $1.59 per share for the third quarter, 31 cents a share above estimates. Revenue also beat forecasts. Facebook's results were boosted by an increase in video ads, with total ad revenue up 49 percent from a year earlier.
Tesla – Tesla lost $2.92 per share for its latest quarter, wider than the $2.29 per share loss the Street had expected. Revenue was slightly above forecasts, but Tesla scaled back its Model 3 production targets as it deals with production bottlenecks.
Symantec – Symantec earned an adjusted 40 cents per share for its fiscal second quarter, falling three cents a share short of estimates. The cybersecurity company's revenue matched forecasts. Symantec also gave weaker-than-expected current-quarter guidance and said it had no plans to spin off its consumer business.
Qualcomm – Qualcomm came in nine cents a share above forecasts, with adjusted quarterly profit of 92 cents per share. The chipmaker's revenue also exceeded forecasts. Overall results were impacted, however, by a fine imposed by Taiwan regulators and the withholding of patent royalties from Apple amid a legal dispute between the two companies.
GoPro – GoPro earned an adjusted 15 cents per share for its latest quarter, well above the two-cents-a share consensus estimate. The high definition camera maker's revenue also beat forecasts, but it gave weaker-than-expected current-quarter and full-year guidance, as it continues to deal with production issues.
Shake Shack – Shake Shack came in two cents a share above estimates, with adjusted quarterly profit of 17 cents per share. The restaurant chain's revenue coming in just above consensus. The company also announced plans to add up to 26 new U.S. stores this year and up to 35 next year.
Cheesecake Factory – Cheesecake Factory fell four cents a share short of estimates, reporting quarterly profit of 56 cents per share. The restaurant operator's revenue also fell short, as same-restaurant sales fell 2.3 percent. Cheesecake Factory joined the list of companies noting a negative impact from the quarter's hurricanes.
Kraft Heinz – Kraft Heinz reported adjusted quarterly profit of 83 cents per share, one cent a share above estimates. The food company's revenue fell slightly short of expectations as processed food demand in the U.S. continued to weaken.
FireEye – FireEye lost four cents per share for the third quarter, three cents a share smaller than analysts had anticipated. The cybersecurity company's revenue exceeded forecasts. The shares are under pressure, however, after FireEye disappointed investors by forecasting a current-quarter loss.
Yelp – Yelp reported quarterly profit of nine cents per share, compared to the expected loss of two cents per share. The reviews website operator saw revenue beat forecasts in a quarter where CEO Jeremy Stoppelman said Yelp "executed well."
Fitbit – Fitbit lost an adjusted one cent per share for its latest quarter, a loss that was two cents a share smaller than consensus estimates. The wearable fitness device maker's revenue was slightly above estimates and the average selling price was up 12 percent from a year earlier. The company also gave an upbeat current quarter forecast, based In part on hopes for its new "Iconic" smartwatch.
Under Armour – The athletic apparel maker is losing two senior executives, according to The Wall Street Journal, with marketing chief Andrew Donkin and senior vice president Pamela Catlett departing.
L Brands – L Brands reported a two percent increase in comparable-store sales for October, compared to a consensus forecast for a 1.7 percent decline. The month's sales were boosted by unexpected increases at the company's Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works units.
HanesBrands – The company matched forecasts with adjusted quarterly profit of 60 cents per share. The underwear maker's revenue also matched expectations, but its shares are being pressured by weaker-than-expected current-quarter guidance.
Costco – The warehouse retailer reported an October comparable-store sales increase of 7.5 percent, compared to the StreetAccount consensus estimate of a 6.4 percent rise.


The U.S. Federal Reserve is on a "beautiful normalization" that balances rising interest rates and the stability of markets and the economy — something the next chairperson, whoever it will be, would not want to disrupt, Allianz Chief Economic Advisor Mohamed El-Erian said Thursday.
President Donald Trump is expected to nominate the next Fed chair on Thursday U.S. time. Current Fed governor Jerome Powell is seen as the front-runner for the job.
"The Fed's embarked on this beautiful normalization: It has stopped [quantitative easing], it has raised rates, it has declared a path to reduce its balance sheet without disrupting markets and without derailing the global recovery. And I don't think anybody will want to mess with this beautiful normalization," El-Erian told CNBC during the 2017 Barclays Asia Forum in Singapore.
That means that "nothing will change" in the short term, El-Erian added, with the Fed expected to raise interest rates in December and to continue pressing ahead with winding down its balance sheet.
Acknowledging that investors have been over-complacent with high levels of returns, El-Erian said a major uncertainty is whether more central banks can deliver a "beautiful normalization" like the Fed.


Wall Street largely gushed over Facebook's comfortable earnings beat, but analysts are keeping a wary eye on the social network's costs for security and content.
Shares of Facebook fell 2 percent in early trading Thursday, despite its much better-than-expected results Wednesday. The stock closed at a record Wednesday, up 59 percent for the year.
Analysts fear the controversy over how Russia surreptitiously used Facebook during the 2016 election is not just bad PR but may hit the social media titan's impeccable bottom line as the company invests further in security to take itself out of the political crosshairs.
"With the backdrop of Facebook, Google, and Twitter in front of the Senate Intelligence Committee on Wednesday, and generally increasing discussion of regulatory scrutiny of mega-cap tech, Facebook and Mark Zuckerberg in particular placed heavy emphasis on security and the integrity of the Facebook platform" during the company's post-earnings conference call, JPMorgan analyst Doug Anmuth wrote in a note to clients Thursday. "Importantly, Facebook will increase the number of people working on safety & security (both FTEs & contractors) from ~10k now to 20k over the next year."
While Anmuth felt that the company's efforts to curb fake news and hate speech on its platform would ultimately serve Facebook well, many analysts are concerned that increases in short-term spending may put pressure on attractive margins.
Facebook, Google and Twitter representatives have been testifying before Congress this week as lawmakers try to discover how each company allowed stealth Russian posts and whether there needs to be more regulation of tech companies. And while each company has voiced interest in dealing with interference in social media internally, the possibility of regulation also weighs on investor sentiment.
"Facebook's efforts will come in many forms — increasing transparency of political and issue ads, removing problematic content such as false news and hate speech and bulking up review of ad content," added Anmuth.
Anmuth wasn't the only analyst to comment on the company's plans.
"The changes are particularly aimed at curbing misuse of the platform similar to what the Russian government perpetrated during the U.S. 2016 election," Macquarie's Benjamin Schachter said in a note to clients. "Facebook plans to raise the standards of transparency for political ads on the site, rolling out a tool to let users see all of the ads a page is currently running, and also an archive of political ads the advertiser has run in the past."
Zuckerberg's company indicated that operating expenditures will increase 45 to 60 percent as the company funnels more cash into security, video content, augmented reality and artificial intelligence.
"We're building, we're doubling — in some cases more — our engineering teams focused on security," Zuckerberg said Wednesday. "We're building AI to go after more different areas of harmful content and finding fake accounts and other bad actors in the system. And I expect that all of these things will make our product better over the long term, but we will incur the expenses a lot sooner as we ramp up these efforts."
To be sure, Facebook's performance so far this year is nothing to complain about.
The company posted FX-neutral advertising revenue growth of 47 percent year over year thanks to ad pricing ramp, a "rare and impressive" feat according to Anmuth. Overseas growth in monthly active users — a key metric for Facebook — also looks promising to many analysts.
Shares have soared 59 percent this year, easily outpacing the S&P 500's impressive 15 percent climb since January.
"FB remains our top large cap internet pick and we think that momentum in the name can continue through the end of the year," wrote Jefferies analyst Brent Thill. "We see upside to average revenue per user, monthly active users, and Instagram."
Several analysts highlighted photo-sharing app Instagram as a potential catalyst 
 for Facebook and an area for increasing ad load.


The House Republican tax reform bill that's being unveiled on Thursday morning could boost long-term economic growth above the Trump administration's goal, said retiring Rep. Jeb Hensarling.
President Donald Trump, while talking about growth as high as 4 percent on the campaign trail, has been focusing lately on sustained gross domestic product advances of 3 percent.
Hensarling, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Thursday he believes the votes will be there to pass the GOP package of tax cuts for American workers and corporations.
"What I would encourage my colleagues to look at ... the difference between 3 and 3.2 [percent] economic growth versus 1.5 to 2 percent economic growth under the Obama plan," the Texas Republican said ahead of the unveiling of the tax plan.
"We are now finally, finally after a decade, seeing wages rise for working people. And right now under President Trump, we've had two quarters of 3 percent economic growth, and that's even without this plan,"  Hensarling said. "I think we're capable of maybe 3.5 percent economic growth. That's going to be make a huge difference to everybody."

However, many Democrats, including former Obama Treasury Jack Lew, believe the economy is not capable long-term growth of even 3 percent.
On CNBC Wednesday, Lew predicted sustained GDP growth "north" of 2 percent.
"We have demographic issues that are just a constraint that anyone would face right now," he said, warning that denying such factors "could lead you to make big mistakes."
One of those mistakes would be to implement the approach to tax reform that Republican leaders advocate, Lew said, arguing the U.S. can't afford it.


New highs in the U.S. stock market are certainly good news — for those who own stocks.
The bad news is, those who own stocks are only a small part of total U.S. households.
The investment class in the United States is small, and it's not getting bigger.
According to the latest Gallup poll of American households, only 54 percent own stocks, down from 62 percent before the financial crisis.
And many of the households only own small amounts of stock.
New York University economist Edward Wolff conducted a careful study of stock ownership in 2013 and found that 81 percent of the stock market worth is concentrated in the top 10 percent of households by wealth.
I spoke with Wolff and he was kind enough to update the numbers. It's gotten worse: 84 percent of the stock in the United States is owned by the top 10 percent of households by net wealth.


Tesla is going to be the top performing big name technology stock in the next five years, one noted analyst has told CNBC.
Gene Munster, a former analyst at Piper Jaffray and now venture capitalist at Loup Ventures, was speaking afterg Tesla's disappointing earnings on Wednesday.
The electric car-maker reported a larger-than-expected loss per share of $2.92. It also said that it expects to achieve a production rate of 5,000 Model 3 cars per week in the first quarter of 2018, after previously saying that this would be possible by the end of this year. The Model 3 is seen as a key driver of Tesla's future growth.
But the disappointing quarter has not deterred Munster from the future growth story.
"My outlook that this is going to be the best performing large cap tech stock in the next five years hasn't changed. The news tonight and the push back is a disappointment and I think that I'm in the camp betting that he's done this in the past and he will ramp (production of Model 3)," Munster told CNBC in a television interview.
"And I would just caution investor too. Again I'm fully behind this story, none of that has changed, but we are going to see other disappointments and it's just a bigger opportunity and he will capitalize on that."
Chief Executive Elon Musk said the production delay of the Model 3 was due to a supplier who had "really dropped the ball" at the Gigafactory. One of the issues is with a battery module used in the car.

