
Puerto Rico was in an economic crisis before it was slammed by Maria as a Category 4 storm. The island, which remains almost entirely without electricity, is already in the midst of an 11-year recession. It filed for the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history back in May.
Related: Puerto Rico: 11 years in recession and now no electricity
Estimates from Chuck Watson, an analyst with the disaster research group Enki Research, were slightly more conservative.
Watson expects that Puerto Rico will face $30 billion in total damages -- $20 billion in physical damages (both insured and uninsured) and $10 billion in lost economic productivity.
But even that level of damage would take a massive toll on Puerto Rico's $103 billion economy, since it represents roughly 30% of the territory's GDP.
The longer Puerto Rico is without power, the worse the situation will be, Watson said.
"If it takes six months to get the grid back online, you're getting more economic impact than physical impact," Watson said.
His current model assumes that it will take three months for 90% of Puerto Rico to have electricity restored.
Related: Hurricanes Irma and Harvey have racked up billions in damages. Who pays?
Watson said he's also concerned that people will decide to flee Puerto Rico permanently.
"A lot of people have family here on the mainland," he said. "It's almost like [Hurricane] Katrina in New Orleans, where a lot of people left and didn't come back. It really guts your economy, because a lot of people who leave are your middle class and your professionals."
The dire situation comes as Florida, Georgia and Texas continue to recover from Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
AIR Worldwide put insured losses for Hurricane Irma between $32 billion and $50 billion in both the U.S. and the Caribbean. The firm predicted that insured losses will exceed $10 billion for Hurricane Harvey.
Moody's Analytics said it anticipates that total damage from the two storms will exceed $150 billion.
But economists expect the U.S. areas affected by Harvey and Irma will recover much faster. Texas has the nation's second largest economy, and economic output reached $1.7 trillion at the end of 2016. Florida, the country's fourth largest economy, had a 2016 GDP of $947 billion.


EDGAR contains information about company earnings, share dealings by top executives and corporate activity, such as mergers and acquisitions. Accessing that information before it's disclosed publicly could allow hackers to make money by anticipating how a share price would respond.
Related: Why the SEC hack is a really big deal
It's still unclear what information hackers obtained or which companies might have been affected.
The breadth of the inspector general's review will include the scope of nonpublic information that may have been compromised, as well as the SEC's response to the matter, according to the chairman's testimony. Clayton, who took over the agency in May, said he's also asked investigators to provide recommendations on how to fix and control any deficiencies.
"We must remain on top of evolving threats when it comes to securing our own networks and systems against intrusion," said Clayton.
The IG's review will be in addition to the agency's own inquiry into the 2016 breach.
Clayton first revealed news of the breach on September 20 in a lengthy statement released by the agency. He said he waited to disclose the episode to Congress and the public until he "knew enough" to understand the details of the 2016 intrusion.
Notice of the cyberattack comes on the heels of another major security breach at Equifax (EFX), which affected 143 million individuals -- nearly half of all Americans.
According to Clayton's testimony, the 2016 breach of EDGAR was first discovered as part of a separate ongoing enforcement investigation by the markets regulator.
Related: U.S. regulator says hackers stole market-sensitive data about companies
Once learned, Clayton said, "I immediately commenced an internal review."
The chairman said the agency believes hackers were able to get into the system via a "defect [in] custom software" of the EDGAR system. Steps were taken to fix the broken software, and a department within Homeland Security was notified, he said.
The agency's initial review shows that "intrusion did not result in unauthorized access to personally identifiable information, jeopardize the operations of the commission or result in system risk," said Clayton.
Still, he said the agency's review and investigation is still ongoing and would take "substantial time to complete."
The SEC is still looking into the intrusion itself and whether there are other vulnerabilities in EDGAR's system, as well as illicit trading that may have occurred as a result of the breach.


"D.C. is literally a tale of two different cities," JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon said on Monday from a conference in Manhattan.
Dimon hopes the Washington D.C. investment will "lift up" residents in these underserved neighborhoods. He said the $10 million "may be the beginning of a much bigger thing."
JPMorgan (JPM) wants to encourage "inclusive growth" by deploying capital towards affordable housing, jobs-skills training and loans to minority-owned small businesses.
"We've done a terrible job -- we being collectively the leadership of America -- in trying to make sure all of our citizens don't fall behind," Dimon said from Fortune and Time's CEO Initiative. He urged business leaders and government to do more to address inequality by improving education, job training and relocation services.
JPMorgan's focus on Washington D.C. comes three years after the bank made a huge bet on Detroit by agreeing to pump $100 million into the bankrupt city over five years. JPMorgan claimed early success and eventually upped the investment to $150 million.
"If we can help in Detroit, we can help anywhere," Dimon said.
Related: Melinda Gates on women's poverty: Power is in the money
Washington D.C. is an obvious candidate for assistance from JPMorgan, which hauled in a record $24 billion in profits last year. While tony neighborhoods like Georgetown are booming, homelessness is a real problem in other sections.
The District has one of the highest poverty rates in the country, with 17.3% of its residents over the past three years living in poverty, according to government statistics.
That's despite the fact that Washington D.C.'s economy grew significantly faster than the overall economy last year. And its per capita income of $75,596 is more than 50% higher than the national average.
"There is this incredible income disparity," Peter Scher, JPMorgan's head of corporate responsibility, told CNNMoney.
Wards 7 and 8 are at the heart of Washington D.C.'s inequality issues. JPMorgan noted that these neighborhoods face high poverty and unemployment rates, limited affordable housing and the loss of businesses.
Washington D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser called JPMorgan's commitment to the city a "welcome addition" to grassroots efforts already in the works.
"We know that while D.C.'s economy is thriving, not enough residents are benefiting from our city's prosperity," Bowser said in a statement that included support from business and community leaders.
JPMorgan is devoting $5 million to try to address gentrification concerns raised by the development of the 11th Street Bridge Park, a project that will link some of the area's poorest neighborhoods with more affluent ones. Some fear this development will jack up rents, pushing out less affluent residents.
"The potential for lower and middle income people to be displaced by this is real," said Scher.
Related: JPMorgan gives $1 million to fight hate groups
Of course, JPMorgan also has a business reason for pumping money into the nation's capital. Scher acknowledges that the Washington D.C. metro area is a "growing presence for us" and one of the biggest economic regions in the U.S.
Dimon applauded collaboration between local nonprofits in Washington D.C. and Bowser. He contrasted that with the "train wreck" being caused by "mismanagement" of other cities and states he declined to name.
"Some governments, they are corrupt...They're stuck in the mud, so don't help them," Dimon told CEOs in the audience.


The issue came to a head after President Donald Trump said that NFL owners should fire anyone who protests the anthem. He said anyone who does protest is a "son of a bitch."
After more NFL players joined the protest on Sunday, Trump tweeted that he was "so proud of NASCAR" because it did not "put up with disrespecting our Country or our Flag - they said it loud and clear!"
So proud of NASCAR and its supporters and fans. They won't put up with disrespecting our Country or our Flag - they said it loud and clear!
On Monday, NASCAR released a statement in which it said it respects the national anthem and that it's "always been a hallmark of our pre-race events."
It also acknowledged the right to free speech and peaceful protest.
"Thanks to the sacrifices of many, we live in a country of unparalleled freedoms and countless liberties, including the right to peacefully express one's opinion," the statement said.
It noted that "sports are a unifying influence in our society, bringing people of differing backgrounds and beliefs together."
Related: NFL: No fines for teams that skipped national anthem
NASCAR's statement comes after several racing team owners warned drivers and crew members against taking a knee.
Team owner Richard Childress said that if any of his employees protested he would tell them "get you a ride on a Greyhound bus when the national anthem is over."
He said he told them "anyone who works for me should respect the country we live in. So many people gave their lives for it. This is America."
Team owner Richard Petty said he'd fire employees who decided to protest.
"Anybody that don't stand up for that ought to be out of the country. Period," Petty told USA Today. "If they don't appreciate where they're at ... what got them where they're at? The United States."
Richard Petty Motorsports said it did not have an official comment.
Compared with other sports leagues, NASCAR has less racial diversity among fans and drivers. However, driver Dale Earnhardt Jr. tweeted a message of support for peaceful protests on Monday.
He tweeted a quote attributed to President John F. Kennedy about how all Americans have the right to peacefully protest and that anyone who makes "peaceful revolution impossible" will "make violent revolution inevitable."
All Americans R granted rights 2 peaceful protestsThose who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable-JFK



On Monday, Villanueva's No. 78 jersey was outselling big names like Marshawn Lynch and Aaron Rodgers on the NFL Shop. Fanatics, which manages the site, said it was the top seller across all of its sports platforms.
His jersey may have surged in popularity, but Villanueva said during a press conference that his decision to walk out of the tunnel had caused a lot of embarrassment. He said he made his teammates, coaches and the team's owners look bad.
He said head coach Mike Tomlin told the players to come to a unified decision about what they would do during the anthem. Tomlin wanted unity in the response and when the team couldn't come to a decision, they resolved to stay in the locker room.
Villanueva said he only discussed walking to the tunnel with quarterback and captain Ben Roethlisberger and so many of his teammates weren't aware of what he was planning.
"When everybody sees an image of me standing by myself everybody thinks that the team, the Steelers are not behind me and that's absolutely wrong," he said. "It's quite the opposite because they all would have, the entire team would have been out there with me."
Villanueva was a captain and an Army Ranger who served three tours in Afghanistan and received several medals for his service, including the Bronze Star.
Related: NFL: No fines for teams that skipped national anthem

Protests during the national anthem began last year when former 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick took a knee to protest the treatment of black Americans, especially by the police.
During the press conference, Villanueva said he doesn't take offense to players kneeling.
"What people don't understand is people who are taking a knee are not saying anything negative about the military. They're not saying anything negative about the flag," Villanueva said.
"They're just trying to protest the fact that there is some injustices in America. And for people that stand up for the national anthem, it doesn't mean that they don't believe in these racial injustices; they're just trying to do the right thing."
Kaepernick's jersey also hit the top spot after he began the protest.
He pledged to donate all the money he made off jersey sales.
According to the agreement between the league and the players union, players get two-thirds of the money from jersey sales. The rest goes to the union, and some of that goes into a pool for all NFL players.


Here's what the vote could mean for Germany, Europe and the rest of the world.
A new government by Christmas?
With Germany's second biggest party -- the Social Democrats -- heading for a spell in opposition, Merkel has only one real option: a three-way coalition between her conservative CDU-CSU bloc and two smaller parties -- the liberal FDP and the Greens.
The parties have never governed together at national level, but earlier this year struck a deal to run the German state of Schleswig-Holstein.
"Coalition talks will be difficult, they always are," said Holger Schmieding, economist at Berenberg Bank. "But Merkel is good at bridging such differences."

Regardless of those skills, it will take time. Serious talks on forming a new government are unlikely to start until the middle of October, once the result of elections in the German state of Lower Saxony are known.
That means it may be December, or even early January, before the new government takes office.
Related: German inequality may have fueled far-right surge
It could be good for the economy
The three-way coalition could give an extra boost to the German and European economies.
Merkel's party and the FDP are likely to prioritize policies that favor business and trade, and all three have promised tax cuts. The Greens also want the government to spend more money supporting families.
Related: Germans are falling out of love with their carmakers
These policies would boost consumer spending, which could in turn lower Germany's trade surplus -- something that would please the country's European partners, as well as President Trump.
Still, any shift in overall economic policy is likely to be small.
"The big picture is that any fiscal boost will be modest," said Jennifer McKeown, chief European economist at Capital Economics. "None of the three parties plans to invest as much as the [Social Democrats] advocated and all of the major parties want to keep a balanced budget."
...but possibly bad for the car industry
The Greens are likely to push hard for their environmental policies. That could spell problems for German car makers, already shaken by the Volkswagen (VLKAY) diesel scandal and claims that they were operating a cartel.
Morgan Stanley economists said dealing with the fallout from these issues was likely to take center stage in German politics, given the importance of the automotive industry to the economy.

"On the whole, the Greens pursue more ambitious goals and a more radical response to the diesel scandal," Elga Bartsch and Jan Kozak wrote in a research note.
The Greens want to ban the registration of cars with combustion engines from 2030 -- a decade earlier than Britain and France have proposed. Merkel has hinted she could support a ban but has given no indication of the timing.
Shares in Volkswagen and BMW (BMWYY) slipped on Monday, despite narrow gains on German stock markets.
Related: Infrastructure is Germany's weak link
European integration could slow
The new government might take a more cautious approach to further integration between Europe's economies.
New French President Emmanuel Macron wants to push through radical reforms of the European Union. He argues that closer cooperation between countries that share the euro currency -- such as the introduction of a common finance minister and budget -- would make Europe stronger and more stable.
Before Sunday's election, Merkel had appeared willing to work with Macron on finding a consensus for reform. Now that might be harder for her, given the liberal FDP are skeptical.
"A final compromise should still see European integration move forward in the coming years. That said, it is likely to be at a slower pace than currently envisaged by Merkel and [Emmanuel] Macron," said Ricardo Garcia, economist at UBS.


Key Apple suppliers, such as chip companies Qorvo (QRVO), Broadcom (AVGO), Universal Display (OLED) and Skyworks Solutions (SWKS) have all slid since the iPhone launch as well.
The iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus went on sale last Friday, but customers have to wait until November for the more revolutionary iPhone X, which has no home button, an edge-to-edge screen, facial recognition and 3D animated emoji, or Animoji.
There have been reports of short lines at Apple stores and a general lack of enthusiasm for the iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus, which are viewed as more evolutionary products.
Review: The iPhone 8 cuts the cord and prepares for the future
It kind of makes sense. Unless you are really bummed about not having a home button to press, why not just wait a few weeks for the iPhone X to come out?
Trip Chowdhry, an analyst with Global Equities Research based in California, wrote in a report over the weekend that customers he surveyed at six Apple stores were telling him exactly that.
"We did not come across even a single customer who said they purchased the new iPhone 8, because of any compelling feature or innovation," he wrote. "Many potential customers came, saw the iPhone 8 and left. They said they will pre-order iPhone X."
Chowdhry said that people who were buying an iPhone 8 or 8 Plus were mainly doing so to replace older iPhones that had something wrong with them, i.e. a cracked screen, little memory left over for photos and apps or slow performance.
Jun Zhang, an analyst with Rosenblatt Securities, added that the initial sales in China for the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus were not that strong either, falling below the opening weekend sales of the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus a year ago.
Related: The iPhone 8 has landed
So should Apple investors be concerned? Probably not. Apple's stock is still up 30% this year. And it's only about 10% below the all-time high it hit earlier this month.
The company is worth three quarters of a trillion dollars and has more than $260 billion in cash at its disposal. So the recent pullback is hardly a sign of a coming iPocalypse for Apple.
Apple's shares have often soared before the unveiling of a new iPhone as details leak about specifications and new features, only to fall once consumers and investors realize that all the rumors were true.
But this time around there's the added wrinkle of there being several new iPhones coming out -- the 8 and Plus may be just mere incremental upgrades. The iPhone X, on the other hand, has a lot of new features that should excite consumers.
And that has the potential to really boost the company's results dramatically. Apple is in a bit of a funk. Wall Street expects sales for the current fiscal year, which ends on September 30, to be up just 6% and that earnings will increase by 8%.
That is relatively sluggish for Apple. But next year, thanks in large part to the iPhone X, analysts are forecasting a sales jump of 16% and a 22% boost in profits. So Apple investors probably don't need to be too concerned about the recent stock slump.


Players have been kneeling during the anthem since last year, when former 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick took a knee to protest the treatment of black Americans, particularly by the police.
Related: ESPN takes on the politics of Trump
NFL rules say teams have to be on the field at least 10 minutes before kickoff. Normally, skipping the anthem would violate that rule. Failure to be on the field on time typically results in a fine, NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart said.
Lockhart told reporters Monday there would be "no discipline" for teams that weren't on the field on Sunday.


That includes $1 million from Shahid Khan, the Pakistani-American owner of the Jacksonville Jaguars, who linked arms with his players during the National Anthem before his team's game in London.
In a statement, Khan also criticized Trump, who said that when any player disrespects the flag, owners should say, "Get that son of a bitch off the field right now."
Related: How NFL owners responded to Trump
The Kraft Group, the business of Patriots owner Robert Kraft, who has been a vocal supporter of Trump, also gave $1 million. So did Robert McNair, owner of the Houston Texans and a contributor to the Trump campaign.
Both issued statements critical of Trump's comments and supporting the right of players to take a knee during the anthem, as did Cleveland Browns owner Jimmy Haslam, who gave $100,000 to the inaugural along with $300,000 from his company.
Related: After Trump, sports media gets political in a whole new way
Some of the owners who gave money to the inaugural issued statements supportive of players' right to take a knee during the anthem but not directly critical of Trump.
Those include Stan Kroenke, owner of the Los Angeles Rams, who gave $1 million, and Tampa Bay Buccaneers co-chairman Joel Glazer, whose brother and co-chairman, Ed, gave $250,000.
Christopher Johnson, who has run the Jets since Trump tapped his brother, Woody, to be ambassador to Britain, also issued a statement supportive of the players but not directly critical of Trump. Woody Johnson gave $1 million to the committee.
Related: How NFL owners responded to Trump
The committee collected $1 million each from two owners who did not address Trump's comments this weekend: Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, who gave through a corporation, and Washington Redskins owner Daniel Snyder.
Jones, whose Cowboys play Monday night, had earlier had been critical of players who protested during the anthem. Snyder's Redskins issued a statement that did not directly make reference to the anthem protests or Trump and also did not mention Snyder by name.
Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated the relationship between Jets CEO Christopher Johnson and Woody Johnson, U.S. ambassador to the United Kingdom. They are brothers.


The company says the increase will also apply to the more than 100,000 hourly workers it is hiring for the holidays.
Related: New study casts doubt on the benefit of Seattle's $15 minimum wage
Target has been steadily raising its minimum wage for the past few years. Last year, it hiked the amount to $10 an hour.
The $11 wage is higher than the minimum wage in 48 states, and it matches amounts in Massachusetts and Washington, Target says.
It's also much higher than the current federal minimum wage of $7.25.


Speaking on Sunday night, Merkel said she wanted to win back AfD voters and would try to address their concerns about the economy and immigration.
The number of Germans at risk of slipping into poverty is the highest since the country was reunited in 1990, and that risk is greatest in what used to be East Germany.
Here's a look at German inequality by the numbers:
Income for the rich up 27%
Germany's economy grew by 22% between 1991 and 2014, helping to fuel income growth of 12%.
But the benefits have not been shared equally.
The richest 10% of households saw their real incomes jump by 27% between 1991 and 2014, according to the German Institute for Economic Research. Middle class incomes increased by 9% over the same period, while households at the bottom saw their incomes drop by 8%.
Wages paid to workers increased by 5% between 2000 and 2016. Meanwhile, income from investments and business activities jumped by 30%.
Related: Germany's hidden hunger
Markus Grabka, an economist with the German Institute for Economic Research, said that weaker labor unions, tax reforms that benefited the rich and an increase in single person households have contributed to inequality.
Outsourcing and automation have made the situation even worse.
10% own 60% of the wealth
The income gap has translated into major differences in wealth.
The richest 10% the population owns 60% of assets, while the bottom 40% have almost nothing, according to Germany's central bank.
Inequality has risen steadily since 2005 despite unemployment dropping to record lows, according to Grabka.
Grabka said the big question is whether all households "benefit from the strong recovery of the German economy."
Huge efforts have been made to develop the poorer East since it was reunited with West Germany.
But the risk of slipping into poverty is still significantly higher today in former Communist territory, where many industry towns have experienced a steady decline.
"A large share of companies were closed in East Germany and the post-reunification construction boom [ran out in the 1990s]," said Oliver Rakau, chief Germany economist at Oxford Economics.
Related: How German economy stacks up
16%: The risk of falling into poverty
The share of Germans at risk of falling into poverty has jumped from 11% two decades ago to 16% in 2014.
Grabka said that another key factor is an increasing number of jobs that don't pay well.
Nearly 7 million Germans are working part time, precarious "mini jobs" that pay up to €450 ($540) a month. Many rely on welfare payments to get by.

Germany introduced a national minimum wage in 2015 in hopes of tackling the problem, an initiative supported by Merkel.
But the chancellor, whose slogan is "prosperity and security for all," was largely silent on the issue of inequality during the campaign.
Her main challenger, Martin Schulz, paid more attention to the issue, arguing that Germany's export success has been built on low wages.
-- A version of this story was first published on Sept. 20.


Merkel, 63, has led the European Union's largest economy for more than 11 years. She will now have to build a coalition government, probably with two minor parties -- the liberal FDP and the center-left Greens.
2. Negotiation nations: Negotiators are meeting on Monday over two important trade topics: Brexit and NAFTA.
Britain and the EU are taking another stab at Brexit negotiations, after Prime Minister Theresa May tried to inject new impetus into the talks with a speech Friday. She said Britain would seek a transitional arrangement of about two years, effectively delaying the impact of Brexit until 2021.
But the EU wants to see much more detail concerning the rights of millions of European migrants, and exactly how much Britain is prepared to pay in a divorce bill, before it will move on to discuss future trading arrangements.
Separately, the renegotiation of NAFTA, the trade deal between the U.S., Canada and Mexico, is continuing.
Little progress has been made so far on key issues, such as car manufacturing. The third round of talks began on Saturday in Ottawa and will run through Wednesday.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Stock surge -- Imagination Technologies: Shares in Imagination Technologies (IGNMF) were surging by about 32% in London after the tech firm said it had agreed to be acquired for £550 million ($744 million) by a Chinese-backed private equity firm called Canyon Bridge.
Imagination Technologies owns and licenses intellectual property that helps power the graphics on the screens of Apple's iPhones, tablets, iPods, TVs and watches.
Imagination fell on hard times earlier this year after Apple (AAPL, Tech30) told the British firm it plans to stop licensing the company's technology after about two years. That news sent Imagination shares crashing by as much as 72%.
However, investors aren't 100% convinced the deal will be done because Canyon Bridge's planned takeover of Lattice Semiconductors (LSCC) was blocked earlier this month by President Trump on national security concerns. The British government has said it will consider blocking foreign takeovers of critical infrastructure to protect national security.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
4. Coming this week:
Monday -- Fourth round of Brexit negotiations begin Tuesday -- Earnings from Nike (NKE), Carnival (CCL) and Darden Restaurants (DRI)  Wednesday -- U.S. Energy Information Administration releases weekly crude inventories report Thursday -- Earnings from Accenture (ACN) and BlackBerry (BBRY, Tech30); Report released on U.S. gross domestic product for the second quarter Friday -- Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) meets with Senate Intelligence Committee; Brazil unemployment data released; Elon Musk speaks about his Mars plans at a conference in Australia


The devastation at Puerto Rico's biggest airport is another in a series of operational blows to U.S. airlines. Houston, Miami, Orlando and other airports across the southeastern U.S. have been shuttered as a result of extreme weather causing thousands of flight cancellations and forcing airlines to adapt amidst the cascading disruption.
Some airlines this weekend described a bleak scene in Puerto Rico.
"Due to connectivity challenges, including air traffic control constraints and lack of power at the airport, operations are limited for all airlines," said American Airlines (AAL) in a statement.
Related: Puerto Rico officials describe 'apocalyptic' conditions
The company said it has been able to send in resources on relief flights.
Its first trip of that kind was Friday, when a plane took relief workers and family members from Miami to the island, along with food, water, lanterns, cots, tarps, fans, batteries, boots and generators. The airline sent just one more plane to the island over the weekend.

United Airlines (UAL) said it sent a relief flight to the island Saturday with "15,000 pounds of food, water and amenity kits for our employees." Another plane on Sunday took blankets and other supplies. United said an additional cargo trip is planned for Monday.
Related: Clinton calls out Trump administration's response to Puerto Rico devastation
Late Saturday, JetBlue Airways (JBLU) said that it planned to send three planes to Puerto Rico and fly three planes from the island to certain cities in Florida and New York on Sunday.
"These flights are carrying much needed supplies and personnel," JetBlue said at the time, adding that it expects to have a more robust flight schedule in and out of San Juan by Tuesday. The company did not respond to a request for comment Sunday.
Southwest Airlines (LUV) was slated to resume flights on Saturday, but the company said it was met with some unexpected issues. It was only able to send an "assessment flight" into San Juan over the weekend.
The company was still "struggling with the lack of infrastructure and coordination" at the San Juan airport, Southwest spokesperson Thais Hanson said Sunday. She added that regular service likely won't resume until Wednesday.
Delta (DAL), which was also expected to restart some of its San Juan operations Saturday, reported an "unfavorable assessments of airport and area infrastructure."
Delta said it operated just one relief flight Sunday. It plans to send two more Monday.
--CNN's Nicole Chavez and CNNMoney's Chris Isidore contributed to this report.


Merkel's win could mean bad news for German automakers. She's become a tough critic of the industry, which is still reeling from the Volkswagen emissions scandal.
2. NAFTA talks, Round 3: The renegotiation of NAFTA, the trade deal between the U.S., Canada and Mexico that President Trump promised to blow up, is continuing.
Little if any visible progress has been made so far on key issues, such as car manufacturing. The third round of talks began on Saturday in Ottawa and run through Wednesday.
All sides are signaling that they plan to bring a heavier hand this time.
One highlight: American officials are expected to propose a controversial new "sunset clause" to NAFTA, which means the agreement would expire after five years unless all countries decide to sign on for another five years.
"It would force a systematic reexamination" of NAFTA, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said at an event hosted by Politico on September 14. Critics say it would cause widespread uncertainty in the business community.
3. Brexit talks, Round 4: Britain and the European Union will take another stab at Brexit negotiations on Monday.
Both parties still need to sort out the rights of millions of migrants, trade terms and the size of the divorce bill Britain will pay the EU.
Earlier this month, British Parliament voted in favor of a bill that ensures European laws won't apply to the United Kingdom once Brexit is completed in 2019.
The vote was a victory for Prime Minister Theresa May, who has been under mounting pressure to unite her government.
4. The week ahead in Washington: It was supposed to be (another) pivotal moment in the Republicans' attempts to replace Obamacare. That was until Senator John McCain said he wouldn't support the latest bill, known as Graham-Cassidy.
Tax reform remains on the docket this week. Republicans may release a framework of their plan to cut taxes. How much detail is not clear.
5. Earnings: Nike is set to report quarterly financial results on Tuesday. Nike (NKE) faces stiff competition from Adidas, which last week became the second best seller of American footwear.
The owner of Olive Garden is also reporting earnings on Tuesday. Darden Restaurants (DRI) enjoyed a jump in sales when it reported earnings last quarter. This time around, investors are expecting to see sales of around $1.9 billion.
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- Fourth round of Brexit talks; Time and Fortune's CEO leadership conference
Tuesday -- Nike (NKE) and Darden (DRI) earnings
Thursday -- Report on U.S. gross domestic product for second quarter
Friday -- Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) meets with Senate Intelligence Committee; New data due on Brazil's struggling economy


American officials have proposed a deeply controversial audit rule. Canadian officials want to resolve a thorny aerospace issue. And Mexican leaders continue to prepare a "plan B" by looking overseas for new trade deals.
Related: Mexico looks to Latin America amid Trump's NAFTA threats
Here's what to look out for:
"Sunset clause"
Trump's trade team is expected to propose a "sunset clause" to NAFTA, which means the agreement would expire after five years unless all countries decide to sign on for another five years.
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross argues that the presidents of the three nations can already withdraw from NAFTA if they give six month's notice. In 23 years, the provision has never been used.
This new provision would allow leaders to reassess benefits on a timetable, Ross says.
"It would force a systematic reexamination," of NAFTA, Ross said at an event hosted by Politico on September 14.
Critics say it would cause widespread uncertainty in the business community.
"It's probably one of the worst ideas that anyone has ever suggested," says Rick Helfenbein, CEO of the American Apparel and Footwear Association, whose members include Under Armour, Gap and Coach. "Why would you invest in something that could expire in 5 years?"
Mexican and Canadian officials not directly involved in talks have already pushed back on the idea.
Related: NAFTA talks spark deep divide in American agriculture
Battle for the skies
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau made it clear this week: He wants a trade spat between airplane manufacturers Boeing (American) and Bombardier (Canadian) resolved. Boeing sued Bombardier in April, accusing it of unfair trade practices. Bombardier rejects the accusations.
Trudeau said the Canadian government won't continue to do business with Boeing if it continues to threaten Bombardier.
As Round 3 starts, this dispute could rankle negotiations.
On top of that, Canada wants to address U.S. tariffs on Canadian lumber and dairy products.
Related: NAFTA Round 2: No deal yet on divisive issues
Mexico's back up plans
Mexico may be in danger of losing business with the U.S. and Canada if NAFTA negotiations go south. So it's doubling down on free trade and turning toward allies in Latin America, who are also changing their own tune on trade.
This year, for the first time, 94% of goods moved tax-free across borders in the Pacific Alliance, a trading bloc that includes Mexico, Colombia, Chile and Peru. Formed in 2011, it accounts for half of all trade in the region and covers about 200 million people.
"We are trading as a group of countries in agreement on free trade," Mexico's foreign minister, Luis Videgaray, said Wednesday evening in New York. Videgaray spoke alongside the presidents of Colombia and Chile, as well as a Peru's trade minister.
NAFTA's "scariest part"
At the heart of the reason behind renegotiating is Trump's desire to end the U.S. trade deficit with Mexico and create manufacturing jobs in America.
Trump's trade team wants to focus automobiles and the "rules of origin" rule, which stipulates that at least 62% of the parts in a car sold in North America must come from one of the three NAFTA countries.
But Ross argues 25-year-old rule is out of date for a auto world that includes Bluetooth speakers, back-up cameras and other electronics.
The outdated rule has allowed car parts from outside NAFTA -- mostly from China and Taiwan -- to come in and not get taxed, he said. He told CNBC Friday that this trend is the "scariest part" of NAFTA.
Ross wants to not only update the rules, but raise that percentage much higher, though how much is unclear.
Forcing more production in North America is one thing. Forcing more in the U.S. is another, trade experts say.
"I don't think it will go over very well," says Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. "We're going from the shadow boxing phase in the first rounds of negotiations to really much more serious negotiations."


Dunn said in a statement that cutting jobs is part of the company's ongoing efforts to "become more efficient and effective" and "reduce expenses."
"Wells Fargo is committed to retaining as many of its team members as it can and, where possible, will work to identify other internal opportunities or support displaced team members as they transition outside the company," the statement says.
Related: Wells Fargo CEO faces a grilling from Elizabeth Warren
Wells Fargo did not indicate the layoffs were in any way linked to a series of crises that have plagued the company in recent months.
Most notably, the company continues to suffer the fallout of a massive fake account scandal that first came to light last year. Recent estimates say the bank created as many as 1.4 million accounts for unsuspecting customers in order to boost its sales figures.
Wells Fargo has blamed draconian sales targets and poor oversight. Its recovery efforts have included installing new corporate leadership and firing about 5,300 employees who Wells Fargo said were involved in creating fake accounts.
The bank's headaches were made worse when it admitted to forcing about 570,000 of its customers to sign up for auto insurance that they didn't need. Wells Fargo has also been accused of modifying mortgages without getting customers' consent.
Wells Fargo still faces a slew of investigations, including from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice.
The company said in January that it's closing about 400 bank branches as online and mobile banking have continued to shake up the banking industry.
--CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed to this report.


HHS officials disclosed this information Friday during a webinar with community groups that help people enroll in Obamacare.
Outages occurred under the Obama administration, as well, but they weren't as frequent. Typically, the online enrollment system was only shut down for a few hours at a time and it was much less frequent than once a week, former officials said.
"There is just a really big question as to why this is happening," said Lori Lodes, former CMS communications director.
The current administration said that the maintenance schedule was provided in advance to accommodate requests from the groups that assist applicants.
"Maintenance outages are regularly scheduled on healthcare.gov every year during open enrollment. This year is no different," a spokesperson said. "System downtime is planned for the lowest-traffic time periods on healthcare.gov including Sunday evenings and overnight."
Related: Trump slashing Obamacare advertising by 90%
The Trump administration has come under attack from critics who say that it is intentionally undermining the Affordable Care Act through regulatory actions. It cut the enrollment period, slashed money for advertising by 90% and sliced the budget for navigators to help people shop for plans.
The fact that HHS is now closing the site for a portion of each weekend upset many consumer advocates. Many working Americans — the prime target group for ACA insurance — might be shopping at just that time.
"Argh," was the reaction of Shelli Quenga, program director at the Palmetto Project in South Carolina, a nonprofit group that received about $1 million to help with outreach and enrollment in the past 12 months. This month, HHS cut her budget in half for this year's open enrollment.
Open enrollment season this year runs from Nov. 1 to Dec. 15, less than half the time people have had to sign up during the first four years of the exchanges created under the Affordable Care Act.
More than 12 million people enrolled on the state and federal marketplaces for 2017 coverage, including more than 9 million on the federal exchange. Some customers drop out over the course of the year as they get jobs or stop paying premiums.
Related: Obamacare no longer on death's door in Virginia
Advocates were already nervous that fewer people would sign up during the shortened period this time around.
"I could see this really impacting the ability of people to complete an application sign-up in a single sitting, which is so important," said Jason Stevenson, spokesman for the Utah Health Policy Project, an Obamacare navigator group. He noted that 10 p.m. Mountain Time is often a relatively popular time for people to enroll online.
"Health insurance is complicated, and in the past couple of years we had an administration that made it easier to sign up," he said. "But that has really changed in the past six months, with more hurdles not only for consumers but for those whose job it is to help them."
--CNNMoney's Tami Luhby contributed to this report.
Kaiser Health News is a national health policy news service that is part of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.


Delta Air Lines plans to replace its smaller regional jets with more spacious C Series on flights up to 1,500 nautical miles -- or about three hours of flying time.
The C Series has been flying passengers in Europe since June 2016, and starting next year, the Bombardier CS100 will start appearing at airports around the U.S.
But Boeing, America's largest exporter and sole U.S. producer of commercial airliners, is suing Bombardier. At issue is whether funds Bombardier received from the Canadian government to stay afloat allowed the plane maker to sell to Delta for what Boeing alleges were "absurdly low prices."
Boeing maintains the government support helped its Canadian rival establish the all-new airliner at the expense of Boeing's own 737 jets. It claims that Bombardier is selling each C Series jet to Delta for $19.6 million. That's not accurate, said Delta.
The jet's list price is nearly $80 million, but steep discounts are common.
The U.S. International Trade Commission, an arm of the Commerce Department, is expected to make the first of two rulings on the dispute as early as September 26.
Bombardier refutes the claims. It says a deal with Delta for up to 125 planes was standard practice for an industry that wants big names to endorse its products. Delta said the complaint is "without merit."
Related: Justin Trudeau warns Boeing over trade dispute
Boeing has recommended a 160% tariff on the jet, paid by Delta or any U.S. airline importing the aircraft. That would mean that for every dollar Delta pays Bombardier for the jet, it would have to write a check to the U.S. Treasury for another $1.60.
And while Boeing leaders emphasize its grievance should be limited to this one deal for this one airplane, the suit is widely considered an existential threat to the Canadian plane maker should it be shut out of U.S. -- the largest aviation market in the world.

International implications
The dispute has drawn in the leaders of Canada and the United Kingdom and now threatens to shoot down a $5.2 billion Boeing F/A-18 Super Hornet fighter deal with the Royal Canadian Air Force if the case isn't dropped or settled out of the ITC.
"We won't do business with a company that's busy trying to sue us and put our aerospace workers out of business," said Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Monday. Bombardier's aerospace division employs 28,500 worldwide, including 4,000 in Northern Ireland where the jet's wings are manufactured.
And more than half of the jet is manufactured in the U.S., including its Pratt & Whitney engines. That has drawn letters of support by members of Congress and even U.S. airlines like JetBlue Airways and Spirit Airlines, which want a viable third competitor to Boeing and Airbus.
Related: U.K. to Trump: You can save jobs by fixing Boeing-Bombardier fight
If the deal survives, Bombardier says any tariff would negate the operating savings the C Series brings and be passed along to passengers in the form of higher fares.
The spat is part of larger trade tensions brewing between the U.S. and Canada. The Trump Administration already slapped the Canadian timber industry with a 20% tariff on imports.
Barely Survived Its Birth
To understand how this case came to be, you first need to understand that this tiny jetliner nearly killed its maker.
Launched in 2008, the C Series was supposed to be ready in 2013. But Bombardier was beset by engine and software issues and the sheer complexity of designing an all new airplane. It was delayed by three years and went billions of dollars over budget.
Bombardier required a radical overhaul to stay afloat. The scion of the family-owned business stepped aside. An outside CEO came in. Thousands were laid off. The Quebec provincial government pumped $1 billion into the company and the federal government handed over about $282 million in loans. The C Series is now 49.5% owned by the taxpayers of Quebec.
Boeing alleges that the state aid to keep the lights on at Bombardier allowed the company to sharply cut the C Series price tag for Delta.
Bombardier at the time needed a big win. The C Series had sold poorly for years, muscled out by Boeing and Airbus. The airline lost out on a chance to join United Airlines' fleet earlier in 2016. The Delta deal for up to 125 jets was widely considered a must-win for the airline.
And it was. By the time the ink was dry in March 2016, Bombardier's CEO Alain Bellemare conceded to The Wall Street Journal: "We knew that we would need to be competitive to get some marquee airlines."
"So we've done just that," he said.
Delta's Deal
Delta knocked on the Canadian airplane maker's door and got, what Boeing has alleged, a deal so good that it violated international trade laws.
Delta's price tag for the planes isn't a mystery. It was disclosed as part of the ITC investigation but redacted from public documents reviewed by CNN. Two people familiar with the deal said each plane was in the "high $20 millions."
"These campaigns help determine whether a new airplane will thrive or die. That's why Bombardier is willing to lose millions of dollars per plane on this sale," said Boeing Vice Chairman Ray Conner in testimony to the ITC. "That's what Bombardier bought with Canada's subsidies -- a seal of approval for the C Series jets."
But does the price tag for those jets - which are smaller than anything Boeing has made since 2006 - constitute illegal dumping? And was Boeing harmed by the deal?
Adam Pilarski, Senior Vice President at aerospace consultancy Avitas said politics, not planes, are motivating the suit. Boeing has more than 4,400 737s on order and is in the process of increasing production to meet skyrocketing demand.
Further, Pilarski said Boeing has no idea what price Delta paid for the jets nor does it know how much it costs Bombardier to make each jet.
Nor does Bombardier. The Canadian plane maker has delivered fewer than 20 planes. And tallying production costs of something as advanced as a jetliner takes a lot of repetition before a "learning curve" on spending is clear, said Pilarski, former chief economist for McDonnell Douglas.
"This is total Looney Tunes, it doesn't make any frickin' sense whatsoever," said Pilarski, former chief economist for McDonnell Douglas. "You cannot establish the facts that Boeing asserts."


San Francisco and Oakland fear that billions of dollars of property in low-lying areas will be swamped by rising sea levels that scientists blame on climate change.
"These fossil fuel companies profited handsomely for decades while knowing they were putting the fate of our cities at risk," San Francisco City Attorney Dennis Herrera said in a statement announcing the lawsuits, which were filed in Superior Court in San Francisco and Alameda Counties.
In San Francisco, which is surrounded by water on three sides, at least $10 billion of public property and $39 billion of private property is at risk from rising sea levels, the lawsuit estimates. Oakland warns that rising sea levels will "disproportionately impact and endanger" low-income people and minorities, as well as the city's airport.
These concerns have been heightened by the devastating impact of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria on parts of the United States and Caribbean in recent weeks.
As CNN has reported, the consensus among scientists is that the consequences of climate change -- rising sea levels and warming oceans -- made these hurricanes worse than they would have been in the past. That's because rising sea levels make storm surges from hurricanes worse, while warming waters help intensify the storms themselves.
The San Francisco lawsuit alleges that leading oil companies for decades ignored scientists who "warned them in stark terms that fossil fuel usage would cause global warming" that poses "'catastrophic' harm."
Worse, Exxon and other oil companies have been accused of downplaying these risks to the public.
Related: Harvard study: Exxon 'misled the public' on climate change
Comparing Big Oil to tobacco companies, San Francisco and Oakland argue that oil companies engaged in an "organized campaign to deceive consumers about the dangers of massive fossil fuel production."
That argument may be strengthened by a recent Harvard study. The research found that for nearly 40 years Exxon publicly raised doubt about the dangers of climate change even as scientists inside the oil company acknowledged the growing threat. "We conclude that ExxonMobil misled the public," the peer-reviewed study said.
Exxon (XOM) has dismissed that Harvard study as "inaccurate and preposterous" and claims it was "paid for, written and published by activists."
Exxon,BP (BP) and ConocoPhillips did not provide comments in response to the California lawsuits.
Chevron, which is based in San Ramon, California, said it "welcomes serious attempts to address the issue of climate change, but these suits do not do that."
Shell (RDSA) reiterated that it has "long recognized the climate challenge." However, the company said this complex issue should be addressed through policy and cultural change, "not by the courts."
The American Petroleum Industry, a lobbying group, said in a statement that the natural gas and oil industry "will continue to play a leading role in driving down U.S. greenhouse gas and other emissions."
But some California cities fear it may be too late to avoid the consequences of climate change.
"The global warming-induced sea level from past fossil fuel usage," the San Francisco lawsuit said, "is an irreversible condition on any relevant time scale: it will last hundreds or even thousands of years."


Here are some of the revenue raisers under consideration that may help them get there:
For individual tax cuts:
For tax reforms that affect individuals, there's been discussion of several possible offsets.
They include: further limiting the mortgage interest deduction; changing the tax treatment of 401(k) contributions, and repealing the state and local tax deduction.
Related: Trump says the U.S. is the highest taxed country in the world. It's not.
None of these options are particularly popular.
Capping the mortgage interest deduction could raise between $100 billion and $300 billion over a decade, according to the Tax Foundation.
The 401(k) change, meanwhile, is considered a budget gimmick. It would raise some money in the short-term by taxing employee contributions into workplace retirement plans, but it would actually lose revenue in the long run since people could withdraw their money from those accounts tax free in retirement.
A repeal of the state and local tax deduction is considered most likely since it would bring in the most money, raising north of $1 trillion over a decade by some estimates.
While the deduction has been on the books for more than 100 years, and lawmakers have tried (unsuccessfully) to repeal it before, some political observers and policy analysts say this time may be different.
For corporate tax cuts:
When it comes to paying for corporate tax cuts, there aren't as many options, especially if lawmakers opt to seriously slash today's 35% corporate rate.
"There are very few politically palatable revenue raisers or base broadeners available that can be used to help reduce the corporate tax rate to 20% or below," Tax Foundation president Scott Hodge told the Senate Finance Committee this week.
The biggest pay-for being considered is a repeal of the interest deductibility on corporate debt.
Currently, a company can deduct the interest it pays to its bondholders and on its bank loans. If the interest deduction were fully repealed, it could bring in about $1.4 trillion in the first decade and twice that in the second decade, said Kyle Pomerleau, federal projects director at the Tax Foundation.
Related: Trump is right. The corporate rate should be 15%. But it's not that simple.
Repealing the interest deduction fully or partially has been discussed as a way to pay for a proposal to allow for much more generous expensing provisions on capital investments -- whether it's buying new equipment or a new building.
But firms that are highly leveraged -- such as many in the real estate industry or foreign companies that do business in the United States and pay interest on their U.S. loans back to their parent companies abroad -- will push back hard against repealing interest deductibility, even if they might benefit from more generous expensing rules.
"By increasing the cost of capital, tax limitations on business debt could dramatically reduce real estate investment, reducing property values across the country, and discouraging entrepreneurship and responsible risk-taking," Jeffrey D. DeBoer, the head of the Real Estate Roundtable, told members of the Senate Finance Committee.


Now her legacy could be the biggest ownership shakeup in the French firm's 108-year history.
Back in 2004, Bettencourt and Nestle (NSRGF), L'Oreal's second biggest shareholder, agreed that neither of them would increase their stakes in the company during her lifetime, and for six months after her death.
The deal was designed to secure the family's influence over L'Oreal and prevent Nestle mounting a takeover. The agreement will lapse in March 2018.
"Bettencourt dies. Clock is now ticking," analysts at Jefferies wrote in a note.
"What should be respected as a melancholic end to an era for the Bettencourts is now set to be subsumed by speculation around the future of Nestle's 23% stake in L'Oreal," they added.
Shares in L'Oreal jumped as much as 4% on Friday on the possibility that Nestle might make a move to increase its stake -- possibly via a takeover.
But it is far from clear whether the Bettencourt family would want to sell its stake. In a statement Friday, it said it was entirely committed and loyal to L'Oreal.
Nestle said it was "not the right time to make a comment" when asked about the future of its stake.
"We express our most sincere condolences and deepest sympathy to Mrs. Bettencourt's family and to all at L'Oréal at this difficult moment," a spokesman said.
Related: Hedge fund star Dan Loeb bets $3.5 billion on Nestle

However, some analysts say Nestle may be thinking about ditching its stake in the medium term.
"We think a disposal... is more likely than a takeover given the diverging strategic paths of the two companies over the last decade," analysts at UBS said.
That would certainly please some Nestle investors, chief among them hedge fund star Dan Loeb, who disclosed a $3.5 billion stake in Nestle in June.
Loeb described Nestle's stake in L'Oreal as "not strategic" and suggested shareholders should be free to choose whether they wanted to invest in Nestle or L'Oreal, or some combination of the two.
L'Oreal had revenues of €25.8 billion ($31 billion) in 2016, making it the world's biggest cosmetics company. (Major competitors such as Procter & Gamble (PG) and Unilever (UL) generate a lot of revenue from other businesses.)
Nestle first bought a stake in L'Oreal in 1974, when the family was worried about the company being nationalized.
Related: Liliane Bettencourt, L'Oreal heiress and the world's richest woman, dies
Bettencourt joined her father's company as a 15-year old apprentice, and inherited his stake in 1957. She served on the company's board until 2012.
She stepped down from the board at the age of 89 and was succeeded by her grandson after a bitter legal dispute with her daughter, Francoise Bettencourt-Meyers, who argued Bettencourt was not mentally competent to handle her own affairs.
For years, the so-called "Bettencourt Affair" captivated France.
At the height of the scandal, when Bettencourt-Meyers sought legal action to have her mother declared incapable, the heiress gave a series of feisty interviews in which she told her daughter to mind her own business.
-- Sherisse Pham and Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.


Its roads could also use some work: In 2017, Germany's road network slid to 16th in the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Report, the latest in a series of downgrades.
Experts warn that Germany is at risk of falling behind if it does not invest more, advice that Chancellor Angela Merkel, who is campaigning to win a fourth term in elections on Sunday, says she has taken to heart.
Her critics, both foreign and domestic, say that much more could be done.
Germany has long been criticized by its neighbors because it exports more goods than it purchases from abroad, a dynamic that makes it difficult for other European countries to keep their trade deficits in check and remain competitive.
Related: Germans are falling out of love with their carmakers
More spending by the German government -- on infrastructure, for example -- would help boost the economy and spur business spending. The windfall would encourage German consumers to spend more on foreign services and imported goods, ultimately reducing the country's trade surplus.
"Government investment is a good way to stimulate demand," said Stephen Brown, an economist at Capital Economics. "[Germany is] not recognizing that there could be a link ... between public sector and private sector investment."
Yet the German government -- which wants to avoid a budget deficit -- is reluctant to increase spending too much.
The German government invested just over €66 billion ($79 billion) in 2016 on things like roads, child care facilities, energy efficient buildings and public transportation, according to data from the country's finance ministry.
To put that in perspective, experts believe Russia spent about $50 billion on the Sochi Olympics alone.
Investment has increased by an average of 4.5% over the past two years, but infrastructure spending as a share of the economy (2.1%) remains much lower than other wealthy Western countries including the U.S., Britain, France, Canada and Sweden.
"Germans will be skeptical of infrastructure investment for the sake of infrastructure investment. They want to see what the point is," said Charles Lichfield, an analyst at Eurasia Group.
Related: Rich Germany has an inequality problem
Merkel has campaigned on the promise of infrastructure upgrades and improved internet speeds (German broadband ranks 25th in the world). But some local governments, which are responsible for funneling money to projects like school upgrades, have a reputation for moving at a snail's pace.
"It's up to them to spend it," said Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Germany's Berenberg Bank.
Schmieding said the federal government is trying to direct more money to poorer regions with the biggest infrastructure problems, but progress has been slow.
"In a highly developed country with a lot of rules... the pace at which you can step up money spending is actually slow," he said.
--CNN's Diana Macumba contributed to this report.


American Airlines (AAL) was the first U.S. airline to restore service. A flight from Miami to San Juan took off just before 7 a.m. ET, about an hour later than scheduled.
Besides passengers, American said it would fly much-needed supplies, including food, water, lanterns, cots, tarps, fans, batteries, boots and generators, to Puerto Rico for use by its employees and their families. Authorities in Puerto Rico say it could be months before power is restored.
JetBlue operated two relief flights to the island. One carried supplies. Another carried New York state officials, including Gov. Andrew Cuomo, and emergency personnel who will assist with recovery efforts. Included on the flight are 10 engineers, planners, technical supervisors and translators from the New York State Power Authority to assess how to get power restored.
Related: Puerto Rico: Hurricane Maria hammers an economy that can't take it
Southwest (LUV) and Delta (DAL) say they will resume flights Saturday. United (UAL) and JetBlue (JBLU) say they are evaluating the situation and don't know when commercial flights will resume.
Flight service is even less certain to other parts of the Caribbean. American says operations remain suspended to Turks and Caicos, St. Croix, St. Maarten and the U.S. Virgin Islands.


The investment will put the German firm in direct competition with Tesla (TSLA) on its home turf.
"With production locations for electric vehicles and batteries in Europe, China and, now, the U.S., our global network is ready for the era of electric vehicles," said Markus Schäfer, the automaker's head of production planning.
Related: This is the future of driving
The move to electric follows a global backlash against diesel cars that is motivated by concerns over climate change and pollution caused by dirty engines.
Countries including India, France, Britain, Norway and China have pledged to ditch gas and diesel cars in favor of cleaner vehicles.
Mercedes says it is responding to increased demand for hybrids and electrics. It unveiled the electric car concept, the Mercedes-EQ, at the Paris auto show last year.
It says that by 2022 it will offer customers at least one electrified alternative in all vehicle segments.
Related: Germans are falling out of love with their carmakers
The Alabama investment is likely to please President Trump, who has criticized foreign companies in general, and German car makers in particular, for not manufacturing more products in the U.S.
Earlier this year, Mercedes announced a push to increase the number of American parts used at the Tuscaloosa factory.


Trump has been pushing China to use its deep economic ties with North Korea to pressure Kim Jong Un's regime to back down from developing nuclear weapons. China is estimated to account for roughly 90% of North Korea's foreign trade, with money and goods flowing back and forth across a land border that runs for 880 miles.
On Friday, China announced it would limit its exports of refined petroleum products to North Korea beginning in October 1 to comply with U.N. resolutions.
The Chinese Ministry of Commerce said in a statement that exports of condensate oil, liquefied natural gas as well as textile imports from the North are currently prohibited.
Related: North Korea sanctions: Here's what Trump did
Trump's big 'experiment'
Even though China has supported a series of tough U.N. resolutions this year targeting a growing portion of North Korea's economy, many experts are skeptical that Chinese officials and companies are fully applying the sanctions.
That's where the new powers Trump gave Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin come in. They enable him to cut off access to the U.S. financial system and freeze the assets of any company or individual doing business with North Korea, measures known as secondary sanctions.
Those are serious threats for major Chinese banks, which had $142 billion of assets in the U.S. at the end of March, according to the Federal Reserve. U.S. dollars are the lifeblood of the global financial system and banks operating internationally need easy access to them.
"We are about to run the most significant experiment in the use of secondary sanctions on North Korea to date, and perhaps the most significant such experiment with respect to any country ever," wrote Stephan Haggard, a North Korea expert at the University of California, San Diego.

Alarm bells in banks
The executive order that Trump signed Thursday is likely to have set off alarm bells around the globe.
"Every single big bank in the world has sent or will be sending a memo to their compliance teams," Haggard said. "Those teams in turn will be scrambling to figure out if they have any North Korea risk."
But it's uncertain exactly how Chinese banks will respond.
Earlier this month, China ordered its financial institutions to take a number of steps to comply with past U.N. resolutions, including halting business with sanctioned individuals and companies. And employees at some major Chinese banks told CNNMoney that they were no longer opening new accounts for any North Koreans.
Related: Will latest U.N. sanctions make Kim Jong Un sweat?
Unprecedented pressure
Those measures did not go far enough for Trump.
The North Korean regime is believed to use a complex network of front companies to do business in China and other countries to dodge sanctions. Trump's new order has put the onus on banks and other firms to find out whether the businesses they're dealing with have any kind of North Korean connection.
Banks that may have previously looked the other way now have a strong incentive to pay close attention or risk severe punishment. If they all begin cutting off business with North Korea, the impact would be felt immediately.
"It's something that the North Koreans have never really faced before," said Ruggiero, a former official at the State and Treasury departments who specialized in financial sanctions and weapons proliferation issues.

Too big to sanction?
But the new U.S. measures still come with limitations.
Experts say cutting off a major Chinese bank from the U.S. financial system could have unforeseen consequences, such as a chain reaction of defaults that could ripple through the world's second largest economy and beyond. Beijing, which has strongly opposed sanctions against its companies, could retaliate against U.S. interests.
Ruggiero said there are still less drastic measures available, such as slapping a big fine on a high-profile Chinese bank to deter others.
"I certainly don't rule out that this administration could decide that a North Korean nuclear weapon on an ICBM is a big enough threat to overrule the concerns that [crippling sanctions on a big Chinese bank] could harm both economies and crack the trade relationship," he said. "But...there are things that can be done before getting there."
'Parallel universe of banks'
Other factors could also blunt the effectiveness of the new U.S. measures.
There may be smaller Chinese banks and firms dealing with Kim's regime that have little or no exposure to the U.S. financial system, Haggard said. North Korea is also believed to have an array of illicit revenue sources, such as cyberattacks, drugs and weapons.
"If the sanctions don't have the anticipated effect, it could be because North Korea has a... parallel universe of banks and firms that simply are immune" to the executive order, Haggard wrote.
Related: North Korea is trying to amass a bitcoin war chest
And other experts point out that North Korea's nuclear weapons program has developed over decades, surviving periods of famine and economic crisis. Pyongyang can take a lot of pain.
-- Stella Ko, Donna Borak, Yuli Yang and Serenitie Wang contributed to this report.


The Congressional Budget Office has yet to release its evaluation of the bill Cassidy co-authored with Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. Its reviews of earlier GOP bills in the House and Senate found that at least 22 million fewer people would have coverage by 2026, compared to current law.
It's difficult to say exactly what the coverage losses would be under the Graham-Cassidy bill, experts say. That's largely because it would give a lot of control over health care to the states, while at the same time curtailing federal funding. Their decisions will affect how many of their residents have coverage.
Related: Trump says GOP's health bill protects pre-existing conditions. Here's the truth
Here's how it would work: The legislation would eliminate Obamacare's Medicaid expansion, as well as federal premium and cost-sharing subsidies to buy policies on the exchanges. Instead, states would get a pot of money through 2026, and it would be up to them to figure out how to spend it on health care.
But that pot would be smaller than it would be under Obamacare -- by $107 billion, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. Plus, the money would be redistributed so many states that expanded Medicaid -- which saw the greatest coverage gains under the health reform law -- would lose some of their funding, while those that didn't expand would get more.
Also, like the prior GOP efforts, the Graham-Cassidy bill would eliminate the individual mandate. That alone would result in about 15 million fewer insured Americans next year, CBO says.
Related: What's in the latest Obamacare repeal bill?
The bill would also shrink federal support of Medicaid by sending states a set amount of funds per enrollee or a lump sum -- again, leaving it up to governors and legislators to decide how to use the money. A per enrollee cap would cut federal spending by $53 billion between 2020 and 2026, compared to current law, Kaiser found.
Most states, however, don't have the wherewithal to make up the difference so it's likely they'll tighten enrollment, curtail benefits or trim provider rates.
"The flexibility states will be given under the bill is where to cut, how much to cut and who to cut," said Sabrina Corlette, research professor at Georgetown University's Health Policy Institute. "You can't take that much money out of the system and expect more people to continue to get affordable coverage. It just doesn't add up."


Apple's annual sales declined in 2016 for the first time since 2001.
2. It's all politics: The U.K. and Germany are in the spotlight Friday as British Prime Minister Theresa May is set to give a high-profile speech about Brexit and German Chancellor Angela Merkel heads into a Sunday election.
May will try to get faltering Brexit negotiations back on track on Friday as she makes a speech in Florence, Italy. She is likely to commit Britain to continue paying into the European Union budget in return for continued access to its free trade area for two years after Brexit, according to multiple British media reports.
Meanwhile, Merkel is expected to wrap up campaigning. Opinion polls show she is on track to win a fourth term.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Market movers: Shares in cosmetics giant L'Oreal (LRLCY) are surging by about 4% in Paris following the death of Liliane Bettencourt, 94, the L'Oreal heiress and world's richest woman.
"Based on our understanding of the shareholders agreement, this event could trigger changes to the relationship between Nestlé and the Bettencourt family," noted UBS analysts in a research note.
The Bettencourt family owns a 33% stake in L'Oreal, while food company Nestle (NSRGY) owns a 23% stake. UBS analysts believe it's possible Nestle may now want to increase its stake in L'Oreal.
In the U.S., shares in Carmax (KMX) and Finish Line (FINL) could be on the move as both companies plan to release earnings before the opening bell.
4. Eyes on oil: OPEC oil ministers meet in Vienna with some of their counterparts from non-OPEC oil producers.
They are meeting to decide whether to extend an agreement to curb production -- which is due to expire in March 2018 -- or to sit tight to see what happens to oil prices in the coming months.
U.S. crude futures are currently trading around $50 per barrel.
5. Stock market overview: The enthusiasm that helped markets set records this week has drained away. U.S. stock futures were slipping lower, and European markets were mostly negative in early trading.
Most Asian markets ended the day with losses after North Korea warned Thursday that the country could test a powerful nuclear weapon over the Pacific Ocean in response to President Trump's threats of military action.
Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters that the ultimate decision, however, was up to his boss, Kim Jong Un.
On Thursday, the Dow Jones industrial average declined by 0.2%. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq dipped by 0.3% and 0.5%, respectively.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday -- OPEC and non-OPEC oil ministers meet in Vienna


It seems at last someone is doing something. Which is exactly what the managing director of the IMF, Christine Lagarde, wants. In New York this week, she told me the IMF believes $2 trillion dollars a year are squandered through corrupt activity. The examples are legendary: bridges built to nowhere, unnecessary stadiums built, capital cities constructed....all greased with the oil of backhanders and bribes. 
Lagarde is determined to make a start in stamping this out, and she believes the best way is via transparency and openness. She told me, "We have actually stopped financing a program until such time when what was covered up, what was done in the shadows, comes out transparently and is disclosed in the public account." Lagarde believes that "transparency, just like the sun, is the best disinfectant." 
Saying it and doing something about it are two different things, as the South African case shows.  The Gupta scandal has been rumbling for years, and it was only the release of hacked emails that finally got things moving.
It is a start. If the IMF is making it clear that corruption won't be tolerated, it does send a message, albeit one that must be buttressed by enforcement, criminal charges and ultimately prison for those convicted.
Christine Lagarde is right; Sunshine is the best disinfectant when it comes to corruption. As the song says, "Let the sun shine".
Germany has a big income inequality problem

Angela Merkel is expected to win a fourth term as German chancellor. The German economy is humming along. But there are challenges beneath the surface. The rich are getting richer while more Germans are at risk of falling into poverty. Another major concern? The Volkswagen emissions scandal. Merkel recently said "trust has been destroyed" in the country's auto industry. Sales of diesel cars have fallen, and that could hurt Daimler and BMW too. 
-- Paul R. La Monica
Puerto Rico faces long recovery after Maria

Puerto Rico has already been in a recession for 11 years. Now, as President Trump says, the island is "absolutely obliterated" by Hurricane Maria. The entire island is without electricity. Short-term recovery efforts may provide a brief economic boost to Puerto Rico, but the storm's recovery represents another challenge for residents dealing with rising taxes, high unemployment and a government in bankruptcy. 
-- Patrick Gillespie
Yellen, mum on future, starts the unwinding

Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen dodged a question about whether she wants to stay at the helm of the U.S. central bank for another 4-year term. Her current one expires in February and it's still unclear if President Trump will renominate her. But Yellen did make history on Wednesday: The Fed announced the beginning of its plan to start unwinding its $4.5 trillion balance sheet, a sign of the economy's long-term recovery from the financial crisis. 
-- Patrick Gillespie
Jack Ma: Get ready for AI to change the world

Jack Ma, the founder and chairman of Alibaba, isn't afraid of artificial intelligence. But he does think the world needs to prepare for major disruptions to the job market. "Because of the robots ... manufacturing is no longer the main engine of creating jobs," he said Wednesday at the Bloomberg Global Business Forum in New York. Also in attendance: Apple CEO Tim Cook, who spoke bluntly about why he supports immigration, and Microsoft founder Bill Gates, who said he really wishes he'd made Control+Alt+Delete one key.
-- Julia Horowitz
Quick takes
Melinda Gates speaks up for women, warns VC community to 'clean up its act'
Hackers penetrate SEC system, gaining access to coveted market-moving info
Powerful real estate CEO's bonus cut for anti-gay, sexist tirade at Kathy Griffin
Succumbing to mountains of debt, Toys 'R' Us files for bankruptcy
Facebook faces backlash over anti-Semitic ad targeting & Russia ad buys
L'Oreal heiress Liliane Bettencourt, the world's richest woman, has died at 94
Saudi Arabia doesn't think there's enough fun things to do inside its kingdom
What's next
Will Germany's Merkel stay in power? Angela Merkel, one of the world's most powerful women, faces the German voters on Sunday. Merkel is expected to win a fourth term as Germany's chancellor despite the recent anti-Europe backlash that fueled Brexit in the U.K. and the rise of Marine Le Pen in France.
Nike jump-starts the earnings train: Will healthy corporate profits power U.S. stocks to new heights? Early clues will come from Nike, which on Tuesday afternoon will become the first Dow stock to post results this earnings season. Lately, Nike has struggled amid fierce competition from Adidas and Under Armour. Darden, also set to hit the earnings stage on Tuesday, may detail the success of its annual never-ending-pasta pass.
How fast did the U.S. economy grow? A final look at second-quarter growth is due on Thursday. U.S. gross domestic product, which is subject to three revisions, clocked in at 3% during the last estimate. That was the fastest pace in two years. Don't expect markets to move on this GDP report. Wall Street is more focused on how the economy will hold up during this painful hurricane season.
Quest's Profitable Moment: Sign up to receive the newsletter in your inbox every Thursday


"I'm very proud to tell you that, as you may have just heard moments ago, China, their central bank has told their other banks — that's a massive banking system — to immediately stop doing business with North Korea," he said alongside South Korean President Moon Jae-in and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in New York.
Related: Trump announces sanctions on North Korea
The Chinese government has yet to publicly announce any action.
What do the new sanctions allow U.S. officials to do?
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson now have more power than ever to slap a range of sanctions aimed at curbing North Korea's nuclear efforts. Mnuchin will be able to freeze assets of any individual or business that trades in goods, services or technology with Pyongyang.
"Foreign financial institutions are now on notice that going forward they can choose to do business with the United States or North Korea, but not both," Mnuchin said.
The U.S. government can now also target companies in a range of industries: banks, energy, manufacturing, textiles and fishing. Even ships and aircraft that go to North Korea would be banned from the United States for 180 days.
Mnuchin said the new executive order -- effective Sept. 21 -- will be "forward looking" and not target past financial transactions. He declined to comment on any plans to impose further sanctions.
Will the order target U.S. banks, too?
No, not exactly. U.S. financial institutions -- like JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Bank of America -- are already barred by law from pursuing any financial transactions directly or indirectly with North Korea. But those banks will now risk having their own assets frozen or being shut out of the U.S. financial system. They'll have to be even better at keeping a close eye on who they are doing business with and whether those companies have ties to North Korea.
"If banks really want to investigate their own North Korean transactions, they're going to need to investigate the companies, and the companies that do business with those companies," said Anthony Ruggiero, a senior fellow at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies.
What countries will Trump's order target most?
This one is harder to square. The administration says, "Everyone." But not everyone does business with North Korea. The isolated country typically does business with a limited number of countries -- China, Russia and South Korea, among them. China is by far North Korea's largest trading partner.
Related: North Korea still making millions from small arms exports
But Mnuchin repeatedly said that Thursday's step was not targeted at China alone.
"This action is directed at everyone. It is in no way directed specifically at China. We look forward to working very closely with them," Mnuchin said.
Recent disclosures show North Korea used Chinese banks to process at least $2.2 billion in transactions through the U.S. financial system between 2009 to 2017, according to Ruggiero.
Did China's central bank take action against North Korea?
That's not really clear. Reuters, citing unnamed sources, reported that the People's Bank of China had told its own financial institutions to stop dealing with North Korea's regime.
But Mnuchin was later asked multiple times by reporters to confirm that, but he demurred.
"I'm not going to make any comments about what they did earlier or what they did today," said Mnuchin. "We look forward to working with them in a cooperative way. The way we look forward to working with all of our partners."


Gelfman, the CEO and head trader at Gelfman Blueprint, is said to have told investors that he ran a fund that "employed a high-frequency, algorithmic trading strategy." But the whole strategy was "fake," according to the CFTC.
Related: China's bitcoin crackdown wreaks havoc on the virtual currency
"The purported performance reports were false, and -- as in all Ponzi schemes -- payouts of supposed profits ... actuality consisted of other customers' misappropriated funds," the CFTC said in a statement.
The agency further claims that Gelfman staged a computer hack in order to conceal the whole plot.
In the complaint, federal prosecutors say that investors ended up losing "most if not all of their invested funds.
"The Defendants here preyed on customers interested in virtual currency, promising them the opportunity to invest in Bitcoin when in reality they only bought into the Defendants' Ponzi scheme," James McDonald, the CFTC's director of enforcement, said in a statement.
Gelfman did not respond to a request for comment.
The enforcement action comes as China begins a crackdown on bitcoin that shut down two of the country's most prominent bitcoin exchanges.
According to some reports, officials are preparing even more drastic steps due to concerns the currency is being used for money laundering.


But, the company also says it has already run into legal challenges from California, Massachusetts and New Jersey -- three states with stringent gun laws.
"Since we have no desire to place any consumer in a situation where they may get arrested and charged with a felony because their state defines a firearm differently than the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF), we have placed orders from those states on hold and are refunding customers pending conversations amongst lawyers," said SilencerCo president Jason Schauble.
"It is relevant to point out that no states contemplated a product of this sort in their laws," he said.
A company spokesperson was unable to specify who the claims were from. CNN reached out to the attorneys general for the three states. Massachusetts said it didn't file any claims and New Jersey and California did not respond to CNN's inquiry.
"Since its inception, the gun industry has been manufacturing loopholes to get guns and suppressors into as many hands as possible, regardless of how dangerous those hands might be," said Kris Brown, co-president of the Brady Campaign and Center to Prevent Gun Violence. "Literally the only thing workarounds like this accomplish is they make it easier for people we all agree shouldn't have guns, much less sound suppressed ones, to get them."
Related: Gun silencer bills could mean big business for industry
SilencerCo put the Maxim 50 on the market Tuesday with a $999 price tag. The muzzleloader is sold by a Connecticut company called Traditions firearms, while the silencer is made and attached by SilencerCo in Utah.
Muzzleloaders and silencers are rarely used in crimes, according to a spokesperson for the ATF. Federal gun control laws prohibit felons from possessing firearms. But the lack of federal oversight and the absence of a federal background check means the Maxim 50 could be purchased by a felon, according to the ATF. However, they couldn't necessarily own the ammo for it and certain state and local laws might prohibit possession of the muzzleloader or silencer by convicted criminals depending on how those localities define a "gun" or "firearm."
Silencers are canisters attached to the ends of gun barrels that work like mufflers on a car, and normally they are screwed on instead of being permanently attached. They suppress the noise of a gunshot, rather than silence it completely.
Silencers are subject to federal gun control laws that are more restrictive than for most guns. They are treated like machine guns, requiring a more intensive background check that takes months to process, with a $200 tax.
Related: New pistol with built-in silencer debuts
But muzzleloaders are not subject to federal gun control laws because they use antiquated firing mechanisms without modern ammunition, said Max Kingery, chief of the Firearms and Ammunition Technology Criminal Branch of the ATF. "Thus, there would be no federal restriction on the sale or distribution of this item," he said.
SilencerCo provided CNNMoney with a letter from the ATF that greenlights the Maxim 50, saying that their silencer is not considered a silencer because it's permanently attached to the muzzleloader, which is not considered a gun.
Muzzleloaders are loaded by pouring a measure of gun powder down the barrel along with a bullet, which is packed into place with a ramrod. Modern guns use cartridges in which the bullet, powder and primer are packaged.
It's legal for citizens in 42 states and hunters in 40 states to use silencers, according to the American Suppressor Association. However, gun control advocates see silencers as dangerous weapons that can be exploited by criminals, and they fear the silencers could reduce the noise of shootings and fail to warn people to get away.

The silencer industry touts their benefits for hearing loss prevention. There's currently a bill in Congress called the Hearing Protection Act, which would loosen restrictions on the possession of silencers if it passes.
The industry has been growing in recent years in tandem with gun sales, which were fueled by the political rhetoric of the campaign trail. But sales of guns and silencers dropped after the election of President Trump, a Republican endorsed by the National Rifle Association. Gun owners were no longer afraid of the specter of a Democratic president imposing more restrictive gun control laws.
.


Related: Toys R Us files for bankruptcy
Hiring workers just for the holidays will be harder for retailers this year since unemployment at at 4.4%, near a 16-year low. There are currently a record number of unfilled job openings according to Labor Department statistics. To fill the jobs in the current environment, Toys R Us has sweetened its pay package to offer employees weekend pay rates on peak holiday shopping days, as well as additional employee discounts said spokesman Joseph Contrino.
Earlier this week Walmart (WMT), the nation's largest private sector employer, said that instead of hiring seasonal employees this year it will give its existing part-time employees more hours.
Related: Target hiring more than 100,000 holiday workers
Toys R Us has nearly 1,000 Toys R Us and Babies R Us stores across the United States and Canada, and filed for bankruptcy protection on Monday. Its employees will continue to be paid and its stores will remain open during the reorganization. The company said it has about 65,000 employees worldwide.


Equifax (EFX) and Smith have faced outrage over the cybersecurity breach in which hackers were able to gain access to personal information for about 143 million people. It leaves affected Americans vulnerable to identity theft and other financial crimes for years to come.
It spurred the FBI and the Federal Trade Commission to launch investigations. At least 50 class action lawsuits have been filed.
Questions have been raised from many corners about the credit monitoring agency's handling of the breach and its decision to wait more than a month after discovering the hack to alert the public. The company said it discovered the intrusion on July 29.
Related: Equifax CEO's quiet $70 million stock profit
Among the other issues that have drawn public ire:
--Equifax says the vulnerability at the root of the breach was identified by the company in March. Yet, hackers were able to exploit the flaw months later.
--Three Equifax executives sold off large chunks of stock after the company says it knew about the hack but before it was made public.
--Equifax set up a new website domain to host customer service complaints, and then repeatedly linked to a fake phishing web page on its social media page.
--Equifax initially asked affected customers to give up their right to sue the company in exchange for credit monitoring services.
How the Equifax data breach happened: What we know now
Smith has made a public apology in a letter that appeared in USA Today on September 13, five days after the company told the public about the hack. The CEO said the breach was "the most humbling moment" in Equifax's history and the company is "devoting extraordinary resources to make sure this kind of incident doesn't happen again."
But the message did little to assuage Equifax's critics. The company's stock has plunged 32% so far in September.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat and member of the Senate banking panel, said via Twitter she was "outraged" by the breach.
She's also introduced legislation -- alongside fellow Democrat Sen. Brian Schatz -- that would prevent Equifax from charging customers to freeze or unfreeze their credit. (A credit freeze is one of several measures experts recommend affected individuals use to combat potential fraud.)
Smith's appearance before the Senate committee is scheduled one day before he's expected to attend a House committee hearing. The House Energy and Commerce Committee said last week that it sent a formal request to Smith to testify at an October 3 hearing.
Equifax confirmed to CNNMoney on Thursday that Smith will testify at the hearing.
The Senate Banking Committee will also grill Wells Fargo CEO Tim Sloan next month.
The bank is facing separate federal investigations over a scandal that came to light last year: The company created millions of fake accounts for customers in order to boost its sales figures. The country's second largest bank has since been dogged by other controversies, including admitting it charged thousands of customers for car insurance they didn't need.
--CNNMoney's Anna Bahney and Paul R. La Monica contributed to this report.


This year, for the first time, 94% of goods moved tax-free across borders in the Pacific Alliance, a trading bloc that includes Mexico, Colombia, Chile and Peru. Formed in 2011, it accounts for half of all trade in the region and covers about 200 million people.
"We are trading as a group of countries in agreement on free trade," Mexico's foreign minister, Luis Videgaray, said Wednesday evening in New York. Videgaray spoke alongside the presidents of Colombia and Chile, as well as a Peru's trade minister.
Related: NAFTA talks spark deep divide in American agriculture
Videgaray can't say the same about Trump being in agreement on trade. Round 3 of NAFTA negotiations between the U.S., Canada and Mexico, begin Saturday and major issues remain unresolved.
Some see the alliance as a key part of Mexico's backup plan if Trump withdraws from NAFTA.
"The Pacific Alliance is a new frontier that's going to move forward with or without the United States," says Sergio Guzman, an analyst at Control Risks, a global consulting firm. "Countries are seeing the U.S., not just rhetorically but because of NAFTA, as less and less of a dependent partner."
The Pacific Alliance represents a shift for Latin America, a region historically shuttered to global trade. Latin American countries are now going in the opposite direction, eliminating tariffs and opening up economies.
Mexican officials traveled earlier this year to Brazil and Argentina to begin talks on potentially buying more corn and soy -- two products that Mexico buys almost entirely from the United States.
Mexico is also in trade talks with the EU and it has flirted the idea of a free trade agreement with China.
Brazil is leading negotiations with the European Union to strike a deal in principal with the South American trade bloc known as Mercosur.

Related: Trump playing 'bad cop' in NAFTA talks
Argentina, a Mercosur member, knows the dangers of tariffs and protectionism. With trade barriers on almost everything for years, Argentina was once the most expensive place in the world to buy an iPhone.
President Mauricio Macri, who came into office in 2015, ended tariffs on computers, tablets and other electronics this year.
The results: Computer prices in Argentina dropped 30% in July from a year ago and sales shot up 70%, according to Argentina's production minister. Argentina also came out of recession this year.
Related: Why hasn't Trump used his 'sledgehammer' on trade?
Michelle Bachelet, Chile's President, threw in a subtle jab at Trump in her closing remarks on Wednesday at an event hosted by the Council on the Americas, a business organization. In January, Trump withdrew from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade deal that hadn't gone into effect but that Chile, Mexico and Peru had agreed to.
Bachelet said TPP isn't dead. Its nations are moving on without Trump.
"It's impossible to think of TPP as it was with the United States," Bachelet said. But, after highlighting upcoming meetings with remaining TPP nations, she added: "What's going to happen to TPP? In other words, a new kind of TPP?...this is a story in progress."


The Republican-controlled banking committee came under pressure to hold another hearing after the disclosure of a string of additional problems at America's second-largest bank.
The first hearing, held last September, was triggered by Wells Fargo's firing of 5,300 workers for creating 2 million fake accounts. Warren unleashed a verbal takedown of former Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf that instantly went viral.
Since then, Wells Fargo has run into more trouble. The bank has uncovered as many as 1.4 million more fake accounts by digging deeper into its broken culture. Wells Fargo has also admitted to charging thousands of customers for car insurance they didn't need. At least some had their vehicles wrongfully repossessed.
That's not all. Wells Fargo has recently been accused of ripping off mom-and-pop businesses on credit card fees. Some former employees allege Wells Fargo fired them in retaliation for calling the bank's ethics hotline.
Related: Wells Fargo uncovers up to 1.4 million more fake accounts
Warren, a Democrat from Massachusetts, has held up the scandals as evidence that regulators need to do more to hold the bank -- and all big banks -- accountable. She has begged Federal Reserve chief Janet Yellen to remove much of Wells Fargo's board, alleging these directors were asleep at the wheel during the fake-account disaster.
Yellen on Wednesday reiterated that Wells Fargo's behavior was "egregious and unacceptable." She said the Fed is "working very hard" to understand what went wrong and decide whether more punishments are warranted. (Regulators outside the Fed fined Wells Fargo $185 million last September for the fake-account scandal.)
Wells Fargo hopes to ease the outrage from lawmakers by arguing it's taken meaningful action to fix its internal problems. "We welcome the opportunity to further update the Committee about the progress Wells Fargo has made," the bank said in a statement.
Related: Wells Fargo scandals sabotage Trump's deregulation push
Wells Fargo has in fact done a lot since last fall. Not only was Sloan put in charge, but former Fed official Betsy Duke has been tapped to take over as chairman of the board on January 1. Wells Fargo overhauled the management of its retail bank and clawed back more than $180 million from senior execs. The bank has also revamped the unrealistic sales goals that fueled the unauthorized opening of bank and credit card accounts.
Isaac Boltansky, policy analyst at investment firm Compass Point Research, said Sloan should benefit because he wasn't at the helm during the fake-account scandal. He predicted Sloan will be far better prepared for his grilling than Stumpf was last fall.
"That hearing was a train wreck," Boltansky said.
Critics argue the latest controversies show Wells Fargo hasn't done enough. The Wells Fargo scandals also undercut efforts by President Trump and Republicans to rip up rules they claim are hindering big banks.
Wells Fargo still faces a slew of investigations, including from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice.


But while Wall Street has often viewed rate increases as something to fear, investors aren't sweating the possibility of another boost. That's because rates remain near historically low levels. Any increase is a sign of confidence in the economy by the Fed.
Investors seem to get that.
The Dow & S&P 500 have both gained more than 10% this year while the Nasdaq is up nearly 20%. That's in spite of the fact there are still concerns about what President Donald Trump and Congress will be able to do to help stimulate the economy.
Related: Fed to finally wind down historic rescue program
Simply put, Wall Street thinks that consumers will still spend and corporations will keep hiring even if they don't get help from Washington.
And nobody is too worried about the possibility of Yellen -- or her potential future successor once her term as Fed chair ends next February -- nipping the recovery in the bud by jacking up interest rates too aggressively.
The economy may be in that proverbial Goldilocks spot. It's not growing at too hot a pace to stoke fears of rapid inflation. But it's not so cold that it's causing consumers and businesses to pull back either.
"Future rate hikes will be so slow that investors can prepare for them," said Chris Gaffney, president of EverBank World Markets. "People are okay with gradual tightening. It's good for companies and consumers are more confident."
Gaffney admitted that there are some concerns about the fact that the market still doesn't know who will be leading the Fed a year from now.
"The Fed could be more hawkish next year. And deep down, Yellen is still a dove," Gaffney said, referring to Wall Street's bird metaphors for central bankers. A hawk is someone more likely to raise interest rates while a dove would prefer to keep them low.
Yellen has repeatedly said she will serve out her term as Fed chair but has refused to answer questions about whether she'd agree to stick around for a second term if President Trump asked her to stay.
Jack Flaherty, an investment director at GAM, thinks the market wouldn't bat an eye if Trump reappointed Yellen.
"The job market continues to do well. The unemployment rate should keep going down," he said. "If inflation remains low and people keep getting hired, why would anyone be unhappy with Yellen?"
Related: Is Yellen staying or leaving? Trump's big decision looms
Still, the big question that remains is whether or not the Fed should be boosting rates more aggressively. There is a debate about whether the Fed is being too dismissive of the inflation threat.
Chris Bertelsen, chief investment officer with Aviance Capital Management, says the Fed needs to raise rates more dramatically.
He argues that they should not be still near their 2008 and 2009 crisis era lows given the improvement in the stock market and economy.
That's why he thinks people should be prepared for more rate hikes and should consider buying more conservative investments like Verizon (VZ, Tech30), which pays a dividend that yields nearly 5%, and the First Trust Tactical High Yield (HYLS) bond ETF.
Both have lagged the market this year. Verizon's stock is down about 8% while the high yield bond ETF is up just 1.5%.
But Flaherty isn't too concerned about the Fed being asleep at the wheel. It's not as if inflation is a threat that's being ignored.
"The Fed, like everybody else, is looking for signs of inflation. Is there a chance that the Fed is behind the curve? So far, they haven't been," Flaherty said.


No. It does not provide the same sweeping protections of those with pre-existing conditions as Obamacare.
Here's why:
Prior to Obamacare, many people with pre-existing conditions found themselves branded uninsurable for life on the individual market. Even a bad case of acne as a teen made it hard to get coverage.
Related: GOP offers health care trade-off for states: More flexibility, less funding
Insurance companies routinely turned people with pre-existing conditions away or charged them sky-high premiums. Today, more than a quarter of non-elderly adults have health conditions that would have made them ineligible for coverage in this market, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.
Those with employer policies fared better, but even there, it was possible to get hit. Health care bills were one of the leading causes of bankruptcy.
Related: Here's what would happen to Jimmy Kimmel's son if Graham-Cassidy passes
The Affordable Care Act changed all that. Insurers are no longer allowed to turn people away, nor charge them more, because of a pre-existing condition. Period.
Plus, carriers must offer comprehensive policies that cover a wide array of treatments and medication.
I would not sign Graham-Cassidy if it did not include coverage of pre-existing conditions. It does! A great Bill. Repeal & Replace.

Here's what the latest Obamacare repeal bill would really do:
Just as in Obamacare, insurers could not turn away those with pre-existing conditions. But it would leave it up to the states whether to continue other protections.
States could opt to once again allow carriers to base premiums on a person's medical history and to sell skimpier policies that don't cover Obamacare's 10 essential health benefits. This would apply not only to the individual market, but to those who get coverage from small business employers.
Also, insurers would be able to cap the amount they would pay for treatment outside of what their states deem an essential health benefit.
Related: The one major reason Graham-Cassidy could pass
States must describe how they intend to "maintain access to adequate and affordable health insurance" for those with pre-existing conditions. But most experts say this is a very weak standard and there's no mechanism for ensuring states carry this out. Plus, the health secretary "shall waive" these Obamacare provisions if a state applies to change them, meaning there won't be any review on the federal level.
So those with pre-existing conditions could find themselves unable to afford insurance or to only buy bare bones policies that don't cover the treatments they need.
A wide array of doctor and hospital groups, as well as patient advocacy organizations, have come out against the bill. One of their top concerns: It would hurt people with pre-existing conditions.
Related: These groups are not happy with the latest Obamacare repeal effort
James Madara, CEO of the American Medical Association, sums it up in a letter to Senate leaders.
"The Graham-Cassidy Amendment ... violates the precept of "first do no harm,"  he wrote.


The failure of two major lenders in quick succession has raised questions about the health of Russia's banking sector, which has been battered by an economic slowdown and western sanctions.
But signs of a crisis that could spread from bank to bank and cause significant economic damage have not yet appeared, according to William Jackson, an economist at Capital Economics.
"While further problems are likely to emerge in Russia's banking sector, we doubt that these will cause significant damage to the economy," he wrote in a research note.
It's an assessment shared by the central bank.
"The "domino effect" ... can be completely ruled out," deputy bank governor Vasily Posdyshev said, according to state media. "There is no risk here."
Putin and Xi: Two economies, only one to envy
Mikail Shishkhanov, the chief executive of B&N Bank, told Russian media on Thursday that his firm had been held "hostage" by rumors following the rescue of Otkritie Bank.
He tried -- but failed -- to convince investors that their money would be safe in his vaults.
"A week ago ... it became clear that this nervousness was continuing, very unfortunately," he told TV channel RBK.
Russian banks are under pressure because of the deep economic crisis that began in 2014, which was fueled by a double whammy of low oil prices and sanctions.
Official statistics show that 22 million Russians now live below the poverty line, up from 16 million before the crisis.
The slowdown was preceded by a major credit boom. Private debt increased from 50% of GDP in 2005 to almost 90% in 2015, according to the Bank for International Settlements.
"Following the collapse in oil prices and the ruble and the subsequent recession, households and firms have struggled to repay these loans," said Jackson.
Related: Tillerson's Exxon violated Russia sanctions, Treasury says
The official share of bad loans in Russian banks is now 10%, compared with 6% before oil prices collapsed.
But the problem might be even worse than official numbers indicate.
The International Monetary Fund warned Moscow last year that banks may not be giving a full picture of their bad loans. The IMF said the actual ratio of bad loans could be as high as 13.5%.
There's more evidence of pain: The central bank has closed 300 failing lenders -- many of them small -- in recent years.
The Russian economy has since emerged from recession, and the core of its banking system appears to be strong.
The three biggest lenders hold roughly 50% of the country's assets and each is controlled by the state. Otkritie, the largest private lender, accounted for just 3.5% of total bank assets.
Chris Weafer, an analyst at Macro Advisory, said the recent bailouts could encourage some customers to shift their assets to big state banks. It could be a problem if they become too bloated.
Russian state finances remain in relatively good shape.
Moscow runs a small budget deficit, and government debt is relatively low at less than 20% of GDP.
-- Clare Sebastian contributed reporting.


The verbal outburst occurred last weekend after Griffin and her partner called the police to report a noise disturbance on Mezger's property.
KB Home (KBH) revealed on Thursday that its board of directors decided to cut Mezger's 2017 bonus by 25%. It warned him that a similar incident will result in his firing.
"Mr. Mezger's recent behavior in his personal dealings with a neighbor is unacceptable and a negative reflection on KB Home," the directors wrote in a filing.
Related: Trump attacks ESPN after anchor calls him a white supremacist
But KB Home's board, which is responsible for holding its CEO accountable, stopped short of firing Mezger, its chief executive since 2006.
The board said Mezger "has always conducted himself in a professional manner" during his tenure at the company. It also said Mezger has the "full and complete confidence" of the board.
KB Home's board is led by Dorene Dominguez, who serves as its chair. It also includes Melissa Lora, president of Taco Bell, and BET founder Robert Johnson.
Some think the board didn't go far enough.
"Any CEO who goes on that kind of a tirade deserves to be fired," said Sandra Davis, chief executive of MDA Leadership Consulting. She called the 25% bonus cut a "small slap on the wrist."
Davis, who advises companies on management issues, said KB Home's board had an opportunity to show a commitment to inclusion and diversity.
KB Home did not respond to a request for further comment.
In a statement provided to HuffPost, KB Home said Mezger apologized for "losing his temper over a supposed noise complaint involving his three young grandchildren in his swimming pool around 8 p.m. on Saturday, while they were being supervised by their mother and grandmother."
"He apologizes for the language he used," the statement said, "as it does not reflect who he is or what he believes."
Griffin was fired by CNN in May after posting a photo of a bloody head resembling that of President Trump. During the tirade, Mezger alluded to Griffin's firing from CNN, which occurred after she posted the bloody photos resembling Trump. Griffin has apologized for the incident, which Trump said the comedian "should be ashamed of herself" for.
Mezger called Griffin a "bald" anti-gay slur who Trump "kind of put the heat on."


Related: China has a huge debt problem. How bad is it?
Worries about the high levels of debt in the world's second largest economy, particularly among companies, are hardly new. Economists, investors, the International Monetary Fund and even China's central bank chief have been warning about it for years. S&P's announcement adds another high-profile name to the list.
"This won't be news to anyone who has kept half an eye on China over recent years and shouldn't change anyone's thinking," said Mark Williams, chief China economist at Capital Economics. "S&P is playing catch-up."
Chinese authorities have started to crack down on heavy borrowing by companies this year, but S&P says it expects that "credit growth in the next two to three years will remain at levels that will increase financial risks gradually."
The agency cut China's long-term credit rating to A+, its fifth highest level. That brings it into line with the other two major agencies. Moody's lowered China's rating four months ago, and Fitch did it in 2013.
Related: Moody's cuts China debt rating for first time since 1989
The timing of S&P's announcement "is awkward for China's leaders, immediately ahead of next month's Party Congress," Williams said. Beijing responded angrily to Moody's downgrade in May, calling its methodology "inappropriate."
On Friday, the Chinese Finance Ministry called the S&P downgrade the "wrong decision," saying it resulted from a "long-held misunderstanding of China's economy based on the experience of developed countries."
Despite the debt concerns, S&P said it doesn't expect to cut China's rating further anytime soon, predicting the country "will maintain robust economic performance over the next three to four years."
-- Serenitie Wang contributed to this report.


Berry, 78, was having a severe ischemic stroke. Each passing second made brain damage more likely. So, Langston reached for the clot-busting drug Activase, which must be given within a few hours to work.
"If we don't keep this drug [in stock], people will die," Langston said.
Berry survived. But Langston fears others could die because of an unintended bias against rural hospitals built into the U.S. health law. An obscure Obamacare provision forces rural hospitals like Langston's to pay full price for drugs that many bigger hospitals buy at deeply discounted rates.
For example, Langston's 25-bed hospital pays $8,010 for a single dose of Activase — up nearly 200% from $2,708 a decade ago. Yet, just 36 miles down the road, a bigger regional hospital gets an 80% discount on the same drug.
White River Medical Center, a 235-bed facility in Batesville, Ark., buys Activase for about $1,600 per dose. White River participates in a federal drug discount program Congress approved in the early 1990s. The program offers significant price breaks on thousands of drugs to hospitals that primarily serve low-income patients. One federal report found the average discount ranged from 20 to 50 percent, though as illustrated with Activase, it can be much higher.
Rural hospitals have long wanted to be part of the so-called 340B program, too, but were blocked from participating until the Affordable Care Act of 2010. That historic health law added rural hospitals to the overall program. But, unlike bigger hospitals, rural hospitals can't get discounts on expensive drugs that treat rare diseases because of a last-minute exclusion written into the ACA.
Related: Hospitals pay the price when hospitals hire your private practitioner
That seemingly minor detail in the law has left rural hospital pharmacists and health care workers struggling to keep medicines in stock, and wondering if they will be able to adequately care for patients.
Arkansas, for example, is in the "stroke belt," where medical staff depend on Activase to help them battle one of the highest rates of stroke deaths in the country. When Langston went to restock Activase this year, it was so expensive she left a reorder unfilled for more than week, anxiously keeping only one dose of the clot-busting drug on hand.
In Atlantic, Iowa, pharmacy director Crystal Starlin sparingly stocks oncology drugs at Cass County Memorial Hospital. Newly diagnosed cancer patients might have to wait a couple of days to start treatment.
"We just can't keep the extra [drugs] on hand," Starlin said.
In Vermont, North Country Hospital closed its infusion center this spring due to the soaring cost of medicines.
"That was one area we could not afford to be in," said chief executive Claudio Fort.
Congressman Peter Welch, a Democrat from Vermont who represents North Country, said it is clear whom the law hurts and helps.
"The pharma lobbyists pay attention, and their lawyers pay attention to the fine print," Welch said. The pharmaceutical industry "changes that fine print ... [and] many legislators don't even realize [that it] will have this adverse impact on hospitals in their communities."
The rare-disease exclusion means that certain types of hospitals, mostly rural, cannot get discounts on rare-disease drugs, or on drugs that are "designated" to treat a rare disease. (Rare-disease drugs are also known as orphan drugs, which is a federally approved category of drugs that treat a disease affecting fewer than 200,000 people. Often, they carry price tags of up to $100,000 a year or more.)
The Food and Drug Administration gives the designation as a first step when it agrees with a drugmaker's request to study whether a drug can be used to treat a specific rare disease. This can happen even if a drug is already FDA-approved and on the market for use in treating a common condition. The next step — the ability to market the medicine as an orphan drug — comes once research confirms that the drug is safe and effective in treating a specific, less common condition.
The popular clot buster Activase has not won final approval to treat a rare disease but, on two separate occasions in 2003 and 2014, the FDA has given it the orphan designation while research is ongoing.
Related: Women's voices often missing in the health care debate
Thousands of drugs are "designated." The list includes generic drugs such as the hormone melatonin and the autoimmune drug abatacept. In other words, medicines used to treat everything from sleep troubles to arthritis have ended up "designated."
Some drugmakers, such as Janssen Pharmaceuticals, have voluntarily offered discounts to rural hospitals on all of their orphan drugs including Remicade, whether they're approved or designated. In contrast, drugmaker Genentech sent letters to rural hospitals on Jan. 1 listing dozens of drugs that would not qualify for discounts, including Activase and cancer drug Avastin.
Susan Willson, a Genentech spokeswoman, said the company is "deeply committed to ensuring that people have access to the medicines they need." But, she added, the company believes the federal drug discount program has "grown well beyond its original intent."
Several federal reports in recent years from the Medicare advisory board, as well as the Government Accountability Office and the Office of Inspector General, have evaluated the federal drug discount program's growth. About 40% of U.S. hospitals now participate in the program and House Republicans held a hearing this summer questioning the program's growth.
But for Dana Smith, director of pharmacy at Dallas County Medical Center in Fordyce, Ark., the discount program's growth and problems are a separate issue.
"Basically, Genentech is saying to me that rural health care and the patients in rural America are not as important as patients in urban areas," Smith said, adding the pharmaceutical industry "knows we have less manpower to fight them."
Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.


Elsewhere in tech, Apple (AAPL, Tech30) and Dell are part of a group that is buying Toshiba's (TOSYY) prized memory chip business for $18 billion.
The Japanese conglomerate is offloading major assets to try to deal with a crippling financial crisis.
The memory chip business is its crown jewel, and had attracted interest from tech companies like Taiwan's Foxconn.
2. Banking on insurance: Chinese life insurance firm AIA Group is getting into Australia and New Zealand in a big way.
It's buying Commonwealth Bank of Australia's life insurance business for $3 billion.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Stock market overview: The Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500 hit all-time highs on Wednesday. The Dow has posted gains in each of the past nine trading sessions.
But momentum may be fading -- U.S. stock futures were weak on Thursday.
European stock markets climbed in early trading, though the gains were small.
Most Asian markets ended the day with losses.
4. Stocks to watch -- Ryanair, Manchester United: Shares in budget airline Ryanair (RYAAY) dropped by 3% on the Irish Stock Exchange as investors worry about flight cancellations.
The airline recently announced it would cancel up to 50 flights per day over the next six weeks.
It said it was canceling less than 2% of its schedule to improve flight punctuality and ensure pilots and cabin crew are able to use their vacation days.
Manchester United (MANU) will report earnings before the opening bell in New York. Shares in the soccer team are traded in the U.S.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Thursday -- Manchester United (MANU) earnings Friday -- OPEC and non-OPEC oil ministers meet in Vienna


EDGAR contains information about company earnings, share dealings by top executives and corporate activity such as mergers and acquisitions. Accessing that information before it's disclosed publicly could allow hackers to make money by anticipating how a share price would respond.
The vulnerability was fixed "promptly after discovery" and the SEC believes it did not "result in unauthorized access to personally identifiable information, jeopardize the operations of the commission, or result in systemic risk," Clayton added.
Related: Equifax tweets fake phishing site to concerned customers
His statement didn't provide any details about the information the hackers obtained or which companies might have been affected, but did make clear that the investigation is continuing.
The SEC is the latest high-profile organization to admit its cyber defenses have been breached. Its announcement comes about two weeks after credit reporting agency Equifax said a major hack may have exposed personal data on as many as 143 million people.
Clayton said attempts to hack the financial industry would continue.
"Cybersecurity is critical to the operations of our markets and the risks are significant and, in many cases, systemic," Clayton said.
"We must be vigilant. We also must recognize -- in both the public and private sectors, including the SEC -- that there will be intrusions, and that a key component of cyber risk management is resilience and recovery."


Related: GOP offers health care trade-off for states: More flexibility, less funding
America's Health Insurance Plans was even more explicit, saying it cannot support the proposal authored by Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana.
These two groups join a lengthy list of doctor, hospital and patient advocacy associations that are slamming the bill. Most of them were also opposed to the repeal measure that passed the House in May and the one that failed in the Senate in July.
The legislation would eliminate federal funding for Medicaid expansion and for Obamacare subsidies that lower premiums, deductibles and co-pays in 2020. Instead, states would receive a lump sum of money annually through 2026 that they could use in a variety of ways to lower costs and help consumers pay for coverage.
Related: This map shows why passing Graham-Cassidy could be a huge political problem for Republicans
The bill would also allow states to waive several key Obamacare protections for those with pre-existing conditions. While insurers would still have to provide coverage to everyone, states could let carriers charge enrollees more based on their medical history. The legislation also would eliminate Obamacare's essential health benefits provision, which mandates insurers cover an array of services, including hospitalization, maternity care, prescription drugs, mental health and substance abuse services.
Like its predecessor repeal bills in the House and Senate, the Graham-Cassidy version would repeal the individual and employer mandates. It also would reduce federal support for the overall Medicaid program by sending states a fixed amount per enrollee, known as a per-capita cap, or a lump sum, known as a block grant.
Related: Jimmy Kimmel takes on new health care bill, says Sen. Cassidy lied 'right to my face'
All this could leave millions of people without coverage, warn the American Medical Association and American Hospital Association, which say Congress should work in a bipartisan manner to improve the nation's health care system.
Here are many of the other groups who are not happy with the bill:
AARP Federation of American Hospitals Catholic Health Association ALS Association American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network American Diabetes Association American Heart Association American Lung Association Arthritis Foundation Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Family Voices JDRF Lutheran Services in America March of Dimes National Health Council National Multiple Sclerosis Society National Organization for Rare Diseases Volunteers of America WomenHeart


It came after an even more powerful temblor struck just off the coast of Mexico on September 8. Its death toll was at least 90.
Both earthquakes produced jarring images of leveled buildings and desperate rescue workers. President Enrique Peña Nieto said more than 20 bodies were found in the debris of an elementary school in Mexico City that collapsed after Tuesday's earthquake. Dozens of children were still missing Wednesday afternoon.
Related: Here's what big companies are giving for Irma relief
A Facebook spokesperson said people have been using its social media platform to "come together" following the disaster.
"Since the earthquake, we've seen thousands of Community Help postings (currently over 10,000) with people offering and asking for volunteer work, transportation, shelter and food," spokesperson Jenna Stokes said in an email.
Stokes pointed to a couple of instances in which calls for help on Facebook were quickly answered.
One man took to Facebook to ask for volunteers to help with rescue efforts at a parish in Mexico City.
"In less than an hour a local man came by to help," Stokes said.
--CNN's Nicole Chavez, Steve Almasy, Ray Sanchez and Darran Simon contributed to this report.


The total extent of the damage isn't known yet, but the visuals are telling: Roofs blown off, flooded streets, shattered windows, debris and remnants of palm trees strewn about. It was the strongest hurricane to hit the island since 1932.
Estimates of the financial toll are likely to start coming in over coming days. But the price tag will be large.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency, Congress and private insurance firms will take on the lion's share of that cost. But Puerto Rico's cash-strapped local government will have to take on some costs, too.
"We don't know what the aftermath of the hurricanes will be, but there will clearly be federal help to rebuild the infrastructure of both the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico," says John Mousseau, an expert on Puerto Rican debt at Cumberland Advisors, a firm based in Florida.
Puerto Rico is already suffering through an epic economic crisis. There's no way it could foot the entire bill itself. In May, it filed for the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history.
The government owes $74 billion to bondholders and it hasn't made a payment in over a year. It is trying to work out a payment schedule with an oversight board installed by Congress. This past summer, the island's government and the oversight board bickered over what the board called a lack of progress in a debt payment plan.
The island suffers from severely high unemployment -- more than 10% -- and an exodus of residents who have fled to the mainland U.S. for better job opportunities. Over 400,000 residents have left the island since 2004 -- 89,000 last year alone, according to the Pew Research Center. The current population is about 3.4 million.
There is a ray of hope in the gloom. Some experts say Maria's aftermath is an opportunity for Puerto Rico to rebuild roads, bridges and other infrastructure that desperately needed a makeover.
Plus, the recovery and reconstruction efforts could create much-needed jobs on the island.
"It's almost like wiping the slate clean," says Cate Long, founder of the Puerto Rico Clearinghouse, an independent research firm focused on the island's debts. "All the rebuilding will boost the economy."


Related: How the Equifax data breach happened: what we know
The credit report company disclosed earlier this month that it had discovered a giant cybersecurity breach on July 29, compromising the personal information of as many as 143 million Americans -- nearly half the country. Sensitive information like names, social security numbers, birth dates, addresses, and the numbers of some driver's licenses may have been compromised as a result.
She also cautioned of the threat that cyberattacks pose to the financial system.
"We do see [it] as one of the most significant risks to the financial sector," said Yellen.
Related: Wells Fargo accused of ripping off mom-and-pop shops
Yellen said the recent data breach points to the importance for strong cybersecurity controls -- and that the Fed and other regulators are focused on ensuring banks have them in place, she noted.


"A multi-billion dollar corporation is trying to get away with paying its workers $1 per day," Ferguson said in a statement. "That shouldn't happen in America, and I will not tolerate it happening in Washington."
The complaint also alleges GEO Group paid some workers even less by instead compensating them with "snack food such as chicken, potato chips, soda and/or candy."
GEO Group said it "strongly refutes" Ferguson's claims, calling them "baseless" and "meritless allegations."
Related: Private prison industry sees boon under Trump administration
"We intend to vigorously defend our company against these claims," the company said in a statement.
NWDC is operated by GEO Group via a contract with the federal government.
The facility is tasked with holding people that Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, suspects of being in the country illegally. ICE detainees are kept at such facilities while they await court proceedings.
NWDC, which has the ability to hold more than 1,500 people, is the fourth-largest immigration detention center in the country.
While government-run prisons and detention centers do not have to abide by Washington's $11-per-hour minimum wage law when paying detainees for their work, the attorney general's office says no such exemption exists for private facilities.
GEO Group insists that detained NWDC workers are part of a "volunteer work program," and that the minimum wage "associated with the program is set exclusively by the federal government."
Pablo Paez, GEO Group's vice president of corporate relations, said voluntary work programs at "all immigration facilities" abide by rules set by the federal government, including rules "promulgated under the Obama Administration in 2011."
According to policy documents on ICE's website, participants in voluntary work programs must be paid "at least" $1 per day.
Related: Justice Department seeks increase in private prison beds
ICE did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The lawsuit demands GEO Group begin paying Washington detainees in accordance with wage laws, and that it fork over the extra profits it earned by allegedly underpaying workers.
NWDC is one of 141 facilities -- including prisons and detention centers -- operated by GEO Group.
Private detention centers and correctional facilities are a highly controversial topic. And this isn't the first criticism lobbed at GEO Group.
The company "has faced a variety of lawsuits, including a class action suit by current and former detainees at a Colorado facility alleging forced labor," Attorney General Ferguson's press release says.
Ferguson's office also said detainees at NWDC have engaged in "multiple hunger strikes" to protest their living conditions.
"As many as 750 detainees reportedly participated in one hunger strike earlier this year," the press release states.


In a statement, GE said the decision was driven by the iconic company's efforts to slash about $2 billion in costs by the end of next year. News of the move was previously reported by The Wall Street Journal.
It underscores the enormous pressure on GE to fix the conglomerate's poor performance. GE is the worst Dow stock this year, off by 23%. That's not a new trend. GE was the worst performer on the Dow during the 16-year tenure of Jeff Immelt, who stepped down as CEO on August 1.
Related: Warren Buffett: Dow will hit 1 million in 100 years
Some of GE's largest shareholders are voicing frustration. Asked at a conference last week about GE's poor performance, Trian Partners Chief Investment Officer Ed Garden said: "We have billions invested. It's not lost on me."
Garden said he's "optimistic" new GE CEO John Flannery will turn things around, but urged management to reduce expenses.
Flannery told employees in a memo on his first day that investors on Wall Street expect him to cut costs and hold people accountable for results. "I heard them loud and clear," Flannery wrote.
It's not clear precisely how much money GE will save from winding down its corporate jet program and selling the planes. GE, which has had a corporate flight department for decades, declined to specify how many jets it owns.
The FAA lists at least a dozen aircraft that are registered to GE, including multiple helicopters and jets made by Gulfstream and Bombardier. GE Aviation owns a Boeing (BA) 747 for testing purposes, but that jet won't be impacted by the new policy.
As CEO, Immelt racked up over $250,000 worth of personal GE aircraft usage last year, according to filings from March. The filings said "for security purposes" GE requires its CEO to use company aircraft for all personal and business air travel. The GE board has updated its policy to allow the CEO to fly on charter and even commercial flights, according to a person familiar with the matter.
GE has sought to remake itself in recent years by narrowing its focus to areas it can lead like health care, wind turbines, jet engines and trains. Along the way, the company has sold off once-prized assets like NBC Universal and GE Capital. GE even announced plans in June to unload its iconic light bulb business.
One thing GE isn't getting rid of: the division that makes jet engines, including some used to fly corporate jets.


This is part of a five year, $50 million initiative of the CVS Health Foundation launched in 2016 to create a tobacco-free generation.
Related: Tobacco stocks crushed as FDA targets nicotine in cigarettes
"We are at a critical moment in our nation's efforts to end the epidemic of smoking and tobacco use, and expanding the number of tobacco-free college and university campuses is an important step in our efforts," said Eileen Howard Boone, President of the CVS Health Foundation.
Related: What Finland's plan to be tobacco-free can teach the world
A year ago, 20 colleges got the first CVS health grants to help rid their campuses of tobacco.
It is estimated that more than 1,600 of the roughly 4,700 colleges and universities nationwide already have policies declaring their campuses tobacco free.
CVS first announced it would no longer sell tobacco products three years ago, and the company's sales and profits took a big hit as a result.


The big problem for General Mills? Wheaties, Cheerios, Lucky Charms and other General Mills brands are no longer a morning staple for many consumers. Cereal sales fell 7% from a year ago in the U.S. during the quarter, according to the company.
But General Mills (GIS) has another thing to worry about. Its yogurt sales are plunging too -- more than 10% in the quarter.
The company blamed weak demand for its Yoplait Greek and Yoplait Light varieties. Sales of its new Oui by Yoplait French style yogurt were not enough to compensate for the sluggish performance of General Mills' other yogurt products.
Related: Grocery stocks are getting clobbered
Changing consumer tastes are clearly hurting General Mills as people opt more for healthy products, and those with fewer genetically modified organisms, or GMOs. But it's not alone. Food companies Kellogg (K) and Conagra (CAG) have struggled as well. Both stocks are down more than 10% in 2017.
One standout in the industry? General Mills' rival Post. That cereal company's shares are up 8% this year and Post (POST) is about to get bigger. It announced earlier this week it was buying breakfast sausage maker Bob Evans Farms (BOBE) for $1.5 billion.
But most packaged food giants are out of favor with Wall Street.
Shares of Oreo maker Mondelez (MDLZ) and the Warren Buffett-backed Kraft Heinz (KHC) are down nearly 10% this year too. And all major food companies are contending with a shakeup in the grocery world.
Walmart (WMT) and Target  (TGT)are focused more on food. That's brought prices down, which has hurt established supermarket chains like Kroger (KR).
And the pressure may only get worse for General Mills and its rivals now that Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) has completed its purchase of Whole Foods. Amazon has already started to lower prices at Whole Foods in an attempt to rid the chain of its Whole Paycheck image.


So the more lawmakers can lower the corporate rate, the more attractive the United States will be as a place for companies to do business.
But there's one thing proponents of this argument don't mention: U.S. competitors impose a consumption tax in addition to their income and social insurance taxes. And that additional source of revenue helps offset the cost of their lower corporate rates.
A consumption tax -- known as a value-added tax (VAT) or a goods and services tax (GST) -- generally ends up raising prices on consumer goods and is rarely popular. But it can bring in a lot of money.
"Other countries can afford lower corporate rates because even a small increase in their VAT rate can pay for a large corporate rate cut," said Martin Sullivan, chief economist at Tax Analysts.
VAT rates among members of the OECD, for example, range from as low as 5% to as high as 27%. The group's average -- 19.2% -- is at a record high. And the mix of revenue in member countries has shifted further toward labor and consumption taxes in recent years, according to the OECD.
Related: Trump says the U.S. is the highest taxed country in the world. It's not.
In the United States, of course, the perpetual stumbling block to any seriously large tax cut is how to pay for the lost revenue that will result.
For example, lowering the corporate rate from 35% today to Trump's preferred 15% would cost about $2 trillion over a decade. Even lowering it to 23% -- which is close to what House Speaker Paul Ryan has said the goal would be -- would still cost $1.2 trillion.
The options to pay for the rate cut include eliminating business tax breaks and praying for outsized economic growth. Another option is to simply not pay for some or all of the potential revenue loss, instead adding it to the cost of the nation's already large and growing debt.
Other countries with a consumption tax have more choices. Yes, they may choose to curb tax breaks to pay for a business rate cut. But they also have the option of bumping up their VAT or GST to help make up for the revenue loss.
In recent years, for example, the United Kingdom and Japan increased their VAT rates around the same time they cut their corporate rates.
And if a corporate rate cut delivers some of the economic growth advocates promise, that in turn can boost revenue from a VAT even if the rate on the VAT stays the same.
But to date there has been little appetite for a consumption tax in the United States. "Our national VAT-phobia precludes this possibility in the U.S.," Sullivan said.
Just this summer, a House Republican proposal for a border adjustment tax, which is similar to a partial VAT, was shot down in large part because critics warned it would raise prices on imported consumer goods.


Buffett, whose fortune Forbes pegs at $78 billion, realizes he won't be around to see if his Dow prediction comes true. The 87-year-old billionaire said he gets "excited" just when people talk about him making it to 100.
So is Buffett's Dow 1 million call just crazy talk? Maybe not.
Keep in mind that the Dow was sitting at just 81 a century ago. It's now valued at nearly 300 times that level, as the U.S. has developed into the world's most powerful economy and its only superpower.
To get to 1 million, the Dow would have to skyrocket 4,500% from here. But it would have 100 years to get there. The compound annual return would only need to be 3.87%. That sounds doable considering that the Dow sported a 10.7% rate of return between the end of 2008 and last year.
"That is not a ridiculous forecast at all, if you do the math on it," Buffett said. "It's an amazing country we live in."

Related: Obama-Trump bull market is now up 268%
Of course, a lot could go wrong along the way. Some worry about the threat of a conflict with North Korea, while others are concerned about trade wars and the rise of populism.
Mike Bloomberg, the billionaire former mayor of New York City, worries the economy faces real challenges from crumbling infrastructure, job-destroying technology and difficult immigration policies. "I cannot for the life of me understand why the market keeps going up," Bloomberg told CBS on Tuesday.
What's certain is that at some point, the bull market in stocks, already the 2nd most powerful in history, will end.
Skeptics fear that end will be very painful, because stocks have been pumped up to enormous heights by extraordinary stimulus from the Federal Reserve. Julian Robertson, another billionaire investor, warned last week that the Fed is "creating a bubble" in stocks by being slow to raise interest rates from emergency levels leftover from the 2008 financial meltdown.

Buffett, on the other hand, has a long history of being optimistic on America, even when things look bleak. Recall the $5 billion lifeline he provided to Goldman Sachs (GS) during the financial crisis. That bet represented a vote of confidence in Goldman at a time of great fear. And its generous terms eventually made Buffett billions.
Savvy investments like that are why Buffett ranks No. 2 on the Forbes list of the richest people in the U.S. Buffett noted that over the years, about 1,500 different people have made the Forbes list of richest Americans. Some are entrepreneurs, others made their money in real estate or the stock market.
"But the one thing you don't see in those 1,500 names: you don't see any short sellers," Buffett said.


One of its investments will include an entertainment complex set to launch by 2019, the official Saudi Press Agency said on Wednesday.
There are currently very few entertainment attractions in the conservative society. Public cinemas and theaters are banned. The kingdom hosted its first music concert this year, but only men were allowed to attend.
With oil prices depressed, Saudi Arabia is trying to diversify its economy to end its dependence on energy exports.
Last year, it launched Vision 2030, a blueprint for what the economy should look like in the next decade. One of its key goals is to grow the tourism and entertainment sector.
Related: Saudi Arabia is giving women more freedom as it looks beyond oil
The new company should drive that.
"By the end of 2030, the company's projects aim to serve more than 50 million visitors annually and create more than 22,000 jobs in the Kingdom, which will contribute around 8 billion Saudi Riyals ($2 billion) to the GDP," the agency said.
Many Saudis visit neighboring countries for vacations and public holidays. About a million Saudis visited Dubai alone in 2017, and officials would rather they spend more of their holiday money in the domestic economy.
Vision 2030 aims to double the share of household spending that goes on Saudi entertainment to 6% by 2030.
In April, the Kingdom announced the launch of a 334 square kilometer (129 square miles) city, dedicated to sports, culture and entertainment.
The first phase of the project, located south west of the capital Riyadh, will open by 2022 and include a Six Flags (SIX) theme park as one of the main attractions.
Related: Saudi Arabia's vague economic shift leaves huge oil IPO on track
Most of the 8 million tourists that come to the country each year are pilgrims visiting Islam's holiest site in Mecca. Saudi Arabia wants to boost tourist numbers to 30 million by 2030.
It's even hoping to become a destination for beach vacations. It's planning to build resorts, hotels and residential units on about 100 miles of sandy coastline on the Red Sea. That project should be completed by 2022.


But Walmart's move is a sign of the tightening labor market which has made it difficult for employers to fill open positions. There were a record number of unfilled job openings nationwide in the latest government reading of the labor market. More than 600,000 of the open positions were from retail.
It also can be seen as part of the effort by Walmart, the nation's largest private sector employer, to make jobs there more attractive and to cutdown on turnover.
The company announced a series of pay raises for its lowest paid employees in early 2015, which took the minimum pay for most employees to $10 an hour by last year, and the average pay for its full-time workers to about $13 an hour. Part-time workers are paid about $10 an hour on average.
For part-time employees, additional hours could increase total pay more than an increase in hourly pay.
Related: Walmart ups hurricane relief commitment to $30 million
Walmart says it employed the same strategy of more hours for existing employees during the holidays last year and "we heard great feedback from our customers and associates," according to Judith McKenna, chief operating officer of Walmart U.S.
Walmart had 1.5 million U.S. employees as of Jan. 31, according to a company filing.


Puerto Rico's government owes $74 billion to bondholders, and an additional $50 billion in pension obligations to teachers and almost all other government employees. In May, it filed for the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history.
Meanwhile, Puerto Rico faces another long-term problem: Many residents are moving from the island for the mainland United States, leaving it with few skilled workers to handle the rebuilding and development process.
The territory's population was down to 3.4 million residents last year from 3.8 million in 2004. Persistently high unemployment, along with better job opportunities in the mainland U.S., have pushed Puerto Ricans to pick up their bags and move, mainly to Florida and Texas, according to the Pew Research Center.
Related: How to rebuild an island after Hurricane Irma
The pace is picking up, too. In 2005, nearly 47,000 Puerto Ricans left the U.S. territory for the mainland. Last year: 89,000 left, Pew reports. Puerto Rico's economy has been in a recession since 2006. It's unemployment rate in August was 10.1%, more than double the national average, according to Labor Department figures.
Puerto Rico's government has tried to lure investors and businesses to the island to boost its tax base. It offers major tax incentives to wealthy individuals who own property or start a business on the island. Its current administration is trying to cut red tape to make it easier for investors to buy Puerto Rican debt with fewer hurdles. It also agreed to be subject to a financial oversight board to help ensure it starts to pay down its debts.
However, the oversight board has criticized Rossello's administration this year for its lack of progress on creating a sustainable debt-payment plan. Rossello argues that the criticisms are unfair and that the island's government is making progress.
Puerto Rico was spared a direct hit by Hurricane Irma, though hundreds of thousands of people lost power and some structures were badly damaged, officials said.
--Jill Disis contributed reporting to this article.
A version of this article was published on September 18.


Here's a look at inequality by the numbers:
Income for the rich up 27%
Germany's economy grew by 22% between 1991 and 2014, helping to fuel income growth of 12%.
But the benefits have not been shared equally.
The richest 10% of households saw their real incomes jump by 27% between 1991 and 2014, according to the German Institute for Economic Research. Middle class incomes increased by 9% over the same period, while households at the bottom saw their incomes drop by 8%.
Wages paid to workers increased by 5% between 2000 and 2016. Meanwhile, income from investments and business activities jumped by 30%.
Related: Germany's hidden hunger
Markus Grabka, an economist with the German Institute for Economic Research, said that weaker labor unions, tax reforms that benefited the rich and an increase in single person households have contributed to inequality.
Outsourcing and automation have made the situation even worse.
10% own 60% of the wealth
The income gap has translated into major differences in wealth.
The richest 10% the population owns 60% of assets, while the bottom 40% have almost nothing, according to Germany's central bank.
Inequality has risen steadily since 2005 despite unemployment dropping to record lows, according to Grabka.
Grabka said the big question is whether all households "benefit from the strong recovery of the German economy."
Huge efforts have been made to develop the poorer East since it was reunited with West Germany.
But the risk of slipping into poverty is still significantly higher today in former Communist territory, where many industry towns have experienced a steady decline.
"A large share of companies were closed in East Germany and the post-reunification construction boom [ran out in the 1990s]," said Oliver Rakau, chief Germany economist at Oxford Economics.
Related: How German economy stacks up
16%: The risk of falling into poverty
The share of Germans at risk of falling into poverty has jumped from 11% two decades ago to 16% in 2014.
Grabka said that another key factor is an increasing number of jobs that don't pay well.
Nearly 7 million Germans are working part time, precarious "mini jobs" that pay up to €450 ($540) a month. Many rely on welfare payments to get by.

Germany introduced a national minimum wage in 2015 in hopes of tackling the problem, an initiative supported by Merkel.
But the chancellor, whose slogan is "prosperity and security for all," has been largely silent on the issue of inequality during the current campaign.
Her main challenger, Martin Schulz, has paid more attention to the issue, arguing that Germany is a successful exporter because wages are kept low.


The revived effort to dismantle Obamacare, authored by Senators Lindsey Graham and Bill Cassidy, would give states a lot more flexibility over how to provide health care for their residents. Instead of the rigid federal regulations in the Affordable Care Act, states could use their money to provide subsidies to offset premiums or out-of-pocket costs, for instance. Or they could set up high-risk pools or shield insurers from pricey enrollees through reinsurance programs. They could even send payments directly to doctors and hospitals to lower the cost of care.
"Obamacare took power away from patients and states and gave it to the federal government. This returns that power to where it belongs," the bill's authors wrote in an explainer. "Each individual state is a laboratory of democracy, allowed to innovate to find solutions."
Related: What's in the latest Obamacare repeal bill?
But there's a catch. The flow of federal dollars for Medicaid and Obamacare subsidies would shrink in nearly all states, particularly in those that expanded Medicaid to low-income adults.
The bill would eliminate funding for Medicaid expansion and the subsidies that help many enrollees afford premiums, deductibles and co-pays. Instead, states would receive a lump sum of money as a block grant to help residents pay for health care through 2026. After that, it would be up to Congress to appropriate the funds annually.
Related: It's all coming down to Lisa Murkowski -- again
Also, it would radically overhaul the traditional Medicaid program, which insures roughly one in five Americans. The bill would send a fixed amount of money to the states each year and reduce the growth rate of that funding.
The two provisions combined would likely curtail federal support for health care -- the biggest injection of federal funds into state budgets -- throughout most of the country. In response, these states would probably have to cut enrollment, pare back benefits or reduce provider payments.
The Congressional Budget Office has yet to put a figure on just how big a cut it would mean. But its analysis of an earlier Senate repeal bill showed that a similar restructuring of the traditional Medicaid program and the gradual winding down of Medicaid expansion would reduce federal spending by $772 billion by 2026, compared to current law. Also, the earlier bill would have left about 15 million fewer people insured under Medicaid at that time.
What turning federal funding of Medicaid expansion and Obamacare subsidies into a block grant would mean is less clear. There would be some winners (think Republican states that didn't expand Medicaid) and lots of losers (a mix of blue and red states that did).
Related: Senators ditch bipartisan health care talks
An initial estimate from Fitch Ratings released last week found that the block grant overall would be $20 billion, or 14% less, in 2020 -- the first year of implementation -- than states would receive in Medicaid expansion and subsidy funding under Obamacare. But the formula would also shift federal support from states that expanded Medicaid to those that didn't in an attempt to even it all out.
By 2026, 20 states would face funding cuts from 35% to 60% below what they would have received from Medicaid expansion and Obamacare subsidy funding under current law, according to the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. These include California, New York, Massachusetts, Louisiana, Alaska and Kentucky.
Overhauling the rest of Medicaid would slice $39 billion, or 8%, of funding by 2026, relative to current law, the center estimates. Those cuts would get bigger over time since the annual funding increases would be tied to a lower inflation rate.
The two provisions combined would lead to 35 states losing Medicaid and subsidy funding by 2026, the center found. California and New York would be the big losers, while Texas and Alabama would see gains.
Related: Trump, White House go all-out for Graham-Cassidy Obamacare repeal bill
Implementing spending caps for both provisions shifts the burden and risks away from the federal government and onto the states, according to Fitch Ratings. States would be forced to adjust their budgets, putting pressure on state support of local governments, public colleges and health care providers.
"In the short-term, non-expansion states may see gains under the bill given redistribution of ACA-related spending streams," Fitch wrote in an analysis. "But, over time even non-expansion states will face budgetary challenges given the proposed changes to Medicaid, which will likely accelerate for all states over time."


Starting in October, the Fed will begin unloading $10 billion of debt from its so-called balance sheet, including $6 billion in Treasury securities and $4 billion in agency debt each month through December.
For years, the central bank piled up purchases of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities, a strategy intended to stimulate the economy by reducing borrowing costs for everyone. At the time, it also reduced its benchmark interest rate to zero, and only began raising it in December 2015, seven year after the crisis.
On Wednesday, the Fed left rates unchanged, hovering between 1% and 1.25%.
Related: The CNNMoney Trump Jobs Tracker
The central bank has raised that rate three times since December as the economy has gradually improved. Raising rates too quickly could risk hobbling the recovery.
Still, the majority of Fed policymakers signaled on Wednesday that they expect to lift rates one more time this year.
Central bankers pointed to signs of strength in the U.S. economy, including a pickup in household spending and growth in business investments, in a statement following the Federal Open Market Committee's two-day meeting.
"Job gains have remained solid in recent months, and the unemployment rate has stayed low," the Fed said in a statement.
While Fed officials cautioned that the devastation of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria would hold back the U.S. economy in the "near term," they said the storms would not "materially alter" the country's economy overall.
"Within a few months, rebuilding activity has typically kicked in, returning economic growth to normal—or maybe even a little higher than normal," wrote Eric Winograd, AB senior economist in a note. "So, despite the storms, we're still confident the U.S. economy will keep its momentum, because the foundations are sound."
Related: Fed Chair Janet Yellen warns - Monitor your credit report!
Some Fed officials have warned against raising interest rates until inflation -- which reflects the prices of everything from meat and cheese to houses and cars -- meets the goal of 2% that they consider healthy for the economy.
But inflation is still running below that target, even though the job market has picked up and other explanations have fallen away. In a press conference, Fed chair Janet Yellen described it as something of a "mystery."
In past years, she said the Fed has been able to point to root causes of low inflation: the gap between those employed versus those that aren't, energy prices and a rising dollar.
"This year's inflation shortfall is more of a mystery," Yellen told reporters at the press conference. "I will not say that the committee clearly understands what the causes are."
Central bankers have been in a bind over when to lift rates again. Inflation has been stubbornly low for years, suggesting the Fed should hold off. But economic growth and low unemployment suggest they should act.
Fed officials cautioned that they do expect inflation to be higher than normal -- at least for a little while -- following the hurricanes that have devastated Texas, Florida and now Puerto Rico.
"Inflation remains the wild card of Fed policy and the temporary boost to gasoline prices following the hurricanes only clouds the picture further," said Bankrate.com's chief financial analyst Greg McBride. "Whether the Fed hikes in December will remain an open question until December."
Along with one more rate hike this year, the Fed also predicted three more possible moves next year.
"It is too soon for the committee to conclude that the recent slowing in inflation was sufficiently permanent to alter the Fed's plans," Michael Gapen, a Barclay's analyst wrote in a research note.
The Fed said it continues to expect inflation to remain at 1.6%, below its target, and the unemployment rate to be 4.3%, based on its updated economic projections.
The central bank did, however, offer a rosier picture of the overall economy, upping its economic growth forecast to 2.4% from 2.2%.
Yellen again declined to address speculation about whether President Trump will nominate her for a second four-year term leading the Fed. Her first term ends in February.


2. Deadly quake: Investors will be tracking markets in Mexico following a massive earthquake that killed over 200 people.
The Mexican peso is holding steady following the 7.1-magnitude quake.
3. Market movers: Shares in Adobe Systems (ADBE) and Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) are set to drop at the open after the companies reported disappointing results.
Talk of a merger between Sprint (S) and T-Mobile (TMUS) has investors calling their brokers. Shares in the companies boomed on Tuesday following reports that they are in active talks, and the upward momentum could continue on Wednesday.
SoftBank -- which has a controlling interest in Sprint -- has made no secret of its plans for the wireless carrier. SoftBank CEO Masayoshi Son, an ambitious deal-maker, said in May that the "door is open" for potential deals involving Sprint.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Gun shares shoot up: Gun stocks could be on the move following a news report that said President Trump plans to ease firearm export regulations.
Shares in Sturm Ruger (RGR) rose by 13.7% on Tuesday. American Outdoor Brands (AOBC), previously Smith & Wesson, also saw a jump of more than 10%.
Reuters reported that the Trump administration is planning to shift oversight of non-military firearms sales in a way that would make it easier for U.S. gun makers to sell small arms, including assault rifles and ammunition, overseas.
5. Big steel deal: Europe is set to get a new steel giant after two of the industry's biggest players agreed to team up.
Germany's Thyssenkrupp (TKAMY) and India's Tata Steel announced plans to merge their European operations on Wednesday to create a new force in an industry that is under intense pressure from cheap Chinese exports.
The companies said their planned joint venture will be Europe's second-largest steel producer with annual revenues of almost $18 billion. It will be headquartered in Amsterdam with more than 40,000 employees. Some 4,000 jobs are expected to be cut.
6. Stock market overview: U.S. stock futures are stuck in neutral after all three key indexes hit new records on Tuesday.
European market moves were muted in early trading. Asian markets ended the day with mixed results.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
7. Coming this week:
Wednesday -- General Mills (GIS) earnings; Federal Reserve interest rate decision and press conference  Thursday -- Manchester United (MANU) earnings Friday -- OPEC and non-OPEC oil ministers meet in Vienna


The merger is expected to cut costs by between €400 million and €600 million ($720 million) a year.
Related: Steel execs want Trump to get tough on imports
The global steel industry is still struggling with too much production capacity and not enough demand, and the merger will mean layoffs.
"Even with the joint venture it will not be possible to avoid job cuts," Thyssenkrupp CEO Heinrich Hiesinger said in a statement, adding that as many as 4,000 jobs are likely to be axed in the coming years.
The cuts would be distributed "roughly evenly" between both companies, he said.
In an interview with CNN, Thyssenkrupp chief financial officer Guido Kerkhoff said the main goal of the merger was to "cope with the overcapacity issues in Europe" -- a situation made worse by Chinese exports.
Chinese overcapacity still outstrips total demand in Europe and the United States, Kerkhoff added.
Industry experts say the merger has been a long time coming.
"The market has strongly suspected this amalgamation was coming for some time now -- it is the worst kept secret in steel," said Alex Griffiths, an analyst at consulting firm Wood Mackenzie.
"Regardless of cost savings resulting from the joint venture, neither entity is likely to add further capacity," he added.
Related: The prices of these vital metals are soaring
The companies said they plan to sign a formal agreement early next year and close the deal by the end of 2018.
Tata Steel, a subsidiary of one of India's biggest industrial groups, has faced numerous challenges with its European steel business.
The company announced plans to offload its U.K. operations last year, blaming cheap Chinese steel imports for plummeting prices. But it later put those plans on hold.
-- James Frater and Matt Egan contributed to this report


The "unfavorable impacts" of restructuring costs and the damage sustained by Hurricane Harvey contributed to the results, Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) said in a news release.
Related: Toys 'R' Us files for bankruptcy
The home goods provider is not the only traditional retailer struggling to keep up with online competitors.
Toys 'R' Us just filed for bankruptcy, succumbing to mountains of debt it accrued when trying to fight off Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Walmart (WMT). The news is troubling or toy makers Hasbro (HAS) and Mattel (MAT), who saw their stocks dip when the bankruptcy was just a rumor.
Related: Wall Street bets Amazon will doom department stores, retailers
Across the board, stores are closing at an alarming rate as shoppers lose interest in brick-and-mortar locations. And as bad as things are now, Wall Street thinks things are only going to get worse.
According to analysis by Bespoke Investment Group, investors are more pessimistic about the retail industry now than they have been since September 2008.
But Bed Bath & Beyond may also be facing tougher competition from traditional rivals. Williams-Sonoma (WSM), which also owns Pottery Barn and West Elm, reported earnings last month that topped forecasts.


Related: Trump is still hurting gun sales
Until now, Trump has been bad news for the gun industry, even though he is a Republican endorsed by the National Rifle Association. In August, Sturm Ruger said gun sales fell by 21% in the second quarter of 2017 and that its profit was cut in half.
Gun makers actually fared much better under President Barack Obama.
Buyers who feared that the Obama administration would tighten regulations stockpiled guns during his tenure, and they continued shopping when it seemed Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton might win the presidency.
Once Trump was elected, consumers felt confident that regulations would not tighten, and gun purchases fell.
American Outdoor Brands said that gun sales last quarter dropped by half from a year ago. Over the past year, its stock has plunged by nearly 44%.
--- CNNMoney's Aaron Smith contributed reporting.


That's especially pressing because both teams will move to a futuristic $2.6 billion stadium in 2020.
"Anyone who expected instant sellouts with crazy, maniacal fans with painted faces from Day 1 should have been in minority," a sports television veteran told CNNMoney. "That kind of fandom takes time to build. Winning helps. Changing habits doesn't happen overnight."
The teams say ticket sales are just fine.
The Rams, who moved from St. Louis before last season, are playing in the L.A. Coliseum, which holds over 90,000 fans. It's also home to the University of Southern California Trojans -- whose fans regularly fill the place on Saturdays in the fall.
The Rams drew an average of 80,000 last year, partly because of excitement over the team's arrival. The team, expecting a drop-off for the second year, says it intentionally capped tickets at 65,000 this season to improve the fan experience.
Really thought more fans would come out this week after the Rams routed the Colts, and looked exciting, last week. With 5 min left in 1 qtr. pic.twitter.com/qExfbsFVgF
The Chargers, who moved from San Diego for this season, are at the StubHub Center, a complex that holds 27,000 and is also home to the LA Galaxy of Major League Soccer.
The Chargers sold out their season tickets, which were on average the most expensive in the league. They reported attendance of more than 25,000 for Sunday's game. The team provides more than 1,000 tickets for sponsors and players' families, and it doesn't count those toward attendance.
Related: The NFL is back. Are you?
For all the concern over empty seats, ticket sales aren't a major source of revenue for the league. The real money lies in broadcast and streaming rights, and those deals -- billions of dollars in all -- are locked in for the immediate future.
Plus, when the two teams moved to Los Angeles their valuations increased dramatically -- it pays to play in the second largest U.S. market.
Still, two weeks into the season, the NFL has had to address the issue of L.A.'s suitability.
On Monday, league spokesman Joe Lockhart told reporters on a conference call that the teams' owners "knew going in that this wasn't a one-game or a one-year solution where they could just turn the light on and expect the kind of support that they are very confident they are going to get as they move towards the opening of their new stadium."
Team ownership also acknowledges that it's important to get out into the community to build their brands and create fans in L.A. The city has been home to NFL teams in the past, but hasn't had one for more than 20 years.
The Cleveland Rams first moved to L.A. in 1946. The relocation changed the face of the league because, to secure a lease for the L.A. Coliseum, the Rams agreed to integrate. That prompted the NFL to lift an informal ban on black players in place since 1933.
The Los Angeles Chargers franchise was born in 1960, but moved to San Diego after just one season. In 1982, the Oakland Raiders moved to L.A., giving the city two teams. But by 1995, the Rams and the Raiders were both out of the city.
Related: Meet the first woman to call an NFL game in 30 years
Lockhart said the league is confident that support for both teams will grow once the new stadium, which will be privately funded, opens. (Because of record rainfall in Southern California, the opening got pushed back a year from 2019.)
A shiny new home should build support for the teams, and the new place will be easier to get to than either of the current stadiums.
"There are more than 20 million people that live within an easy drive of the new Inglewood stadium," a league source told CNNMoney. "With three seasons to build up the fan base, both teams should do at least OK in Inglewood. And if one of the teams is good and exciting and in the playoff hunt, that team will do very well."
The Rams are responsible for financing the new stadium, according to a league source in L.A. The team plans to sell personal seat licenses -- expensive one-time fees that allow the buyer to reserve a seat or transfer or sell the rights to someone else.
The Rams are reportedly considering selling PSLs in the $100,000 range. If they can't raise the money, they could have a problem financing the stadium.
The Chargers haven't committed yet but are also thinking about selling PSLs, according to the source.
Ultimately, the success of the teams in L.A. depends on whether they're able to sell themselves to fans and generate interest. One of the best ways to do that is to be good. So far, the Rams are 1-1 and the Chargers are 0-2.
"These teams need to win, and win in an exciting fashion," the source said. "If you don't put a compelling product forth for L.A. fans, you're going to lag badly."
--Correction: An earlier version of this story gave an incorrect number for the ticket cap set by the Rams. It is 65,000, not 56,000.


NPD sports industry analyst Matt Powell said in a tweet that "this is an achievement I never thought I would see in my lifetime." (Me either. I remember buying a pair of red, white and black Sky Jordans as a kid at my neighborhood JCPenney in 1985!)
But Jordan, now an owner of the NBA's Charlotte Hornets, doesn't seem to have the same marketing appeal he did back when he was a player winning slam dunk titles and six championships with the Chicago Bulls.
Foot Locker (FL) CEO Richard Johnson warned during its last quarterly earnings conference call that sales of some of Nike's Jordan footwear and clothing "slowed considerably" in the quarter.
Weak shoe sales are hurting Foot Locker, and its rivals Finish Line (FINL) and Dick's Sporting Goods (DKS) as well. All three stocks are down about 50% this year.
Strong sales from Adidas aren't just bad news for Nike. Under Armour (UAA) is hurting too. Not even a second NBA title for Golden State Warriors star and UA endorser Steph Curry has been enough to lift sales of his shoes, which have been criticized for not being very fashionable.
Related: Air ball! Nobody's buying expensive sneakers from Nike and Under Armour
Even Curry's teammate Kevin Durant, who endorses Nike, recently said in a podcast with Bill Simmons that "nobody wants to play in Under Armours."
Wall Street is clearly nervous too. Shares of Under Armour have plunged more than 40% so far in 2017. That follows a 30% drop last year. Nike's stock is up 6% this year, but it was down nearly 20% in 2016. That made it the Dow's worst performer last year.
But the problems plaguing Nike and Under Armour and the retailers that sell their shoes are not hurting Adidas at all.
The German-based company said last month that sales for the second quarter rose nearly 20%. Adidas also said that revenue and profits for the full year would be better than expected. Adidas investors are happy too. The stock is up 50% this year.
Adidas is benefiting from its deal with Harden, but it is also being helped by having two larger-than-life celebrities -- Kanye West and his half-sister-in-law Kendall Jenner -- endorsing Adidas shoes as well.
If this trend keeps up, Adidas might even be able to convince Los Angeles Lakers rookie Lonzo Ball (and his dad LaVar) to ditch their own Big Baller Brand of shoes and start wearing Adidas -- especially if Adidas offers the Balls some lucrative stock options.


2. Does Yellen even want to stay on for a second term?
Related: Fed Vice Chair stepping down in October
Her four-year term expires in February, and Trump has both criticized and complimented her. Traditionally, a president makes a nomination for Fed Chair in the fall in order for the Senate to hold confirmation hearings.
Experts aren't convinced Trump will nominate Yellen. But they are more confident that Yellen, who has spent much of her career at the Fed, would accept a second term.
"I think there's about a one-in-three chance she stays." says David Wessel, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. "I think if the president asked her to stay on, she would say yes."
Related: Ivanka Trump had breakfast with Janet Yellen
Trump finds himself in a unique position to leave a lasting mark on the world's most powerful central bank. Fed governors serve 14-year terms and Trump has come into office when several are leaving or their terms are expiring. In addition to deciding whether to renominate Yellen,Trump can nominate four of the seven other members of the Board of Governors based in Washington.
"This is a really big deal," says Gus Faucher, senior economist at PNC Financial. "This is a huge opportunity for the president to put his stamp on what he wants monetary policy to be."
Because Trump likes to make his mark, Faucher argues that Trump is unlikely to renominate Yellen.
Yellen and Trump diverge on a key area: financial reform. Yellen staunchly defends the reforms enacted after the financial crisis in 2008. Trump wants to tear them up as a part of a broader rollback on federal regulations.
Related: 3 things to watch at the Fed's September meeting
Trump looked poised to nominate one of his top economic advisers, Gary Cohn, as the new Fed chair. But they had a falling out over Trump's response to a white supremacist protest in Charlottesville, Virginia and Cohn is no longer seen as a top contender.
Other names being floated: Glenn Hubbard, dean of Columbia University's business school; John Taylor, a professor at Stanford University; Kevin Warsh, a former Fed governor; and Neel Kashkari, the president of the Minneapolis Fed who Wessel describes as a "dark horse."
But one of Yellen's friends and former colleagues at the University of California, Berkeley, doubts Trump is giving the nomination much thought. He says Trump could change his mind on a new Fed Chair based on the day's news.
"I'm not sure he has any coherent thoughts on the matter," says Andrew Rose, an economics professor at Berkeley. "Even if he had any coherent thoughts on the matter, he might change them in the next 45 minutes."
If Trump doesn't give Yellen another chance, her legacy is already cemented, Rose says.
"She'll be viewed very successfully," Rose argues. But undoubtedly, he adds: "She will retire and be very, very happy."


This is the sixth year of relatively modest increases in job-based premiums. The bump in rates was similar to the increase in workers' wages, which rose 2.3%, and inflation, which ticked up 2%.
The cost of health insurance has come into the spotlight in recent years, with Obamacare revealing just how pricey coverage can be. Premiums for the benchmark silver plan on the individual market soared 22% this year for those who don't qualify for federal subsidies. The average silver plan for a 40-year-old cost $4,929, according to Health Pocket, an online health insurance shopping tool.
(Those who do get government assistance pay no more than 10% of their household income towards premiums. The majority of people on the exchanges and half of those in the individual market qualify for premium subsidies.)
"While the marketplaces seem to get all the attention, the much larger employer market where more than 150 million people get their coverage is very stable," said Drew Altman, CEO of the Kaiser Family Foundation.
Employer policies, which cover just over half of non-elderly Americans, have long been considered the gold standard of coverage. Companies take care of the lion's share of the cost.
However, this market has not been immune to soaring health care prices.
Workers covering their families are shouldering a larger share of the premiums than they had in the past. Their premiums rose 32% from 2012, compared to only 14% for employers, Kaiser found.
One reason why workers are paying more for family coverage is because companies often subsidize a smaller slice of their dependents' premiums. This is especially true among firms with fewer than 200 staffers.
Related: Three things Congress could do to quickly stabilize Obamacare
Also, companies have been hiking deductibles.
The average deductible for workers with single coverage was $1,505. While that is roughly the same as last year, it is more than double what it was a decade ago.
Kaiser doesn't track deductibles for families, which are more variable by employer.

Just over half of workers with single coverage face deductibles of at least $1,000 this year, up from about one-third in 2012. And 11% have deductibles of at least $3,000, up from 6% in 2012.
Some 19% of employees are in high-deductible plans with health savings accounts now, up from 6% in 2010. Their annual deductibles are at least $1,300 for single coverage and $2,600 for family plans.
Related: When high deductibles cause even insured patients to postpone care
Workers are also on the hook for more when they get medical care. The share of workers responsible for at least $3,000 in out-of-pocket costs -- which include deductibles and co-pays -- jumped to 57% this year, up from 38% in 2013.
One bright spot, however, is that more companies are placing a limit on how much employees are responsible for. That's because Obamacare instituted a cap on Americans' out-of-pocket expenses -- $7,150 for 2017.


That's not true.
The U.S. has added an average of 176,000 new jobs a month so far this year. Last year the U.S. economy added an average of 194,000 jobs a month in the same period, between January and August. The full-year average for 2016 was also above 2017's pace at 187,000 jobs a month, according to Labor Department data.
Trump began his remarks on Tuesday by citing the economy's progress since November when he won the election. But the pace of job growth since last November, averaging 172,000 new jobs, is still lower than in 2016.
Related: U.S. adds 156,000 new jobs in August
And it wasn't just last year that was better. In 2015, job growth averaged 226,000 a month. In 2014 it was 250,000 jobs a month.
A few of Trump's other claims were on the mark. He was correct when he told the UN that the stock market is at an all-time high -- the Dow and S&P 500 continue to hover around or reach all-time highs these days. He also said unemployment is at its lowest level in 16 years, and the current rate of 4.4%, is indeed nearly the lowest in 16 years. Finally, he said there are more people working in the United States than ever before. Given the size of the labor force and the number of Americans who have jobs, that's generally accurate.
Some companies may be moving jobs to the United States, but job growth simply isn't the best it's been "in a very long time." The White House did not respond to a request for comment.


The latest partnership between Kohl's (KSS) and Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) comes as traditional retailers try (and often fail) to adapt to a rapidly changing landscape. Toys 'R' Us filed for bankruptcy protection late Monday.
Toys 'R' Us has been hurt by Amazon, as well as Walmart (WMT) and Target (TGT). But other retailers are following the lead of Kohl's and have decided to work more closely with Amazon to boost sales.
Sears (SHLD), which also owns Kmart, has been one of the worst-performing retailers of the past decade. But the company announced in July that it would sell Kenmore appliances, including some that are compatible with Alexa, on Amazon.
Related: Wall Street bets Amazon will doom department stores
Cooper Smith, director of Amazon research at L2, a firm that tracks the digital performance of brands, says he expects more retailers to partner with Amazon -- but they will need to be wary at the same time.
"Doing deals with Amazon makes sense. They can help get consumers to come back, especially around Black Friday," he said. "But these retailers will have to tread a careful line when partnering with Amazon."
That's because Amazon isn't just working with other retailers. The company has opened its own physical stores, Amazon Books, that sells best-selling books and Amazon devices.
And in its biggest brick-and-mortar move of all, Amazon bought Whole Foods this year for nearly $14 billion. The deal recently closed, and now you can buy Amazon gadgets at the grocery store along with kale and quinoa.
It should come as no surprise, then, that investors in Barnes & Noble (BKS) and Kroger (KR) aren't too pleased with Amazon's increased clout in the real world. The stocks of both companies have plunged nearly 40% this year, while Amazon is up 30%.
L2's Smith notes that Amazon has its sights set on clothing, too. That could pose a problem for Kohl's and Sears.
"Amazon is launching private label apparel brands of its own," Smith said, adding that this could hurt sales of bargain-priced fashion at Kohl's, Sears and other department stores.
Related: Nordstrom may reinvent itself
Not every big traditional retailer is throwing in the towel.
Chuck Grom, an analyst with Gordon Haskett, notes that Macy's (M) recently hired Hal Lawton, formerly a senior executive at eBay (EBAY), to be its president. Nordstrom (JWN) is launching a format called Nordstrom Local with no inventory. The Local stores will have stylists who help people pick out clothes that they can order online. The stores will serve wine and beer, too.
"We continue to observe more and more collaboration between digitally native companies and traditional retailers -- a theme that we think will continue to build momentum in the coming quarters," Grom wrote in a report Tuesday.
And Walmart continues to boost its own digital operations under the leadership of Marc Lore, who joined the retailer after Walmart bought his company Jet.com last year.
"Walmart has done an extremely great job online under Lore," Smith said. "It's shaping up to be an all-out price war between Walmart and Amazon, and if anyone can beat Amazon at its own game, it's Walmart."


"Our queso is made with only real ingredients, which makes it different. We like that difference, but it is different," Chipotle (CMG) responded to one unhappy customer.
Some analysts aren't buying that.
Goldman Sachs said initial reactions to the new dip "suggest few customers will become repeat consumers."
"A very negative reaction to the queso launch suggests Chipotle launched a product that is not meeting consumer expectations, and, as a result, missed a potentially significant opportunity to add queso as an incremental add-on," Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in a research note Monday.
Chiptole stock slipped 3.6% on Monday and was among the biggest losers on the S&P 500 index. It fell again Tuesday, dropping by 1.5%.
The best way to eat chipotle queso.. pic.twitter.com/Jdv9YHFS7G

Related: Chipotle is still struggling
Chipotle has been struggling to win back customers following E. coli and norovirus outbreaks, as well as a recent rodent sighting in one of its restaurants in Dallas.
I'm sorry you're not a fan. Our queso uses all natural ingredients that we're proud of. We'll keep working on it. -Tara

And it had high hopes for queso. Back in July the company described the dip as the cornerstone of its effort to "change the narrative and encourage our guests" to keep coming back.
Goldman Sachs said the negative response mirrored the reaction from consumers in trials, and suggested Chipotle had "rushed" to market with the new product.


For the second quarter in a row, the Business Roundtable CEO Economic Outlook Index hit its highest level since 2014.
"The survey results demonstrate that CEOs remain confident in the U.S. economy and that we must seize on the opportunity to continue to press for pro-growth economic policies that create jobs and fuel wage growth at all levels of the economy," Jamie Dimon, chairman and CEO of JPMorgan Chase and chairman of the Business Roundtable, said in a statement.
Related: 3 things to watch at Janet Yellen's Fed meeting
The index, a composite of more than 200 chief executives' plans over the next six months, edged higher for the third quarter, demonstrating continued confidence in the economy by CEOs.
Hiring plans jumped to the highest reading in more than six years.
Plans for capital investment stayed about the same but have been edging higher, meaning CEOs are confident enough in the economy to spend money to improve their businesses.
Expectations for sales fell, but Joshua Bolten, president and CEO of the Business Roundtable, told reporters that's probably because of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
Related: Reality check: How low can the GOP go on the corporate tax rate?
CEOs revised their projections for economic growth this year higher by 0.1 percentage point, to 2.1 percent.
But the chief executives say Washington needs to reach a deal on tax reform to bolster the economy.
The Trump administration and Republicans in Congress are working on plans for tax reform, which they say would include tax cuts for businesses and the middle class. But whether such a plan will pass, when it will pass, and what it will include remain open questions.
CEOs "will hire less and they will invest less than they currently have on the books if tax reform doesn't come through," Bolten told reporters on a conference call. "There's a real downside to the US economy if they fail to get this done in a timely fashion."
--CNNMoney's Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report.


"A lot of trust has been destroyed," Merkel said. "That is why the industry must do everything to win back credibility and trust, in its own interest and that of employees and German industry."
Criticism from Merkel reflects a huge shift in popular sentiment that has made cozy relations with German automakers a political liability. An opinion poll last month found that 57% of Germans had lost trust in the industry, and two-thirds felt that politicians were still too close to the carmakers.
Long celebrated for its starring role in the German economy, revelations of emissions cheating at Volkswagen (and exploitation of loopholes by others) has exposed the industry to charges that dirty diesel engines are to blame for the country's air pollution problem.
Diesel sales slump, foreign brands advance
Sales of diesel cars have slumped this year and foreign brands are taking market share from their German rivals.
In some major cities, calls to ban diesel cars entirely are gathering strength. Munich, the home of BMW (BMWYY), is considering such a ban. So is Stuttgart, where Daimler's (DMLRY) Mercedes-Benz is based.

Merkel has indicated that it's only a matter of time before Germany follows France, Britain, India and other countries in setting an expiration date for the sale of cars that use only fossil fuels.
It's a remarkable reversal of fortune for an industry that employs over 800,000 Germans -- 2% of the country's workers -- and has enjoyed close ties with the political establishment. The German state of Lower Saxony owns 20% of Volkswagen (VLKAF), for example, and elected leaders have a reputation for lobbying hard for the industry in Europe, and elsewhere.
"There is no other industry as important, and it's clear that there is a close relationship between the government and the industry," said Arndt Ellinghorst, head of Global Automotive Research at Evercore. "The government has always been lobbying for the industry."
Related: Germany says the 'diesel crisis' could hurt its economy
Merkel got her hands dirty too, and not just in lobbying European officials.
Mary Nichols, chair of the California Air Resources Board, testified before the German parliament earlier this year that Merkel had complained about the state's tough emissions standards during a 2010 meeting with former Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger.
Nichols said she had never before experienced such an intervention.

Those tough emissions standards -- and efforts to circumvent them -- are at the core of the industry's predicament.
Diesel emits far more harmful air pollutants than gasoline, yet it was popular in Europe for decades because governments offered tax incentives in the hope of reducing CO2 emissions. (Diesel engines were thought to be more fuel efficient.) German and French automakers invested heavily in the technology.
European consumers, who were able to save on fuel costs, gravitated toward more expensive luxury models. In Germany, where both the modern car and diesel engine were born, the number of registered diesel cars had soared by 50% to 15 million since 2008, according to Commerzbank.
Related: German automakers confront a diesel rebellion in their own backyard
But Volkswagen, which owns the Audi, Skoda, SEAT and Porsche brands, could not keep pace with tougher emissions standards. U.S. prosecutors allege that its engineers knew as far back as 2006 that the company's new 2.0 liter diesel engine would not be capable of complying with regulations.
Instead of going back to the drawing board, they designed a "defeat device" software function that allowed cars to detect when their emissions were being tested, and to boost performance during that time.
The scheme went on for nearly a decade before being discovered. When it was, demand for diesels collapsed in Europe, the only market where tax incentives have made them a major factor.
"It's a purely European technology," said Ellinghorst. "You can't sell diesels in the United States and you can't sell them in China."
Throwing money at electric vehicles
German automakers are now pouring investment dollars into hybrid and electric vehicles. Volkswagen, the world's largest automaker by sales, announced last week that it will spend more than €50 billion ($60 billion) on battery cells as it pushes to electrify all 300 models in its range by 2030.
"We have got the message and we will deliver. This is not some vague declaration of intent," said CEO Matthias Müller. "The transformation in our industry is unstoppable."
Related: Germany's economic strength masks rising inequality
The German government wants to see 1 million electric cars on its roads by 2020, a goal that would require major investments in infrastructure, including charging stations.
Merkel, who is leading the polls by a wide margin, would be in prime position to help that transition if she wins Sunday's vote. The economic incentives are clear: German automakers exported 4.4 million cars in 2016.
"There is a big shift underway," said Ellinghorst. "The Germans have to move their know-how away from diesel and into electrics."


For comparison: $1 trillion is roughly the size of Mexico's economy.
Norway is a major oil producer, and it has plowed its energy earnings into the fund in order to fund pensions and other government expenses.
The fund is among the world's biggest investors in stocks, owning $667 billion worth of shares in over 9,000 companies globally. It owns on average 1.3% of all listed companies worldwide.
Its largest holdings are in Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Nestle (NSRGF), Royal Dutch Shell (RDSA), Novartis (NVS), Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) and Alphabet (GOOGL, Tech30), the owner of Google.
Related: $6 billion real estate bet eases pain for giant oil fund
The fund also owns large real estate portfolio, including stakes in buildings at the world's most desirable addresses, such as Times Square in New York, Regent Street in London, and Champs Elysees in Paris.
Returns have been impressive.
The fund has generated an annual return of 5.9 % since January 1998, a figure that is reduced to 4% when management costs and inflation are included. In 2016, it clocked a 6.9% return worth 447 billion Norwegian kroner ($57 billion).
This year is shaping to be even more prosperous. The fund made 499 billion kroner ($63 billion) in just the first two quarters of 2017.
The fund's value works out to over $190,000 for each of Norway's 5.2 million citizens.


"The proposed transaction has no strategic merit and is a complete reversal of your own publicly-stated strategy of becoming a pure-play specialty chemicals company."
White Tale Holdings said it had become Clariant's biggest shareholder with a stake over just over 50 million shares and would vote against the merger unless the company explored "all strategic alternatives" to the deal.
Related: Northrop Grumman to buy Orbital ATK
Clariant and U.S.-based Huntsman (HUN) unveiled plans to create a global specialty chemical company in May, saying they expected the transaction to close by the end of 2017.
They said HuntsmanClariant would deliver annual costs savings worth more than $400 million, and enjoy a stronger market position in the U.S. and China.
In a statement late Tuesday, Clariant rejected White Tale's criticisms and described the deal as the best option for creating value for all stakeholders.
"Since announcement the vast majority of Clariant's shareholders have expressed their support for the deal," it said, adding that it would not deviate from the agreement with Huntsman.
Related: China seals biggest foreign takeover
The deal has been billed as a "merger of equals" but Clariant shareholders would end up owning 52% of the combined company.
"The Board plans to cede operational control of one of the industry's most prized specialty chemicals companies for no control premium to Huntsman's management," White Tale Holdings wrote, adding that it believed about 75% of the targeted cost savings could be delivered by Clariant on its own.
Clariant denied that it would be ceding operational control, saying its CEO Hariolf Kottmann would become chairman, while Huntsman President and CEO Peter Huntsman would become CEO, of the new company.
-- Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Huntsman shareholders would own most shares in the new company.


2. No time for toys: Toys 'R' Us is filing for bankruptcy and that's causing a domino effect among toy makers.
Shares of Hasbro (HAS), Mattel (MAT) and Jakks Pacific (JAKK) took big tumbles on Monday as investors anticipated the bankruptcy filing that came late in the day.
The three toy makers each generated nearly 10% of their sales from Toys 'R' Us in their most recent fiscal years.
3. What to watch -- Trump, Equifax, Federal Reserve: President Trump is expected to address the United Nation's General Assembly around 10:30 a.m. ET. Wall Street will be watching for any market-moving comments.
Investors will be watching Equifax (EFX) again. Shares are slated to drop by another 3% at the open as investors worry about continued fallout from a huge data breach at the firm. Equifax shares have dropped 34% since the breach was revealed earlier this month.
And the Federal Reserve is beginning two days of meetings on Tuesday to discuss monetary policy. Markets will have to wait until Wednesday for announcements on interest rates and what the Fed plans to do with the vast stock of Treasuries and other securities it bought to spur the economy since the global financial crisis.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Earnings: Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) and FedEx (FDX) are the main firms that Wall Street will be watching on Tuesday as they plan to release earnings after the closing bell.
FedEx was hit by a massive malware attack in late June, along with many other firms. FedEx warned that operations at its TNT Express subsidiary were disrupted and the financial impact "could be material."
In Europe, Norway's giant sovereign wealth fund announced Tuesday that its investments are now worth $1 trillion. The government pension fund invests the country's oil wealth for future generations.
5. Economics: The U.S. Census Bureau plans to release data on housing starts and building permits from August at 8:30 a.m. ET.
6. Big merger in doubt?: An activist investor has built up a 15% stake in Switzerland's chemical firm Clariant (CLZNY) and is vowing to fight its planned $20 billion merger with Huntsman (HUN), another chemical specialist.
White Tale Holdings, an investment partnership created by hedge funds Corvex and 40 North, has written to Clariant's board, urging them to rethink the deal.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
7. Coming this week:
Tuesday -- FedEx (FDX) and Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) earnings; Federal Reserve begins two-day meeting  Wednesday -- General Mill  (GIS)earnings; Federal Reserve interest rate decision and press conference  Thursday -- Manchester United (MANU) earnings Friday -- OPEC and non-OPEC oil ministers meet in Vienna


At one point, Toys 'R' Us showed signs of a turnaround. After being taken private in 2005, Toys 'R' Us filed for an initial public stock offering in 2010. It ultimately withdrew its filing, citing "unfavorable market conditions."
Late Monday, Toys 'R' Us announced that it scrounged up $3 billion in bankruptcy financing, which it plans to use to restructure the company, alleviate its debt burden and revamp its stores.
The bankruptcy filing comes just ahead of the holiday season, the busiest time for the year for Toys 'R' Us. The company said it plans on keeping its 1,600 Toys 'R' Us and Babies 'R' Us stores open across the world, though the Wall Street Journal reported that the company will eventually close some of its underperforming locations as part of the bankruptcy process.
Toys 'R' Us noted in a press release that "the vast majority" of its stores are profitable. But the trend line is pointing in the wrong direction. The company reported that same-store sales fell by more than 4% last quarter, losing $164 million.
CEO Dave Brandon on Monday called the retail landscape "increasingly challenging and rapidly changing" but said he was confident that the Toys 'R' Us brand will "live on for many generations."
"Today marks the dawn of a new era at Toys 'R' Us where we expect that the financial constraints that have held us back will be addressed in a lasting and effective way," said Brandon in a prepared statement.
Related: Toys 'R' Us bankruptcy fears hit Mattel and Hasbro
Toys 'R' Us joins a list of hundreds of companies that have succumbed to the online threat and filed for bankruptcy protection this year. That includes the children's clothing store Gymboree, teen outlet Rue21 and Payless Shoe Source.
It closed its gigantic store in New York's Times Square at the end of 2015. It recently opened a temporary, smaller store for the holidays in another part of the popular Manhattan tourist spot though.
The troubles facing Toys 'R' Us aren't just about competition from Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) and Walmart (WMT). A lackluster summer at the box office might be hurting the entire toy industry, which depends on hit movies to drive sales of licensed toys.
Toy companies also have to deal with the fact that many kids are increasingly playing games on consoles, phones and tablets and not with old-school action figures, dolls and other toys.
Even Lego has been struggling lately. Investors are worried that Mattel and Hasbro could be in trouble, too.
Mattel (MAT), acknowledging the threat from tech, recently hired a new CEO who used to be an executive at Google. Its stock dropped 6% on Monday, to its lowest level since 2009, and Hasbro (HAS) fell 1%. Each company relied on Toys 'R' Us for more than 10% of its sales in the most recent fiscal year.
- Paul R. La Monica contributed to this report


(This story has been updated with the latest revisions to the Graham-Cassidy repeal bill, as of September 25.)
The Congressional Budget Office is expected to release a preliminary score of the bill this week, but it's not expected to include details on the impact on insurance coverage and premiums.
Graham-Cassidy in a nutshell:Reduces federal spending and block grants it.Caps Medicaid.Waives community rating and essential benefits.
Here's what's in the bill:
Repeal the individual and employer mandates: Obamacare levies penalties on most Americans who don't have health insurance and larger employers who don't provide affordable coverage for their workers. The bill would eliminate the penalty, retroactive to 2016.
Related: Millions could be left uninsured under Obamacare repeal bill
Repeals Obamacare subsidies and ends Medicaid expansion funding: The legislation would eliminate Obamacare subsidies that lower premiums, deductibles and co-pays in 2020. It would also jettison federal funding for Medicaid expansion, which 31 states use to provide coverage for residents with incomes up to about $16,000.
The legislation would turn the federal funding for Medicaid expansion and the subsidies into a block grant program. States would be given a lump sum of money and would have a lot of leeway over how to spend it.
For instance, they could help enrollees pay their premiums and out-of-pocket costs or set up high-risk or reinsurance pools to help protect insurers from costly enrollees and entice them to stay in the individual market. States could use a portion of the money to help those enrolled in Medicaid afford care.
Tonight on CNN: Senators debate the future of Obamacare
Graham and Cassidy say that this provision would return power to the states and allow them to create programs that fit their residents' needs. Also, it seeks to equalize Medicaid funding across the states by taking money from states that expanded Medicaid and giving it to those that didn't. The revised bill changes the formula so the shift isn't as drastic -- more than a dozen of the states that expanded Medicaid are run by Republican governors.
But Democrats and consumer advocates say that many states, particularly those that expanded Medicaid, would lose a lot of federal funding, making it harder for them to provide coverage or assistance to their residents. Also, they note, the block grant is only authorized through 2026, jeopardizing the continuation of funding after that.
Loosens Obamacare's regulations regarding pre-existing conditions and financial protections: The bill would also let states alter several key Obamacare protections for those with pre-existing conditions. While it would still require insurers to provide coverage to everyone, states could loosen a lot of other rules.
So younger, healthier folks could see their premiums go down, but those who need care and older Americans in their 50s and 60s could find themselves priced out of policies or only able to buy skimpy plans that don't cover all their needs.
The legislation would let states eliminate Obamacare's essential health benefits provision, which mandates insurers cover an array of services, including hospitalization, maternity care, prescription drugs, mental health and substance abuse services. This could lower premiums somewhat and give consumers a wider choice of plans. But it would also make it harder for people to buy comprehensive policies so those with pre-existing conditions may not be able to find coverage that meets their health care needs.
States could also change many of Obamacare's financial protections, including limiting how much people must pay out of pocket each year and how much of the tab insurers must pick up. That means that insurers could once again offer plans with deductibles of $10,000 or more for a single person. Republicans have long criticized Obamacare for having high deductibles, which this year cannot exceed $7,150.
Also, states could allow insurers to create multiple risk pools -- meaning those who are healthy could be assigned to one risk pool with lower premiums, while those who are not could be put into another with higher rates.
The new bill would also let states change the Obamacare requirement that insurers could not charge older Americans in their 50s and early 60s more than three times the rates of younger enrollees. Under the Affordable Care Act, younger consumers essentially subsidized the premiums of older ones. All the GOP repeal bills this year have loosened this provision, which has led the influential AARP to blast Republicans for levying an "age tax" on older Americans.
And under Obamacare, many preventative services -- including annual checkups, mammograms and colonoscopies -- were free. States could make changes to this provision, too.
Related: Republicans revise health care bill to try to switch key votes
Sweetens deal for Alaska: In an important nod to Murkowski, the revised bill says Native Americans and Alaska Natives enrolled in Medicaid expansion prior to 2020 could continue to be eligible after that point. The state's sizable native population and that group's unique health needs has been a serious concern for Murkowski.
Also, the state would receive a 25% boost in federal matching funds for Medicaid due to its defined high level of poverty.
And Alaska would be eligible for a $500 million pot of money for states that have been granted a certain type of federal waiver. It is one of the few states to meet this criteria.
Revamps funding for Medicaid overall: The legislation would send the states a fixed amount of money per Medicaid enrollee, known as a per-capita cap, starting in 2020.
States could also opt to receive federal Medicaid funding as a block grant for the non-disabled adults and children in their program. Under a block grant, states would get a fixed amount of federal funding each year, regardless of how many participants are in the program.
States, however, cannot opt to receive block grant funding for elderly and disabled participants.
Graham-Cassidy would also shrink the program even more over time by pegging the annual growth rate of funding for children and non-disabled adults to standard inflation after 2024, rather than the more generous medical inflation.
Either per-capita caps or block grants would limit federal responsibility, shifting that burden to the states. However, since states don't have the money to make up the difference, they would likely either reduce eligibility, curtail benefits or cut provider payments. The block grant would be more restrictive since the funding level would not adjust for increases in enrollment, which often happens in bad economic times.
Related: Trump says GOP's health bill protects pre-existing conditions. Here's the truth
Allows states to institute work requirements for Medicaid: States would now be able to require adult Medicaid recipients to work. The disabled, elderly and pregnant women would be exempt, however.
Permits everyone in the individual market to buy catastrophic plans: Obamacare only allows those under age 30 to buy catastrophic policies, which usually have higher deductibles and fewer benefits. This legislation would allow anyone to buy these plans starting in 2019.
Repeals a handful of taxes: The bill would repeal the tax on over-the-counter medicine, health savings accounts and medical devices, a levy unpopular on both sides of the aisle. But it keeps in place Obamacare's taxes on the wealthy, health insurers and others.
Defunds Planned Parenthood: In keeping with longstanding Republican beliefs, the legislation prohibits federal funding for Planned Parenthood. But the restriction is only for a year, beginning when the bill is enacted.
Increases maximum contributions to health savings accounts: Today, individuals can save up to $3,400 and families can save up to $6,750 a year tax-free in a health savings account. The bill would raise that limit to the annual out-of-pocket maximum for high-deductible plans. For 2018, that would be $6,650 for individuals and $13,300 for families.


In what is emerging as a bitter battle to protect aerospace jobs in both North America and the U.K., Britain's Prime Minister confirmed she will raise the trade dispute with U.S. President Donald Trump later this week during a bilateral meeting. She said she would once again impress upon him the "importance" of the jobs at stake in the United Kingdom.
The U.S. State Department last week cleared Boeing to sell the fighter jets to Canada, even as the potential political ramifications of Boeing's suit against Bombardier continued to unfold.
Related: U.K. to Trump: You can save jobs by fixing Boeing-Bombardier fight
Boeing opened a case against Bombardier at the Commerce Department's International Trade Commission in April accusing the company of dumping its C Series passenger jets into the U.S. market at "absurdly low prices."
The case was inspired by the 2016 purchase by  Delta Air Lines (DAL) to buy up to 125 C Series airliners from Bombardier. The Canadian firm has denied the dumping accusations and accused Boeing of hypocrisy. An initial ruling by the ITC is expected as early as Sept. 25, according the aviation industry officials.
In a statement to CNNMoney on Monday, Boeing said it was not in a spat with Canada.
"Boeing is not suing Canada. This is a commercial dispute with Bombardier," the statement said. "We like competition. It makes us better. And Bombardier can sell its aircraft anywhere in the world. But competition and sales must respect globally-accepted trade law," it added.
The move against Bombardier could result in serious economic consequences in Northern Ireland. More than 4,000 people work at Bombardier there, the majority involved in making carbon fiber composite wings for the C Series. Bombardier's aerospace division employs 28,500 people worldwide.
Boeing to U.S.: Put tariffs on Canadian rival Bombardier
May acknowledged that a decision from the U.S. Commerce Department is due in late September but cautioned that even if the Trump administration sided with Boeing, it would only be a preliminary ruling.
"There will be a preliminary judgment in the U.S. next week in relation to this case but that will just be a preliminary judgment so it will be possible for us to continue to work together to try and bring about the resolution that we want," she said.

Prime Minister May is vulnerable in Northern Ireland politically, post-Brexit. The Democratic Unionist Party agreed to prop up the May government earlier this year in return for economic investment in Northern Ireland.
Earlier this month, Trudeau said in a statement that the dispute could force Canada to abandon plans to purchase fighter jets from Boeing because the company "is pursuing unfair and aggressive trade action against the Canadian aerospace sector."
--Additional reporting by Jon Ostrower


Puerto Rico's government owes $74 billion to bondholders, and an additional $50 billion in pension obligations to teachers and almost all other government employees. In May, it filed for the largest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history.
Maria, a Category 5 storm, comes after the Federal Emergency Management Agency, or FEMA, issued a major disaster declaration for the island following Hurricane Irma earlier this month. FEMA did not provide an update to CNNMoney on Monday.
Meanwhile, Puerto Rico faces another long-term problem: Many residents are moving from the island for the mainland United States, leaving it with few skilled workers to handle the rebuilding and development process.
The territory's population was down to 3.4 million residents last year from 3.8 million in 2004. Persistently high unemployment, along with better job opportunities in the mainland U.S., have pushed Puerto Ricans to pick up their bags and move, mainly to Florida and Texas, according to the Pew Research Center.
Related: How to rebuild an island after Hurricane Irma
The pace is picking up, too. In 2005, nearly 47,000 Puerto Ricans left the U.S. territory for the mainland. Last year: 89,000 left, Pew reports. Puerto Rico's economy has been in a recession since 2006. It's unemployment rate in August was 10.1%, more than double the national average, according to Labor Department figures.
Puerto Rico's government has tried to lure investors and businesses to the island to boost its tax base. It offers major tax incentives to wealthy individuals who own property or start a business on the island. Its current administration is trying to cut red tape to make it easier for investors to buy Puerto Rican debt with fewer hurdles. It also agreed to be subject to a financial oversight board to help ensure it starts to pay down its debts.
However, the oversight board has criticized Rossello's administration this year for its lack of progress on creating a sustainable debt-payment plan. Rossello argues that the criticisms are unfair and that the island's government is making progress.
Puerto Rico was spared a direct hit by Hurricane Irma, though hundreds of thousands of people lost power and some structures were badly damaged, officials said.
--Jill Disis contributed reporting to this article.


But investors clearly are nervous. Shares of Hasbro (HAS) dipped more than 1%. Mattel and Jakks Pacific tumbled 6%. Mattel (MAT) is now trading at its lowest level since the spring of 2009, while Jakks Pacific (JAKK) is at an all-time low.
Hasbro, Mattel and Jakks Pacific each generated nearly 10% of their overall sales from Toys 'R' Us in their most recent fiscal years.
Toys 'R' Us, like the rest of the retail industry, has been hurt by the dominance of Amazon (AMZN, Tech30) as people increasingly buy toys online. Jeff Bezos might as well be Santa Claus for my two young boys.
Related: Toys 'R' Us to open pop up shop in Times Square
Walmart (WMT) and Target (TGT) have both emerged as big players in the toy market too.
Toys 'R' Us was acquired for $6.6 billion in 2005 by a group that included affiliates of private equity firms KKR (KKR) and Bain Capital, as well as the real estate investment trust Vornado (VNO).
But it has continued to struggle since then. Toys 'R' Us reported a more than 4% drop in same-store sales in the first quarter and a bigger loss than a year ago. The company will report its second quarter results on September 26.
Toys 'R' Us closed its gigantic store in New York's Time Square at the end of 2015. It recently opened a temporary (and smaller) store for the holidays in another part of the popular Manhattan tourist spot though.
Still, the troubles facing Toys 'R' Us aren't just about competition from Amazon and Walmart. A lackluster summer at the box office might be hurting the entire toy industry -- not to mention movie theater chains AMC (AMC), Regal (RGC), Cinemark (CNK) and IMAX (IMAX).
The big toy companies increasingly rely on Hollywood, as hit movies (particularly for kids) drive sales of licensed toys. Hasbro has held up better than its competition thanks to the success of Disney films, which include the Pixar, Marvel and Lucasfilm studios.
Outside of Disney (DIS), the rest of the box office was weak. There are hopes for a fall rebound, thanks largely to the upcoming "Star Wars Episode VIII: The Last Jedi." However, that would largely benefit Hasbro more than the rest of the industry.
September is off to a hot start too. But that's because of the success of the movie based on Stephen King's "IT." Good luck selling toys based on Pennywise the clown.
Toy companies also have to deal with the fact that many kids are increasingly playing games on consoles, phones and tablets and not with old-school action figures, dolls and other toys.
Even Lego has been struggling lately. And Mattel, acknowledging the threat from tech, recently hired a new CEO who used to be an executive at Google (GOOGL, Tech30).
Electronic Arts (EA, Tech30) has soared more than 50% in 2017. Nintendo (NTDOF) has surged 70%. Activision Blizzard (ATVI, Tech30) is up more than 75%. And Take-Two Interactive (TTWO) has doubled.
Toys 'R' Us and traditional toymakers may just not be able to compete for the short attention spans of 7 year-olds addicted to playing Geometry Dash on the iPad. I can tell you that from firsthand experience.


The iShares U.S. Aerospace & Defense ETF (ITA), which has Boeing as its top holding, is up 23% this year. That follows a nearly 20% surge in 2016.
Wall Street was betting before the U.S. presidential election that a win by either Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump would be good for defense stocks since both talked about boosting military spending during the campaign.
Since Trump's victory, defense stocks have continued to shine. North Korea's nuclear threats have investors even more interested in the sector. Two recent mergers are helping to keep the sector firmly on Wall Street's radar as well.
Fellow Dow component United Technologies (UTX) announced earlier this month that it planned to buy Rockwell Collins (COL) for $23 billion. And Northrop Grumman (NOC) said Monday that it intends to acquire Orbital ATK (OA) for nearly $8 billion.
Boeing has expressed some doubts about the United Technologies-Rockwell Collins merger plan since that deal would unite two key Boeing suppliers and potentially lead to higher prices on some aircraft parts.
Related: Another big aviation merger takes flight
But the deal also shows the intense interest among aerospace and defense companies to find merger partners and take advantage of booming demand in the industry.
And Wall Street loves merger activity, which tends to boost stock prices as investors bet on who might be next to get bought.
Boeing, with a market value of about $150 billion and annual sales of more than $90 billion, is more likely acquirer than takeover target of course.
Still, investors are clearly betting that Boeing may not need to buy any of its rivals to stay on top. Orders are coming in for Boeing's new 737 MAX and 787 (aka Dreamliner) commercial jets.
On the defense side, Boeing continues to see demand for its Apache helicopters as well as its missile defense systems.
The combination of Boeing's commercial and military clout is a key reason why analysts expect profits to rise nearly 40% this year and grow at an annual rate of almost 20%, on average, for the next few years.
So it's no wonder why Boeing stock is flying so high.


"Everybody who wanted a quality beer thought they had to get it from an import. The reputation of American beer was terrible," Koch says. "I had to change people's minds about American beer in general."

Brewing runs deep in Koch's family and he's the sixth generation to become a brewmaster. In 1984, he discovered his great-great-grandfather's lager recipe in his father's attic and brewed the very first Samuel Adams lager. He started the company that same year.
Despite his pursuit of the family's passion for brewing, the elder Koch doubted his son. The beer industry had been consolidating and breweries were closing.
"I think he told me when he got out of brewmaster's school in 1948 there were almost a thousand breweries in the United States," Koch says. "When I started Sam Adams 36 years later, that thousand breweries had collapsed down to 50."
He told his father that he wasn't trying to compete with the giant brewers. Instead, he was going to make "rich, flavorful beer in very small batches."
Koch's recipe quickly became a catalyst for the so-called craft beer "revolution."
"I just happened to hit this historic moment when there was an opportunity to change an entire element of our culture," Koch says.
Related: The Marriott family American Dream: From 'Hot Shoppes' to hotels
Today, the craft beer industry is booming at $23.5 billion, according to the Brewers Association, and there are more than 5,000 craft breweries in America.
Koch has since built a billion-dollar (revenue) business, selling between 3 and 4 million barrels of beer each year.
The company's performance has far exceeded his expectations. "My plan was to only get to about a million dollars a year in sales," Koch says.
Despite his father's initial concerns, he was always by Koch's side. "He was on my board from the day we went public," Koch says.
In 1995, Koch took the Boston Beer Co. public, with his father by his side.
Related: Fast food president Kat Cole: How my single mom helped me succeed
One of the many pieces of advice he received from his father was to share the business with someone he could trust.
"I looked around Boston Consulting Group. There were all these best and the brightest with these great degrees. Very, very accomplished people. I realized, hey, they're all like me. They have all the same skillsets. They're not really adding anything," Koch says.

That's where Rhonda Kallman, Koch's secretary, came in. Kallman was also his co-founder and first employee.
"She was an incredible person, and she had different skills than I had. She was great with people, and she knew bars. I knew business. I knew beer, but Rhonda knew bars," Koch says.
In those first months, Koch walked bar-to-bar with a briefcase full of beer trying to sell his Samuel Adams lager and Kallman's familiarity with bars was key to jump starting the business.
About 10 years ago, Koch almost lost the company. Nearly 25 million bottles had to be recalled for possible glass falling into the bottles when capped. His father's reaction has stuck with him.
"He said: 'Jim, we could lose the whole company. You know that, right?,'" Koch recalls. "I said, 'Yeah. yeah, Dad, I know.' Then he said, 'Don't worry. It's been a great ride. Don't worry.'"
"That's the right perspective. Only your dad can give you that. It was like: I don't care if it fails, ride with me," Koch says.
Koch's father passed away six years ago, but he continues to value his business relationship with his father.
Related: Makeup mogul Bobbi Brown on her new venture
"I had this wonderful experience that very few people have, which is I was able to have an adult relationship with my dad as a business partner," Koch says.
Koch's unique leadership style is something he writes extensively about in his book, Quench Your Own Thirst: Business Lessons Learned Over a Beer or Two.
The biggest lesson learned: "Do what you think is going to make you happy rather than what's going to make you rich," Koch says.
He also believes in knowing and accepting your strengths and weaknesses. That's one the reasons why he has remained chairman and founder of the company, instead of CEO.
"I'm not really a good manager. I've never claimed to be a good manager," Koch tells Harlow. "I really focus on two things that I'm accountable for. Those two things are the quality of the beer and the culture of the company. I believe if I take care of those and we've got good managers, we'll be successful. That's what I'm good at."


Earlier this month, United Technologies (UTX) bought Rockwell Collins (COL) for $23 billion. They're two of the biggest suppliers to Boeing and Airbus.
Related: Why your need to fly cheap just created a new aerospace giant
Northrop said it plans to establish Orbital as a new independent business sector within the company. Besides rockets that carry satellites to space, Orbital's businesses include rocket propulsion systems, missiles, defense electronics and precision weapons.
Northrop is competing with Boeing to provide a major upgrade of the nation's Minuteman nuclear missile system, the most significant upgrade in that leg of the nation's nuclear deterrence since the early 1970s. The new system is expected to remain in service until 2075.


Big tech stocks continue to lead the way, despite the fact that many industry leaders are at odds with President Trump regarding his stance on immigration, climate change and other policies.
Lindsey Bell, an investment strategist with CFRA, wrote last week that investors are sticking with tech stocks because gridlock in Washington shouldn't affect businesses like Apple (AAPL, Tech30), Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30), Facebook (FB, Tech30) and Amazon (AMZN, Tech30).
Looking further afield, nearly all European markets were posting healthy gains in early trading. Most Asian markets ended the day in positive territory. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index shot up by 1.2%.
In commodities, crude oil futures are also rising by nearly 1% to trade above $50 per barrel.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
2. Market turbulence: Shares in European airline Ryanair (RYAAY) are dropping by 3% on the Irish Stock Exchange after the company announced it would cancel up to 50 flights per day over the next six weeks.
It said it was canceling less than 2% of its schedule to improve flight punctuality and ensure pilots and cabin crew are able to use their vacation days.
3. Bitcoin bump: Bitcoin prices are surging on Monday after tanking late last week.
One bitcoin is now worth nearly $4,000, up about 33% since last week's low, according to data from digital currency website CoinDesk.
Two of China's most prominent bitcoin exchanges, BTC China and Via BTC said Thursday they would halt trading this month, sending the price of the virtual currency crashing.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
4. Coming this week:
Monday -- Business leaders speak about climate change issues at the C40 Talks in New York Tuesday -- FedEx (FDX) and Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) earnings; Federal Reserve begins two-day meeting  Wednesday -- General Mill  (GIS)earnings; Federal Reserve interest rate decision and press conference  Thursday -- Manchester United (MANU) earnings Friday -- OPEC and non-OPEC oil ministers meet in Vienna


That will all be on display Wednesday when the Fed's policy committee announces its next moves and Yellen holds a press conference.
1. Will Janet Yellen stay or go?
Yellen has politely dodged questions about whether she would stay for a second term, if renominated.
"I really haven't had to give further thought at this point to this question," she told House lawmakers in July.
You can bet that Yellen, whom former President Barack Obama appointed as the first woman to lead the Federal Reserve, will be asked by reporters on Wednesday.
The question gained added importance since the Fed's No. 2, Stanley Fischer, announced this month that he will resign on October 13.
That news means Trump has the chance to fill the Fed's top two jobs.
During the campaign, Trump condemned Yellen as a puppet for Obama. Trump has more recently suggested he'd consider rehiring Yellen for another term, saying she's "done a good job."
It would be highly unusual if he didn't reappoint her: Most presidents keep Fed chairs for an additional term.
Related: Mnuchin's blunders bolster Cohn's stock
2. Is another rate hike coming?
Most economists don't expect the Fed to raise interest rates on Wednesday. It has raised rates three times since last December, twice this year.
Central bankers are in a bind. It's their job to shift policy levers, nudging interest rates higher and lower, to boost jobs and keep prices, or inflation, at the optimal level. That means not too high, and not too low.
Inflation affects prices -- milk, train tickets, everything.
It has been stubbornly low for years. And low inflation can hurt the economy: Businesses get queasy about investing in people and equipment. If prices don't rise, wages don't either.
The problem is that interest rates, which the Fed influences through its federal funds rate, remain low even though jobs recovered years ago. The funds rate effects what people pay on things like mortgages and credit cards. Lower rates promote growth.
In other words, inflation is signaling that the Fed should not increase rates. But economic growth and low unemployment of 4.4% are saying it should.
"We previously expected the Fed to hike interest rates again in December, but the continuing weakness in core inflation had left the chances of a move before year-end as little more than a coin toss and other recent developments have all but killed the possibility," Capital Economics wrote in a recent note.
The other reason the Fed may not raise its fed funds rate this week: Hurricanes Harvey and Irma are expected to ding the U.S. economy in the short-term.
Related: Ending DACA hits U.S. economy where it hurts
3. When will the Fed start getting its portfolio back to normal?
The other policy decision on Yellen's agenda involves the Fed's so-called balance sheet. That's the enormous amount of debt -- mostly Treasury bonds and securities backed by mortgages -- it racked up during the financial crisis.
The central bank effectively lent trillions of dollars to the government to spur the economy and make it cheaper for everyone to borrow. And now it's time for the Fed to begin selling that debt.
Several Fed officials have signaled the central bank could take a first step in selling off its bonds and other investments starting next month.
An announcement that the Fed will start unwinding its debt would mark yet another milestone in an economic recovery now in its ninth year.
"The [Fed] has been preparing the markets for balance sheet normalization for a long time," Seth Carpenter, an economist with UBS wrote in an analyst note.


Related: The X factor: Did Apple wow enough?
Some analysts wonder if that lag time means Apple won't see a spike in iPhone sales until next year. Apple's annual sales declined in 2016 for the first time since 2001.
2. Business Roundtable releases results of CEO survey: Business Roundtable, a group of CEOs chaired by JPMorgan's Jamie Dimon, will release the results of its third quarter 2017 CEO Economic Outlook Survey on Tuesday morning. The survey includes the CEOs' hiring plans and their expectations for this year's GDP.
Business Roundtable includes a real who's who of CEOs: Apple's Tim Cook, GM's Mary Barra, Pepsi's Indra Nooyi and several others. In May, 36% of those CEOs said they expect to increase hiring. We'll see on Tuesday if their plans have changed.
3. Fed meeting: The Fed will hold a press conference on Wednesday at the close of a two-day meeting.
We'll get to hear about the Fed's new economic projections, and we may learn more about how the Fed plans to wind down its balance sheet. The Fed last met in July, when it decided to hold rates steady. It probably won't raise rates this time, either.
4. FedEx releases earnings: FedEx will release its first quarter earnings for fiscal year 2018 on Tuesday.
The company was hit by a massive malware attack back in June. Its stock dipped in July but rebounded in August. FedEx has also been working to compete with Amazon, launching the logistics network FedEx Fulfillment in February.
5. Bed Bath & Beyond report earnings: Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) will report second quarter earnings for 2017 on Tuesday.
Related: Wall Street bets Amazon will doom department stores, retailers
Traditional retailers like Bed Bath & Beyond have been struggling to compete with online sellers, and Wall Street is expecting things to get worse. According to analysis done by Bespoke Investment Group, investors are more pessimistic about the retail industry now than they have been in years.
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- Business leaders speak on Climate Change at the C40 Talks
Tuesday -- Bed Bath & Beyond earnings; FedEx (FDX) earnings; Fed meeting
Wednesday -- General Mills (GIS) earnings; Fed meeting and press conference
Friday -- OPEC and non-OPEC oil ministers meet in Vienna

