
Related: Trump's top trade issues: Where they stand
"Despite strong language a year ago, the U.S. administration has been remarkably restrained in its usage of measures to restrict imports from China," said Louis Kuijs, the top Asia economist at advisory firm Oxford Economics.
But experts predict things are going to get nasty in 2018.
'I expect a trade war'
Trump's patience appears to be running out, especially with his idea to cut Xi some slack on trade in the hope China would pressure North Korea into backing down on its nuclear weapons program.
Trump and his trade lieutenants are expected in the coming months to announce results from some of their big investigations -- on issues like steel and intellectual property theft -- that could result in tariffs on Chinese goods.
"I expect a trade war to emerge in the first part of the year, and it could spiral into a serious conflict that threatens other elements of the relationship," said Scott Kennedy, director of the Project on Chinese Business and Political Economy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

The initial trade talks between the world's two largest economies, which began after Trump and Xi hit it off in Florida in April, fell apart without meaningful results.
The U.S. president on Monday cast China in a harsh light as he laid out his vision for national security.
Trump's newly unveiled strategy identified China and Russia as U.S. rivals that are "attempting to erode American security and prosperity," and he accused Beijing of unfair trade practices.
Related: Trump unveils national security plan, blasts previous presidents
"We all know that this is going to heat up in the coming months," said Mireya Solis, co-director of the Center for East Asia Policy Studies at the Brookings Institution.
She expressed concern that unlike the economic rivalry between the U.S. and Japan in the 1980s, Washington and Beijing aren't allies bound together by a defense partnership.
Despite the U.S. and China's deep economic links, the lack of a broader alliance makes "the threat of an escalation" in trade tensions much greater, Solis said in a discussion Monday with Brookings colleagues.
Beijing responded to Trump on Tuesday, calling on the U.S. to abandon its Cold War mentality and to "stop distorting" China's strategic intentions.
'The risk of damaging both economies'
Trump faces a huge challenge in persuading Beijing to stop aggressively boosting its domestic industries and to do more to open its own giant markets without setting off a trade war that hurts American jobs.
Trump gave up one major tool for influencing China right after taking office when he yanked the U.S. out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), a vast free trade agreement covering 12 countries that President Barack Obama had spearheaded in an effort to strengthen U.S. leadership in Asia and the Americas.

A successful TPP would have provided "an incentive for China to reform," said David Dollar, a China expert at the Brookings Institution.
"Now, we've lost that and the administration is talking about taking some harsh actions, which is probably not going to change Chinese behavior but has the risk of damaging both economies," he said in the conversation with Solis.
Related: New Pacific trade deal could leave U.S. playing catchup
Trump has also dismissed other multinational approaches to trade, saying they "tie our hands, surrender our sovereignty and make meaningful enforcement practically impossible." But that attitude also makes it harder to pressure China to play fairer on trade.
"The U.S. is pursuing this effort unilaterally and with no allies," Kennedy said. "Because the U.S. is at loggerheads with so many others, no other country is standing by the U.S.'s side."

Dollar, who previously worked for the U.S. Treasury Department, isn't convinced that the increasingly threatening noises from the White House will necessarily lead to aggressive protectionist measures against China.
"It's not obvious to me the U.S. will go down that road," he said. "I think there'll be a lot of resistance from the business community and members of Congress."
'The Chinese government is jittery'
Still, the more confrontational signals from Washington haven't gone unnoticed in Beijing.
"The Chinese government is jittery again," said Song Guoyou, an expert in Chinese economic diplomacy at Fudan University in Shanghai. He also predicts that next year will be "the real start of turbulence in China-U.S. trade relations."
A big part of the problem, experts say, is Trump's habit of focusing on the $309 billion U.S. trade deficit with China and not the broader economic relationship between the countries.
Related: U.S. trade deficit with China and Mexico is growing
"The trade balance has absolutely nothing to do with whether China is playing fair," Kennedy said. "In fact, if China were to reduce some of its market access barriers to foreign investment, its trade surplus with the U.S. might rise."
But Trump appears willing to try to bring the deficit down, even if it leads to conflict. And then he may face an even bigger challenge.
"It's much easier to get into a trade war than it is to get out of one," Kennedy warned.
-- Serenitie Wang contributed to this report.


The findings, along with other surveys, suggest that the tax plan may not have the dramatic impact on jobs that President Trump and Republicans in Congress have promised.
Trump tweeted over the weekend that "TAX CUTS" will lead to "higher growth, higher wages, and more JOBS!" The GOP tax overhaul would slash the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and offer incentives for companies to bring foreign profits back home.
Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, who leads the Yale CEO Summit, said in an interview that it's "astounding" how few companies plan to reinvest their tax savings.
He called the idea of a jobs boom from the tax plan "a lot of smoke and mirrors," especially because the unemployment rate is just 4.1% and companies already have plenty of cash to make investments.
Sonnenfeld declined to name the CEOs who participated in the poll. He said it included "Trump supporters" and former members of the president's now-defunct advisory councils of business leaders.
Related: Why Wells Fargo could be one of tax plan's big winners
There are other signs that tax cuts may not spark a hiring boom. Just 43% of CEOs polled in November by the Business Roundtable, a powerful business lobby that has spent millions on ads championing tax reform, said they plan to ramp up hiring over the next six months. That was despite rising confidence that the Republican tax plan would be enacted.
And at The Wall Street Journal's CEO Council in November, only a few business leaders raised their hands when they were asked whether the tax plan would lead them to increase investment in the United States. Gary Cohn, Trump's top economic adviser, was surprised.
"Why aren't the other hands up?" he asked from on stage.
Wall Street expects companies will use a big chunk of the tax savings to reward shareholders with fatter dividends and stock buybacks, which makes stocks more attractive. That's one reason stocks have surged all year, putting the Dow in sight of 25,000.
"Markets just love it," Michael Block, chief market strategist at Rhino Trading Partners, wrote in a note on Tuesday.
He said it's "malarkey" to think that cutting corporate taxes will boost spending and wages.
"As we've seen in history, this doesn't raise wages," he wrote. "What it does lead to is richer shareholders."
In 2004, when Congress offered tax breaks for companies to bring foreign profits back home, businesses used much of their cash on share buybacks.
The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities later concluded that the 2004 tax holiday "did not produce the promised economic benefits" because companies mostly bought back stock instead of investing to grow their businesses.
Related: How much you will pay under GOP tax plan depends on a lot
Trump tweeted on Tuesday that "stocks and the economy have a long way to go after the Tax Cut Bill is totally understood and appreciated." Specifically, he said "immediate expensing will have a big impact."
Trump was referring to an element of the legislation that would allow businesses to immediately and fully expense most new capital investments. The provision, which would end after five years, should encourage companies to shell out money on new plants and equipment.
JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon, who chairs the Business Roundtable, recently predicted that tax reform will "lead to capital expenditures, productivity and wages," though he cautioned it may take time for workers to benefit.
One concern among the CEOs polled by Yale: the price of the GOP tax overhaul. The Joint Committee on Taxation, a nonpartisan scorekeeper for tax bills, estimates the legislation would add about $1 trillion to deficits even after accounting for projected additional economic growth.
Seventy-two percent of CEOs said it's "wrong" for the tax package to sizably add to America's mountain of debt.


Despite pledges by Garrett to keep the agency "fully functioning" should he be confirmed by the Senate, lawmakers -- including some Republicans -- remained unconvinced.
"Mr. Garrett was a leader of the effort to slam shut the doors of America's export financing bank, and he cannot hide his contempt for Ex-Im," said Senator Sherrod Brown, the top Democrat on the committee, at the hearing.
"He did not and could not answer the key question posed by several of us -- 'What has changed?' Why did he vote repeatedly in 2012 and 2015 to kill the Bank, but now wants to lead it?,'" Brown added.
Senators Tim Scott of South Carolina and Mike Rounds of South Dakota, two Republicans on the panel, joined Democrats to defeat Trump's pick.
"We are disappointed that the Senate Banking Committee missed this opportunity to get the Export Import Bank fully functioning again. We will continue to work with the Committee on a path forward," said Marc Short, director of legislative affairs for the White House, in a statement.
Related: Is Trump keeping his promises on manufacturing?
The agency supports U.S. exports by backing loans to foreign buyers and providing credit insurance. Those that support the agency argue it creates a level playing field, allowing U.S. companies to compete with foreign rivals that receive backing from their own governments.
Opponents of the agency argue the bank amounts to corporate welfare and should be killed.
While the move is a defeat for the White House, it is a win for large manufacturers that pressured lawmakers to oppose Garrett's nomination.
"If there was ever somebody who didn't belong at the helm of the Ex-Im bank, it was Scott Garrett," said Democratic minority leader Sen. Chuck Schumer in a statement after the vote.
Schumer called on the president to immediately withdraw Garrett's name for the job and appoint a leader that will support the work of the agency.


Top European Commission officials asked for both measures to be removed from the final bill in a second letter to Mnuchin.
European officials argue that the bill would subsidize American companies by allowing a greater share of their income from exports to be taxed at 12.5%, instead of the general corporate rate of 21%.
The second provision that drew objections would subject cross-border transfers within banks and finance companies to a 10% tax, putting international lenders at a disadvantage.
Both rule changes were included in the final version of the bill despite the lobbying campaign.
"The concerns expressed, including regarding export subsidies, are still relevant," said Michael Mundaca, co-director of tax services at EY and a former tax policy official at the U.S. Treasury.
Related: How much you'd pay under GOP tax plan depends on a million things
Export subsidies have long been a source of trade friction between the U.S. and Europe.
One set of U.S. tax break for big exporters were repealed in 2006 after two decades of fighting and sanctions threats from the European Union.
Related: New tax code will still be complicated
Similar battles could now be revived.
"There will almost surely be [World Trade Organization] litigation over the lower [tax] rate on exports," said Rebecca Kysar, a professor at Fordham University. "The most likely outcome is that the U.S. will eventually have to abandon the export subsidy regime under threat of sanctions."
The House is expected to vote on the bill Tuesday, and the Senate will follow soon after. The legislation, which is expected to pass on party lines, could be on President Trump's desk before Christmas.
Then the lawsuits could fly.
"The EU has challenged aspects of U.S. tax law in the WTO in the past, and the rules would allow it to bring a new claim once the current bill becomes law," said White & Case partner Brendan McGivern, who is the head of the firm's WTO practice. "The whole process, including a possible appeal, would take about three years -- and the final result would be binding."


The spending splurge comes as Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman embarks on an ambitious reform agenda designed to reduce the country's dependence on crude oil.
His blueprint, called Vision 2030, includes social and economic reforms such as lifting the ban on women driving. But it also includes subsidy cuts that have weighed on growth.
"The government is increasing spending as a way to stimulate growth and increase private sector participation and investment," said John Sfakianakis, director of economic research at the Gulf Research Center in Riyadh.
"It makes a lot of sense to delay achieving a balance budget as too much fiscal tightening too soon could hurt the economy more," Sfakianakis added.
Related: Saudi Arabia's $100 billion corruption scandal
Increased spending may have put a balanced budget out of reach, but Saudi Arabia has made some progress in reducing its deficit.
The government said it expects its deficit to narrow by 15% next year to 195 billion riyals ($52 billion). It had swelled to as much as 366 billion riyals ($100 billion) in 2015, when an oil price crash put a big hole in the budget.
Saudi also tapped global bond markets three times in less than a year, borrowing billions to help balance its books.
Increased investment could also help reduce the country's unemployment rate, a key government goal. Nearly 13% of Saudis under the age of 30 don't have a job.
"The focus now will be on services and supporting the private sector to increase job growth," said Khalid Ashaerah, a private business consultant in Riyadh. "This new budget shows that the recession is over as the government undertakes major reform measures."


Lately, Trump is again promising action on infrastructure soon, heralding an imminent proposal on Monday after an Amtrak train derailed in Washington state.
"The train accident that just occurred in DuPont, WA shows more than ever why our soon to be submitted infrastructure plan must be approved quickly," Trump wrote in a tweet. "Seven trillion dollars spent in the Middle East while our roads, bridges, tunnels, railways (and more) crumble! Not for long!" (The accident occurred during the inaugural run of a train that had just received millions of dollars in upgrades.)
The train accident that just occurred in DuPont, WA shows more than ever why our soon to be submitted infrastructure plan must be approved quickly. Seven trillion dollars spent in the Middle East while our roads, bridges, tunnels, railways (and more) crumble! Not for long!

But Cochran isn't the only one exasperated by a year of inaction on a campaign promise that enjoys broad bipartisan support, and which economists think would improve the economy by providing opportunities to lower skilled workers who may have given up looking for jobs.
State and county governments, gas and water utilities, regional transportation authorities, labor unions and community groups were all looking forward to completing deferred maintenance projects that have led the American Society of Civil Engineers to give the nation's infrastructure system a near-failing grade for almost three decades. The trade group estimates $4.59 trillion would be needed over 10 years to clear the backlog.
Related: What's in the GOP's final tax plan
"States and localities have been able to increase revenue for transportation," said Jim Tymon, chief operating officer of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials. "I think the missing piece here is that there hasn't been a change at the federal level in the last 25 years."
The federal government funds infrastructure projects primarily through grants to states, which peaked as a percentage of the gross domestic product during the construction of the national highway system and sewers under the Clean Water Act in the 1970s. Spending averaged 0.5% of GDP between the late 1950s and early 1980s, and has come down to about 0.37% since then, while the states have increased their share of spending on infrastructure.
Days after Trump's inauguration, Senate Democrats proposed a $1 trillion infrastructure package that would have been paid for by closing unspecified tax loopholes. Trump's budget proposal from March contained $200 billion for infrastructure, but emphasized streamlining permitting processes to boost investment from the private sector, while cutting funding for Amtrak, highway renovations, water facilities on Native American reservations, rural airports and other existing programs.
In recent weeks, administration officials have told industry groups and local government officials that an infrastructure plan would be unveiled in January, with $200 billion in federal funding that will be parceled out in grants to state and local governments that promise to match the investments with their own revenue, either in the form of taxes or private money.
"There's been a trend currently in the U.S. to have more state and local government investment in infrastructure," said DJ Gribbin, Special Assistant to the President for Infrastructure Policy, at an event last week in Washington. "What we want to do is accelerate that trend."
Local governments have two main issues with the president's approach, however. Both have to do with the Republican tax reform plan.
The first problem: There will be a lot less money to go around after tax reform. The nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation has calculated the tax bill will add about $1 trillion to the debt — even after economic growth is taken into account — and local leaders fear Congress won't want to expand the deficit even further.
"How are you going to make that up, and what does that mean for spending more money?" said Adam Krantz, chief executive officer of the National Association of Clean Water Agencies. "It was always 'infrastructure, infrastructure, infrastructure,' and now you have tax reform, and it's going to be very difficult to get conservative support for an infrastructure bill."
Related: Trump's $1 trillion infrastructure promise has an obstacle: His own budget cuts
Meanwhile, the GOP's tax package also caps the amount of state and local taxes that filers are able to deduct from their federal income taxes, which may weaken support for future tax hikes proposed by counties, states and cities. That poses a problem, since the ability to contribute local revenue is a large part of how the White House plans to decide which applications are granted.
"You've got a perfect storm where states and localities are not allowed to raise their own revenue, but are encouraged to by the federal government," said Emily Swenson Brock, director of federal relations for the Government Finance Officers Association. "No state or local finance officer is looking at that finance package and saying, 'that seems feasible.'"
When asked about the revenue-raising challenges of limiting the state and local tax deduction, presidential assistant Gribbin said that there were "tradeoffs" made to keep overall taxes low. "Our top priority, because of the huge impact it will have on our economy, is to get tax reform passed," he said.
Some states are in better fiscal shape than others, with many struggling to meet legacy pension obligations, or suffering shortfalls due to a drop-off in natural resource taxes. In 2016, the Government Accountability Office found that cities with declining populations also had a particularly hard time modernizing their water systems by raising rates, since those who remained in town couldn't always pay.
"Some of our states that are so financially strapped, they have been trying to figure out revenue for just basic needs like education," says Kim Glas, executive director of the Blue Green Alliance, a coalition of labor and environmental groups. "When you shift the burden to the states, it leaves more questions about what scale we could do major infrastructure on."


Shares of The Crypto Company (CRCW) have surged nearly 160% in the past five days, more than 1,800% in the past month and 17,000% in the past three months, as investors and traders have bid up the price of bitcoin (XBT) higher and higher.
That stunning rise has lifted the company's market value to more than $11 billion. To put that in perspective, that's higher than the market value of well-known brand name companies like Macy's (M), The New York Times (NYT) and Under Armour (UAA).
Related: Regulators worried about bitcoin euphoria
The SEC move comes shortly after The Crypto Company announced plans to split its stock 10-1 to try and push the price lower and make it more affordable for average investors.
Shares had surged to a price of $575 before the SEC suspended trading. A 10-1 split would have increased the number of total shares by a factor of ten and lowered the price to $57.50. So the value of the company would not have changed.
The Crypto Company CEO Mike Poutre said in a release about the split that the company wanted to "see orderly market activity" for the stock and added that the split was "the responsible thing to do."
He noted that many blue chip companies, including MasterCard (MA) and Apple (AAPL), have done stock splits to keep their prices more accessible to mom and pop investors.
Poutre also referred to "the euphoria" surrounding bitcoin, and added that "we want people to pay attention to the business we are building, not the hype of a stock or the cryptocurrency world."
The Crypto Company was not immediately available for comment about the SEC action.
But the SEC has taken steps lately to crack down on potential frauds and scams surrounding bitcoin and other digital currencies, particularly with initial coin offerings or ICOs. With an ICO, a company sells a digital currency or token to investors instead of stock.
Several cryptocurrency executives are nervous about the industry getting a bad reputation too.
Brad Garlinghouse, CEO of Ripple, a company that developed the Ripple XRP cryptocurrency and also works to license blockchain technology with banks, says he wants to cooperate with agencies like the SEC to weed out bad actors.
"Many of the ICOs are more frauds than real businesses. The industry needs to work with regulators and not be in the shadows," he said. "ICOs are taking advantage of grey areas in securities law. What worries me the most is some of the hype in the system."
Related: Feds crack down on fraud as bitcoin soars
Jalak Jobanputra, partner with venture capital firm Future\Perfect Ventures and an investor in cryptocurrency tech firms, agrees. She said that there is "a lot of speculation" in the crypto area and that she "welcomes scrutiny from the SEC."
Still, there are signs that investors aren't listening to these warnings.
Another small financial tech company that just went public called LongFin (LFIN) has skyrocketed from a low of $4.69 a share in the past week to a high of $142.82 after it announced it was buying a blockchain microlending company named Ziddu.com
And then there's Riot Blockchain (RIOT), a company that up until recently was a biotech firm and has decided to get into the crypto business. Its stock is up more than 300% in the past month and 1,200% this year.
Mike O'Rourke, chief market strategist with JonesTrading, wrote in a report that this reminded him clearly of the dotcom and tech stock mania of the late 1990s. That did not end well for investors chasing the most speculative of stocks.
O'Rourke pointed out that one widely hyped business-to-business software company called Commerce One went public in 1999 at $21 a share and surged to around $1,000 by the end of the year. Commerce One filed for bankruptcy five years later.
Now this is not to say that bitcoin itself is a bubble. There is a real trend towards digital payments using blockchain technology.
Related: Move over, bitcoin. Here comes litecoin
After all, many of today's tech leaders, such as Amazon (AMZN), Apple and Microsoft (MSFT), survived the dotcom crash and are now doing better than ever. But investors need to be careful and not chase tiny companies trying to ride the wave.
The talk of a future where we're all using bitcoin instead of paper currencies may be a little far-fetched too.
Digital currencies have a role to play with reducing customer friction and increasing transaction times," said Ripple's Garlinghouse, who was a former exec at AOL and Yahoo -- which are now both owned by Verizon (VZ).
"But government-backed fiat currencies aren't going away. Banks aren't going away. The dollar still works well and is efficient," Garlinghouse added.


The 127-118 vote narrowly passed shortly after 5 a.m. ET on Tuesday. Lawmakers had been debating in Congress all night.
It's a big victory for President Mauricio Macri, whose pro-business administration pushed the reform through Congress after a resounding mid-term election in October for Macri's party called Cambiemos or "Let's Change."
Critics argue it will hurt retirees, who paid into the system for much of their working lives, by reducing their income.
Macri's administration says the reform will save the government roughly 60 billion pesos ($3.4 billion) next year. The aim of the reform ultimately is to reduce Argentina's large fiscal deficit.


But Olive Garden still makes up about half of the company's total sales and profits -- and it's clear that consumers still love breadsticks and never ending pasta bowls.
Darden said that Olive Garden's same-store sales, which measures the performance of restaurants open at least a year, were up 3% in the latest quarter -- impressive growth for a chain of its size and age.
But what was most notable about the sales boost is that Olive Garden didn't just rely on price hikes and menu changes to lift sales. Traffic, i.e. the number of customers coming to the restaurants, rose 1.1% in the quarter.
That's a turnaround from the previous quarter in which traffic fell at Olive Garden. And it was up just 0.2% in its last fiscal year.
So it's clear that Olive Garden is winning new customers and not just raising prices on loyal fans who keep coming back.
Wall Street is happy, too. Darden's stock rose more than 3% in early trading Tuesday and is now up nearly 30% this year.
Darden has come a long way since 2014 -- when activist investor Starboard took control of the company after issuing a scathing report about the quality of Olive Garden's food. (Overly cooked pasta and too many heavy cream sauces were some of the verdicts.)
CEO Gene Lee, who took over after the Starboard shakeup, stressed in Tuesday's earnings release that Darden is continuing to focus on a "back-to-basics" strategy -- building customer loyalty with better food, great service and a pleasant atmosphere.
Related: People really love eating at Olive Garden
Darden isn't the only restaurant chain that's booming this year. Shares of hot dog king Nathan's Famous (NATH) and KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell owner Yum! Brands (YUM) are up more than 30%. McDonald's (MCD) has surged more than 40%.
The solid economy and healthy consumer confidence has led to an increase in consumers eating out.
And other restaurants have soared on hopes that they could be acquired. Big chains and large investment firms have scooped up several well-known restaurant owners this year.
Burger King and Tim Hortons owner Restaurant Brands (QSR) -- which is backed by Warren Buffett -- bought Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen. Bob Evans Farms (BOBE) sold its restaurant business to private equity firm Golden Gate Capital.
Panera was acquired by European conglomerate JAB, which also owns Krispy Kreme and Peet's Coffee. Arby's owner Roark Capital said last month it was buying Buffalo Wild Wings (BWLD).
And Jack in the Box (JACK) just announced Tuesday that it had agreed to sell its Qdoba Mexican food chain to private equity firm Apollo Global Management (APO).
Darden has taken part in the restaurant feeding frenzy too, buying Cheddar's Scratch Kitchen earlier this year. But Cheddar's was the one sore spot for Darden in its otherwise stellar earnings report. Same-store sales at Cheddar's fell 2% in the latest quarter.


"Amazon's dominance and revenue growth have freed it from the nuisance other firms endure -- profitability," said Scott Galloway, a professor at NYU's Stern School of Business.
Last year, Amazon earned $2.3 billion, despite posting nearly $136 billion in sales. That's a super-tight profit margin of 1.7%.
Other tech giants including Apple (AAPL) and Google (GOOG) operate at much loftier margins. Apple posted a 21% margin last year while Google was slighly under 22%. Amazon's profit margin is even razor-thin for the retail sector. Walmart's (WMT) margin was 3.1% and Target's  (TGT)was 4.5% last year.
Yet shares of Amazon (AMZN) have risen nearly 60% this year. The company's worth close to $600 billion. Bezos is the richest man in the world, surpassing $100 billion in net worth last month.
Related: Jeff Bezos is now worth $100 billion
Investors continue to reward Amazon's forward-looking strategy over its earnings. Shareholders are willing to pay $297 for every $1 of Amazon's earnings. The average for S&P 500 companies is under $24.
Bezos' sprawling business model isn't designed with short-term profit in mind. He wants to grab market share and drive up sales, noted Columbia Business School professor Kinshuk Jerath.
Related: Amazon now has more than 500,000 employees
One way to do that: Offer lower prices than competitors.
Shortly after Amazon acquired Whole Foods for $13.7 billion in June, Whole Foods slashed prices, forcing other grocers to cut prices to remain competitive.
In a similar move, Amazon is lowering prices on Echo products, pushing rival Google to drop the cost of its Home smart speakers. Apple's higher-priced HomePod speakers could now have trouble competing.
Amazon is able to take these kinds of risks and experiment in ways that would look puzzling for other companies, explained Piper Jaffray analyst Michael Olson.
That's because Bezos is playing by a different set of rules than everybody else.
"Other firms are punished for straying from their familiar areas of strength, [but] Amazon sucks value from sectors in which it has had no previous involvement," said Galloway.
Other sectors can hear Bezos' footsteps too: CVS  (CVS)made its $69 billion deal with Aetna (AET), which could go down as the largest health insurance deal in history, with Amazon stalking the pharmaceutical industry.
Related: Amazon may be factor behind rumored CVS, Aetna merger
Amazon was able to punish Blue Apron (APRN), once a hot meal-kit startup, just by suggesting it might get involved in the home-meal delivery business.
Investors cheer when Amazon enters a new industry or region because its addressable market grows.
Last year, Amazon accounted for more than 53% of online shopping in the United States, according to Slice Intelligence. Jumping into cloud computing and groceries has added a trillion dollars of additional market, according to Olson.
The cloud is Amazon's biggest success story. It has actually helped Amazon consistently turn a profit for the first time, according to Morningstar analyst R. J. Hottovy.
"The more e-commerce they do the more money they lose," said Smead Capital Management CEO Bill Smead. "They lose on everything they do except Amazon Web Services."
Momentum around Bezos' strategy and a focus on growth companies over value investing in an era of low interest rates has led investors to brush off profit concerns, Smead claimed.
"Jeff Bezos did what he said he was going to do in era coming off biggest financial meltdown in 80 years," he said. "Investors are willing to capitalize income so far out in the future that it leads them to financial euphoria."


The measure drops the corporate tax rate to 21% from 35%, repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax and restructures the way pass-through businesses are taxed.
2. Markets surge: All three main U.S. stock indexes hit record highs on Monday as investors cheered the tax bill's progress.
The Dow Jones industrial average added 0.6%, the S&P 500 gained 0.5% and the Nasdaq advanced 0.8%.
The Dow, which has jumped more than 25% in 2017, is now within touching distance of 25,000 points.
Stocks have rallied this year because of strong economic growth and hopes that Trump would roll back regulations and overhaul the tax code.
U.S. stock futures were pointing higher on Tuesday.
3. Bombardier tariff ruling: The U.S. Department of Commerce is set to rule on tariffs that could be placed on Bombardier's C-series passenger jet.
Boeing launched a trade complaint against Bombardier earlier this year, accusing its Canadian rival of selling the C Series airliner at "absurdly low prices."
Bombardier denies that it has engaged in unfair trade practices.
4. Global market overview: European markets opened mostly higher, while Asian markets ended mixed. Stocks in South Korea and Japan were lower, while China's markets posted gains.
U.S. crude futures jumped 0.6% to trade at $57.60.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Companies and economics: Carnival (CCL) and Darden Restaurants (DRI) will release earnings before the U.S. open, and FedEx (FDX) will follow after the close.
Pfizer (PFE) shares were higher premarket after the company announced a $10 billion stock buyback on Monday.
Shareholders in the London Stock Exchange will vote on the future of embattled chairman Donald Brydon. The hedge fund TCI Fund Management, which owns just over 5% of the LSE, has sought to oust Brydon.
The U.S. Census Bureau will publish its housing report for November at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Germany's Ifo Institute has released its latest business climate survey. It said the mood among German business leaders is "excellent, but not quite as euphoric as last month."
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:  Tuesday -- Fedex, Darden (DRI) and Carnival (CCL) report earnings  Wednesday -- General Mills earnings  Thursday -- Nike earnings; Final estimate on 3Q U.S. GDP  Friday -- El Gordo lottery in Spain


Wells Fargo (WFCPRJ) would make out the best, with an 18% boost, in large part because it derives nearly all of its profits from the United States, Goldman said. The company declined to comment for this story.
Citigroup (C), by contrast, derives only half of its revenues from the U.S., and so would see its earnings per share increase by only 10%.
Wells Fargo could use some good news. Its earnings per share tanked last quarter amid investigations into its pre-crisis mortgage bonds. The company's reputation has suffered mightily in the wake of scandals involving the creation of thousands of fake bank and credit card accounts and bills for auto insurance that customers didn't need, which led to the resignation of its former CEO, John Stumpf.
Related: Stocks surge as investors cheer corporate tax cut
What will financial institutions do with all that new found cash?
Many banks have signaled their intention to return more money to shareholders.
At an investor presentation earlier this month, when asked about how regulatory rollbacks might impact those plans, Wells Fargo CEO Tim Sloan said higher returns for investors were in the cards.
"Is it our goal to increase return to our shareholders and do we have an excess amount of capital? The answer to both is, yes," Sloan said. "So our expectation should be that we will continue to increase our dividend and our share buybacks next year and the year after that and the year after that."
The bank has cut employees this year at its Charlotte, North Carolina, headquarters and at a Pennsylvania call center.
Banks won't necessarily be the biggest winners from the corporate rate cut.
Telecom companies, which pay the highest effective tax rates on average, will see an enormous boost in after-tax profits, according to Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices. Companies that have already reduced their effective tax rates into the single digits, like General Electric (GE), will see little to no benefit.
But there's more good news in the tax bill for banks: They may benefit even further from new deposits of cash brought back from overseas, as well as from higher interest rates as the Federal Reserve works to cool off any excess heat in the economy caused by tax cuts.


Either number would be a hefty return on investment: Richardson paid $206 million in 1993 for the rights to start the team, according to Forbes. Richardson said in 2009 that his family owns 48% of the team, according to The Charlotte Observer.
The Panthers will probably attract numerous bidders, the source said, because they are thought to be well-run and in a decent market on the East Coast. One of the NFL's most marketable stars, Cam Newton, is the quarterback.
Another factor that could drive up the price: NFL teams very rarely go on the market. The last was the Buffalo Bills, which sold for more than $1.1 billion in 2014, a record at the time. The Bills play in a much smaller market than the Panthers, whose home is Charlotte, North Carolina.
Related: Houston Rockets selling for huge price
Richardson said he doesn't plan to entertain offers until after the season, but some high-profile buyers are already showing interest.
Rapper Sean Combs, also known as Diddy, tweeted that he would like to buy the team, noting that there are no African American majority owners in the league.
"Let's make history," he wrote.
He also said in an Instagram post that he would "immediately address the Colin Kaepernick situation and put him in the running for next year's starting quarterback." Kaepernick, who started a movement when he knelt during the National Anthem to protect racial injustice, is unsigned.
Diddy's message was retweeted by Golden State Warriors star Stephen Curry, who said he wanted in.
I️ want in! https://t.co/XvvC1vo7xI
Kaepernick also responded with a tweet, saying that he was interested in the purchase.
It's unclear how serious they are. None returned a request for further comment.
Related: Sexual harassment allegations swirl around ESPN
Richardson announced plans to sell in a statement on the Panthers' website.
"I believe that it is time to turn the franchise over to new ownership," Richardson said. He also said that "there has been no greater mission or purpose in my life than to have brought an NFL franchise to Charlotte."
There was no mention of the misconduct investigation, which the NFL has taken over from the Panthers.
Richardson is the highest-profile owner in pro sports to sell a team under ignominious circumstances since 2014, when Donald Sterling was banned from the NBA for life for making racist comments that were privately recorded and released.
Sterling was essentially forced to sell the Los Angeles Clippers. In May, his estranged wife arranged for the Sterling Family Trust to sell the team for $2 billion.


But Amplify Snack Brands stock is still well below the $18 a share price that the company went public at back in August 2015.
Amplify Snack Brands has missed earnings forecasts in six of the nine quarters it has reported since its IPO.
Wall Street has also been worried about slowing sales growth for the company's SkinnyPop, which has lower salt than many other popcorn brands, uses no GMOs, gluten or preservatives and is popped in healthier sunflower oil.
Still, Hershey CEO Michele Buck raved about the deal, saying in a press release that it will help the company become "an innovative snacking powerhouse."
That's a jargony statement to be sure. But Hershey has taken several steps over the past few years to broaden its product line beyond candy bars, Hershey's Kisses and Reese's Peanut Butter Cups.
Hershey acquired jerky maker Krave for a reported price tag of more than $200 million in 2015 in order to diversify beyond the confectionery business.
And Hershey recently unveiled a new candy bar called Hershey Gold that has no chocolate. It's a caramelized crème candy with peanuts and pretzels instead.
Related: The first new Hershey bar in 22 years has no chocolate
Buck said that the Amplify deal should add to earnings fairly quickly, even though it's paying a steep price for Amplify Snack Brands. It's all about adding new products to boost sales and earnings.
Susquehanna International Group analyst Pablo Zuanic thinks the chance to bolster the product line justifies the big premium Hershey is paying for Amplify Snack Brands.
"Food companies will pay steep premiums to improve their growth profile," he wrote in a report Monday. "Hershey wants to expand into the broader snacks category, so the [Amplify] deal is consistent with that strategy."
There is also added pressure on Hershey and Buck, a 12-year veteran of the company who became CEO in March, to prove to investors that Hershey can still go it alone in a highly competitive business.
That's because Oreo maker Mondelez (MDLZ) made a $23 billion takeover offer for Hershey in June 2016 that Hershey rejected. Mondelez ultimately walked away from the deal a few months later.
Hershey's stock is still up about 20% since Mondelez ended its attempt to buy Hershey in August 2016, but the stock has lagged the gains of the broader market.
Related: Bittersweet news as Hershey cuts more than 2,000 jobs
The Hershey-Amplify deal is actually one of two snack mergers announced Monday.
Campbell Soup (CPB) also agreed to purchase pretzel maker Snyder's-Lance for $4.9 billion. Rumors of a deal first surfaced last week, pushing Snyder's-Lance (LNCE) stock to a 13% gain Thursday and 5% higher Friday. The stock rose another 7% Monday.
Both mergers are the latest in a flurry of food deals announced this year.
ConAgra (CAG) acquired Boomchickapop parent company Angie's Artisan Treats for $250 million in September and Kellogg (K) gobbled up Chicago Bar, the owner of the RXBar protein bar, for $600 million in October.


Campbell already owns Pepperidge Farm, which makes Goldfish crackers and Milano cookies. But snacks currently account for just a third of Campbell's sales. Most of its other holdings are soup and sauce brands.
After the deal, snacks will make up nearly half of Campbell's sales.
Campbell is under pressure to broaden its offerings as food prices drop at grocery stores. Shares of Campbell (CPB) are down 17% this year.
Related: No soup for you? Campbell plunges on poor sales
Soup sales have fallen 9% since last year, the company reported in November. A spat with Walmart over pricing and shelf space contributed to the drop. Campbell's share of the U.S. soup market has dropped seven percentage points over the last five years to 42%, according to research firm Euromonitor.
But snacks have been a bright spot for the company. Pepperidge Farm sales were up 3% last quarter during an otherwise lackluster summer.
In Snyder's, Campbell is getting is a hot snack food company whose sales have grown nearly 12% a year over the past five years. That has far outpaced the rest of the $89 billion U.S. snack industry.
Campbell is paying a 27% premium on Snyder's-Lance's stock price and is taking on more than $6 billion in debt to finance the purchase.
In addition to snacks, Campbell's also wants to expand fresh foods unit, which accounts for 12% of sales. Last week, Campbell completed a $700 million purchase for Pacific Foods, a company that makes organic soups and drinks.
Shares of Snyder's-Lance (LNCE) opened at record high Monday. Campbell ticked up 1%.


And the Nasdaq, home to hot tech stocks like Facebook (FB), Amazon (AMZN), Netflix (NFLX) and Google (GOOGL) owner Alphabet, topped 7,000 on Monday for the first time. It is up 30% this year.
The S&P 500 also rose by about 1% and hit an all-time high. All three indexes closed at records on Friday in anticipation of the release of the tax bill by Republican congressional leaders.
The biggest boost for Corporate America would be the slashing of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. That could boost profits significantly for big banks, according to a report from Goldman Sachs.
Financial stocks, unsurprisingly, were among the biggest gainers Monday. JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Citigroup (C), Bank of America (BAC) and Wells Fargo (WFC) each rose more than 1% shortly after the opening bell.
Businesses would also be charged a one-time low tax rate on foreign profits of 15%. That's an incentive for multinational firms to bring back cash sitting in lower-tax countries.
Related: Here's what is in the GOP's final tax plan
The hope is that this cash will be used to boost dividends and stock buybacks, build new plants in the United States and hire more workers.
The House is expected to vote on the tax bill Tuesday, and the Senate is expected to vote either Tuesday after the House or Wednesday. The bill is expected to pass on party lines.
Stocks have been rallying all year because of strong economic growth and hopes that President Trump would roll back regulations to help stimulate the economy.
Related: No bears here! Market on the verge of making history
Even though Trump's effort to repeal Obamacare failed in Congress, many investors had remained optimistic that Trump would strike a deal with lawmakers on taxes.
And that's one of the main reasons that the Dow is inching closer to the 25,000 milestone, after already having passed the 20,000, 21,000, 22,000, 23,000 and 24,000 levels this year.


It's a big problem in low-wage industries like residential construction and warehousing, but the most visible offenders are retail and restaurant chains, which have high turnover and often employ undocumented immigrants who are more vulnerable to intimidation from an employer should they complain.
In recent years, several progressive cities have passed ordinances allowing local law enforcement to police wage theft, and the Department of Labor under the Obama administration hired more investigators to go after problem employers.
Still, EPI's compilation of state wage theft settlements shows that some states are much more aggressive than others.
California recovered nearly $117 million for workers between 2015 and 2016 — more than a third of the total amount recovered by the 39 states from which EPI received figures. That was followed by New York, which won back $84.6 million.
When adjusted for the size of the workforce, Connecticut comes out in front, recovering $9.66 per capita over those two years. Compare that with last-ranking Indiana, which only got back 19 cents per worker on average.
Related: Trump administration rule could force workers to share tips
Although it's possible that the severity of wage theft varies across states, the EPI researchers found that the amount recovered has more to do with the resources devoted to enforcement and the legal tools available in each state.
California, for example, requires employers to issue each worker a notice of their rights, including the pay rate and who they can call if it's not reflected in their paychecks. The state also hosts a wealth of labor union-aligned nonprofits with the capacity to educate workers about the law and how to file complaints.

In states that don't have strong protections, workers can be very reluctant to report wage theft, especially if the payoff is small and the possibility of retaliation — such as getting demoted or losing one's job — is high. An earlier EPI study based on government survey data found that workers in the 10 most populous states alone likely lose about $8 billion a year in underpaid wages.
Still, state attorneys general accounted for only $317 million out of the nearly $2 billion recovered for workers in 2015 and 2016. The rest of the money came from the federal Department of Labor's $513 million in wage and hour settlements, and $1.2 billion in payouts stemmed from lawsuits, many of them class actions.
Payouts through litigation, in particular, jumped dramatically over the past two years. The value of just the top 10 wage and hour settlements, as compiled by the law firm Seyfarth Shaw, tripled between 2014 and 2016, to $695 million.
Part of that total was driven by a few very large settlements in long-running lawsuits, including $466 million paid in two cases against FedEx for misclassifying drivers as independent contractors, and therefore not paying required overtime. In a statement, FedEx says it settled the case "to remain focused on meeting the needs of our customers."
But according to Seyfarth, the high total was also due to the fact that while recent Supreme Court cases have made it difficult to mount a class action lawsuit in cases of employment discrimination, circuit courts of appeal — especially those in New York and on the West Coast — have continued to welcome the multi-plaintiff wage and hour lawsuits that are more lucrative for lawyers.
Related: Americans see jobs aplenty. Good wages? Not so much
"Prosecution of wage and hour lawsuits is a relatively low cost investment, without significant barriers to entry, and with the prospect of immediate returns as compared to other types of workplace class action litigation," Seyfarth's report reads.
However, that may soon change. In October, the Supreme Court heard National Labor Relations Board vs. Murphy Oil USA, which could uphold employers' right to bar their workers from mounting class action lawsuits, forcing them instead into individual arbitration.
Celine McNicholas, co-author of EPI's report, says that would make it even more difficult for workers to address underpayment of wages at a time when government enforcement isn't up to the task.
"There is rampant wage theft out there, and you're seeing the private bar respond to that," McNicholas says. "If you take away the class mechanism, that private enforcement will be taken away from workers as well."


The highest-paid executive on Equilar's "40 and under" list was Extraction Oil & Gas president Matthew Owens, who earned $26 million. Equilar's list is populated using SEC records from the 2016 fiscal year.
Much of the difference between the two executives' pay came from factors like stock awards and bonuses. Haywood earned $2.4 million in stock awards, while Owens earned $14.9 million.
Part of the reason more women aren't making it to high-paying executive positions is because the corporate world is still governed by old-school rules, experts say.
"Even if recent generations may have very different attitudes, frequently the people that decide about their careers and promotions belong to an earlier generation," says Luca Flabbi, an associate professor of economics at the University of North Carolina.
Related: The gender pay gap doesn't close -- even at the very, very top
While men and women seek promotions at similar rates, women are less likely to be promoted than their male counterparts. That's according to a report by McKinsey & Company, which surveyed 222 companies across the tech, finance, retail and manufacturing industries.
In addition, women who negotiated for promotions were 30% more likely than men to be labeled as "intimidating" or "bossy," McKinsey found.
According to Lenora Lapidus, director of the ACLU Women's Rights Project, women face a pay gap at all ages, but it only grows with time and experience. That's especially true in the business and tech industries, and most of the executives represented on Equilar's list work in tech. Still, the pay gap is a problem across industries, with energy and real estate also heavily represented.
Related: Why asking about salary history can hurt women's careers
"Business school graduates have similar earnings at the beginning of their careers," says Mario Marcis, an economics professor at Johns Hopkins. "But 15 years after graduation, men are earning a lot more than women."
Experts believe that talking about workplace inequality is one way to help close the pay gap for new generations.
"20 years from now, I expect to see more women CEOs in the United States." said Marcis. "But it depends on the speed of change of social norms about gender roles. Social norms tend to change slowly."


The move is the latest crackdown by the European Union on sweetheart tax deals granted to multinational companies. The commission has previously targeted Amazon, Apple, McDonald's and Starbucks (SBUX).
"All companies, big or small, multinational or not, should pay their fair share of tax," said Margrethe Vestager, Europe's top official in charge of competition policy. "Member states cannot let selected companies pay less tax by allowing them to artificially shift their profits elsewhere."
The regulator alleges that Ikea, which operates multiple companies across the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein, may have shifted profits between the countries in order to reduce its tax obligations.
Ikea said it complies with all tax rules, and would cooperate with regulators.
"The way we have been taxed by national authorities, has in our view been in accordance with EU rules. It is good if the investigation can bring clarity and confirm that," the firm said in a statement.
This is not the first time that Ikea has been scrutinized by European officials.
A report published in 2016 by a group of EU parliamentarians accused Ikea of using legal loopholes to dodge an estimated €1 billion in tax payments between 2009 and 2014.
Related: Europe hits Amazon with a huge tax bill
Recent EU investigations into illegal state aid have resulted in some major penalties.
The EU ordered Amazon (AMZN) to pay €250 million ($293 million) in October after finding that it benefited from an illegal tax arrangement with Luxembourg.
Apple (AAPL) was slapped by a huge tax bill in 2016, when the EU ordered Ireland to recover up to €13 billion ($15 billion) from the tech company.
Regulators are also investigating the tax arrangements of McDonald's (MCD) in Luxembourg.


The company is one of the first retailers to accept bitcoin and will make the coin offering through its exchange, tZero. Its stock has tracked closely to bitcoin's wild rise -- Overstock's stock rose 4-fold between July and December as bitcoin grew more than 7-fold.
So maybe it's no surprise that Byrne is considering going in whole-cloth on cryptocurrencies.
Byrne told CNNMoney he wants to possibly sell off the retail business and focus on Overstock's ownership of 10 blockchain companies -- the technology behind cryptocurrency -- through its venture capital subsidiary, Medici Ventures. He has also formed a joint venture with Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto called De Soto, Inc., a company that would use blockchain technology to form a property registry providing land rights to people in the developing world.
Overstock's move comes at a time when the Securities and Exchange Commission is ramping up its scrutiny of the fast-growing, multi-billion dollar ICO industry. But that doesn't worry Byrne.
"I'm actually quite supportive of the SEC cracking down," said Byrne in an interview with CNNMoney. "The ICO craze this year has led to a lot of people being fleeced. There's been a lot of people bringing coins public with no business plan."
Related: Bitcoin: What's driving the frenzy?
ICOs have raised a total of $4 billion in 2017, according to Autonomous Research, a financial research company in London. That's compared to $226 million in 2016, and to $14 million in the year of their inception, 2014.
This one could be among the biggest crowdsales to use digital currency. A crowdsale is crowdfunding for ICOs.
"Overstock would be the largest existing company to launch an ICO to date," said Garrick Hileman, a research fellow at the University of Cambridge who studies cryptocurrency.
Garrick said the biggest ICO was from Filecoin, a storage data network that raised about $250 million, also in September.
"Blockchain is going to change the world more, I think, than the internet has," said Byrne, who believes that many people will gradually abandon government-backed currencies if more countries encounter currency failures like in Zimbabwe and Venezuela.
Digital currencies are far from universally accepted. Earlier this month, the SEC shut down one ICO and froze the assets of another, while warning investors about the lack of regulation and protection.
The top cryptocurrency, bitcoin, has been trading at stratospheric heights, recently peaking at more than $18,000 on some exchanges. Janet Yellen, chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, has called bitcoin "highly speculative."
Related: Feds crack down on fraud as Bitcoin soars
Byrne said that he prefers a coin offering over a more traditional Wall Street stock offering.
"If a company is raising money you'd have to almost be nuts in this country to go public in the current market as it exists," he said. "It's so manipulative. It's so distorted. There's so many sharks swimming around in that water [that] have ways that play games with your stock."
Byrne, who has a doctorate in philosophy, has been outspoken in his disdain for naked short sellers and other Wall Street "Sith Lords," as he once called them, who he sees as unfair manipulators of his company's share price.


Banks and asset managers are thinking seriously about how to cater to investors who want a measurable social or environmental return on their investment as well as capital gains, stock dividends or interest payments.
"In the past you sold products to your client, now you empower your client to create a desired impact," Baldinger said. "As an industry we've had to rethink everything we do -- impact and sustainability is the Silicon Valley of finance and we want to be the Google."
Millennial market?
Impact investments were once the preserve of the super rich. Individuals and families would come together to identify promising opportunities to make money and do good at the same time.
But that's changing fast, too.
"76% of millennials see investment decisions as a way to express their social, political and environmental values," said Jackie VanderBrug, a managing director at U.S. Trust, Bank of America's (BAC) wealth investment management business.
"When three quarters of a population are saying 'this is important,' that's huge," she added.
Before joining U.S. Trust in 2013, VanderBrug helped to start an impact enterprise focused on career development for underprivileged youth. She was instrumental in establishing Good Capital, a social investment fund.
Now she identifies impact investment opportunities, including portfolios with a minimum investment of $12,000 up to fully bespoke strategies for bigger clients.

Barclays (BCS) is another major bank with big ambitions in this area. It launched its Multi-Impact Growth Fund in September.
Damian Payiatakis, head of impact investing at Barclays, said the British bank wants to integrate the ethos of impact investing across everything it does.
"Our interest is not to add impact products to a shelf of investments," Payiatakis said. "Once you start seeing the world that way, it becomes obvious and you ask, 'why not,'" he said.
More work to be done
Still, there may be some way to go before impact investing becomes truly mainstream even as it continues to grow.
"While the idea that the only job of a company is to maximize financial returns to shareholders is still fairly entrenched, I think we have the wind at our backs in the form of our younger generations, who have higher expectations," said Deval Patrick, managing director of Boston-based Bain Capital's Double Impact business, and a former governor of Massachusetts.
"Many of those same individuals are taking a look at their investment dollars through a similar lens and with an expectation of social responsibility, so I expect the field to continue to grow."

For Baldinger at UBS, part of the growth can be attributed to greater transparency about impact investing, which gives the investor a choice.
"In the 1990s, I used to go to Starbucks each morning for my latte and my muffin. Then they started to show the calories next to it and that triggered something in me, so I stopped," he said.
"They created transparency for the customer. You can ignore it, but you have the information and you have a choice."


U.S. stock futures were pointing higher on Monday.
2. Bitcoin futures: CME, the derivatives marketplace, kicked off electronic bitcoin futures trading on Sunday, a week after futures trading began on the Chicago Board Options Exchange.
Investors see the involvement of top financial institutions as a sign of growing mainstream acceptance -- even as government officials, business leaders and economists continue to warn against investing in it.
The digital currency is still extremely volatile. It jumped to within a few hundred dollars of the $20,000 mark on Sunday before slipping back sharply. By early Monday, it was trading well below $19,000.
3. Brexit decisions: What kind of relationship does Britain want with the EU, its biggest export market?
Prime Minister Theresa May will discuss the vital question with cabinet members on Monday. There are two camps: Those who want to negotiate continued easy access to EU markets, and those who want to break free from EU regulation even if it means accepting new barriers to trade.
Both scenarios come with risks and consequences that are likely to upset factions within May's Conservative party.
The pound edged up to trade above $1.33.
4. Global market overview: European markets were in positive territory. Asian markets ended mixed.
U.S. crude futures gained 0.5% to trade at $57.50 per barrel.
The Dow Jones industrial average added 0.6% on Friday. The S&P 500 gained 0.9% and the Nasdaq jumped 1.2%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Companies and economics: The European Commission is set to launch a formal probe into Ikea's tax affairs, according to reports in the Financial Times and Politico.
Eurozone inflation data is expected at 5:00 a.m. ET
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:  Monday -- Official trade date for Bitcoin futures on CME Tuesday -- Fedex, Darden (DRI) and Carnival (CCL) earnings  Wednesday -- General Mills earnings  Thursday -- Nike earnings; Final estimate on 3Q U.S. GDP  Friday -- El Gordo lottery in Spain


The involvement of top financial institutions in the bitcoin market underscores its growing mainstream acceptance even as government officials, business leaders and economists continue to warn people against investing in it.
Related: What is bitcoin?
The CME launch "adds considerable legitimacy" to bitcoin trading, said Shane Chanel, an adviser at Australian investment services firm ASR Wealth Advisers.
Bitcoin's price (XBT) hit a record high earlier Sunday before the futures trading started on CME. It climbed to within a few hundred dollars of the $20,000 mark before slipping back. By early Monday, it was trading around $19,000.
Investors were betting it will go higher. The January futures price on CME was about $19,500 Monday morning, down from an earlier high of $20,650.
Futures are contracts that let investors buy or sell something at a specific price in the future. But unlike traditional commodities such as oil or agricultural products, bitcoins aren't physical assets. And unlike traditional currencies, there isn't a central bank that backs bitcoin. The virtual coins are created on computers using complex algorithms and recorded in a digital ledger.
Related: I bought $250 in bitcoin. Here's what I learned
Bitcoin has had an incredible year. Its price has skyrocketed more than 1,700% since the start of January, partly on the expectation that more and more mainstream investors will begin trading it.
That's prompted some high-profile figures in finance and economics to sound the alarm, cautioning that the currency's boom is simply a huge, speculative bubble.
But their warnings contrast with moves like those of CME and and Cboe to start bitcoin futures trading.

CME is home to about three times as much trading per day than Cboe. With CME's futures contracts, investors have to trade bitcoin in blocks of five, versus just one at a time with Cboe.
The two also price their bitcoin contracts in different ways. Cboe bases its price on one exchange, Gemini, whereas CME takes an average from multiple exchanges.
ASR's Chanel said that the launch of futures on CME should eventually help iron out some of the wild gyrations in the price of bitcoin.
Related: Bitcoin vs history's biggest bubbles: They never end well
And more big names in finance are also planning to get involved.
New York's Nasdaq is expected to launch its own bitcoin futures trading sometime next year.
"If this market continues charging forward, (more) exchanges will be forced to act in the fear of missing out," Chanel said.


Consider that the Dow crashed to just 6,443 in March 2009 during the Great Recession. The world's most famous market barometer has nearly quadrupled from that crisis low, with most of the gains occurring prior to President Trump's election.
There's no question that Trump's promises of tax cuts and deregulation has lit a fuse under the stock market. But the market would likely be up a bunch even without Trump's stimulus agenda.
That's because economies are strong, in the United States and around the world. The good times mean record-high profits should be able to keep going, even without the windfall that would come from the tax overhaul that the GOP is on the verge of enacting.
No wonder the business community is euphoric. Confidence among small businesses, manufacturers, homebuilders and consumers is the strongest in aggregate since the early 1980s, according to a recent report by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. That optimism is "consistent with 5-6%" GDP growth, the firm said.
That's why BofA is calling for the S&P 500 to race to 2,863 in the first quarter. That would be a 7% advance from already elevated levels.
But could the post-election surge then finally mellow out? BofA is warning that early 2018 will likely bring a "Big Top in risk assets" (read: stocks and junk bonds), especially if inflation finally rears its ugly head.
"Excess bullishness won't take long," BofA concluded.
2. And here come the tax votes: House and Senate Republicans are on track to deliver a tax reform plan to Trump by Christmas.
GOP leaders agreed on the final text of the bill last week and revealed it to the public on Friday. The House will go first: It's expected to vote on Tuesday, and the Senate will follow soon after. Then it will go to the president's desk.
Related: What's in the GOP's final tax plan
The plan, which has been rushing through Congress, has been criticized by some experts -- including outgoing Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen. During her final press conference, Yellen warned last week that the deficits the bill will bring -- about $1.46 trillion over a decade, according to the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation -- could make it harder to fight a future recession.
Related: Janet Yellen: Tax plan's deficits could make it harder to fight a recession
The bill drops the corporate tax rate down from 35% to 21%, repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax and restructures the way pass-through businesses are taxed.
3. Consumer brands report earnings: Americans are spending. Retail sales rose 0.8% in November, confounding expectations and showing that U.S. shoppers aren't cutting back this holiday season. That's good news for the consumer brands that report earnings in the coming week -- most of which could use a boost.
Related: News flash! U.S. economy already looks strong
Shares of FedEx (FDX), which plans to report on Tuesday, dipped in October following news that Amazon (AMZN) may launch its own delivery service. General Mills (GIS), which is set to share its financials on Wednesday, missed forecasts in the last quarter. And North American sales for Nike (NKE), scheduled to announce earnings on Thursday, fell by 3% last quarter compared with 2016.
4. Bitcoin trading kicks off on CME: CME, the derivatives marketplace, kicks off electronic bitcoin futures trading on Sunday, a week after futures trading began on the Chicago Board Options Exchange. Bitcoin jumped soon after trading began on the Cboe. We'll see if the cryptocurrency streak continues this week.
5. Coming this week:
Monday -- Official trade date for Bitcoin futures on CME
Tuesday -- Fedex, Darden (DRI) and Carnival (CCL) report earnings
Wednesday -- General Mills earnings
Thursday -- Nike earnings; Final estimate on 3Q U.S. GDP
Friday -- El Gordo lottery in Spain


Currently, the child tax credit is $1,000 and only partially refundable. Tax filers can only claim refunds on a percentage of what they make over $3,000, which limits benefits for the lowest-wage households.
The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning think tank in Washington D.C., calculated that parents of 10 million children would qualify for an additional refund of just $75 or less under the committee's deal. That's the same impact as the Senate's original bill.
Related: What's in the GOP's final tax plan
The latest version of bill also makes the child tax credit available to high earners because it raises the income threshold under which filers may claim the full credit to $200,000 for single parents, up from $75,000 today; and to $400,000 for married couples, up from $110,000.
But when other provisions are taken into account, the tax bill isn't so rosy for many moms and dads.
The GOP's bill does away with the deduction for personal exemptions, which could offset the benefit of the beefed up child tax credit for some families.
Currently, filers are able to deduct $4,050 for themselves, their spouses and for each dependent. For a family of four, that means $16,200 is shielded from federal taxation. In addition to the current standard deduction of $6,350, up to $28,900 goes tax-free. The benefit phases out at higher income levels.
The latest tax bill doubles the standard deduction to $24,000, but wipes out the deduction for personal exemptions, meaning that larger families will get less of a break.
"The distribution of those benefits are skewed towards higher income families, and really paltry for lower income families," says Vicki Shabo, vice president at the National Partnership for Women and Families. "The overall package is really dismal for working families."
Related: Alimony will now be taxed under GOP bill
Shabo says the inclusion of a tax credit for employers who offer paid family leave to their workers may sound nice, but it only subsidizes those who've already decided to adopt such a policy. Since the credit ends in 2019, she says it won't incentivize many more employers to participate.
In addition, the GOP's latest tax bill contains bad news for undocumented immigrant families.
The final version keeps a provision that requires filers using an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) to provide Social Security numbers for each child in order to qualify for the credit. ITINs are mostly issued to undocumented immigrants.
In 2013, 4.4 million ITIN filers claimed child tax credits worth $6 billion, according to the Government Accountability Office. The latest change will affect about one million undocumented children, CBPP calculates.
The House version of the tax bill had also tightened eligibility for undocumented immigrants who claim the Earned Income Tax Credit and another credit for higher education expenses, but those provisions didn't make it into the final bill.
The compromise bill preserves the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit and the Adoption Credit, which had been eliminated in earlier versions of the legislation.


The tax overhaul -- which will affect all corners of the U.S. economy and everyone in it -- will have crossed the finish line in just 7 weeks since first being introduced.
The final bill still leans heavily toward tax cuts for corporations and business owners. But it also expands or restores some tax benefits for individuals relative to the earlier bills passed by the House and Senate.
The individual provisions would expire by the end of 2025, but most of the corporate provisions would be permanent.
All told, the final bill includes trillions in tax cuts, most of which but not all are offset by revenue-raising measures. The bill on net would increase deficits by an estimated $1.46 trillion over a decade, according to the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation. That number would be much higher if, as Republicans assume, a future Congress does not allow the individual tax cuts to expire after 2025.
One important note: The bill would not affect 2017 taxes, for which Americans will start filing their returns in a month or so.
With that, here's a quick rundown of 16 key provisions in the final bill.
FOR INDIVIDUAL FILERS
1. Lowers (many) individual rates: The bill preserves seven tax brackets, but changes the rates that apply to: 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35% and 37%.
Today's rates are 10%, 15%, 25%, 28%, 33%, 35% and 39.6%.
Here's how much income would apply to the new rates: -- 10% (income up to $9,525 for individuals; up to $19,050 for married couples filing jointly) -- 12% (over $9,525 to $38,700; over $19,050 to $77,400 for couples) -- 22% (over $38,700 to $82,500; over $77,400 to $165,000 for couples) -- 24% (over $82,500 to $157,500; over $165,000 to $315,000 for couples) -- 32% (over $157,500 to $200,000; over $315,000 to $400,000 for couples) -- 35% (over $200,000 to $500,000; over $400,000 to $600,000 for couples) -- 37% (over $500,000; over $600,000 for couples)
2. Nearly doubles the standard deduction: For single filers, the bill increases it to $12,000 from $6,350 currently; for married couples filing jointly it increases to $24,000 from $12,700.
The net effect: The percentage of filers who choose to itemize would drop sharply, since the only reason to do so is if your deductions exceed your standard deduction.
3. Eliminates personal exemptions: Today you're allowed to claim a $4,050 personal exemption for yourself, your spouse and each of your dependents. Doing so lowers your taxable income and thus your tax burden. The GOP tax plan eliminates that option.
For families with three or more kids, that could mute if not negate any tax relief they might get as a result of other provisions in the bill.
Related: Read the Republican tax plan
4. Caps state and local tax deduction: The final bill will preserve the state and local tax deduction for anyone who itemizes, but it will cap the amount that may be deducted at $10,000. Today the deduction is unlimited for your state and local property taxes plus income or sales taxes.
The SALT break has been on the book for more than a century. The original House and Senate GOP bills sought to repeal it entirely to help pay for the tax cuts, but that met with stiff resistance from lawmakers in high-tax states.
Residents in the vast majority of counties across the country claim an average SALT deduction below $10,000, according to the Tax Foundation. So for low- and middle-income families who currently itemize because of their SALT deduction, they're likely to take the much higher standard deduction under the bill if it becomes law, unless their total itemized deductions, including SALT, top $12,000 if single or $24,000 if married filing jointly.
Preserving the break -- albeit with a cap -- is likely to provide more help to higher income households in high-tax states.
5. Expands child tax credit: The credit would be doubled to $2,000 for children under 17. It also would be made available to high earners because the bill would raise the income threshold under which filers may claim the full credit to $200,000 for single parents, up from $75,000 today; and to $400,000 for married couples, up from $110,000 today.
Related: House passes GOP tax bill, goes to vote in Senate later Tuesday
Like the first $1,000 of the child tax credit, $400 of the additional $1,000 also will be refundable, meaning a low- or middle-income family will be able get the money refunded to them if their federal income tax liability nets out at zero.
Even with the additional $400 in refundability, however, 10 million children from working low-income families would receive only an additional $75 in benefit under the bill, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities estimates.
6. Creates temporary credit for non-child dependents: The bill would allow parents to take a $500 credit for each non-child dependent whom they're supporting, such as a child 17 or older, an ailing elderly parent or an adult child with a disability.
7. Lowers cap on mortgage interest deduction: If you take out a new mortgage on a first or second home you would only be allowed to deduct the interest on debt up to $750,000, down from $1 million today. Homeowners who already have a mortgage would be unaffected by the change.
The bill would no longer allow a deduction for the interest on home equity loans. Currently that's allowed on loans up to $100,000.
8. Curbs who's hit by AMT: Earlier bills called for the elimination of the Alternative Minimum Tax. The final version keeps it, but reduces the number of filers who would be hit by it by raising the income exemption levels to $70,300 for singles, up from $54,300 today; and to $109,400, up from $84,500, for married couples.
9. Preserves smaller but popular tax breaks: Earlier versions of the bill had proposed repealing the deductions for medical expenses, student loan interest and classroom supplies bought with a teacher's own money. They also would have repealed the tax-free status of tuition waivers for graduate students.
The final bill, however, preserves all of these as they are under the current code. And it actually expands the medical expense deduction for 2018 and 2019.
10. Exempts almost everybody from the estate tax: Unlike the House GOP bill, the final bill does not call for a repeal of the estate tax.
But it essentially eliminates it for all but the smallest number of people by doubling the amount of money exempt from the estate tax -- currently set at $5.49 million for individuals, and $10.98 million for married couples. Even at today's levels, only 0.2% of all estates ever end up being subject to the estate tax.
11. Slows inflation adjustments in tax code: The bill would use "chained CPI" to measure inflation, which is a slower measure than is used today. The net effect is your deductions, credits and exemptions will be worth less -- since the inflation adjusted dollars defining eligibility and maximum value would grow more slowly. It also would subject more of your income to higher rates in future years than would be the case under the current code.
12. Eliminates mandate to buy health insurance: There would no longer be a penalty for not buying insurance. While long a goal of Republicans to get rid of it, the measure also would help offset the cost of the tax bill. It is estimated to save money because it would reduce how much the federal government spends on insurance subsidies and Medicaid.
The Congressional Budget Office expects fewer consumers who qualify for subsidies will enroll on the Obamacare exchanges, and fewer people who are eligible for Medicaid will seek coverage and learn they can sign up for the program.
But policy experts also note that the mandate repeal could raise premiums because more healthy people might decide to skip buying insurance.
FOR BUSINESSES AND CORPORATIONS
13. Lowers tax burden on pass-through businesses: The tax burden on owners, partners and shareholders of S-corporations, LLCs and partnerships -- who pay their share of the business' taxes through their individual tax returns -- would be lowered by a 20% deduction, somewhat less than the 23% called for in the Senate-passed bill.
The 20% deduction would be prohibited for anyone in a service business -- unless their taxable income is less than $315,000 if married ($157,500 if single).
14. Includes rule to prevent abuse of pass-through tax break: If the owner or partner in a pass-through also draws a salary from the business, that money would be subject to ordinary income tax rates.
But to prevent people from recharacterizing their wage income as business profits to get the benefit of the pass-through deduction, the bill would place limits on how much income would qualify for the deduction.
Tax experts nevertheless have warned that this kind of anti-abuse measure still presents taxpayers with a lot of opportunities to game the system, and favors passive owners of a business over active owners who actually run things.
15. Slashes corporate rate: The bill cuts the corporate rate to 21% from 35%, starting next year. That's somewhat higher than the 20% called for earlier. The increase was made to free up some revenue to accommodate lawmaker demands on other provisions. The bill would also repeal the alternative minimum tax on corporations.
16. Change how U.S. multinationals are taxed: Today U.S. companies owe Uncle Sam tax on all their profits, regardless of where the income is earned. They're allowed to defer paying U.S. tax on their foreign profits until they bring the money home.
Many argue that this "worldwide" tax system puts American businesses at a disadvantage. That's because most foreign competitors come from countries with territorial tax systems, meaning they don't owe tax to their own governments on income they make offshore.
The final GOP bill proposes switching the U.S. to a territorial system. It also includes a number of anti-abuse provisions to prevent corporations with foreign profits from gaming the system.
In the meantime it would require companies to pay a one-time, low tax rate on their existing overseas profits -- 15.5% on cash assets and 8% on non-cash assets (e.g., equipment abroad in which profits were invested), slightly higher than the rates in the Senate- and House-passed bills.
-- CNN's Phil Mattingly contributed to this report.
Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that personal exemptions lower adjustable gross income. In fact, they lower taxable income. Item No. 3 has been corrected.


The severity of the impact is a matter of debate among health policy experts.
The Congressional Budget Office predicts that four million fewer people would be covered in the first year the repeal would take effect. That number would rise to 13 million by 2027, as compared to current law. Meanwhile, premiums would rise by about 10% in most years of the decade.
Related: Axing Obamacare individual mandate would save $338 billion
But the agency also said it is reviewing its methodology. Others say fewer people would be left uninsured. S&P Global Ratings, for instance, projects that only three to five million more consumers would lack coverage over a decade because the mandate is not a key driver for obtaining insurance.
Still, many experts feel that removing the mandate would cause the individual market to tilt even more towards sicker and older consumers. That's because the mandate serves as a stick to prod some younger and healthier Americans to sign up for coverage.
That shift may prompt some insurers to drop out of the market, especially since they would still be required to cover those with pre-existing conditions but would not be able to charge them more based on their medical history.
If a wave of insurers exit Obamacare, some consumers could be left without any providers on their exchanges in 2019. Already, 29% of current enrollees on the federal exchange have only one option in 2018, according to federal data. Residents in eight states -- Alaska, Delaware, Iowa, Mississippi, Nebraska, Oklahoma, South Carolina and Wyoming -- have only one insurer next year.
Multiple industry and consumer groups have written to Congress, warning of the impact of repealing the mandate.
The American Academy of Actuaries said the mandate is an "integral component" of the Affordable Care Act.
Related: Republicans release their final tax bill ahead of key tax vote next week
"The mandate helps encourage the young and healthy, as well as the old and sick, to obtain coverage, thus achieving the balanced risk pool required to keep premiums affordable and stable," the academy wrote to House and Senate committee leaders. "Insurers would likely reconsider their future participation in the market. This could lead to severe market disruption and loss of coverage among individual market enrollees."
A coalition of physician, hospital and health insurance industry associations last month called on Congress to keep the provision in place. The group, including the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, America's Health Insurance Plans and the BlueCross BlueShield Association, warned the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate that there would be "serious consequences" if Congress simply repeals the mandate while leaving Obamacare's other regulations in effect.
"Repealing the individual mandate without a workable alternative will reduce enrollment, further destabilizing an already fragile individual and small group health insurance market on which more than 10 million Americans rely," the coalition wrote. "Eliminating the individual mandate by itself likely will result in a significant increase in premiums, which would in turn substantially increase the number of uninsured Americans."
The penalty for not having health coverage in 2017 is $695 per adult and $347.50 per child, or 2.5% of one's household income, whichever is greater. Some four million taxpayers paid the penalty in 2016.


Twitter shares have surged more than 6% this week and are up nearly 40% this year -- despite the fact that many analysts remain concerned about slowing user growth, the lack of profitability and increased competition from Facebook (FB) and Snapchat (SNAP).
So the merger speculation makes sense. Some have suggested that Twitter would be better off as the part of a larger company.
And they say I don't know jack! pic.twitter.com/RkKgJdjnb0
There has been frequent chatter about whether Google owner Alphabet (GOOGL) would want to buy it, especially since former Google executive Omid Kordestani left Google to become Twitter's executive chairman in October 2015.
Disney (DIS) was reportedly looking at Twitter last year as well, and Goldman Sachs was said to be advising Twitter at the time.
Apple (AAPL) and cloud software firm Salesforce (CRM), run by frequent tweeter Marc Benioff, have also been cited as possible Twitter acquirers.
There's also the argument that Dorsey would be better off giving up control of Twitter so he can focus even more on the other company he runs -- mobile payments firm Square.
Shares of Square (SQ) have soared nearly 175% this year and a recent rally has been fueled by the fact that Square has started to let users of its Cash app buy and sell bitcoin.
Flash forward to this week. Disney just bought a big chunk of 21st Century Fox (FOXA). And that has reignited talk of more consolidation throughout the media world, including social media companies like Twitter.
Related: Trump talked to Rupert Murdoch about Disney deal
A Twitter spokesperson said the company does not comment on rumors but added that Blankfein was at Twitter headquarters "to speak to Twitter employees about leadership and his use of Twitter."
"We have a wide range of guests who come speak to our employees as part of a larger Q&A series with well known Twitter users," the spokesperson added.
Goldman Sachs had no comment.
Still, there are some reasons to be bullish on Twitter that have nothing to do with a possible takeover.
Some hope that engagement -- and hence, advertising revenue -- may increase now that Twitter has doubled its character count to 280.
Related: The case against 280-character tweets
There was some initial skepticism about the change, but that has largely died down. In fact, even Blankfein seems to be a fan after showing some reservations at first.
Blankfein tweeted on November 7 that he likes "the discipline of 140. Makes you commit. No room for "on the other hand...." #280characters is practically an essay!" That tweet took up just 137 characters.
But he quickly changed his tune, writing in a 173 character tweet on November 20 that "I'm using up to #280characters now because the room is there. Just like I know the 140 calorie yogurt is better for me but can't resist the 280 calorie cake if it's there."
New at this but like the discipline of 140. Makes you commit. No room for "on the other hand...." #280characters is practically an essay!
I'm using up to #280characters now because the room is there. Just like I know the 140 calorie yogurt is better for me but can't resist the 280 calorie cake if it's there. https://t.co/TdqhZEVg1J
Twitter also has a new partnership with news organization Bloomberg that is set to launch Monday. Bloomberg will debut a 24 hours/7 days a week social news network on Monday called TicToc that will stream live on Twitter.
This is just the latest effort by Twitter to show Wall Street that the service is not just about the famous people using Twitter, such as President Trump, but that it can also be a viable platform for live news and sports programming.
In addition to the deal with Bloomberg, Twitter also has live video deals with BuzzFeed, streaming financial news network Cheddar, Major League Baseball and golf's PGA Tour.
The jury is still out though as to whether or not Twitter will still be an independent company at this time a year from now. A lot of that will depend on whether Twitter's new video efforts can really boost user growth, ad sales and profits.
But that's probably something Blankfein and Dorsey will talk about in private as opposed to sharing those thoughts with Blankfein's 75,000 followers and Dorsey's more than 4 million devotees.


He added that even though some investors may be nervous that this bull run is starting to get a little long in the tooth, history suggests that stocks should keep climbing.
Detrick pointed out that the S&P 500 had an average return of 10.8% in 1959, 1996 and 2007 -- the year after the market enjoyed gains in 11 of the previous 12 months.
A double-digit percentage gain next year would be impressive given that the S&P 500 is up nearly 20% so far this year.
Stocks surged Friday on growing hopes about the Republican tax plan.
The Dow was up more than 160 points, moving closer to the 25,000 level, and has now gained more than 25% in 2017. The Nasdaq was up more than 1%. It has surged nearly 30% this year and is approaching the 7,000 mark.
But will the market remain this calm in 2018 or will it finally start to show some choppiness again?
It's been eerily serene this year. The market's favorite gauge of volatility, the CBOE's VIX (VIX) index, is down nearly 30% and below 10 -- not far from its all-time low.
CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index, which looks at the VIX and six other measures of market sentiment, is showing signs of Greed and is approaching Extreme Greed levels.
Related: Is this Trump's economy?
So even if stocks continue to climb higher, many experts warn that volatility will make a comeback.
"Despite my bullish expectations, I don't expect it to be a smooth ride and think we may be in store for some turbulence along the way," said Chris Zaccarelli, chief investment officer of Independent Advisor Alliance, in a report.
Zaccarelli suggested that the market may be due for a pullback after this relentless grind higher. He noted that the S&P 500 has had at least a 5% dip from recent highs at least once every two years since 1980. The last such drop was February 2016.
What could spark a return of volatility? Zaccarelli said the transition at the Federal Reserve, with Jerome Powell set to take over from Janet Yellen, is a possible wild card.
So are lingering concerns about North Korea, tension in the Middle East, trade disputes in the wake of NAFTA negotiations and the mid-term elections.
Related: Stocks at record highs on tax bill hopes
But the biggest worry might be the return of inflation. There is little evidence of it in the market right now as pricing pressures remain mild. That could change though if oil prices, currently hovering just under $60 a barrel, climb further.
A further spike in crude could lift gas prices as well, making it more expensive for consumers to fill up their gas tanks.
That could mitigate any savings Americans might get from the tax cuts that President Trump and Republicans hope to approve before the end of the year.
"The key for inflation is watching where oil prices go," said Dave Harden, president and chief investment officer of Summit Global Investments. "If they get above $75 and into the $80-$90 range, it will suck out any benefit to consumers from lower taxes."


Here are three reasons why:
1. Britain still needs to decide what Brexit means
Britain has yet to figure out what kind of relationship it wants with the EU, its biggest export market, once it has left.
May has said that the U.K. will leave the EU's internal market and customs union on March 29, 2019. But beyond those red lines, little has been settled.
Britain must decide whether it wants to negotiate continued easy access to EU markets or accept barriers to trade.
Both scenarios come with risks and consequences that are likely to upset factions within May's Conservative party.
Related: The CNNMoney Brexit jobs tracker
Settling on a preferred course of action has been made more difficult by the fact that her cabinet, which has different views on what the "end state" should be, has yet to debate the issue in detail.
The EU called on Britain to "provide further clarity on its position on the framework for the future relationship."
2. Trade talks won't start until March 2018
Europe also said Friday that it will not finalize its negotiating guidelines on a future trade relationship until March.
That leaves very little time to talk.
A deal settling the divorce, as well as the framework for future trade, security and other relations needs to be drafted by October in order to give the EU enough time to ratify it before the Brexit countdown clock runs down.
U.K. lawmakers are also demanding a vote on the deal before Brexit takes effect.
Can a major free trade agreement be negotiated in eight months? Experts say it borders on the impossible.

3. Trade deals are very hard
Trade talks are difficult under the best of circumstances, and comprehensive deals can take years to thrash out. A free trade agreement between the EU and Canada, which included some service industries, took seven years.
The remaining 27 EU states will have different priorities when it comes to trade, and will face an intense backlash from labor unions and businesses if their interests are not protected.
Related: EU and Japan free trade deal covers 600 million people
"I have no doubt that the real test of our unity will be the second phase of the Brexit talks," European Council President Donald Tusk said Thursday.
Britain has its own priorities: It will seek to minimize trade barriers in key sectors of the economy, such as financial services, autos and aerospace.
The EU has signaled that it's open to negotiating an agreement like the one it has with Canada. Davis is even more ambitious, saying he wants "Canada plus plus plus."
Related: Why Britain needs the immigrants it doesn't want
Given the very slim chance of a new trade deal being ready by March 2019, Britain will need a transition period after Brexit that will avoid businesses having to adjust to new rules and regulations twice.
May has asked for an "implementation period" of two years, but many businesses say they need at least three.
Europe is ready to discuss such a transition, but only if Britain is willing to accept all EU law -- including new laws passed during that period -- and EU judicial oversight.
Meanwhile, Britain won't have a say in any new EU rules.


More than a million teens across the globe have ordered Invisalign, Align announced in November. Five million people have purchased the treatment, which costs anywhere between $3,000 - $8,000.
Align sales have grown two years in a row, and its last quarter was the best in the company's 20-year history.
Orders among teens spiked to nearly 70,000 this past quarter, a 46% rise compared to the same period last year. Credit Suisse analyst Erin Wright called the jump "momentous."
The company's strategy to expand internationally over the past several years -- especially in China -- has fueled growth. China became Invisalign's second-biggest market behind the United States for the first time last quarter.
Align has also aggressively targeted both patients and doctors in a push to disrupt the orthodontic industry.
"They make no qualms that they would like to be a major form of orthodontic treatment," said Dr. Olivier Nicolay, a professor at NYU's College of Dentistry.
Related: The worst stock of the year is Under Armour
Align has ramped up advertising spending 60% this year as part of its effort to highlight the product's aesthetic and lifestyle advantages over braces to teens and their parents.
"You can pull them out to eat the food that you want or play a sport or play a musical instrument," CEO Joe Hogan told CNNMoney in an interview. "You can live the life that you want to live."
Product advancements and Align's efforts to train a network of more than 125,000 orthodontists and dentists around the world have also expanded its reach.
"There's been an evolution of this technology. We've invested a significant amount of money," said Hogan. "Years ago we weren't capable of doing a lot of the cases that are out there."
Once skeptical that clear aligners could deliver the same results as wires and brackets, orthodontists are now more comfortable putting patients on the treatment.
"Orthodontists are no longer scared of it," said Dr. Nicolay. "Invisalign has become an accepted procedure for adults and for adolescents."
Dentists are also eager for new revenue drivers to offset a sluggish recovery in patient levels a decade after the recession, noted William Blair analyst John Kreger.
With few major competitors looming, a tight grip on the dozens of patents that go into producing clear aligner technology and strong brand recognition, Align's looks poised to continue its climb into next year and beyond.
And the untapped teen orthodontic market has analysts increasingly bullish about the company's long-term prospects.
Teens account for roughly three-quarters of the 10 million orthodontic cases each year, but only 3% of them use Invisalign.
"We see no reason why it couldn't surpass 10% in the next five years," predicted Kreger.


And almost every Trump voter we spoke with gave him credit for the soaring stock market -- even though few of them had any money invested.
Here's how some of the voters we spoke with graded the president's performance thus far.

Sal Moceri, 62
His grade: "C"
Sal Moceri considers himself a lifelong Democrat. That is until 2016, when he voted for Trump. He voted Republican largely, he says, because of Trump's promise to renegotiate NAFTA.
A United Automobile Workers union member, Moceri makes about $30 an hour fixing parts at a Ford plant. His 42 years at Ford have enabled him to send his four kids to college and live a comfortable life, but he worries for other workers just coming into the industry.
Earlier this year, Moceri told us he believed NAFTA hurts wages and makes it impossible for workers to realize the American Dream.
Related: NAFTA talks are in trouble
"[NAFTA] was the downfall of most of the American [auto] industry," he said.
Trump campaigned heavily on bringing manufacturing jobs back to America, particularly by renegotiating trade deals. Canada, Mexico, and the U.S. say the NAFTA talks aren't going well.
But not all manufacturing job losses can be blamed on NAFTA. Between 2000 and 2010, about 87% of the jobs lost in the industry came from factories turning to automation and new technologies in order to improve efficiency, according to a study by two Ball State University professors.
And there have been signs of improvement in the sector. So far this year, 171,000 manufacturing jobs have been added across the U.S. But in Michigan, the number of manufacturing jobs has actually decreased.
That hasn't deterred Moceri. He is confident NAFTA will be renegotiated and it will turn things around.
Trump is trying, he says, and he isn't entirely to blame. "He's not doing well, but he's not a politician," says Moceri, noting that Trump is still learning how to get things done in Washington.
Ricky Quinn, 59
His grades: "A for effort, B for accomplishments, C for candor"
Just a few years ago, Ricky Quinn was an engineer at an automaker earning $40 an hour. But then he got laid off. Now he's a security guard making $14 an hour -- the best paying job he can find, he says. Quinn's wife has a series of medical problems and can't hold a full-time job right now.
Their health care is covered through the pension he receives from the automaker he used to work for. About $600 a month is taken out of his pension for that coverage, and he pays an extra $400 a month to cover he and his wife's other medical expenses.
Quinn doesn't rely on Obamacare for health care, but he says he voted for Trump based on his promise to repeal and replace President Obama's signature health care legislation. Quinn was opposed to the individual mandate, which requires everyone to have health coverage or pay a penalty, and he was counting on Trump being able to lower the overall cost of health care. One Obamacare policy he says he'd like to see remain is the mandate to cover of pre-existing conditions.
Related: In this small Kentucky town, they aren't waiting on Washington
But Quinn doesn't blame Trump for not being able to get health care reform done this year. Quinn blames Congress instead and wishes Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell would provide more support to the president.
"I know it's going to sound like I'm just a 100% Trump guy. It's not the case. I really don't think it was his fault," he says. "If [Trump] didn't have so many people working against him from the right and the left, I believe more would be done."
For now, Quinn believes Trump is fighting on his family's behalf -- and until that changes, Trump will continue to get his support.
Peggy Stewart, 63
Her grade: "C+"
At first glance, Peggy Stewart might not seem like your traditional Republican voter. She supports a universal health care system. She voted twice for President Obama.
But her vote went to Trump in 2016, largely because he was a businessman and she liked his promises to create jobs and raise wages.
Stewart and her husband, Jim, lost their jobs during the recession. Today, they both are employed again: Jim works on the factory floor at Ford and Peggy works as a security guard for a corporate security firm. But both say they are still struggling to get by -- and making much less than they used to.
Related: Don't expect a big pay raise in 2018
Stewart says Trump hasn't passed any legislation that she wanted, but mostly blames Congress. "[Trump] wrote 'The Art of the Deal,' and I really think this man could deal if he had the other side actually trying on their end," she says.
For now, Stewart says she's satisfied with Trump. She wanted to vote for someone "who had a spine" and she's still happy with her vote. If the election were tomorrow, she says she would vote for Trump all over again.
The one thing that would keep her from voting for Trump?
"Bona fide proof that [Trump] has allowed Russia to come in and interfere with the elections so that he would win against Hilary."

Bill Decker, 57
His grade: "A"
Bill Decker owns Lily Ann Cabinets, a large cabinet making factory in Adrian, Michigan.
Since Trump took office, Decker says his business is booming and gives Trump most of the credit. He's even invested more money into his company.
Decker imports his cabinets from China, which could take a hit if the import tariffs of between 25% and 40% that Trump proposed on the campaign trail ever goes through. But Decker isn't worried. He says if the tax gets passed, it will be across the board, so all companies will feel it. It won't just be him.
Related: Trump's top trade issues: Where they stand
The one thing that does concern Decker? Trump's stance on immigration. A bulk of his employees and the community's workforce is Hispanic and he's worried that limiting immigration will hamper his business.
Despite that fear, Decker says that the president still has his vote.
-- CNN's Poppy Harlow also contributed to this report.


There is one exception: Those who live in areas affected by hurricanes -- such as Florida -- can qualify for a special enrollment period, which will give them until the end of the year to sign up.
Related: Obama tweets: Final days to enroll in Obamacare are here!
The federal exchange has been sending emails daily to some consumers warning them of the looming deadline. But the Trump administration ended television advertising, which advocates say was the most effective way to get people to enroll in time.
Some 4.7 million Americans selected policies on healthcare.gov through December 9, according to federal data. That's about 650,000 more sign-ups than at a similar point last year, according to Get America Covered, an advocacy group aimed at promoting open enrollment.
A flood of procrastinators is expected to pick plans this week. Visits to healthcare.gov soared on Thursday, hitting its highest point at midnight, Get America Covered said. And on Friday morning, people calling for help had to wait 30 minutes for a representative.
"The surge is real," said Lori Lodes, the group's co-founder and a former Obama administration official.
In prior years, consumers who started the enrollment process before December 15 -- the deadline to get coverage at the start of the new year -- were given a little more time to complete their applications. The Trump administration announced late Friday that it will do the same this year.
It's busy at our call center today! If you call and are asked to leave your name and phone number, please do so. A call center rep will call you back after Dec 15 to make sure you have Marketplace coverage that starts Jan 1. You may also visit https://t.co/eTfU7hBbyh to enroll.
Even with the last-minute rush, it's unlikely that total enrollment will match last year's figure of 9.2 million.
Those in states that run their own exchanges may have more time to sign up. California and New York, for instance, have extended enrollment through January 31. Some 3 million people signed up for 2017 policies in state-based exchanges last year.
States have reported brisk activity in recent days. Maryland extended its deadline to accommodate the crowds.
"While enrollments have been very strong so far this year, we want to ensure that everyone in Maryland in need of 2018 health coverage has additional time to shop and enroll," said Howard Haft, interim executive director for the Maryland Health Benefit Exchange, which extended open enrollment to December 22.
Many of those signing up for coverage are new to Obamacare.
More than 182,000 new consumers have signed up for coverage in California, as of December 13. That's about 17% more than last year. Some 40,000 Washington residents picked plans for the first time, an increase of 47% from a year ago.
On the federal exchange, the number of new consumers is up about 14% from last year to just under 1.4 million.
Related: Obamacare enrollment could fall millions short for 2018
Current Obamacare enrollees who want to remain on the individual market should go to healthcare.gov to view their options and actively select a plan. If they don't, they will be automatically re-enrolled in their same policy. In previous years, this happened well before open enrollment ended so people could select another policy. But this year, they will not be able to switch plans since the enrollment season will have already ended.
Some 2.2 million people were automatically re-enrolled through healthcare.gov last year.
Those who shop around may find they can snag much cheaper plans. Premiums have soared for 2018, but so have federal subsidies.
A 40-year-old earning $25,000 will pay 75% less, on average, for the cheapest bronze plan and 21% less for the lowest-cost gold plan, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. A 40-year-old earning $40,000 will see a 28% drop, on average, in the price of the cheapest bronze plan, and an 8% decrease in the least expensive gold plan's premium.
Some 80% of enrollees will be able to find a policy for $75 a month or less -- up from 71% this year and the highest share so far, according to federal data.


The problem for retailers isn't people's willingness to spend. It's where they're spending.
After the Great Recession, spending shifted online. In a serious case of bad timing, American retailers built thousands of new stores in the decade prior to the recession, when the economy was thriving, according to Richard Feinberg, professor of retail management at Purdue University.
Feinberg says reports of the retail industry's demise are "way overblown." Instead, he says the industry is "facing a retrenchment," because retailers have way too many stores open.
Getting that mix right -- keeping the magic number of physical stores open while keeping up with online demand -- will be the key to survival.
Hundreds of retailers have suffered from having more stores than they needed.
Related: America's malls are rotting away
Sears (SHLD), which operated nearly 3,800 stores as recently as a decade ago, is down to 1,104. Macy's (M) closed 68 stores this year, and JCPenney (JCP) announced it would close 128.
The CEOs of Payless (which filed for bankruptcy this year) and Urban Outfitters conceded that there are too many stores in America.
Retailers know that having physical stores is no longer enough. They have to have a strong online presence to survive this change in spending habits. Online sales are projected to grow, and physical store sales are expected to continue shrinking.
"You're not going to be able to out-Amazon Amazon," says Feinberg. But retailers have to try to keep up.
Amazon is projected to make up half the online marketplace by 2021, according to Wall Street firm Needham.
This holiday season, consumers spent a record amount of money online -- $5 billion on Black Friday alone. That's 17% more than last year, according to data from Adobe Digital Insights.
Don't expect all sales to be online anytime soon, though. For most retailers, having a physical presence remains important to their business models. Around 88% of all purchases in the U.S. still take place in physical locations, according to Moody's senior analyst Charlie O'Shea. And these stores are still bringing in major revenue.
This holiday season alone, people are projected to spend $420 billion in brick-and-mortar stores, according to Deloitte.
Related: Target buys same-day deliver service with an eye on Amazon
Experts point to Walmart (WMT) as the best example of a retailer that seems to be getting the mix right.
Walmart has been on an acquisition spree, recently buying up Jet.com, ModCloth, Bonobos, Moosejaw and several other shopping sites.
It said last quarter that its digital sales rose a stunning 50% in the United States -- higher than Amazon's growth rate for revenue.
The retail sector may only have two major players in the future: Amazon and Walmart.
For now, consumers are benefiting from having so many online and in-store options, which is driving prices down, according to Garrick Brown, vice president of retail research at Cushman & Wakefield.
Brown says it's unlikely that Amazon would hike its prices except in places where it's dominant.
However, Amazon has the cash to buy up many struggling retailers. Macy's and JCPenney combined are worth less than $9 billion, compared with Amazon's more than $560 billion.
"It's possible that things could change really quickly for retailers," Brown says.


GE's deal-making worsened its exposure to fossil fuels. Rather than transforming into a clean energy powerhouse, GE doubled down on fossil fuels in 2015 by acquiring Alstom's power business, which makes coal-fueled turbines. The $9.5 billion deal was GE's biggest-ever industrial purchase and made GE Power its largest division. GE also increased its oil and gas footprint by merging those businesses with Baker Hughes (BHGE) last year.
GE Power is in shambles today because power plants are increasingly ordering solar and wind technology instead of gas and coal turbines. As GE's (GE GENERAL ELECTRIC CO) orders have tumbled, it's been forced to offer deep discounts on products and services. Now, the business is grappling with massive overcapacity. In response, GE Power recently announced plans to cut 12,000 jobs in a bid to shrink its footprint and slash $1 billion in costs.
While "gas and coal have softened," GE acknowledged that renewables are growing rapidly and stealing market share.
GE Power CEO Russell Stokes said the job cuts were "painful but necessary" to respond to the "disruption in the power market."
Related: How decades of bad decisions broke GE
GE isn't the only traditional power player getting rocked by renewables.
In November, industrial conglomerate Siemens announced plans to cut 6,900 jobs, mostly in Germany and the U.S. Siemens, which provides turbines and services to companies that generate power from oil and gas, cited the rise of renewables.
"The power generation industry is experiencing disruption of unprecedented scope and speed," Lisa Davis, a Siemens board member, said at the time.
Siemens (SIEGY) didn't seem to see the renewable threat coming either. In 2014, the German company spent $1.3 billion to purchase Rolls-Royce's gas turbine and compressor business. Siemens followed that up the next year by shelling out nearly $8 billion to buy Dresser Rand, a supplier of oil and gas equipment.
There are signs that renewables may continue to gain ground on fossil fuels, especially coal.
"The seismic shift in renewables economics" will cause "large reductions in carbon intensity in the global power sector," Morgan Stanley wrote in a recent research report.
The key is that solar technology has gotten dramatically cheaper, making it competitive in some markets against fossil fuels. The price of solar panels has been cut in half in less than two years, Morgan Stanley estimates.
Wind is also getting more affordable. All-in costs for wind power in some countries that have strong wind conditions can be one-third to half as expensive as coal or natural-gas plants, Morgan Stanley said.
Several major markets have reached an "inflection point where renewables are the "cheapest form of new power generation," Morgan Stanley wrote. It expects that trend to spread to "nearly every country we cover by 2020."
Related: GE is cutting 12,000 jobs
The good news for GE is that at least part of its vast empire stands to gain from the rise of renewables, especially wind. GE has a renewable energy division that generates about $9 billion in annual sales, mostly through the sale of wind turbines and water power systems.
GE has shipped more than 30,000 wind turbines since it entered the space in 2002. In April, GE completed the $1.65 billion acquisition of LM Wind Power, a Danish manufacturer of rotor blades. Earlier this month, GE touted the sale of 90 wind turbines to Thailand, marking its biggest renewable deal ever in that country.
The problem, for GE, is that its renewable energy business is dwarfed by its traditional power business, which has generated almost four times as much revenue this year. That means the pain from power is likely to continue to overshadow the growth from renewables.
--CNNMoney's Alanna Petroff contributed to this report.


What will happen to James Murdoch? There had been some speculation that Rupert Murdoch's son James, currently CEO of 21st Century Fox (FOX), would move over to Disney in a senior role, possibly as successor to CEO Bob Iger. But in a conference call with investors, Iger said that no immediate plans had been developed.
And what about Fox's $15 billion deal for European pay TV provider Sky (SKYAY)? That takeover was announced a year ago, but has suffered from a series of delays.
Disney says that Fox will work to push the deal through. Analysts say it might not be that simple.
2. Unions at Ryanair: The budget airline that built its business around minimal perks -- for customers and employees -- said Friday that it would recognize pilot labor unions for the first time.
Ryanair (RYAAY) pilots in Ireland, Britain, Germany, Italy, Spain and Portugal will now have more power to bargain with the airline.
The move is designed to head off a strike by pilots during the crucial holiday travel period.
"Putting the needs of our customers first, and avoiding disruption to their Christmas flights, is the reason why we will now deal with our pilots through recognized national union structures," CEO Michael O'Leary said in a statement.
3. Speaking of planes: There's been a major leadership shakeup at Airbus (EADSF), and current COO Fabrice Brégier appears to have been left standing when the music stopped.
Airbus said in a statement that Brégier, president of the company's commercial aircraft business, will leave the company. He had been touted as a possible successor to CEO Tom Enders, who will stand down in April 2019.
Guillaume Faury, who heads the company's helicopter division, was named as the next leader of the commercial airline business. Could he now be next in line for the top gig?
Airbus said it will consider insiders and external candidates for CEO in 2018.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were higher.
European stocks were mixed in early trade, while most Asian markets ended in negative territory.
Investors are largely being left to their own devices. There are no major earnings reports on the agenda and the economic data cupboard is bare.
The Dow Jones industrial average, S&P 500 and the Nasdaq took their foot off the gas on Thursday, posting losses of 0.3% to 0.4%.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday -- EU Summit


Those who write to me don't agree. Their argument is that companies are bringing back investment, creating new jobs and there is new confidence because of the prospects of lower taxes, massive deregulation and stronger trade protections for American companies. In other words, President Trump has created this environment and he deserves the credit for its benefits.
Sign up for the weekly Quest newsletter in your inbox
I can see the merit of this argument. Unfortunately, most private sector economists, like Professor Ken Rogoff at Harvard, a former chief economist at the IMF, don't agree with it. Time and again, these economists say, yes, Trump has had an effect, but it's too soon to give him full credit.
The debate will continue. I won't take sides. Instead, we will just bring you both arguments, allowing you to make up your own mind. Anytime you want to write to me, my email address is below.
And the Mouse ran away with the Fox

Disney's purchase of the movie studio assets of 21st Century Fox makes Disney a more formidable player in Hollywood.
It gives Disney the rights to Marvel characters such as the X-Men that Fox owned. It will boost the chances of success for the Disney and Fox-backed Hulu and Disney's own streaming service that it plans to launch to fight Netflix.
But Disney may inherit a mess in Europe as Fox tries to buy Sky. The deal may also complicate the legacy of Fox CEO Rupert Murdoch while bolstering the reputation of Disney CEO Bob Iger.
Prophetically enough, Fox's "The Simpsons" predicted a deal in 1998.
-- Paul R. La Monica
Fed hikes rates as Yellen set to pass baton

In a move that surprised nobody, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the third time this year Wednesday.
It's a sign of a healthy economy, which was further confirmed Thursday after the government reported a drop in the number of people filing for unemployment claims and strong retail sales for November.
Still, outgoing Fed chair Janet Yellen warned that President Trump's tax plan will boost the deficit and could make it tougher for her planned successor Jerome Powell to deal with future crises.
Yellen also urged people to be careful when buying bitcoin, which she referred to as "a highly speculative asset."
-- Paul R. La Monica
Bitcoin: Is North Korea making a fortune?

Bitcoin mania continues to heat up.
In just the past week, bitcoin futures launched and regulators warned investors to be wary. Kim Jong Un could be making a fortune on the boom because North Korea has recently been "mining" bitcoin, stealing it and demanding it as ransom payment.
Bitcoin has really taken off in South Korea, where trading has gone mainstream.
One threat to bitcoin -- something newer that could replace it. With that in mind, keep an eye on litecoin, the smaller cryptocurrency that has surged by more than bitcoin over the past month.
-- Matt Egan
Britain won't let Big Tech off the hook

A top U.K. ethics panel said Wednesday that Facebook, Twitter and Google should take "more responsibility" for illegal content on their platforms. The Committee on Standards in Public Life, which advises Prime Minister Theresa May, said the situation calls for new legislation.
Meanwhile, the head of a parliamentary committee investigating the role of fake news and online misinformation in the U.K. said Wednesday that Facebook needed to look harder for Russian meddling before the Brexit vote. Facebook said a Russian troll farm that spent $100,000 in the U.S. had spent only $0.97 in Britain.
-- Julia Horowitz
Quick takes
The fight for the future of the internet: What the end of net neutrality means
Get the popcorn ready! Saudi Arabia ends 35-year ban on movie theaters
Trade tensions: Canada deals blow to Boeing by scrapping $5B fighter jet deal
For nearly half of all American households, the rent is still too damn high
Exxon surrenders on major climate change transparency fight with investors
Attention meat lovers: Meat could be taxed in a bid to stop global warming
What's next
Earnings time: A few big names report quarterly earnings next week. FedEx will release results on Tuesday, along with General Mills on Wednesday and Nike on Thursday.
Bitcoin futures: Last Sunday, bitcoin futures started trading on the CBOE. CME Group will follow suit this coming Monday. It's all part of the bitcoin craze, which shows no signs of abating.


That's a common feeling for parents across America, where quality child care is expensive and often hard to find. But it's particularly prevalent in rural areas, many of which have seen dramatic declines in both incomes and populations. The economics of running a day care have become even more difficult as state budget cuts undermine funding for child care subsidies.
Now, much of Eastern Kentucky is covered by what the Center for American Progress has deemed "child care deserts": Census tracts with at least three times as many kids under age five than there are licensed child care openings, forcing thousands of parents to depend on the kindness of relatives and friends, or sometimes stay at home themselves.
New Beginnings, the day care center that shut down right before Chitwood's son was born, was founded in the 1970s, when the area was booming and a child care business could support a homeless shelter as well. But as people moved out of the area, New Beginnings could barely support itself. By last winter, it was about to declare bankruptcy.
Related: This small Kentucky town voted for Trump, but isn't waiting for his help
Luckily, the Foundation for Appalachian Kentucky got wind of New Beginnings' distress. With the philanthropy's support, the day care restructured and reopened. Chitwood got a job there, caring for the one-year-olds, and brought her son there, too.
But not all day cares are so lucky. To foundation official Lora Smith, a lack of child care poses a threat to Appalachia's transition away from coal to other industries, such as tourism, small-scale manufacturing and local food.
"We want to attract new people to the region too, and we need certain amenities," Smith said. "How many businesses are going to want to locate somewhere there isn't a quality day care?"
'It's a no-win situation'
At the turn of the 21st century, Kentucky decided to invest heavily in early childhood education.
Dena Dailey, owner of Tiddle Town Day Care, was one of the beneficiaries. The state was giving out grants to qualified day care providers to start businesses in underserved counties, and she picked Beattyville, in Lee County, where Tiddle Town has operated since.
But as the years wore on, Dailey didn't receive nearly as much help from the state. Incomes and population in the area declined, but the child care assistance payments for poor families — on which about three-quarters of her clients depend — stagnated, which sometimes kept the business from breaking even. She made it work with occasional financial help from her husband's job, cleaning and maintenance by her son, and by employing her mother to help with the kids.
"The economic part of it is not sustainable," Dailey said, sitting at a tiny kids' table in a miniature chair while her charges napped. "This is my passion. I do what it takes."
Across Kentucky, nearly 27,000 kids receive a subsidy through the Child Care Assistance Program, which is funded by both the state and federal government. The federal government recommends that the state kick in enough money to cover 75% of the market rate, but Kentucky's program pays 22% less than that.
Related: In rural America, building the Internet for Everyone has stalled
"Most child care centers lose money for every kid they accept through CCAP," said Dustin Pugel, a policy analyst with the Kentucky Center for Economic Policy, a left-leaning think tank. Federal funding for child care, meanwhile, has declined from $11.6 billion in 2001 to $8.4 billion in 2017 on an inflation-adjusted basis, according to the National Women's Law Center.
That's particularly difficult for centers located in rural areas, which see much higher percentages of clients who receive subsidies. The state allows them to raise co-pays, but Dailey said her clients couldn't afford it.
"It's a no-win situation," she said.
Government support comes up short
In recent years, Kentucky's child care system has weathered a body blow. After successive rounds of budget reductions, in 2013 the state froze CCAP enrollment. The cuts kept some parents from entering the program just as the collapse of coal was also making it difficult for families to pay full price.
The CCAP program restarted a year later, but income requirements had tightened, meaning that not all parents could come back. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 10% of the child care centers in the state closed between 2013 and 2016.
As Kentucky's economy has recovered and its tax revenue has improved, the state restored some of CCAP's funding and expanded eligibility slightly, to people making 160% of the poverty line. But that doesn't reach all parents who could use the help, especially when unsubsidized child care costs more than $6,000 on average per year in Kentucky, according to Child Care Aware — that's more than many mortgages in the state.
"There's a lot of mamas out there, and here's the dilemma that they've got: Why would they work if they would pay as much for child care as they could earn working?" said Becky Todd, 37, a photographer in Beattyville who had dropped by Tiddle Town because she'd heard there was an opening for her three-year-old. "They're the ones who need the help."
In Kentucky, 17% of families with young children report having difficulty holding down a job because they can't find adequate or affordable child care, according to the Annie E. Casey Foundation's KidsCount survey.
Meanwhile, the state has made it much more difficult to start a day care by adding regulations meant to improve quality and safety, such as requiring staff to go through additional training and restricting their location to certain zones. According to June Widman, executive director of the Eastern Kentucky Child Care Coalition, the number of home-based businesses declined from 1,000 ten years ago to 300 today.
Related: Parents to Congress: My child depends on CHIP for health insurance
"It was sort of a building block effect," Widman said. "As these things piled up, it started to get really costly before you could even open your doors."
The grants for establishing child care facilities, such as the one Dena Dailey received, ceased about decade ago.
To alleviate the problem, child care advocates have proposed beefing up federal investment in state child care programs to raise pay for providers and lower costs for families. Conservatives, like Ivanka Trump and Senator Marco Rubio, pushed for an expanded and fully refundable child tax credit in the tax reform bill that could help as well. But the House and Senate only expanded the credit, without making it refundable, which means poorer families don't see much benefit.
In addition, the White House's budget blueprint for 2018, which was released last Spring, would result in a 17% cut to Head Start, the federally funded preschool program, according to an Urban Institute analysis.
For New Beginnings executive director Donna Fields, that makes it difficult to hear politicians talk about how children are the future.
"If we're that important in a child's life, and you keep cutting our funding, how do we do what we're supposed to do?" Fields asked. "Until they really realize that quality child care is more than just saying it, or making all these requirements for these centers, you have to have something to help them."


The Even app connects directly to a worker's checking account, prepaid account or Walmart Associate Paycard, and links to Walmart's payroll systems.
"We're investing to give our people financial tools that help provide more stability in their lives, which we believe will empower them to be all they can be when they are at work serving our customers," said Jacqui Canney, Walmart's chief "people" officer, in a prepared statement.
Walmart (WMT) is footing the bill for the app, including the "Instapay" feature, which workers can use up to eight times for free -- an allotment that rolls over annually if it is unused. After that, employees can pay $3 a pay period for access to Even Plus, a premium version of the app that offers additional financial services. That $3 also covers transaction fees.
According to Shah, the fees pay for the cost of transferring money on demand, which is more expensive than lump sum paychecks every two weeks.
The financial assistance comes at a time when Walmart associates are working in overdrive.
The company announced in September it would not be hiring holiday workers, but rather upping the hours for existing workers.
For part-time employees, additional hours could increase total pay more than an increase in hourly pay.
Walmart raised its minimum pay for most employees to $10 an hour in 2015, and the average pay for its full-time workers is now $13 an hour.
Part-time workers are paid about $10 an hour on average, $2.75 more than federal minimum wage.


It's true that wages have yet to pick up dramatically. That's the one weak spot in the labor market.
But many economists note that you can't look at wages in isolation. Inflation hasn't come roaring back either.
So even with meager salary increases, a lot of Americans are still making more money in real terms. And they are putting that money back into the economy by spending.
"Consumers are realizing that the economy is strengthening and that pro-business policies are ushering in an era of sustainable growth," wrote Voya Investment Management market strategists Douglas Coté and Karyn Cavanaugh in a report Thursday.
"This is not a fake candy-cane high of central bank stimulus, but real economic growth not seen in decades," they added, continuing the holiday themed motif by saying "growth, spending, employment -- nary a stale fruitcake in sight."
Higher levels of economic growth aren't a bad thing per se. But there are questions about whether you can have too much of a good thing.
Related: Janet Yellen says bigger deficits created by tax bill could be a problem
If growth picks up to more than 4% or even 5%, that could spark new worries about the unintended consequences of tax cuts.
If tax reform makes the economy grow too fast and eventually brings about higher inflation, some fear that the Federal Reserve may have to step up the pace of interest rate hikes. That could slow down the economy more than many would like.
RSM U.S. Chief Economist Joseph Brusuelas said in a note Thursday that tax cuts while the economy is already in good shape means "it is now highly likely that growth will be turbocharged in 2018 and 2019."
The end result? Brusuelas thinks the Fed will raise rates four times in 2018 -- more than what Wall Street now expects.
Still, others argue that the impact of any changes to the tax code won't have that big an impact past 2018. Companies and consumers will adjust and economists and Wall Street investment strategists will bake the lower taxes into their growth forecasts.
Wayne Wicker, chief investment officer with retirement planning firm ICMA-RC, said it will be important for Trump and Congress to focus on an infrastructure investment bill in 2018. That could give the economy a longer-term boost and create even more jobs.
CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed to this report.


But not everyone in Eastern Kentucky is so lucky. One county over, Ranck works a second job as a counselor for people struggling with addiction. Many of those she helps would benefit from home-based jobs, she said, but they don't have access to fast enough broadband yet. "I see 100 people a week who would love to do this, and can't," Ranck said. "Where they live, it's not accessible."
America has seen rapid improvements in broadband availability since the turn of the century. Fueled by both private and public investments, that growth has helped expand the transformative power of the Internet far beyond cities and wealthy suburbs. Household Internet use in rural areas rose from 2% to 61% between 2000 and 2015, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
But the momentum has now stalled as public funding has dried up.
President Trump campaigned on the promise of a trillion-dollar infrastructure plan, which Internet access advocates had hoped would include another infusion of cash to extend broadband to areas that telecom companies don't find commercially viable. So far, no plan has been proposed.
The slowdown in funding has left stark disparities between rural areas that have gotten wired and those where the job is only half finished.
Take Eastern Kentucky, where a handful of counties received fiber optic connections to every home and business with help from millions of dollars in stimulus funding in 2009 and 2010. Those that didn't, must make do with shaky Internet service over copper wires or phone lines, and they only get pockets of good cell service amid the crinkled mountain landscape.
Related: The end of net neutrality: What it all means
That hasn't stopped Teleworks USA from trying to place hundreds of rural residents in jobs. Since its founding in 2011, the federally-funded job training agency has found home-based work for more than 1,200 Eastern Kentucky residents — including Ranck — and they say the number of remote jobs out there is only growing.
But lack of broadband still stands in the way.
"The thing that limits us placing as many people who need it and want it is the infrastructure in Eastern Kentucky," said Teleworks USA's director, Michael Cornett. "And that's something that's totally out of our control."
Quick progress, big results
Starting in the 1950s, McKee, Kentucky-based Peoples Rural Telephone Cooperative devoted itself to connecting a small corner of Appalachia to the phone system. Along with most of the rest of rural America, it succeeded.
By the 2000s, PRTC was in the Internet business as well. In 2009, Congress allocated $7.2 billion to broadband development in rural areas, and directed the Federal Communications Commission to develop a plan for making high-speed Internet access available everywhere. PRTC got $45 million in a mix of grants and loans to build out fiber to every home and business in the two counties it served.
To Owsley County judge Cale Turner, the broadband access has been a game changer, especially as coal and tobacco jobs disappeared. Teleworks alone has created 137 jobs in the 4,500-person county since opening in 2016.
"The beauty of it is, those jobs are going to keep on coming," Turner said. "You don't have to worry about the factory shutting down. If you built a brick building and hired 130 people, everybody would be gushing."
Related: In this small Kentucky town, people aren't waiting on Trump to fix things
That's only counting the jobs Teleworks has created directly. The county's broadband network also allows high-earning urban professionals like Teresa Duff, a software executive from Dayton, Ohio who has family in Lee and Owsley counties, to move there as well.
"Really the Internet thing was a big deal, because Lee County doesn't have the same capability with broadband," said Duff, sitting at her kitchen table, which looks out on a sweeping pasture for her horses. "So I needed to be here."
There are other beneficial spillover effects. The owner of the Ole Bus Stop Diner in Booneville, Jason Reed, reports more business from teleworkers placing to-go orders and taking their whole families out to eat with their newfound paychecks. Each student at Owsley County schools has super-fast Internet at home, allowing them to keep working when school is closed on snow days and to take online college courses while in high school.
"It's not about new roads," said Owsley County Schools superintendent Tim Bobrowski, whose wife runs an e-commerce business out of their home. "It's the Internet. You can't see that road, but it brings in opportunities that at the time nobody was seeing."
The broadband revolution missed a spot
Fifteen minutes away, in Lee County, an Internet-connected future seems more distant.
The area is currently served only by AT&T, which doesn't usually deliver speeds as high as PRTC's fiber network. (AT&T said it has invested $700 million in building fiber and wireless networks in Kentucky in the last three years, but declined to disclose where those services are available.)
The one coffee shop in downtown Beattyville, the county seat, is full of people using Wi-Fi because they don't have a good Internet connection at their homes.
"We see a lot of draw, just because we do have Internet access," said Jessica Miracle, manager of the Art Factory Coffeehouse. "A lot of the county doesn't."
According to the FCC's latest broadband access report, 39% of rural residents lack fixed broadband service, compared to just 4% of city dwellers. That's down from previous years, but still cuts off a broad swath of the population from learning and job opportunities.
PRTC is working on building out to Lee County now, investing about $600,000 into running fiber to some of the local institutions, like the library and the courthouse. But getting to peoples' homes and further-flung businesses is expensive. While some pots of federal money are still available, they have yet to secure the millions that allowed them to connect the other two counties next door.
"Unless we get a grant there, all the risk is ours," said Keith Gabbard, PRTC's CEO. In that scenario, success depends on the number of people who want to sign up. "If we get 20 homes, then we'll do it, but if it's one or two homes, it's a matter of funding."
Related: 'Child care deserts' are leaving parents with few options
In the meantime, some states have tried to fill in the gaps — some more successfully than others.
In 2015, Kentucky's former governor kicked off a $324 million public-private partnership that was supposed to construct 3,000 miles of fiber optic cable as a "middle mile" to get closer to rural communities. The first ring was scheduled to be operational by this July, but the project is now far behind schedule and over budget, which officials in the new governor's administration attribute to original projections being "unrealistic."
That's left Lee County to do what it can with what it has. The schools, for example, keep their buildings open on snow days to allow kids without home Internet to come do assignments, and make sure everything's possible to do using old-fashioned paper and pencil.
"We are limited somewhat," said Lee County superintendent Jim Evans. "But we try to work through those problems."


The company's new chief executive, Kare Schultz, said that some offices and facilities would be closed.
"Making workforce reductions of this magnitude is difficult, and we do not take them lightly," he wrote in a letter to employees. "However, there is no alternative to these drastic steps in the current situation."
Teva (TEVA) shares trading in Tel Aviv, Israel, gained 12% after the cost-cutting plan was announced.
Related: Generic EpiPen at $300 coming soon
The company, which says its products are used by roughly 200 million patients each day, is heavily indebted. Its debt stood at $34.7 billion at the end of September, a slight reduction from June.
Schultz, who was named as CEO in October, appointed a new leadership team last month in an attempt to streamline the organization.


CNN received an early copy of the letter. In it the senator says he worries the computerized currency "could be laundered through trades that occur outside the regulatory framework that applies to current financial transactions."
Wyden is asking asked FinCEN to explain its "authority and capabilities to identify the... owners of virtual currencies," as well as its ability to "trace and seize" this digital money.
FinCEN declined to comment to CNN about the letter Thursday morning. But the agency pointed to a previous statement by acting director Jamal El-Hindi that said: "We will hold accountable foreign-located money transmitters, including virtual currency exchangers, that do business in the United States when they willfully violate U.S. anti-money laundering laws."
Related: Fed chair calls bitcoin 'highly speculative'
Bitcoin (and other digital currencies like it) are independent, self-sustaining and not backed by any government. They do not identify users by name. And Bitcoin's groundbreaking technology for tracking transactions, a concept called the "blockchain," is quickly gaining recognition. Blockchain is the innovative way bitcoin creates new units of currency and keeps a decentralized, public, and secure record of all transactions.
The value of a bitcoin has skyrocketed from $900 to more than $16,000 on some exchanges this year. And while it was already a preferred online currency for hackers and criminals, that rise in price has drawn additional attention from the underworld.
Related: What is bitcoin?
Hackers tied to the North Korean regime have been caught infecting computers and demanding bitcoin as ransom payments. Bitfinex, the world's largest online market for bitcoins, and several other website exchanges have been hit by cyberattacks seeking to steal bitcoin accounts.
"I believe that we should look to support financial innovation, but that we should ensure new technology companies comply with existing [anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing] laws," Wyden wrote.
Related: Regulators on bitcoin: buyer beware
It's unclear what effect this news could have on the bitcoin market. Since its inception, interest in bitcoin has been largely limited to techno-libertarians who view it as an alternative to state-controlled inflationary currencies. To them, the specter of government regulation is viewed negatively. Whenever a government has moved to regulate or ban bitcoin, and fears have temporarily pushed down prices sharply.
But current interest by major banks and industry into bitcoin's core technology could hold that back, as they welcome regulation that legitimizes this mysterious and volatile technological experiment.
FinCEN has taken some action on bitcoin in the past.
In 2016, it warned financial companies in the bitcoin exchange business that they're still required to follow the same "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules as banks. It followed that up in July with its first major legal action against a "money services business," hitting the internet-based BTC-e exchange with a $110 million civil penalty for ignoring those rules.
The senator expressed concern that Russia and Venezuela view digital currency as a way to circumvent U.S. economic sanctions put in place to punish them for their violent authoritarian behavior.
Earlier this month Venezuela announced plans to launch its own digital currency, dubbed "the Petro" and backed by the nation's oil and gas, to specifically evade the blockade.
"While this is unlikely to be a credible plot to evade U.S. sanctions, it is an example of how this promising new technology could be used for nefarious purposes," Wyden said in his letter.
Wyden also asked FinCEN how it monitors a related phenomenon: the sudden rise of "initial coin offerings," in which startups are offering digital currencies in a sometimes dubious attempt to raise investor money.
The Securities and Exchange Commission has warned the public about the potential for "ICO scams," and this week regulators stopped food review app Munchee from raising $15 million this way.
The senator's letter, addressed to acting FinCEN director El-Hindi, asked for a public response by Dec. 29.
Jose Pagliery is the author of Bitcoin - And the Future of Money (Triumph Books, Chicago).


As part of the deal, Delta will start taking delivery of the first of 100 jets beginning in 2020. The airline holds options for another 100.
Delta said the airplanes will consume 40% less fuel per passenger than the 1980s-era McDonnell Douglas MD-88s that they will replace. The airline also selected Pratt & Whitney engines as part of its deal.
The order is a blow to Airbus's U.S. rival Boeing, which had hoped to sell its 737 Max 10 airliners to the U.S.'s second largest airline.
Related: Canada makes good on threat to drop Boeing fighter deal
CNNMoney reported earlier that Delta planned to purchase the 100 airliners from Airbus.
Boeing and Delta are embroiled in an ongoing trade dispute over the airline's purchase of the smaller Canadian Bombardier C Series. Boeing has accused Bombardier of selling the C Series to Delta at unfairly low prices, and the U.S. Commerce Department has recommended a preliminary 300% tariff on the import of the jets. Bombardier and the Canadian government deny any unfair trade practices.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
Delta's purchase announcement comes days after Canada announced plans to ditch a deal with Boeing for new F/A-18 Super Hornets, and instead purchase used fighters from Australia.
Related: Boeing 797 takes a big step toward becoming a reality
Airbus primarily manufacturers the single-aisle A321 jet for the world's airlines in Hamburg, but has opened an assembly line in Mobile, Alabama to build planes for U.S. airlines. Airbus said in a statement that "most" of the 100 will be assembled in the U.S. The plane maker said it is considering increasing output at the factory beyond the four jets it makes each month.


Although Americans overall have seen joblessness sink and wages rise during the Trump administration's first year, those tailwinds haven't quite reached many of the country's more rural pockets like Beattyville. So, the citizens of the town have found other ways to grade his performance.
Leighandra Shouse, a children's book illustrator who voted for Trump, gives him a solid B. Not because of any changes in her own life, which she says hasn't improved much since this time last year, but rather because he seems like he's doing his best.
"I'm still hopeful. I don't think any of the problems that we have is going to be quick fixes, you know?" says Shouse, 50. "I think Congress is standing in the way more than him."
Trading coal for trucking and tourism
Nevertheless, there are some signs of improvement in and around Beattyville.
For one thing, the state announced the reopening of a long-closed prison, which will be operated by a private company and provide scores of jobs. But the reopening is also a symptom of the opioid crisis still ravaging Appalachia and swelling the prison population all over Kentucky.
A coal tipple — used for loading coal onto rail cars — opened on the outskirts of town, signaling that some coal producers are optimistic about Trump's rollback of regulations on the industry. After falling into a steep decline after 2011, coal production and mining jobs have leveled off in the region over the past year, and some laid off miners have even gone back to work.
The news of coal's small resurgence has sent a ripple of optimism throughout Appalachia, seeming to fulfill Trump's campaign promise that the election was "the last shot for the miners." Few people, however, are betting on the once mighty industry regaining its former strength.

"It's gonna help. But is it gonna solve Eastern Kentucky's problems? No," says Kevin Maggard, who started an auto body shop in a remote valley after he was laid off from his coal mining job five years ago.
Related: The Trump Jobs Tracker
He says he's advised friends against taking the few coal jobs that have come back, because they could disappear just as quickly. Some have gone into long-distance trucking instead.
"Trump does need to get us work back here," says Maggard, who voted for Trump and thinks he's done a good job so far. "If coal doesn't do it, we've got to have some industry."

Instead of coal, residents are coming around to the idea that the next great natural resource boom might come from elsewhere: The area's mountains and rivers, just as they are.
Beattyville is luckier than many Eastern Kentucky towns. It's less than an hour from world famous rock climbing and paddling in the Red River Gorge. Wiry outdoor types keep the one local coffee shop busy, and a boutique hotel called the Chocolat Inn & Cafe has opened to cater to vacationers.
Larry Phillips owns an auto repair shop in Beattyville that used to get more business from the coal trucks that once rumbled through town. He voted for and still supports Trump, who he thinks may still bring the coal industry back in time.
"You need to step back, hush and let him do his job," Phillips says to the president's critics. But while coal remains depressed, he's building a few cabins to rent to visitors, which he sees as the town's economic future. "Tourism should be a lifelong thing here, because what we have to offer will not be leaving."
Building a tourism economy takes collaboration, and residents say they're up for it.
"The one thing about here is we have to learn to support each other," says Shouse. "We can't wait for somebody to pull us out of a hole."
That's probably a good thing, because it's not clear how much help will be coming from Washington in the years to come.
A series of looming threats
Eastern Kentucky has long received aid via the Appalachian Regional Commission, which dispenses grants for everything from job training to trail building. Money has also been available through the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Rural Economic Development Program, which funds local utilities; the Abandoned Mine Lands program, a fund supplied by payments from coal companies; and the Economic Development Administration, which has focused on helping communities left behind by coal.
The budget proposal Trump submitted last spring would have eliminated all of those programs. The area's congressional representatives — including Kentucky's senior senator, Mitch McConnell — protested the cuts, which local economic development professionals say would devastate the area.
Related: In rural America, building the Internet for everyone has stalled
The programs have been funded in the stopgap budget measures Congress has passed so far. But some local activists think the threat might lead to a needed shakeup among the federal agencies that have failed to turn around the area's economic prospects, despite millions of dollars and decades of work.
"They have become very habitual in how they fund things," says Chuck Caudill, a former local newspaper editor who is planning a run for Lee County judge. "I think that that will inject in the ARC the desire and the need to be more innovative."
Another threat on the horizon: Trump and congressional Republicans are targeting welfare. That jeopardizes the benefits that many people in this town rely on, including cash assistance, disability payments and food stamps, which more than a third of households in Lee County receive.
Then there's health care. Kentucky expanded Medicaid through the Affordable Care Act under its previous Democratic governor, and the uninsured rate dropped from 14.3% in 2013 to 5.1% in 2016, the ninth lowest rate in the country.
Related: 'Child care deserts' are leaving rural parents with few options
More than half of Lee County's residents are covered by Medicaid. Kentucky's current Republican governor says it's too expensive and has requested a federal waiver that would cut an estimated 96,000 people from the rolls, according to the Kentucky Center for Economic Policy.
None of that has been felt yet in Beattyville, however. And some of those who are just above the threshold for public assistance say they wouldn't necessarily object to seeing it go away.

Leighandra Shouse doesn't qualify for Medicaid and hasn't been able to afford insurance through her husband's job or on the Obamacare exchange. She's visited the local health clinic a few times for pain in her leg, since they charge on a sliding scale, but says she isn't getting the specialist treatment that might solve the problem.
"The people that are the ones that's working, we're the needy ones," says Shouse. "Are those people that's being handed everything free, are they going to go out and fill out an application for a job?"
'We want to move forward'
To Anna Smith, 31, the answer to Shouse's question is yes. She recently started working at Beattyville's housing assistance agency, but still qualifies for food stamps and cash assistance, and a housing voucher for her four children, and says she would rather support herself than rely on benefits.
"People look at you different," Smith says. "Like you depend on the government."
Regardless of what the tax proposals in Congress or the budget hold, Beattyville residents say they're not waiting to find out what will happen in Washington. They're promoting the area to tourists and starting businesses, like the new women's clothing boutique on Main Street, Hip Chic, and The Art Factory Coffee Shop.
They love Beattyville and want to make it a place where their children can build a future.
"It's time that our community is seen in a more positive light and I think that's what my generation and the current leaders of Beattyville have decided to do," says Tara Newman, the proprietor of Hip Chic.
Newman had been diagnosed with breast cancer in 2015, and decided to open the boutique this past summer. It's been open since late August, and she says she hopes to hire someone to work there soon.
"I think we all just decided to take a chance, and to be accountable for our community, try a fresh start," says Newman. "A lot of the people who have opened up these businesses, are hometown people. We see what our town had to offer and we want to move forward."
CNN's Poppy Harlow, Claudia Morales, Haley Draznin and Jordan Malter contributed to this report.


These partnerships might seem cheesy, but PepsiCo's Frito Lay snack division is actually onto something, says Nik Modi, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets.
According to Modi, PepsiCo's partnership with Regal Cinemas is part of the company's push to link its brands with experiences, such as going to the movies.
Related: Shoppers are warming up to Kellogg's frozen foods
"It's more than just co-branding," he says. "It's their way of trying to make their brands more 3D and less 2D."
By focusing on experiences, PepsiCo is also trying to attract the coveted Millennial consumer.
Millennials are over 75% more likely to spend money on experiences rather than physical products, according to a 2016 survey conducted by market research firm Harris.
Experience-driven branding isn't a new space for PepsiCo. This summer, the company launched a Cheetos pop-up restaurant in New York City, where foodies could taste Cheetos-covered dishes prepared by celebrity chef Anne Burrell.
But Frito Lay's partnership is more than a marketing move. It also reveals a key priority shift within the company.
For years, Pepsico has been moving its focus away from its beverage division, which includes Pepsi and Mountain Dew, and towards Frito Lay. Why?
The junk food industry is a thriving multi-billion dollar business, despite the fact that Americans are increasingly reaching for healthier snack options. Salty snacks generated nearly $28 billion in sales between April of 2016 through the same time this year, according to Statista.
In addition, Frito Lay is simply more profitable than Pepsi's beverage line, says Modi.
Related: Coca-Cola needs more products not named Coke
Frito Lay reported $1.2 billion in profit last quarter -- a 5% increase compared to the same time last year. In 2016, the division accounted for nearly 48% of the company's bottom line.
And PepsiCo's (PEP) stock is up nearly 12% this year.
Let's put it this way: While you were licking Cheetos powder off your fingers, PepsiCo was snacking all the way to the bank.


Disney is getting Fox's movie studio, the cable channels FX and National Geographic as well as Star India and Fox's stake in European pay-TV provider Sky.
Prior to the deal closing, 21st Century Fox will separate the Fox broadcasting network, Fox News Channel, Fox Business Network, and some national sports networks into a newly listed company that will be spun off to shareholders.
2. Net neutrality decision: The U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is set to vote Thursday on a repeal of Obama-era net neutrality protections.
Net neutrality rules bar internet providers like Comcast (CCVCL) and AT&T (T) from deliberately speeding up or slowing down traffic from specific websites and apps in order to prioritize their own content.
FCC chairman Ajit Pai's plan would lift those bans -- and likely boost those companies. (AT&T is in the process of acquiring Time Warner, which owns CNN.)
Democrats have called on the FCC to delay the vote.
3. Central bank time: The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates on Wednesday. Investors attention now turns to the European Central Bank and the Bank of England.
The central banks are not expected to announce rate hikes, but investors will be looking for hints on their strategy for the coming year.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were higher.
European markets opened mostly lower, while Asian markets ended mixed.
The Dow Jones industrial average hit a record high and moved closer to 25,000 on Wednesday after Congressional leaders struck a tentative tax overhaul deal. The index added 0.3%.
The S&P 500 closed flat and the Nasdaq gained 0.2%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Earnings and economics: Costco (COST), Adobe (ADBE) and Oracle (ORCL) will release their results after the closing bell.
The U.S. Census Bureau will publish data on November retail sales at 8:30 a.m. ET.
The International Energy Agency said it expects U.S. oil production to rise again in 2018. It predicts that global supply will grow at faster rate than demand next year.
"2018 may not necessarily be a happy New Year for those who would like to see a tighter market," the agency said in a report.
There's more good news in Germany: The IFO Institute has raised its growth forecast for 2018 from 2% to 2.6%
"The German economy is in great shape," said IFO President Clemens Fuest.
European Union leaders are gathering for a summit in Brussels on Thursday and Friday. High on their agenda: Brexit.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Thursday -- November U.S. retail sales; Bank of England rate decision; European Central Bank decision; Costco (COST) and Oracle (ORCL) earnings; IEA oil report; EU summit  Friday -- EU Summit


The national debt held by the public has nearly tripled over the past decade to about $15 trillion today.
Yellen has said America's debt burden "should keep people awake." And the problem will likely worsen as more people tap Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security -- outpacing tax revenue.
Related: Republicans in House and Senate strike a deal on tax bill
The Joint Committee on Taxation, the congressional scorekeeper for tax bills, has estimated the Senate version of the tax bill would add an estimated $1 trillion to deficits.
Economists worry tax cuts that will deepen the national debt while the economy is healthy will leave Congress with less room to respond to a fiscal calamity.
New York Federal Reserve Bank President William Dudley has cautioned against injecting additional stimulus through tax cuts when the economy is already growing at a pace that is likely to increase inflation over time.
"[T]he economy doesn't need it," Dudley said in late November.
Usually when the economy needs to be rescued, the president will ask Congress to borrow vast sums of money to pay for tax cuts. But lawmakers are now on the verge of enacting a $1.5 trillion tax plan with an economy enjoying its best growth in three years.
The recovery from the Great Recession is now in its eighth year. It's already the third-longest expansion in history. While few economists anticipate an imminent downturn, another one will come eventually.
Related: Tax cuts could make it harder to fight the next recession
And when a recession hits, the government's borrowing costs may not be as absurdly cheap as they are now.
"It does suggest that in some future downturn, which could occur just for whatever reason, the amount of fiscal space that would exist for fiscal policy to play an active role will be limited," said Yellen.
Still, the outgoing Fed chair said the U.S. central bank welcomed tax changes to help grow the economy.
She said most policymakers accounted for an economic boost from the proposed tax bill in their updated economic projections.
And for now, officials didn't think it was necessary to change their plans when it comes to future rate hikes.
Related: Trump wants poor Americans to work but many already do
On Wednesday, the Fed raised rates one notch higher as the U.S. economy continues to get healthier. It also maintained its plans to raise rates three more times in 2018, and then twice in 2019.
Some analysts have suggested the Fed may have to raise rates faster next year should the tax bill prove to deliver a bigger stimulus to the economy.
The Fed also said it now expects the economy to grow in 2018 at a faster rate of 2.5%, compared with its previous forecast of 2.1%.
Yellen said tax reform was one factor among many that policy makers considered in lifting the country's economic prospects next year.
-- CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed to this report.


Here's some context on the cuts in store for middle-income households based on nonpartisan analyses of the Senate-passed bill:
Modest increases: Those in the middle class would see tax cuts, on average, especially in the first half of the next decade. But they would be modest -- with an average increase below 2% in after-tax income. By contrast, higher income households would see an average bump in after-tax income north of 2%, according to the Tax Policy Center.
But an "average" tax cut doesn't mean everyone would get one. Some might pay more. And some might see a much bigger tax cut than the group average. Everything depends on individual circumstance: marital status, family size, how you make your living, what deductions you normally take, etc.
Short shelf-life: For many middle-income groups, their tax cuts diminish if not disappear completely by the end of the decade, since individual tax cuts and other benefits would expire after 2025.
Related: Will Trump's tax plan really give you a $4,000 raise?
Higher debt: The bill would increase the nation's debt by more than $1 trillion in the first decade. Given the fiscal challenges of the federal budget in the next few decades, increases to the debt will create the need for future tax increases, spending cuts or some combination of the two. So it's likely the middle class would be the subject of either or both to pay for today's tax cuts. Optimistic assumptions about worker benefits: Republicans have also been pitching the idea that the steep corporate tax cuts in the GOP tax plan would be a boon for workers in terms of higher wages and increased jobs.
The president's Council of Economic Advisers even estimated a corporate rate cut to 20% might increase average household income by at least $4,000. But that's based on the most optimistic assumptions: that companies will use their tax savings to invest in their businesses rather than use it to pay higher dividends or buy back company shares.
It also assumes a very high percentage of a corporate rate cut benefits workers directly. Many mainstream economists believe the direct benefits are more modest and take a longer time to take effect.


Unstable might be an understatement. Bitcoin started the year below $1,000, hit $8,000 for the first time in early November, and then topped $17,000 on some exchanges last week. The currency's value has fluctuated by thousands of dollars in less than a day.
One bitcoin was worth about $16,200 on Wednesday, according to CoinDesk, which values bitcoin based on data from four exchanges.
Related: Looking to sell bitcoin? It's complicated
Yellen said she thinks it's important for the Fed to understand what she called "emerging risks to financial stability." But she called the risks posted by bitcoin "limited," and she said it plays only a "small role" in the nation's payment system.
"Undoubtedly there are individuals who could lose a lot of money if bitcoin were to fall in price," she said, "but I really don't see that as creating a full-blown financial stability risk."
Related: Federal Reserve, buoyed by stronger economy, lifts rates again
Bitcoin debuted on the Chicago Board Options Exchange last Sunday, and futures will begin trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange on December 17-18. That means investors can place bet on whether it will rise or fall in coming months.
The Nasdaq will debut the option next year.
--CNNMoney's Daniel Shane and Jackie Wattles contributed to this story.


"The labor market has continued to strengthen and ... economic activity has been rising at a solid rate," the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement following its two-day meeting.
The federal funds rate, which helps determine rates for mortgages, credit cards and other borrowing, will now hover in a range of 1.25% to 1.5%. Overall, rates are still historically low.
Related: Tax cuts could make it harder to fight the next recession
Two Fed officials dissented on the decision: Chicago Fed President Charles Evans and Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari, who felt policy makers should wait longer before raising rates again.
This is the fifth time the Fed has lifted interest rates since the 2008 financial crisis. Policy makers plan to raise rates three more times in 2018, and then twice in 2019.
Central bankers, under the leadership of outgoing Fed chair Janet Yellen, have moved patiently to maintain economic growth at a steady pace. They have kept a watchful eye on inflation, which has run below expectations.
President Trump nominated Fed governor Jerome Powell in November to take over when Yellen ends her four-year term on February 3. It's largely expected that Powell will stick to a playbook similar to that of his predecessor, who was named to the post by former President Obama. Yellen was the first woman to serve in the role.
Related: America's wealth gap is bigger than ever
Top Fed officials have been mystified about why inflation, which reflects the prices of everything from meat and cheese to houses and cars, has fallen short of the Fed's goal of 2%. That's what the Fed considers healthy for the economy.
In deciding to slowly raise rates over the past year or so, the Fed has weighed competing forces. Stubbornly low inflation and consumer prices suggested the Fed should hold off on raising rates. But steady economic growth and low unemployment suggested it should act.
Yellen has described inflation as something of a "mystery" but has signaled she expects it will stabilize over time.
Related: Tax overhaul could mean major changes to your paycheck
It's the job of central bankers to shift policy levers, nudging interest rates higher and lower, to boost jobs and keep prices, or inflation, at the optimal level. That means not too high, and not too low.
When inflation is too low, it can hurt the economy. Businesses get queasy about investing in people and equipment. If prices don't rise, wages don't either.
Some Fed officials have warned against raising interest rates until inflation meets its target.
On Wednesday, the Fed said it continues to expect inflation to remain below its target, at 1.7%, and the unemployment rate to be 4.1%, based on its updated economic projections.
Policy makers raised their expectations for economic growth in 2018. The central bank now expects the economy to grow at a slightly faster rate of 2.5%, compared with a previous forecast of 2.1%.


The Entrepreneurs of Color Fund was established as part of JPMorgan's commitment to invest $150 million in Motor City's economy to help it recover from the financial meltdown of 2008, which left automakers devastated.
Related: Detroit's tiny homes offer a big chance for struggling residents
Poverty has rippled through the town, and in 2013, Detroit became the largest American city to ever file for bankruptcy.
The fund said in a press release the it doles out loans of between $50,000 and $200,000, and provides business advice and assistance to people of color who start their own businesses.
"To date, the fund has lent or approved $4.5 million to more than 43 minority small businesses, resulting in over 600 new or preserved jobs," according to the press release.
JPMorgan says the program has worked so well it plans to launch similar efforts in San Francisco and New York City's South Bronx area next year.


In defeat, just before Thanksgiving, she went with her mother to meet a certified health insurance navigator and bought a policy that allowed her to keep her current doctors.
A new crop of young people like Moniot are falling off their parents' insurance plans when they turn 26 — the age when the Affordable Care Act stipulates that children must leave family policies.
They were then expected to be able to shop relatively easily for their own insurance on Obamacare marketplaces. But with Trump administration revisions to the law and congressional bills injecting uncertainty into state insurance markets, that task of buying insurance for the first time this year is anything but simple.
The shortened sign-up period runs from Nov. 1 through Dec. 15. That window is half as long as last year's, hampering those who wait until the last minute to obtain insurance.
Related: Consumers who froze credit reports could hit hurdles with Obamacare enrollment
Reminders and help are scarcer than before: The federal government cut marketing and outreach funds by $90 million, and federal funding to groups providing in-person assistance was whacked by 40%.
"I think it's definitely going to be difficult. There's just additional barriers with [less] in-person help, just fewer resources going around," said Erin Hemlin, director of training and consumer education for Young Invincibles, an advocacy group for young adults.
Emily Curran, a research fellow at Georgetown University's Health Policy Institute, said those actions combined with the Trump administration's vigorous criticism of the health law could further handicap the uphill battle to entice young people to enroll.
"There's already a barrier where young adults are having difficulty understanding what the value of insurance is," she said. "Coming out ... and saying prices are going up, choice is going down and this law is a mess doesn't really get at the young adult population."
Before the Affordable Care Act, young adults had the highest uninsured rate of any age group.
The ACA made coverage more affordable and accessible. It allowed states to expand Medicaid to cover single, childless adults. Tax credits to help pay for premiums made plans on the individual market more affordable for people whose incomes fell between 100% and 400% of the federal poverty level, or between $12,060 and $48,240 for an individual in 2018. And young adults were allowed to stay on their parents' plan until their 26th birthday.
In all, the uninsured rate dropped to roughly 15% among 19- to 34-year-olds in 2016.
Still, young adults have not joined the individual market in the numbers as expected. About a quarter of marketplace customers in 2016 were ages 18 to 34, according to the Department of Health and Human Services. But that age group makes up about 40% of the exchanges' potential market, according to researchers and federal officials.
Related: California is outspending the U.S. government to market Obamacare
If the Trump administration's moves dampen enrollment, insurers could face additional challenges in attracting healthy adults to balance those with illnesses, who drive up costs.
"When you're relatively healthy, it's not something that you're thinking about," said Sandy Ahn, associate research professor at Georgetown University's Health Policy Institute.

But illness does not recognize age. Dominique Ridley, who turned 26 on Dec. 6, knows this all too well.
Ridley has asthma. She always carries an inhaler and sees a doctor when she feels her chest tighten. The student at Radford University in Virginia relies on her mother's employer-sponsored plan for coverage.
Ridley started peppering her parents with questions about health insurance as soon as she started seeing ads for this year's open enrollment.
"I don't want to just go out there and apply for health insurance, and it be all kinds of wrong and I can't afford it," she said.
Her parents didn't have the answers, but her mother linked up Ridley with a friend that runs a marketing company tailored to promoting the Affordable Care Act. Ridley then connected with a broker who signed her up for a silver plan that will cost her less than $4 per month, after receiving a premium subsidy of more than $500 a month.
"If you don't have health insurance, you don't have anything," Ridley said.
The Obama administration relied in part on partnerships to attract young enrollees to sign up. Last year, it collaborated with national organizations like Planned Parenthood Federation of America and Young Invincibles on a social media campaign called #HealthyAdulting. Emails, according to Joshua Peck, former chief marketing officer for healthcare.gov, were particularly effective for recruitment.
The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, which oversees the marketplaces, said it will focus this year's resources on "digital media, email and text messages."
Related: Obamacare enrollment could fall millions short for 2018
Hemlin said the government has not asked Young Invincibles to assist in marketing. Her group will use its own resources to pay for targeted ads on social media to reach the target demographic, she said.
"But obviously we can't make up for $90 million in advertising" that's been cut, said Hemlin.
James Rowley, a 26-year-old entrepreneur from Fairfax, Virginia, is among those who signed up without help. He started his own company two years ago while covered under his father's health plan. When he turned 26, he signed up for health insurance on his own through a special enrollment period this year. After general enrollment opened this fall, he once again picked a plan.
"I might not 100% need it now, but there will come a time where health insurance is important," said Rowley.
Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.


The S&P 500 also hit an all-time high while the tech-heavy Nasdaq inched closer to a record, too.
CNN said the House and Senate could vote on a reconciled deal as soon as next week. That would mean the bill, if passed, could be signed into law by President Trump before the end of the year.
Investors are hopeful that will be the case, especially since the surprise victory of Democrat Doug Jones in the Alabama Senate race Tuesday means that the Republican majority is set to narrow to just 51-49 once Jones takes office next year.
That could mean more gridlock when it comes to Trump's economic agenda, particularly as politicians prepare for next year's key midterm elections.
But if a tax bill is passed before 2018, there's potential to fuel even more gains in the market. Many investing experts view the GOP tax package as being extremely friendly to businesses. There is also the chance that consumers could spend more.
"Tax reform should boost earnings," said Dan Miller, director of equities with GW&K Investment Management. "The economy remains strong and the inflation outlook is still benign. So tax reform is icing on the cake."
Related: Tax overhaul could mean major changes to your paycheck
A tax deal would be particularly helpful for companies that stand to gain the most from an even better economy, industrial and financial firms in particular.
To that end, Boeing (BA) and Caterpillar (CAT) were Dow leaders Wednesday. Goldman Sachs (GS) rallied as well.
Investors are hoping that the Federal Reserve will keep the party going. The Fed raised interest rates Wednesday, a widely expected move that signals strength in the economy.
Fed chair Janet Yellen will talk about the economic outlook and is likely to stress the resilience of the economy and financial markets.
And investors are optimistic that the man President Trump has chosen to succeed Yellen, Jerome Powell, will continue to hike rates gradually and not spook the financial markets.
"This year has been beyond everyone's expectations and there is nothing to suggest that earnings or the market will fall apart next year," said John Norris, managing director with Oakworth Capital Bank.


Delta had been talking to Boeing about buying around 100 of its 737 Max 10 airliners, a person familiar with the matter said.
The move comes a day after Canada announced plans to ditch a deal with Boeing for new F/A-18 Super Hornets in favor of used fighters from Australia.
Boeing and Delta are embroiled in an ongoing trade dispute over the airline's purchase of the smaller Canadian Bombardier C Series. Boeing has accused Bombardier of selling the C Series to Delta at unfairly low prices, and the U.S. Commerce Department has recommended a preliminary 300% tariff on the import of the jets. Bombardier and the Canadian government deny any unfair trade practices.
Airbus primarily manufacturers the single-aisle A321 jet for the world's airlines in Hamburg, but has opened an assembly line in Mobile, Alabama to build planes for U.S. airlines. Depending on when and how quickly Delta wants its A321neos, a portion would very likely be assembled in the U.S.
The agreement would also constitute a significant boost for United Technologies unit Pratt & Whitney, which has been battered by supply chain and reliability issues on its new engine that powers Delta's selection.


Data compiled by IHS for Visa (V) show that spending in U.K. brick-and-mortar stores dropped 3.5% over the previous year in November. It was the seventh consecutive monthly decline, and one of the biggest drops since 2012.
Meanwhile, online spending was 2.4% higher in November.
Visa said it expects total consumer spending to decline this holiday season for the first time since 2012.

Experts say the trend is one consequence of Brexit. The value of the pound dropped sharply after the vote in June 2016, causing the price of imported goods to shoot up.
At the same time, wage increases haven't kept pace with inflation, which stood at 3.1% in November.
Many borrowers have also been squeezed by the Bank of England, which hiked interest rates in October.
Andrew Wishart, U.K. economist at Capital Economics, said retailers are still trying to hire workers, but weak pay growth has made the jobs less attractive.
Related: 17 years without a raise? Welcome to Brexit Britain
Overall, British unemployment is still at just 4.3%, its lowest level in decades. There have been big gains for jobs in construction and hospitality.
But weakness in the retail industry underscores worries that there may be harder times ahead.
Wednesday's data show the number of people in work dropped by 56,000 in the three months ended October.
"The fact there [are] fewer people in work is bad news ... it shows we are not making full use of our resources," said Yael Selfin, chief economist at KPMG in the U.K.


Related: UPS warns that some deliveries are delayed
With Target, Shipt will expand into a broader range of products. At launch, Target says it will offer same-day delivery of groceries, essentials, home, electronics and other products. But by the end of 2019 Target expects to offer same-day delivery in all major product categories.
Target and other traditional store-based retailers have traditionally had one advantage over online retailers in that they can immediately meet a shopper's needs. But Amazon (AMZN), with an expanded network of fulfillment warehouses, is making a push into same-day delivery in major markets.
So this move Target's response.
"The fact that Target will have this service in place during 2018 will significantly improve its online competitive position," said Charlie O'Shea, chief retail analyst for Moody's. "This is yet another example of a brick-and-mortar retailer leveraging its physical assets to improve its online offerings."
Related: Walmart is killing Target and making Amazon sweat
Target said this is part of its strategy, announced earlier this year, to improve convenience for its customers.
"With Shipt's network of local shoppers and their current market penetration, we will move from days to hours, dramatically accelerating our ability to bring affordable same-day delivery to guests across the country," said John Mulligan, Target's chief operating officer.
Walmart (WMT) is also experimenting with a same-day delivery for online purchases.


But an even more important part of that strategy is deciding how much you can reasonably withdraw from savings in 401(k)s, IRAs and other retirement accounts each year without running too high a risk of depleting your assets too soon -- or ending up with a large pile of assets late in life and realizing that you unnecessarily stinted and might have enjoyed life more earlier in retirement.
So how do you balance these various concerns? Well, since you asked about investing, let's start there.
Related: Do you need a managed retirement account?
Many people believe that once they retire, they need to focus on "income investing" -- that is, putting most or even all of their savings into investments that generate regular payouts, such as bonds or dividend stocks, or a combination of the two. But this approach has serious shortcomings.
For one thing, at today's low interest rates bonds simply aren't likely to provide enough income for most people to live on even in the early years of retirement, let alone allow them to maintain their purchasing power in the face of inflation during a post-career life that, as this longevity tool shows, could easily last into their 90s.
And while dividend stocks can certainly play a role in your retirement income strategy, loading up on them too much could leave you with a stock portfolio dangerously skewed to a handful of market sectors, such as utilities, consumer cyclicals, financials and real estate.
A more balanced and diversified approach makes better sense. When it comes to stocks, you essentially want to own the shares of companies of all sizes (large-, mid- and small-caps) in all sectors and industries. You also want your portfolio to include both growth and value shares. Diversity is important for bonds too. You want to own not just corporates, but Treasury and government agency bonds, and you want them in a variety of maturities as well.
The easiest and most inexpensive way to get this type of broad exposure is by investing in a total U.S. stock market index fund or ETF and a total U.S. bond market index fund or ETF. (To diversify beyond U.S. borders, you can add a total international stock index fund or ETF and total international bond index fund or ETF.) Or, if you're willing to put in the time and effort, you could try to duplicate a total market portfolio by investing in several separate stock and bond funds or ETFs, with each offering exposure to a specific sector of the market.
Of course, you can always go beyond this basic approach -- say, tilt your bond holdings more toward short-term maturities by investing in a short-term bond fund to get a bit more protection against the possibility of rising interest rates or add more dividend stocks to your mix by buying a fund that specializes in shares that pay dividends. But you don't want to go crazy and bulk up on all sorts of arcane or offbeat investments. Generally, simpler is better. The more complicated you make your investing strategy -- and the more funds you add to your portfolio -- the more work you'll have to put into tending your investments, and the greater the risk you'll end up "di-worse-ifying" rather than diversifying.
The real key to a successful retirement investing strategy is to arrive at an appropriate mix of stocks vs. bonds -- that is, enough stocks to provide a bit of long-term growth potential but also a large enough bond stake to prevent your nest egg from losing too much value when the stock market goes into one of its periodic slumps. (It's also a good idea to keep one to two years' worth of expenses beyond what Social Security and any pensions will cover in cash equivalents like a money-market account or short-term CDs.)
There's no single stocks-bonds blend that's right for everyone. That said, many retirees see stocks-bond mix of anywhere between 40% stocks-60% bonds to 60% stocks-40% bonds as offering a reasonable shot at solid long-term returns with sufficient downside protection from severe market setbacks. You can get a better sense of what percentage of stocks and bonds might be right for you by going to Vanguard's free risk tolerance-asset allocation tool.
Related: How much income will you actually need in retirement?
Once you have a broadly diversified mix of stock and bond funds that can deliver reasonable returns for the level of risk you're willing to take, the question becomes how should you withdraw from your nest egg each year? The rate at which you withdraw money from your nest egg determines even more than your investing strategy how long your savings will last and how much you'll likely have left late in retirement.
So what's a reasonable withdrawal rate? Assuming you want your savings to last at least 30 years, the standard advice until a few years ago would have been to follow the 4% rule -- that is, withdraw an initial 4% of the value of your nest egg the first year of retirement and then increase that amount each year for inflation. Assuming a $250,000 nest egg, that would translate to an initial withdrawal of $10,000 the first year of retirement. If your portfolio generates, say, 3% of its value, or $7,500, in interest, dividends and other distributions, you would then sell shares worth $2,500, or 1% of its value, to get to the 4%, or $10,000, withdrawal amount. If inflation is running at 2% a year, you would boost each year's withdraw by 2%, which would mean withdrawing $10,200 the second year, $10,400 the third and so on.
Given projections for lower investment returns over the next decade or so, however, some retirement experts suggest that an initial withdrawal rate of 3% or so might be more appropriate if you want to be reasonably sure that your savings will carry you through 30 years of retirement. But whatever withdrawal rate you start with, you need to be prepared to adjust it as market conditions change and the value of your nest egg fluctuates.
If, for example, the financial markets go into a deep slump or your nest egg's value takes a hit because you make an unusually large withdrawal to handle a large unanticipated expense, you might need to forgo an inflation increase or even reduce the amount you withdraw for a few years to give your portfolio a chance to recover. Conversely, if a string of outsize returns pumps up the size of your retirement accounts, you may want to boost withdrawals to avoid having far more assets than you'll need late in life.
You can get a sense of whether you need to adjust your withdrawals up or down with a good retirement income calculator that uses Monte Carlo simulations to estimate how long your money will last.
There's one other move you might want to consider. If you feel you'd like more guaranteed lifetime income than you'll already receive from Social Security and any pensions, you could put a portion of your savings into an immediate annuity. As this annuity calculator shows, a 65-year-old man who invests $50,000 in an immediate annuity would receive about $270 a month for life.
The downside to this approach is that you'll typically have to give up access to the money you invest in such an annuity, which is why you wouldn't want to put all or probably even most of your savings into one. The upside, though, is that knowing you'll be able to count on those monthly annuity checks to come in no matter how long you live and regardless of how the market is behaving might take some of the anxiety out of investing the rest of your nest egg.
The most important thing you need to remember, though, is that when it comes to converting your nest egg to reliable retirement income, you need more than just investments. You need a plan.


Simeon Siegel, an analyst with Nomura Instinet, argues that the company overextended itself in the past few years by entering too many new categories like tennis, fishing and golf instead of paying more attention to its key running and training segments.
"Under Armour likely grew too far, too fast," Siegel said. "It's fair to credit CEO Kevin Plank with some phenomenal growth. But Under Armour needs to cut ancillary products, pull back and focus on the core business."
Under Armour has also made a big push into basketball with a line of shoes endorsed by Golden State Warriors star Steph Curry. But it may have tried too hard to market Curry as a worthy successor to Michael Jordan, who still is a big seller of sneakers for Nike.
The problem, analysts say, is that the Curry sneakers are great for playing basketball but are not fashion lifestyle shoes the way Air Jordans were in the 1980s and 1990s during the peak of Jordan's NBA career.
Related: Under Armour is in serious trouble
Even Curry's teammate Kevin Durant, who has a shoe line for Nike, has made fun of them.
Making matters worse, Curry debuted the latest iteration, the Curry 4, during the NBA Finals in June. But the sneaker wasn't available in stores until October.
"Under Armour was too late with the Curry 4 launch," said Susquehanna Financial Group analyst Sam Poser. "Not having the shoes out when they were top of mind was a mistake. The timing was so messed up."
Under Armour also suffered from bad PR earlier this year that may have hurt its reputation with younger customers (and athlete endorsers) after Plank agreed to join President Trump's now defunct manufacturing council.
Plank said in an interview with CNBC that "a pro-business president is something that is a real asset for the country." Curry responded by telling The Mercury News that he agreed with Plank -- but only "if you remove the 'et' from asset."
Related: Why Under Armour's CEO had to ditch Trump
Lance Allega, Under Armour's vice president of investor relations, spoke with CNNMoney and highlighted that the company will "evolve into an operationally excellent company with financial discipline."
Allega added that the company will be more innovative and "laser-focused" on how it brings new products to market.
"We already are a great brand. We need to become a great company," he said.
Allega is one of several new executives at Under Armour. He joined in January from The North Face and Vans owner VF Corp (VFC), and also has worked at Nike.
But there have been several other changes in the leadership ranks this year that may also be making Wall Street skittish.
Co-founder Kip Fulks said in October he was taking a sabbatical. The company's footwear chief, head of women's and kid's apparel and chief marketing officer also announced they were leaving after the company reported weak third-quarter results.
The dramatic shakeup in the world of retail is obviously hurting the company, too.
Related: Air ball! Nobody's buying expensive sneakers
Sporting goods giants Foot Locker (FL) and Dick's (DKS) are struggling and their stocks have both plunged as a result. Cabela's was sold to Bass Pro Shop. The Sports Authority, Gander Mountain and Sports Chalet have all gone bankrupt in the past two years.
That's one reason why Under Armour has tried to find new retail partners, such as Kohl's (KSS) and DSW (DSW), in order to lessen its reliance on struggling sporting goods chains.
However, it's also worth noting that Under Armour's rivals aren't suffering as much from the problems in retail.
Adidas (ADDYY) continues to thrive. Nike, the worst performing Dow stock in 2016, has enjoyed a renaissance this year, with shares rising nearly 25%. Skechers (SKX) has rebounded from a rough 2016, too.
Victor Ahluwalia, an analyst with CFRA Research, said he's concerned that Under Armour will have no choice but to slash prices to win back customers. And that could further hurt profit margins.
Ahluwalia said he noticed bigger markdowns on Under Armour products over the Black Friday shopping weekend than there were for Nike.
Related: Slam dunk for Adidas as sales top Nike's Jordan line
He said it is encouraging to see Under Armour's international business growing rapidly, but sales from outside the U.S. are not yet big enough to move the needle for the whole company.
Still, Ahluwalia recently upgraded the stock. The reason? If Under Armour doesn't turn things around soon, there could be calls for the company to get taken over.
"Under Armour could go private or be sold to another company. That will keep a floor on the stock price. But 2018 will still be a tough year," Ahluwalia said.


"The wage gap exists at all levels, but it's most narrow at the lowest-paid jobs, and that's because everybody really has a bad deal there," said Ariane Hegewisch, a researcher at the Institute of Women's Policy Research. "At the top, really, if you miss out on one step ... it makes a big difference."
Compensation in the C-suite is heavily driven by stock options and stock grants -- executives are rewarded, often in outsize ways, with equity in their companies. The more the stock goes up, the richer they can become.
Still, women lagged far behind men of similar ranks on the top 15 lists of both genders.
Related: The female CEO club is about to get smaller
For example, the highest paid man in 2016 was Walmart (WMT) E-Commerce CEO Mark Lore. His base pay was $346,154, but stock-based compensation added another $242 million, according to Equilar. That stock award was largely due to Walmart's acquisition of Jet.com, which Lore founded.
The highest paid woman, Oracle (ORCL) CEO Safra Catz, made $950,000 in base pay. Her stock compensation -- $22 million -- was a fraction of Lore's, Equilar calculated.
According to Anna Beninger, senior director of research at Catalyst, an organization researching women and work, the negotiation leverage is very different for women at the top.
"Few women make it to those jobs where they're making hundreds of millions of dollars, so they're really seen as the exception, rather than the rule, and so that impacts their ability to negotiate," says Beninger.
Women also tend to be treated differently during the negotiation process, she adds. Sometimes, asking for higher pay can actually backfire.
"When women do negotiate as aggressively as men, they're not expected to do so ... and they're not as effective as a result," Beninger says.
Included: Why a lack of female inventors is holding back innovation
According to Beninger, women's first salaries are likely to affect their career earnings later in life.
"When you look at the trajectory of people's careers, by the time they make it to the upper echelon -- of the very few women who do make it, for a variety of factors -- that gap that began early in their careers just grew significantly over time," she says. "It's really an exponential gap -- it's not that surprising that you see such a big gap in those most senior level positions."
Related: Randi Zuckerberg serves up tech for kids
A recent survey from McKinsey and Lean In found that women fall behind early on in their careers.
Experts say even a first negotiation can be a crucial opportunity for women to conquer these hurdles. Making more in a first job means a female employee will then make more in her next job, and then more in her next.
Some states have now banned employers from asking about salary history, making it less likely that women's low first salaries could haunt them later in their careers.


"I know people, they work three jobs and they live next to somebody who doesn't work at all. And the person who's not working at all and has no intention of working at all is making more money and doing better than the person that's working his and her ass off, Trump said to applause last month in a speech in Missouri. "So we're going to go into welfare reform."
Senator Orrin Hatch, chair of the powerful Finance Committee, echoed that view. "I have a rough time wanting to spend billions and billions and trillions of dollars to help people who won't help themselves -- won't lift a finger -- and expect the federal government to do everything," he said last month.
Congress tried to let states add work requirements to Medicaid earlier this year in its unsuccessful attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare. But the Trump administration isn't waiting for lawmakers to act. It has already invited states to promote self-sufficiency in Medicaid and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP, the formal name for food stamps.
"People who can work should work," Brandon Lipps, the Food and Nutrition Service administrator in the Agriculture Department, wrote to state food stamp coordinators recently. "We must facilitate the transition for individuals and families to become independent, specifically by partnering with key stakeholders in the workforce development community and holding our recipients accountable for personal responsibility."
However, more than half of those in poverty are children, senior citizens or report themselves disabled, according to an analysis by the Hamilton Project at Brookings. Just under a quarter are in the labor force.
Drilling down to those who are working age (between 18- and 64-years-old), more than 40% are working or looking for employment. Most of the rest are disabled, caregivers or students, with a small share early retirees.

"There really aren't a lot of people who you say 'Gee, I don't know why they aren't working,'" said Jay Shambaugh, director of The Hamilton Project who served in the Obama administration. "Simply telling them they have to be in the job market may not be sufficient. There are reasons they are not in the job market."
Part of the problem is that the federal minimum wage remains low at $7.25 an hour, said Rebecca Valles, managing director of the Poverty to Prosperity Program at the left-leaning Center for American Progress. Many of these workers continue to need government assistance to make ends meet.
Related: Trump administration opens door for states to impose Medicaid work requirements
Still, there are millions of working age, non-disabled Americans who receive federal benefits but don't work. That's concerning, especially this far into the economic recovery, said Robert Doar, a poverty studies fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative think tank.
Work is "a key fundamental ingredient" to alleviating poverty, he said, noting that only 3% of people who work full-time, year-round are poor. It's important to engage those in poverty, be it through work, training or community service.
"To underestimate the capability of people is a mistake," said Doer, adding that some people will get jobs on their own after a work mandate is imposed.
Work requirements aren't a new idea. Several federal safety net programs already mandate them, notably food stamps and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, which is what many think of as welfare.
Adults without minor children can receive food stamps for only three months out of every 36-month period unless they are working or participating in training programs 20 hours a week. States can waive that requirement for areas where unemployment is at least 10% or there is an insufficient number of jobs, as defined by the Department of Labor.
Related: Trump administration wants more people to work for food stamps
In households that receive SNAP and have at least one non-disabled adult, 58% are employed and 82% worked in the year prior to or after enrollment, according to the Center for American Progress.
TANF has more demanding and complicated rules. Generally, states have to engage at least half of all families with work-eligible TANF recipients in work or related activities for at least 30 hours a week. Work-eligible individuals include adults receiving assistance or parents of children who get aid, excluding some disabled participants or single parent families with infants. (Single parent families with children under age 6 must be engaged 20 hours a week.)
Qualifying activities include unsubsidized and subsidized jobs, on-the-job training, job search and job readiness assistance, community service and vocational education. About 52% of work-eligible families receiving TANF are engaged in work activities, mostly in unsubsidized jobs, according to federal data. The rate varies greatly by state, though.
Evaluations of TANF have found that people who are able to work want to get jobs, said Heather Hahn, senior fellow at the Urban Institute. But work mandates don't greatly improve their situations.
"The evidence doesn't show that work requirements lead people to get jobs that get them out of poverty and off assistance," she said.


The stock market debut is the largest in Abu Dhabi in a decade after companies put plans to go public on hold following the global financial crisis and an oil price collapse.
ADNOC says it is the world's 12th largest oil producer. It is fully owned by the government of Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates.
Its distribution unit operates 360 gas stations and 235 convenience stores across the country, except for the emirate of Dubai.
The proceeds from the IPO, which valued ADNOC's distribution business at $8.5 billion, should help it expand to Dubai, as well as Saudi Arabia, which is opening up its economy.

ADNOC has 17 divisions and plans eventually to sell other stakes too.
"This is part of our ongoing holistic transformation," Sultan Al Jaber, ADNOC Group CEO told CNNMoney's emerging markets editor John Defterios. "It's simply to help maximize value, unlock potential, drive efficiency and enhance our performance."
Related: Saudi Aramco IPO: When, where and how much?
Many regional oil companies have been forced to rethink their strategies after prices crashed in 2014 and 2015.
Saudi Arabia is taking a slightly different approach to Abu Dhabi. It plans to privatize a chunk of its giant oil company Aramco, rather than sell off shares in its operating divisions.
Saudi officials have been preparing to list Aramco on the stock market next year via an IPO they expect could value the world's biggest oil producer at around $2 trillion.
If the market agrees, selling just 5% of the company would raise $100 billion -- four times as much as Alibaba's (BABA) IPO in 2014, the largest to date.


The result also has major implications for 2018. Democrats are now only two seats away from a majority in the Senate, an outcome that was unthinkable at the start of the year.
2. Fed's decision day: The U.S. Federal Reserve is widely expected to raise interest rates at its final meeting of the year.
With the rate hike almost certain, investors will be looking for clues on 2018 and beyond during the final press conference by outgoing chair Janet Yellen.
The central bank has only raised interest rates five times since the 2008 financial crisis. Two have come this year -- first in March and again in June.
2. Oil watch: Investors will check OPEC's monthly report to see if producers are sticking to output cuts designed to reduce a massive oil glut.
OPEC and major producers including Russia agreed last month to extend the curbs by nine months until the end of 2018.
U.S. crude futures were almost 1% higher at $57.70 per barrel.
The Energy Information Administration will publish its weekly U.S. crude inventories report at 10:30 a.m. ET.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were flat.
European markets opened lower, while Asian markets ended mixed.
The Dow Jones industrial average and S&P 500 closed at new records on Tuesday. The Nasdaq shed 0.2%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Companies and economics: Shares in Westfield (WEFIF), an Australian firm that operates 33 malls across the U.S., gained 14% in Sydney.
It was purchased Tuesday by Unibail-Rodamco, a European property investment firm based in France.
U.S. inflation data will be published at 8:30 a.m.
Check out CNNMoney's Brexit jobs tracker
U.K. unemployment was 4.3% in the three months ended October, matching its lowest level since 1975.
However, there were 56,000 fewer people in work compared to the previous quarter. The number of people of working age who were classified as economically inactive also increased by 115,000.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Wednesday -- Fed decision and Yellen press conference; U.K. unemployment data; OPEC oil report Thursday -- November U.S. retail sales; Bank of England rate decision; European Central Bank decision; Costco (COST) and Oracle (ORCL) earnings; IEA oil report; EU summit on Brexit Friday -- EU Summit on Brexit


GE's use of the spare jet has angered shareholders and analysts, especially because the conglomerate is grappling with a nightmare cash crunch caused in part by Immelt's bad decisions.
The maker of jet engines and light bulbs has been forced to slash its dividend for just the second time since the Great Depression. Last week, GE announced it would cut 12,000 jobs in its beleaguered power division.
A GE spokeswoman said the company stopped deploying a spare jet for Immelt in 2014 and that its use was limited to trips deemed critical for business and overseas flights with security risks. It's not clear when GE began using the spare jet. Immelt became CEO in 2001.

Related: How decades of bad decisions broke GE
Immelt recently wrote a letter to GE's lead director explaining that he wasn't aware of the spare plane. "This practice was brought to my attention and stopped three years ago," he wrote. A spokesman for Immelt confirmed the authenticity of the letter, which was posted online by The New York Times.
Immelt wrote that after he became CEO, he directed GE to sell Boeing 737 jets that were expensive to operate and replace them with more efficient aircraft. Those less expensive jets were the ones that Immelt traveled on around the world.
Speaking at an Axios event last month, Immelt acknowledged that using a spare jet was a "terrible" idea and something that "I wish we hadn't done."
Immelt stepped down earlier this year from GE, which was the worst-performing stock in the Dow during his 16-year reign. GE has lost 43% of its value this year alone.
John Inch, a Deutsche Bank analyst who follows the company, called the spare jet an "absolutely reckless destruction of shareholder value."
"It's just unnecessary on every level and speaks to the lack of judgment," Inch said in a recent interview.
GE's new CEO, John Flannery, has cut back on perks as part of his plan to slash $2 billion in costs. GE recently announced plans to shut down its corporate jet fleet and eliminate company cars for senior executives.


Related: Bitcoin vs history's biggest bubbles: They never end well
Clayton spelled out his concerns over cryptocurrencies and so-called initial coin offerings. Startups sometimes raise money by selling virtual currency in exchange for a stake in the company. They are also sometimes redeemed for future services.
But to avoid getting duped he reminded investors that not a single initial coin offering had been registered with the SEC. Nor had the agency approved any listing and trading of any exchanged-trade products holding digital currencies or other assets related to cryptocurrencies.
"If any person today tells you otherwise, be especially wary," said Clayton.
The CFTC's Giancarlo quickly endorsed Clayton's statement Monday evening, while also issuing his own advice to investors.
"Virtual currencies are unlike any commodity that the CFTC has dealt with in the past, and I know they pose challenges for the SEC," Giancarlo said. "Investors should be aware of the potentially high level of volatility and risk in these markets."
The alerts came less than a day after the first Bitcoin futures began trading on an exchange run by Cboe Global Markets Inc. Its larger rival CME Group Inc. will introduce its own Bitcoin futures next week.
Related: Bitcoin: What's driving the frenzy?
The price of Bitcoin soared to $17,478 in futures trading on the Cboe market on Tuesday. A year ago, one Bitcoin was worth less than $1,000.
Randal Quarles, the Federal Reserve's regulatory czar, stepped up his concerns last month over the virtual currency's price run-up.
"While these digital currencies may not pose major concerns at their current levels of use, more serious financial stability issues may result if they achieve wide scale usage," he said during a speech at a Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland conference.
Earlier this month, the two exchanges cleared a regulatory hurdle with the CFTC after "extensive discussions," which included making significant changes to their proposals on how to reduce potential market manipulation.
Futures are a way for traders to bet on whether the price of a commodity, such as oil or gold, will rise or fall. Having a futures contract provides retail investors with an easier way to trade Bitcoin. It also allows Wall Street banks and trading firms to protect themselves against price swings in digital currency.
Despite the CFTC's approval of the deal, Giancarlo has repeatedly said it does not equal an endorsement of the product. He's also warned investors that the "underlying cash markets and exchanges for Bitcoin remain largely unregulated markets" which the agency has "limited statutory authority" over.
Related: I bought $250 in bitcoin: Here's what I learned
It's not the first time the agencies have raised red flags over cryptocurrencies. Each agency has issued investor alerts, bulletins and statements on initial coin offerings and digital currency investments.
And while the SEC doesn't regulate Bitcoin per se, it has flexed its muscles on initial coin offerings.
Several start ups have used the tokens to raise money. Earlier Monday, the agency shut down plans by a food review site, Munchee, that was trying to raise $15 million in a digital coin offering to improve its app.
While the SEC chairman didn't completely shut the door on investing in such innovative products, he urged Main Street investors to ask the right questions before taking the leap.
"Who is issuing and sponsoring the product, what are their backgrounds, and have they provided a full and complete description of the product? Do they have a clear written business plan that I understand? What specific rights come with my investment?" Clayton suggested as part of more than a dozen questions investors should ask before making any Bitcoin investment.


Without changes, Icahn warned, Xerox could follow Kodak into bankruptcy.
Icahn and Xerox have a history together. In 2015, the billionaire investor took an 7% stake in the company, then headed by Ursula Burns.
Related: Former Xerox CEO Ursula Burns: It's a 'time of power' for women in tech
Under pressure from Icahn, Xerox spun off Conduent, its business services unit, to focus on legacy products including copiers and printers.
Icahn's recent escalation comes after his representative to Xerox's board resigned last week over a disagreement about the company's future. He responded by nominating four new allies to Xerox's board.
Xerox (XRX) reaffirmed the company's outlook Monday and pointed to a 30% jump in shares this year as a signal of progress.
In his letter Tuesday, Icahn took credit for the stock rise, which came mostly in the day after Xerox and Conduent split. But he said Xerox's "rosy" outlook is "in reality a bleak situation."
Shares of Xerox were up about 1%, pulling back a bit after Icahn released his letter.


Related: Jerome Powell says Fed likely to hike rates in December
The federal funds rate, which helps to determine rates for mortgages, credit cards and other borrowing, is in a range of 1% to 1.25%. Analysts expect the Fed to raise the rate by 25 basis points.
Since the 2008 financial crisis, the U.S. central bank has only raised interest rates five times. More recently, amid signs of a gradually improving economy, it has also begun unwinding the massive fiscal stimulus it put into place following the recession.
Led by Yellen, the Fed has worked patiently to maintain economic growth at a steady pace. It has also kept a watchful eye on inflation, which has continued to run below its target of 2%.
All eyes will be looking for clues on what policy makers will forecast for 2018 and beyond during Yellen's final press conference Wednesday.
President Trump nominated Fed governor Jerome Powell in November to take over when Yellen ends her four-year term on February 3. It's largely expected that Powell will stick to a similar playbook as his predecessor, who was named to the post by President Barack Obama. Yellen was the first woman to serve in the role.
Related: Trump nominates Jerome Powell for Federal Reserve's top job
In September, the Fed predicted it would raise rates three more times in 2018, and then twice again in 2019. But some Wall Street analysts are expecting the Fed to pencil in at least one more rate increase for both years.
One complicating factor for policymakers: tax reform. There's already a keen interest by analysts to see how the Fed may account for the Trump administration's tax reform package, which also aims to stimulate economic growth.
"FOMC participants appear not to have fully accounted for the effect of tax cuts on the economy," Jan Hatzius, a Goldman Sachs analyst wrote in a note to clients. "Past precedent suggests that Fed staff and FOMC participants will likely update their projections... to at least partially reflect the impact of tax reform, though the full impact -- especially on the interest rate projections -- will likely have to wait."
Top Fed officials, including Powell, have cautiously refrained from airing their views on the possible implications tax reform would have on the U.S. economy.
Related: Treasury analysis asserts GOP tax plan would be paid for
At last month's confirmation hearing, Powell told members of the Senate Banking Committee the Fed had not undertaken its own economic analysis of the tax bills that have now been passed by the House and Senate. Instead, he said policy makers planned to wait to make their assessment until after a bill was signed by the president.
Jaret Seiberg, an analyst at Cowen Washington Research Group, said an "early challenge" for Powell, if he's confirmed by the Senate, will be whether to raise rates faster should the tax bill prove to deliver a big stimulus to the economy.
"We suspect Powell would be willing to hike rates more quickly than expected if he sees the tax bill leading to inflation," Seiberg wrote in a note to clients.
Related: Europe doesn't like Trump administration's tax plans
Some Fed officials, like New York Federal Reserve Bank President William Dudley, have cautioned against injecting additional stimulus through tax cuts, when the economy is already growing at a pace that is likely to increase inflation over time.
"[T]he economy doesn't need it," Dudley said in late November.
Other observers will also be looking to see whether Yellen will offer clear support for a Senate bill to amend the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, which would raise the threshold at which banks are labeled "too big to fail" from $50 billion in assets to $250 billion.
"We think Yellen could be mildly supportive of the legislation, which could help the bill's chances and boost banks stocks," wrote Brian Gardner, a policy analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, in a note to clients.


Italy, which sources 30% of its gas via the pipeline in Austria, declared a state of emergency.
The explosion at the gas facility in Baumgarten, near Austria's border with Slovakia, killed one person and injured 18.
The terminal's operator, Gas Connect Austria, said it had closed the facility and suspended the transit of natural gas through Austria to southern Europe.
Massimo Di-Odoardo, an analyst at Wood Mackenzie, said Europe has enough natural gas in storage to cover its immediate needs.
"But if the flows through don't resume soon and if the cold snap continues, prices will remain high through the rest of the winter," he warned.

Meanwhile, another problem was developing on the other side of the continent.
INEOS, which owns the 235-mile Forties Pipeline System in the North Sea, said that it was shutting down a pipeline because a leak discovered on December 6 had gotten worse.
The network carries almost 40% of the North Sea's oil and gas output.
"This is an oil pipeline, however the closure will result in some platforms producing both oil and gas to shut," said Ben Spry, head of risk management services at npower. He said the outage is likely to last "for weeks rather than days."
The outage is likely to cause a shortfall of natural gas supply in the U.K. of around 10% of average winter demand, according to Wood Mackenzie.
Natural gas futures spiked as much as 17% in London, according to data from ICE Futures.
Europe has seen a cold start to the winter so far, with severe weather hitting the U.K. and much of the mainland over the weekend and early this week. Demand for gas in the U.K. was already up 18% because of the weather.
The International Energy Agency said it was closely monitoring the situation in the North Sea.
Related: Norway's $1 trillion pension fund wants out of oil stocks
Energy security is a key issue for the European Union, which relies on Russia for roughly a third of its natural gas.
The EU has tried to reduce its dependence on Russian gas. It has been improving pipeline connections between individual member states and building up storage, and it has started buying more gas from other countries.
Since 2014, two liquefied natural gas import terminals have opened in Poland and Lithuania, making the region open to imports from elsewhere.


Exxon said on Monday it has "reconsidered" the proposal following talks with major shareholders and supporters of the idea. Exxon said in an SEC filing that "in the near future" it will "further enhance" its disclosures on climate change.
Those enhancements, Exxon said, will include how the company is positioning for a lower-carbon future, how its business could be hurt by shifting energy demands and the "implications of two degree Celsius scenarios." The 2015 Paris climate accord requires countries to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2 degrees Celsius.
Limiting global warming could have massive implications for Exxon. For instance, Exxon's energy assets could lose value if the world's oil appetite shrinks because of emerging technologies like electric cars and regulations stemming from the Paris agreement.
Related: These companies are coming clean on climate change
Thomas DiNapoli, the New York state comptroller, who spearheaded the proposal, celebrated Exxon's reversal in a statement and called it a "win for shareholders."
"Exxon's decision demonstrates that investors have the power to hold corporations accountable and to compel them to address our very real climate-related concerns," said DiNapoli, who oversees nearly $200 billion in New York pensions held by teachers, police officers and other public workers.
In the past, Exxon had rejected the need for a so-called stress test of its climate risk because it already published an annual energy outlook that incorporates the impact of "increasingly stringent climate policies." Exxon has also pointed to efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions through investments in new technology.
Exxon had also urged President Trump not to abandon the global climate agreement. The accord should boost demand for Exxon's vast natural gas business over dirtier fuels like coal.
To celebrate the two-year anniversary of the Paris accord, nearly 240 companies, including BlackRock (BLK) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM), have agreed to come clean on the risks from climate change.
Related: Harvard study: Exxon 'misled the public' on climate change
The Exxon shareholder vote was seen by climate activists as a major victory. In support of the shareholder proposal, Greenpeace launched a campaign in Dallas that featured billboards, bumper stickers and a blimp that said, "You pay the price for Exxon's greed."
Exxon has only come under more scrutiny since then. In August, Harvard University published a peer-reviewed study that found Exxon misled the public about the dangers of climate change for nearly 40 years. Exxon dismissed the study as "inaccurate and preposterous."
In September, the cities of San Francisco and Oakland filed lawsuits demanding Exxon and other oil companies pay billions to cover the costs of sea walls and other protections against rising sea levels caused by climate change.


Litecoin is one of several alternative cryptocurrencies that have cropped up to rival bitcoin. Ethereum, ripple and dash are some others.
Litecoin is much smaller though. The combined value of all the litecoins in circulation is about $18 billion, compared with nearly $300 billion for bitcoin. It is also created, or mined, by people solving complex mathematical puzzles on computers.
You don't have to mine bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies to buy them though. Coinbase and other brokerage sites let you set up an account to buy and sell virtual currencies. Mobile payments company Square is testing bitcoin purchases on its Cash app too.
Litecoin, founded by former Google engineer and former director of Coinbase Charlie Lee, is said to be faster and cheaper to mine than bitcoin.
Lee, amusingly enough, goes by the name of @SatoshiLite on Twitter -- a reference to Satoshi Nakamoto, the nickname used by the still anonymous inventor of bitcoin.
Related: South Korea is going bitcoin crazy...
There are rampant rumors about who Nakamoto might be. Some think it's a group of people. There was even speculation recently that Tesla and SpaceX founder Elon Musk is actually Satoshi Nakamoto. Musk has denied it.
But no matter who created bitcoin and launched the crypto revolution, it is clear that investors can't get enough of virtual currencies.
Some experts are nervous that this can't end well though, and that bitcoin, litecoin and other cryptocurrencies are a bubble destined to burst in spectacular fashion like tech stocks in 2000 and housing prices just before the Great Recession of 2008.
The problem with bitcoin and litecoin is that they are so volatile. Paper currencies like the dollar, euro and yen don't tend to move in such wild fashion. Neither does gold for that matter.
So it may be hard for cryptos to be used as a substitute for cash until the prices start to settle down. They also are not as available to the mainstream as old-fashioned paper money backed by governments.
SEC chairman Jay Clayton even sounded the alarm bell on bitcoin, other cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings this week, saying "there is substantially less investor protection" than with stocks and bonds and "correspondingly greater opportunities for fraud and manipulation."
Related: ...and North Korea may be making a fortune from bitcoin too
But others argue that bitcoin and rival cryptocurrencies will continue to gain in popularity for both spending purposes and as investments.
To that end, the Chicago Board Options Exchange launched futures trading for bitcoin on Sunday, a move that makes bitcoin potentially more attractive to large institutional investors in the same way that oil, sugar and other physical commodities are.
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange is set to begin trading bitcoin futures on December 18 as well. And the Nasdaq is said to be considering following in the footsteps of the CBOE and CME too and could start to trade bitcoin futures next year.


With bitcoin, there's nothing like that. Unlike traditional commodities, there's not a physical asset behind it. And unlike currencies, there isn't a central bank ready to back bitcoin up.
Bitcoins live on computer servers. They are produced by complex algorithms and recorded in a digital ledger.
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which certified bitcoin futures for trading, acknowledged the unprecedented step taken by the Chicago Board Options Exchange.
Bitcoin "is a commodity unlike any the commission has dealt with in the past," CFTC chairman J. Christopher Giancarlo said in a statement December 1.
There's more to come. Bitcoin futures will also begin trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange on December 17-18, while the Nasdaq will debut the options sometime next year.
Are you trading bitcoin? We want to hear from you.
Bitcoins are bought and sold on unregulated virtual exchanges -- and it's been extremely volatile.
The price of a single bitcoin recently soared on some exchanges from less than $10,000 to $17,000 before dropping back to near the $15,000 mark, spurring renewed warnings of a bubble.
Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz told Bloomberg TV that the currency "ought to be outlawed."
But some people -- particularly in the hedge fund world, where there's a healthy appetite for risk -- say bitcoin futures present an opportunity.
Futures are contracts that let investors buy or sell something at a specific price in the future -- in this case, bitcoin. Trading in futures contracts makes bitcoin more accessible to fund managers who don't want to own bitcoin directly but do want to speculate on whether it will go up or down in price.
Stephen Bielecki, an attorney with Kleinberg Kaplan, said his law firm received two inquiries last week, amid the wild price swings, about setting up new bitcoin-focused funds.
"I think the volatility presents opportunity," he told CNNMoney. It "makes those bets via futures feel more extreme, or feel more pronounced, because you might be saying, 'We're betting on an 80% gain three weeks from now.'"
And Joshua Klayman, who heads the cryptocurrency unit at law firm Morrison & Foerster, said bitcoin's debut on the futures market means investors can bet on bitcoin's performance without having to actually own any.
"I think if it is a bubble, my impression is that we're just getting started here," she said. "I do think there'll be continued volatility, but I'm bullish on cryptocurrency in general."
Related: Big banks say bitcoin futures could be dangerous
While interest in bitcoin is growing, some establishment players are warning about futures trading.
Last week, the Futures Industry Association, which represents brokers and big banks like JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs, wrote an open letter to the CFTC. It warned that the certification of bitcoin futures "did not allow for proper public transparency and input."
The association said that a "more thorough and considered process" would have allowed exchanges and trading clearinghouses more time to study ways to protect against extreme price swings.
The group is worried that banks could be on the hook if something goes wrong.
For its part, CFTC head Giancarlo said in his statement this month that futures exchanges have agreed to "significant enhancements to protect customers and maintain orderly markets" for bitcoin.
He also warned investors "should take note" that the underlying bitcoin market is "relatively nascent" and remains "largely unregulated."
--CNNMoney's Ivana Kottasová and Daniel Shane contributed to this report.


"You're seeing more people jumping in because they fear they are missing out on the bull market," said Ed Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research.
Of course, it's never a good reason to buy something -- stocks, bonds or bitcoin -- just because everyone else is doing it. Investing should be backed up by solid fundamentals, not irrational emotions.
At its extremes, FOMO can cause real problems. It led many Americans to flip condos in Florida last decade, sparking an epic housing bubble that eventually burst. FOMO also drove the dotcom bubble in the late 1990s on the Nasdaq.
"I remember one of the guys running the newspaper kiosk on Broadway asking me if I can print him stock reports on Intel and Cisco," said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at CFRA Research. "That should have been an signal to me."
To be sure, today's stock market looks much healthier than those notorious booms. Profits are at record highs, inflation is low, hiring is steady and economic growth at home and abroad is projected to accelerate. All good reasons for soaring stock prices.
Stovall doesn't think FOMO has taken over the market, though he's watching carefully for signs. "Bull markets are like incandescent light bulbs," Stovall said, "they tend to glow brightest just before they go out."
On the other hand, Yardeni does see evidence of FOMO in the rush of money pouring into ETFs. He worries it's a sign the market is in the early stages of a "melt-up" -- a dangerous market rise that often ends in tears.
Yardeni has set an ambitious S&P 500 target for the end of next year of 3,100, or roughly 17% above current levels. If anything, he worries the soaring market could eclipse that level long before it's warranted.
"If we get there in the next three to six months, then we'd be in a melt-up for sure," Yardeni said.
Related: Most Americans aren't benefiting from the stock market boom
2. Yellen's goodbye: Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen will hold what's likely to be her last press conference on Wednesday after policy makers conclude their final two-day meeting of the year. It seems all but certain the central bank will decide to raise its key interest rate one last time.
Under Yellen, the Fed has moved at a slow, deliberate pace in lifting rates as it has kept an eye on inflation, which has been stubbornly low. The Fed raised rates twice this year, first in March and again in June. The current rate -- between 1% and 1.25% -- is low compared to prior decades.
Related: Jerome Powell says Fed likely to hike rates in December
Wall Street does not expect Jerome Powell, Trump's nominee to lead the Fed, to stray far from Yellen's approach when it comes to setting monetary policy. But if the new tax plan jump-starts the economy, Powell may steer the Fed to raise rates faster to keep up with the pace of inflation.
3. Bitcoin futures debut on Chicago exchange: The Chicago Board Options Exchange, or CBOE, plans to launch bitcoin futures trading on Sunday at 6 p.m. ET. CME (CME), the derivatives marketplace, has said it will start trading bitcoin futures the following Sunday.
It's been a volatile week for the cryptocurrency. Bitcoin surged above $17,000 for the first time on Thursday -- and plunged by more than $3,000 on Friday.
Related: I bought $250 in bitcoin. Here's what I learned
The bitcoin frenzy has ramped up, partially in anticipation of the start of futures trading on the CBOE, CME and other exchanges. But big banks have warned that bitcoin futures trading could be dangerous.
4. Net neutrality decision: The Federal Communications Commission is scheduled to vote on the repeal of Obama-era net neutrality protections on Thursday, despite calls from Democrats to delay the vote.
Currently, net neutrality rules bar internet providers like Comcast (CMCSA) and AT&T (T) from deliberately speeding up or slowing down traffic from specific websites and apps, and prevents them from prioritizing their own content or the content of third-party services they strike deals with. FCC chairman Ajit Pai's plan would lift those bans -- and likely boost those companies. (AT&T is in the process of acquiring Time Warner, which owns CNN.)
Related: Trump FCC chair unveils plan to repeal net neutrality
Pai argues that the current laws micromanage internet providers, and that increased transparency will protect consumers. Critics worry that fewer regulations would let internet providers offer preferential treatment to companies that are willing to pay more.
5. Black Friday results: The Census Bureau will reveal its estimates for November's retail sales on Thursday.
The numbers will reveal how well retailers performed during the Black Friday shopping period. Early estimates from ShopperTrak, a data analytics company that measures the number of shoppers at stores, said foot traffic was similar to last year. Friday will show if shoppers spent about the same as they did in 2016 as well.
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- New numbers on job openings and job quitters from JOLTS
Tuesday -- Fed meeting begins
Wednesday -- Fed decision and Yellen press conference
Thursday -- November U.S. retail sales; Bank of England rate decision; Costco (COST) and Oracle (ORCL) earnings


On Coinbase's exchange the price soared past $18,000 at one point.
Armstrong warned in his post on Thursday that the increased interest in cryptocurrencies, which was punctuated by a stunning bitcoin rally earlier this week, has led to "extreme volatility and stress on our systems."
Related: What's driving the bitcoin frenzy?
During the frenzy, Coinbase's valuation was consistently higher than the CoinDesk index -- at one point by a $2,000 margin. Even Saturday afternoon, Coinbase listed the price of a bitcoin around $15,000, while the CoinDesk hovered around $14,700.
Bitcoin's rise is mind-boggling considering just one year ago it traded for less than $800. At one point in 2011, it traded for about three bucks, according to CoinDesk.
Its stunning ascent was driven in large part by increasing attention from mainstream investors. And bitcoin's valuation has continued to balloon -- with a few sharp dips -- despite a smattering of warnings from top economists and business leaders.
Beginning Sunday, investors will be able to trade bitcoin futures via the Chicago Board Options Exchange. And they'll debut on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange a week later.
--CNNMoney's Jethro Mullen contributed to this report.


"This Administration and @realDonaldTrump are working hard to create opportunities for all Americans," Ivanka Trump said. "...and we are just getting started!"
The Hispanic unemployment rate dropped to 4.7% - the LOWEST in the history of the United States. This Administration and @realDonaldTrump are working hard to create opportunities for all Americans...and we are just getting started! 🇺🇸 #MAGA #JobsReport https://t.co/MvPOrIqdXI
It's certainly good news for the Hispanic community, which makes up 17% of the U.S. labor market.
Some of the decline may be attributable to a slightly lower labor force participation rate for Hispanics, which remains at its lowest since May 2016. That rate looks at how many people are either working or actively looking for work. If it's down, it tends to indicate that an increased number of people have given up looking for a job, possibly because they've retired, gone back to school or are raising kids.
Hispanics are reaping the benefits of a strong job market, even as some remain concerned about their place in the country under a Trump presidency.
The president has made cracking down on illegal immigration one of his top priorities, and spoke derisively about Mexicans during his campaign.
On jobs, at least, Hispanics in the Trump era are seeing improvement.
"Hispanics are more confident about their personal financial situation than the general public, and they're also more optimistic that their family's financial situation is going to improve in the next year," said Jens Manuel Krogstad, who studies Hispanic demographics for the Pew Research Center.
Related: Another strong jobs report
Despite this optimism, Hispanics have not fully recovered from the Great Recession, Krogstad said.
The homeownership rate for Hispanics was 46.1% in the most recent quarter, according to the Census Bureau. At its peak in 2007, the homeownership rate for Hispanics was 50.1%.
That figure remains much lower than the general U.S. rate of homeownership, which was 63.9% in the most recent quarter.
And large discrepancies remain between Hispanic men and women. The unemployment rate for Hispanic men was 3.8% last month. For women, it was 4.9%.
But the Hispanic unemployment rate is certainly lower than its post-recession peak of 13% in August 2009.
The unemployment rate for African Americans in November was 7.3% -- down from a post-recession high of 16.8% in March 2010.
"It is positive to see that for all these cases the unemployment rates of minorities have gone down substantially," said Robert Lerman, a fellow at the Urban Institute.


Mulvaney previously told the Washington Times that he is reviewing 14 open enforcement matters. Mulvaney has accused the CFPB, an aggressive consumer watchdog, of "trampling on capitalism."
While Trump has condemned the CFPB as a "disaster" that has "devastated" banks, he signaled Friday that Wells Fargo is still very much in the regulator's crosshairs. The president tweeted that fines and penalties "will be pursued and, if anything, substantially increased."
Reuters reported that Richard Cordray, who set off a CFPB power struggle when he stepped down last month, approved a possible Wells Fargo settlement that called for the bank to pay tens of millions of dollars.
Asked about Wells Fargo at his first press conference as acting director, Mulvaney said he remains "disturbed" by the scandals at the bank.
The CFPB did not respond to a request for comment. Wells Fargo declined to comment.
Fines and penalties against Wells Fargo Bank for their bad acts against their customers and others will not be dropped, as has incorrectly been reported, but will be pursued and, if anything, substantially increased. I will cut Regs but make penalties severe when caught cheating!

Related: GOP says CFPB is crippling the economy. Really?
Wells Fargo has previously said the CFPB is investigating the alleged mortgage lending abuse. In October, Wells Fargo said some mortgage borrowers were inappropriately charged for missing a deadline to lock in promised interest rates, even though the delays were the bank's fault.
Wells Fargo promised refunds for any of the 110,000 customers who were wrongly charged so-called "mortgage rate lock extension fees" between September 2013 and this February.
In his Wells Fargo tweet on Friday, Trump said that while he wants to "cut" regulations, he will "make penalties severe when caught cheating!"
Wells Fargo's  (WFC)stock was mostly unfazed by the Trump threats. After initially dipping slightly on the tweet, Wells Fargo stock quickly recovered and was trading slightly higher on the day.
"Wells Fargo will remain a political punching bag ... until the bank makes additional changes at the very top," Jaret Seiberg, financial services analyst at Cowen Research Group, wrote in a note on Friday.
Tim Sloan, a Wells Fargo veteran, was promoted to CEO last year to clean up the bank's scandals. Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren has called on Wells Fargo to further clean house by firing Sloan.
Earlier this year, Trump took a softer tone towards banks.
Bank CEOs are "petrified of the regulators. They're petrified. They can't move," Trump said at an April town hall event with Citigroup (C) boss Michael Corbat and other business leaders. The president also promised to do a "very major haircut on Dodd Frank," the Wall Street reform law enacted in 2010.
Related: Wells Fargo blamed for 1,500 fake insurance policies
Wells Fargo's troubles began last September when it admitted to firing 5,300 workers for creating up millions of fake accounts. The scandal brought to light a rotten sales culture at Wells Fargo illustrated by unrealistic sales goals and extreme pressure on employees. The bank has since revamped its sales targets, fired managers and installed new senior execs and directors.
Besides the mortgage issues, Wells Fargo has also admitted to charging thousands of customers for auto insurance they didn't want and has been accused of cheating mom-and-pop shops on credit card fees.
Earlier this week, California regulators blamed Wells Fargo for the sale of nearly 1,500 unauthorized insurance policies.
"Many customers complained they simply had no knowledge of ever signing up for such policies," the California complaint said.


The accelerated pace has policy watchers worried.
"Historic tax reform efforts involved discussion drafts of legislative language, hearings on those specific proposals, extensive public comment periods. None of that is happening now," Lily Batchelder, a former chief tax counsel on the Senate Finance Committee, tweeted.
As tax experts, businesses and accountants continue to unpack what's in the bills, here are just four warning signs that the plan might not deliver what was promised or intended.
Red flag #1: Tax plan would not simplify the tax code
Republicans have been promising a simpler code. Some measures -- like a larger standard deduction -- could provide more simplicity.
But Senate Republicans decided at the last minute to reinstate the poster child for needless complexity: the Alternative Minimum Tax for individuals and corporations. It requires filers to calculate their tax burden twice -- once under one set of rules, and once under a different set of rules -- and pay whichever is highest.
Both the House and Senate bills also seek to lower the tax burden on so-called pass-through entities, which comprise the majority of U.S. businesses. Taxes on pass-throughs are paid directly by the owners and shareholders under the individual code. But the bills bar large law partnerships, accounting firms and other lucrative professional service firms from taking advantage of the new, lower pass-through rate.
At the same time, the bills would slash the corporate tax rate.
Consequently, many businesses -- after having an incentive for years to structure themselves as pass-throughs -- might suddenly have a reason to restructure as corporations.
"People are scrambling to figure out how lawyers and doctors may reorganize to get better rates," said CPA Meredith Tucker of Kaufman Rossin in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.
It may not be a simple decision. Under the Senate bill, most individual and pass-through provisions sunset at the end of eight years. "We're going to go through all of this just to have it expire," Tucker said.
Another simplicity killer: The House bill proposes a complicated rule with an alternate workaround that would govern how much a business owner's income must be taxed as compensation, and how much can be taxed at the lower proposed business rate.
"The House bill is incredibly complex. They talk about making it simpler. But it's crazy complex," said John Arensmeyer, founder of the Small Business Majority, an advocacy group.
The upshot: H&R Block, which President Trump often said would be put out of business by his tax reform, can probably breathe easy.
Tax planning and accounting firms will be busy helping everyone figure out what the proposed changes mean to them, and how to plan around them if they find they'll be saddled with a higher bill.
Indeed, both bills would be a "bonanza" for tax planners, said Martin Sullivan, chief economist of Tax Analysts.
Red flag #2: Won't pay for itself
Republicans have consistently said their tax plan will pay for itself over time thanks to the economic growth it will spur. No nonpartisan analysis agrees with that. Instead, they show that the tax plan will add more than $1.4 trillion to deficits over a decade. The picture improves when growth potential is factored in but not by much. The Senate bill, for instance, would still add more than $1 trillion, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation.
What's more, since the bills' deficit-financed tax cuts would go into effect when the economy is experiencing its best growth in three years and the country's debt is already high and climbing, there's concern the cuts will spur inflation and diminish the government's ability to fight the next recession.
Red flag #3: Could saddle some corporations with a higher bill
The biggest unintended consequences so far, which lawmakers may try to fix in their final negotiations, are caused by the Senate bill keeping the corporate AMT.
GOP senators were trying to provide more revenue to pay for other last-minute changes. Yet in doing so, they effectively subverted the purpose of the corporate AMT, which is supposed to ensure that corporations don't take so many tax breaks that they pay no tax at all. Under the tax bill, the regular corporate rate is slashed to 20%, identical to the corporate AMT rate.
The last-minute switch also would render key tax incentives for corporations moot because they're not allowed to be taken under the AMT. One of them -- the research and development credit -- is intended to spur innovation.
The AMT change, combined with other provisions in the tax bill that curb valuable business tax breaks, means many corporations -- surprise! -- could face a tax hike. For instance, the CEO of coal company Murray Energy estimates his company would pay $60 million more a year.
Preserving the AMT also could undermine the structure of international tax reforms in the bills, according to a report by tax scholars, practitioners and analysts.
Red flag #4: Won't offer "big" tax cuts for the middle class
Trump and Republicans tout their tax plan as a boon for the middle class, not the wealthy.
Nonpartisan analyses show that middle-income households would in fact get tax cuts, on average, especially in the first half of the next decade. But the highest-income households on average would benefit more.
In the second half of the decade, tax cuts for middle-income households would greatly diminish on average, while those for the top 0.1% would increase, according to the Tax Policy Center.
Trump in particular has claimed several times that he would pay more under the GOP plan. That seems implausible given that so many provisions would directly benefit him and his family. One of the biggest is the lower tax burden on pass-through entities, which are how Trump's more than 500 businesses are structured.
The bills distinguish between types of income that qualify for lower tax rates and those that don't. But Trump is in luck, according to Steven Rosenthal, a senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center. Three staples of his income -- rents, royalties and licensing fees -- would qualify.


But in September, President Trump rescinded DACA and left it in Congress' hands to save it. Democratic lawmakers say they want to add provisions that will protect DACA recipients to the year-end spending bill, which they must pass by December 22 in order to avert a government shutdown. But Republicans have said such a move would be a deal breaker.
Should Congress fail to enact alternative legislation by March 5 of next year, an average of 915 Dreamers will lose their DACA status -- and protection from deportation -- every day until March, 2020, according to the Migration Policy Institute, an immigration think tank.
Related: Who are America's Dreamers?
"I feel like we're being held hostage by the politics in Washington," said Bertran, whose family brought her to the U.S. from Peru when she was nine. "First Republicans ended DACA. Now Democrats are threatening to shut down the government if there is no deal with Republicans on DACA."
Bertran was among a group of 100 Dreamers who met with members of Congress in Washington, D.C., in October to gather support for the Dream Act, which would provide a permanent legislative solution for DACA recipients.
Her DACA status is set to expire in July 2019. If she's unable to renew it, she'll be forced to give up her job as a product development and design engineer at Honda Research & Development Americas.
Bertran was hired by Honda three years ago after graduating from the City University of New York. She had attended college on a full scholarship and earned her degree in mechanical engineering.
"A lot of Dreamers will remain in the U.S. illegally to be with their families after they lose their DACA status. For me, I might relocate. I would find an engineering job abroad if I have to," she said.
Related: After ICE raided a factory, this family's American Dream was shattered
Bertran also doesn't want to have to let go of her entrepreneurial aspirations.
In March, she and her boyfriend, Brook Kohn, launched DACA Time, an online platform that helped Dreamers prepare first-time DACA applications and renewal forms. "It's similar to how TurboTax helps with tax preparation," she said.
Trump's decision this fall dealt a blow to DACA Time, but Bertran said they're still in business and the company's funders are still backing the operation.
"If some sort of legislation passes [on Dreamers], then we will update what we've built thus far to accommodate that new [DACA] application process," said Kohn. "If nothing passes, then that would be devastating for us, Nathali and the other Dreamers."
Without DACA, Diego Corzo will lose his driver's license -- and, most likely, his job.
Two years ago, Corzo and a business partner opened a real estate franchise in Austin and he started selling houses.
"As a real estate entrepreneur, having a driver's license is crucial to my business and to my livelihood. Without a license, I can't drive to show houses to my clients. I can't bring business into my company," he said, noting that his business sells between 80 and 100 homes a year. "It's details like these about our situation that don't occur to most people."
Corzo's DACA status expires in May 2019. He plans on staying in the U.S., but "I will live in fear because I don't know what will happen to me," he said, noting that his partner would have to take over the business.
Now 27, Corzo came to the U.S. from Peru when he was nine. He graduated high school third in his class and subsequently earned dual undergraduate degrees in information technology and management of information systems from Florida State University.
Corzo credits DACA for enabling him to land his first job straight out of college as a software developer with General Motors.
"It's because of DACA that I was able to apply for the GM job. It's because of DACA that I could even get a driver's license," said Corzo.
He eventually left GM to launch Nino Group.
Related: DACA in flux: 5 things business owners need to know
This year, he hired his first full-time employee at the firm. "I'm proud that I'm creating jobs as a Dreamer," he said. "The United States has invested in me, through my education here and my career opportunities. I want to give back," he said. "I can't do that if I'm deported."
Bertran echoed that sentiment.
"Losing DACA isn't just about me and my career," she said. "So many people have invested in me to make my dreams come true, and it's important to me to stay in my country and give back."


But for whatever reason, employers aren't showering workers with big pay raises.
Even President Trump's National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn seems puzzled by this trend. He noted in an interview with CNBC Friday morning that "we're still not growing wages in this country."
However, it seems that many Americans are still just happy to have a job and are not demanding bigger paychecks.
"Slow wage growth is the biggest conundrum here," said JJ Kinahan, chief market strategist with TD Ameritrade. "Small wage increases are still able to attract talent. Most of us thought this would have changed by now."
Kinahan noted that one potential factor at play is that the jobs report does not take into account other perks that workers want, things like the ability to work from home more often, free meals at the office and better insurance options.
"People are increasingly looking for other benefits, and not just wage growth," Kinahan said.
Another reason why paychecks may not be growing? Inflation is still not much of a problem.
The government said in November that consumer prices rose just 2 percent over the past 12 months. So even a meager 2.5% pay raise is more than enough to offset the relatively small cost of living increases that many Americans have faced.
Related: GE is cutting 12,000 jobs
Still, Andrew Chamberlain, chief economist with job search site Glassdoor, wrote in a report Friday morning that based on inflation trends and productivity growth, wages should be rising between 3% and 4%.
There may be some hope on the horizon though.
Mark Hamrick, senior economic analyst at Bankrate.com, said that if employers keep adding jobs and the unemployment rate inches lower, companies will have no choice but to finally start paying more since workers will demand higher salaries.
Hamrick wrote in a report that wage increases "are likely headed closer to 3 percent in the coming year as long as the economy continues to expand and no dramatic black swans emerge."
There are hopes that tax reform might push companies to start paying workers more too.
But there's a debate as to whether big businesses will really start to give employees raises and hire more or just use any potential savings from a lower corporate tax rate to reward investors instead with dividend increases and more stock buybacks.
Nonetheless, there should come a point where employees will demand better pay and even feel comfortable enough to leave and find another place to work in order to get a salary boost instead of sticking at a low-paying, dead-end job.
Companies may have the bargaining edge now but it may not stay that way for much longer.
"It's not going to be an overnight change but there eventually will be pressure to increase wages," said Bodhi Ganguli, lead economist at Dun & Bradstreet. "You will have to offer people more money to fill jobs if the overall economy keeps improving."


"Total revenue for the quarter faced a challenging comparison to last year, when we believe strong consumer demand was driven by personal safety concerns and pre-election fears of increased firearm legislation," said CEO James Debney, in a statement.
Last year marked a record year for gun sales. The surge was driven by fears that then-President Obama and candidate Hillary Clinton would implement gun controls amid a series of deadly mass shootings. Sales dropped industry-wide after the unexpected victory of Donald Trump, a Republican endorsed by the National Rifle Association.
Related: Vista Outdoor's gun and ammo sales tank under Trump
American Outdoor Brands has seen a 30% decline in its stock in 2017.
"The firearms industry is still suffering from continued malaise in retail sell-through due to the Trump slump," said Rommel Dionisio, a gun industry analyst for Aegis Capital Corp. He said manufacturers and retailers are still dealing with an inventory backlog, because they stocked up prior to the election expecting stronger sales.
The stock price for American Outdoor Brands did rise 5% on Thursday after the House passed the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act earlier this week. That act, if it passes the Senate, would create a nationwide system for concealed carry permits. Dionisio said that might eventually help the industry recover.
But stocks plummeted over night after American Outdoor Brands reported its dismal earnings.
Debney said that among the few bright spots for the company were the relatively strong sales of compact M&P brand handguns designed for concealed carry. The M&P line of guns also includes AR-15-style rifles.
Related: Black Friday was huge for gun sales
The company's quarter ended on October 31. This report includes a month of gun sales activity after the October 1 mass shooting in Las Vegas, the deadliest in U.S. history.
But it does not include figures for November, which saw a month-to-month uptick for background checks by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which serve as a proxy for gun sales. Black Friday was the biggest day ever for background checks.


"In terms of how it ends, bubble history suggests it will be with a bang, rather than a whimper," said Sharon Zoller, an economist at ANZ. "I can't think of any reason why this time would be different."
To better understand what may lie ahead, here's the lowdown on four famous financial bubbles in history:
Related: What is bitcoin?
Tulip mania
In the early 17th century, speculation helped drive the value of tulip bulbs in the Netherlands to previously unheard of prices. Newly imported from Turkey, tulips were a big novelty at the time.
Hard data from those days is scarce, so it's difficult to gauge exactly how much prices soared. But people were putting up their homes as collateral, according to the Rijksmuseum -- the Museum of the Netherlands -- in Amsterdam.
Related: I bought $250 in bitcoin: Here's what I learned
Like many bubbles, prices were driven by greed or the fear of missing out. Speculators were buying bulbs in the hope that they could sell them on at an even higher price. Again, it didn't last. A flurry of sales caused a domino effect, and prices collapsed.
Stephen Innes, head of Asian trading at currency broker Oanda, believes bitcoin bubble could go the same way.
"Prices will become so out of reach of the common man that ultimately demand fades," he said.
South Sea bubble
In the 18th century, shares in the South Sea Company, a British trading firm, soared on expectations it would soon reap bumper profits from trade with South America.
But the big money never materialized.
South America was controlled by Spain, which was at war with the British Empire at the time. That made a British trading monopoly in the region unlikely, according to the Encylopedia Britannica.
Related: Nobel winner says bitcoin 'ought to be outlawed'
Nevertheless, British mom-and-pop investors piled into the South Sea Company's stock, which popped about 900% in the space of a year.
Soon afterward, the shares began to plunge as speculators became sellers. The South Sea bubble's collapse left a trail of bankruptcies in its wake.

Wall Street crash of 1929
In the five years prior to October 1929's huge crash, stocks listed on the Dow Jones Industrial Average skyrocketed 500%.
Investors had become very bullish on the U.S. economy during the "Roaring 20s," prompting them to keep bidding stock prices higher. Eventually cracks in the economy started to appear.
Related: Bitcoin boom may be a disaster for the environment
The crash didn't happen on just one day. The pain was spread out over several big plunges in the Dow, according to the Federal Reserve.
Making things much worse, many of the investors who had jumped on the bandwagon did so with borrowed money.
The crash led to the tremendous suffering of the Great Depression.
Wall Street didn't find its bottom until more than two years later, when the Dow languished 90% below its 1929 peak.
The dotcom boom
Investors were gripped by an internet frenzy in the late 1990s. They piled into web-focused companies, pushing the Nasdaq index up about 200% in the space of just over a year.
Those gains were fueled by a string of multibillion dollar stock floats during the era, many of which were unprofitable internet and software companies.
Are you trading Bitcoin? We want to hear from you.
The party didn't last. The bubble burst in early 2000, partly because higher interest rates made borrowing pricier. The Nasdaq plunged around 80% over the next couple of years.
But Shane Oliver, an economist at Australia's AMP Capital, said bitcoin's meteoric rise isn't quite like any previous bubbles he's seen before.
"Bitcoin leaves them for dead." he said.


The EU said the agreement, which won preliminary approval in July, will help support more than 600,000 jobs in the bloc that are tied to exports to Japan. Another half a million EU workers are employed by Japanese companies.
Related: Japan and Europe are racing to agree a big free trade deal

The push by Japan and the EU to remove trade barriers stands in stark contrast to the approach taken by President Trump, who pulled the U.S. out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) at the start of his presidency.
The European Commission said that the deal "demonstrates the powerful political will of Japan and the EU to continue to keep the flag of free trade waving high."
"We are sending a message to other countries about the importance of free and fair trade, and of shaping globalization," Cecilia Malmström, Europe's top trade official, said in a statement.
The deal must be signed off by individual EU countries before it is implemented.
It's done. @EU_Commission and #Japan finalised negotiations of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the #EU and Japan today - a powerful political signal to the world, keeping the flag of free and fair trade high: https://t.co/3YUi5cgXoC pic.twitter.com/S3cJ8Qvm5A

Closer ties between Europe and the world's No.3 economy could make it harder for U.S. businesses to compete with global rivals, especially when it comes to selling agricultural products such as pork to Japan.
After quitting the TPP, the U.S. showed interest in reaching a separate free trade deal with Japan. The two sides held talks in April, but those have since taken a back seat to Trump's push to renegotiate NAFTA with Mexico and Canada.


But just who benefits from those skyrocketing numbers?
The short answer: Wealthy people.
As measured by those who declare ordinary dividend income on their tax returns, stock ownership varies dramatically by income level. Among filers who make less than $25,000 a year, only about 8% own stocks. Meanwhile, 88% of those making more than $1 million are in the market, which explains why the rising stock market tracks with increasing levels of inequality.
On average across the United States, only 18.7% of taxpayers directly own stocks. Now, these numbers only include stock portfolios, not the roughly half of Americans who participate in the market through an employer-sponsored retirement plan, according to a Pew analysis of Census Bureau data. Access to those plans also skews towards higher income people, Pew found. In addition, more white people invested this way than black or Latino people, as did more older people than younger people.
Accordingly, the states with the wealthiest populations also tend to have higher rates of stock ownership. In Connecticut and Massachusetts, where median incomes are among the highest in the country, about one in four tax filers own stocks. Mississippi, meanwhile, has the lowest rate, at only 10%, with Nevada, Alabama, and Tennessee following close behind.
But there's a deeper answer, too.
As highlighted recently in an analysis by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, stock ownership also varies among people who make similar amounts of money.
Here's what a host of studies tell us: Stock ownership overall rose during the 1990s and early 2000s as the Internet made it easier and cheaper to conduct trades, but it's still more common among those who are more financially literate and have greater levels of trust in others and in the stock market, as measured both by credit scores and by responses to survey questions.
It's less common among African Americans, those who've experienced difficulty paying their mortgages, and -- perhaps not so surprisingly -- those who've lost money in the stock market before. (Market participation in general is about a third lower than it was at the turn of the century, with a large drop off during the great recession.)
According to IRS tax data, stock ownership is also three points less common in states that Trump won in the 2016 presidential election than those Hillary Clinton won.
Related: 10 years after the recession, have Americans recovered?
There is one state, however, that bucks most of those associations. Utah has the lowest stock ownership rate in the country among mid to high earners, making between $100,000 and $200,000. It's less racially diverse than most states, has higher than average credit scores, and a comprehensive financial literacy course in high schools.
As with many outliers, there may be something else going on in Utah. Alan Battles, president of Brighton Wealth Management in Murray, Utah, has a few theories. Utahans prefer to invest in real estate, for one thing, and a lot of the state's large public companies that had a lot of local ownership have been bought out in recent years.
But the most likely factor? Utah also has the highest fertility rate in the country, at 2.29 children per couple, and those large families cost money that might otherwise go into stock portfolios.
"A hundred thousand or $200,000 goes a little less far as discretionary income when you have four or five kids than when you have one or two kids," Battles says.
And that, of course, pays a different kind of dividend.


The more modest rise in the hourly pay is disappointing, especially in light of the unemployment rate being this low.
Wages should be going up because there is a record number of unfilled job openings and employers complaining about difficulty finding workers. Typically, when unemployment is low, wages rise faster because employers have to pay more to find or keep the workers they want.
Ten years ago, before the start of the Great Recession, the average hourly wage was rising at a better than 3% clip.
Other readings in the report showed a healthy labor market, including the fact that those working part-time because they couldn't find a full-time job decreased.
The White House celebrated the strong report and credited its economic policies for the solid showing.
"We're especially pleased to see the manufacturing sector roaring back to life, adding a total of 159,000 jobs since President Trump took office after averaging a loss of more than 1,000 jobs per month during the last year of the previous administration," read a statement from White House press secretary Sarah Sanders. "As we continue to unleash the American economy from unnecessary regulation and taxes, we look forward to seeing more reports like this, showing a healthy and thriving jobs market for the American people."
Related: Is Trump keeping his promises on manufacturing?
A number of key industries were busy hiring. Manufacturing added 31,000 jobs while health care added 29,500 workers and construction 24,000. Temporary help services added 18,300 jobs, a good sign since employers often bring on temporary workers before adding permanent positions.
Even some battered sectors, such as retail reported strong growth as retailers added 18,700 beyond their normal seasonal hires, the best month for the sector since January.
The jobs report echoes other signs of strength: The economy grew 3.3% in the most recent quarter, the best since 2014, and the stock market is at record levels.


Investor enthusiasm may be limited because trade talks promise to be difficult.
"Let's remember that the most difficult challenge still ahead," said European Council President Donald Tusk. "Breaking up is hard. But breaking up and building a new relationship is much harder."
2. Jobs report: The U.S. economy continued its strong jobs-creation run in November.
The data show employers added 228,000 jobs and unemployment remained at a 17-year low of 4.1%.
The report echoes other signs of strength: The economy grew 3.3% in the most recent quarter, its best performance since 2014.
3. Shutdown averted, for now: The dollar edged higher against other major currencies after lawmakers voted for a short-term spending bill that will keep the federal government running for another two weeks.
The major obstacle is what comes after December 22, when the government runs out of money once again.
All eyes will be on the White House, as Trump and top congressional leaders try to resolve policy differences so Congress can pass a long-term spending bill before Christmas.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Global overview: Stocks markets are closing out the week with a bang.
U.S. stock futures were higher. Major European and Asian markets were in positive territory.
U.S. crude oil futures gained 0.7% to trade just above $57 per barrel.
The one big loser of the day was bitcoin, which continued its wild ride. It plunged more than $2,500 after hitting new record on Thursday.
The Dow Jones industrial average and the S&P 500 both gained 0.3% on Thursday, while the Nasdaq added 0.5%.
5. Companies and economics: Shares in Japan Display shot up 9% in Tokyo on a report that Apple (AAPL) might start using LCD screens in future smartphones.
A preliminary reading of the University of Michigan's Consumer Sentiment Index for December will be released at 10 a.m.
Chinese exports and imports data came out stronger than expected, pointing to healthy global trade.
"We expect exports to continue to perform well in the coming months on the back of strong global demand," said Julian Evans-Pritchard, China Economist at Capital Economics.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday -- Jobs report


The number of thorny issues to be addressed will multiply in the second phase of talks. Britain wants to agree a comprehensive trade deal, and there are hundreds of legal and regulatory questions that must be sorted out.
"We all know that breaking up is hard. But breaking up and building a new relation is much harder," Donald Tusk, president of the European Council, said Friday.
One issue looms above the others: What kind of relationship Britain will have with the EU, which accounts for 44% of its goods and services exports, once it has left the bloc?
Related: The CNNMoney Brexit jobs tracker
Prime Minister Theresa May has made clear that Britain will be leaving the EU's internal market and customs union. But beyond those red lines, little has been settled.
"For the moment, the U.K. still does not know what it wants," said Agata Gostynska-Jakubowska, a research fellow at the Centre for European Reform. "The government hasn't made its position clear on what kind of future relationship it wants."
Britain must decide whether it wants to negotiate continued easy access to EU markets or accept significant barriers in return for greater control of its own regulations, trade with the rest of the world and immigration.
Settling on a preferred outcome has been made more difficult by the fact that May's cabinet, which has different views on what the "end state" should be, has yet to debate the issue.
'More clarity' needed
"We have heard a number of various ideas," Tusk said. "We need more clarity on how the U.K. sees our future relations."
Meanwhile, London must continue to search for a way to avoid the return of a hard border on the island of Ireland, an extremely complicated issue that was not fully resolved in the first phase of negotiations.
The terms of the deal announced Friday stipulate that if final agreement on the Irish border can't be reached, Britain must continue to abide by the rules of the EU's internal market. That would be unacceptable for many Brexit supporters.
Related: Why Britain needs the immigrants it doesn't want
Trade talks are difficult under the best of circumstances, and comprehensive deals can take years to thrash out. A free trade agreement between the EU and Canada, which included some service industries, took seven years.
The remaining 27 EU states will have different priorities when it comes to trade, and will face an intense backlash from labor unions and businesses if their interests are not protected.
Britain has its own priorities: It will seek to minimize trade barriers in key sectors of the economy, such as financial services, autos and aerospace.
Gostynska-Jakubowska said the best option may be to try and negotiate a very basic trade agreement. If goodwill is accumulated and trust established, the limited agreement could then be expanded to include additional sectors.
Waiting in the departure lounge
But she's not optimistic that a final deal can be confirmed by March 2019.
"I am certain that the EU and the U.K. will not finalize their negotiations about the future by the time the U.K. leaves the EU," she said.
The difficulty of agreeing a new trade relationship underscores the need for a transitional period that will allow companies to plan ahead and adapt to life after Brexit. May has asked for an "implementation period" of two years, but many businesses say they need at least three.
Tusk said the EU is ready to discuss such a transition, but only if Britain is willing to accept all EU law -- including new laws passed during that period -- and judicial oversight.
"So much time has been devoted to the easier part of the task," he said Friday. "And now, to negotiate a transition arrangement and the framework for our future relationship, we have de facto less than a year."


Trading has become especially frenzied in recent weeks as new investors have dived into the volatile market. Before Friday's fall, it had gained roughly $5,000 in the previous 48 hours.
Related: I bought $250 in bitcoin. Here's what I learned
Arthur Hayes, CEO of Hong Kong-based bitcoin exchange Bitmex, said he thought the sharp correction Friday was "healthy" given that the digital currency's price had jumped about 80% the past week.
He predicted more sharp moves early next week when the Chicago Board Options Exchange starts allowing investors to trade bitcoin futures.
By Friday evening in Hong Kong, bitcoin was trading at around $15,000.
Bitcoin's extraordinary boom has raised a host of questions. Here are some of the major issues:
How do you buy bitcoin?
One of our reporters used his experience of buying $250 of bitcoin recently to explore what on earth is going on with the digital currency right now.
Related: I bought $250 in bitcoin. Here's what I learned
"It's an investing frenzy, plain and simple," he wrote.
Is it safe?
The online exchanges where many people trade bitcoin and other digital currencies have a checkered history.
Are you trading Bitcoin? We want to hear from you.
Some have gone bust altogether and others have suffered cyber heists in which hackers have made off with huge sums. The latest example is digital currency site NiceHash, where bitcoins worth more than $70 million were stolen this week.
What does Wall Street make of it?
One factor driving bitcoin's price higher and higher in recent weeks is the expectation that big financial players like hedge funds and asset managers are set to wade into the market. That's been supported by established exchanges in the U.S. saying they're planning to let investors trade bitcoin futures soon.
Related: Big banks say bitcoin futures could be dangerous
But big banks -- who have a complicated relationship with digital currencies -- have issued a warning about the dangers of bitcoin futures, saying the risks haven't been properly studied.

What does the future hold?
An environmental crisis is looming if bitcoin continues on its current trajectory, some experts say. The complex computer algorithms that underpin bitcoin require huge data centers that guzzle power.
Related: Bitcoin boom may be a disaster for the environment
One observer predicts that without a significant change in how transactions are processed, bitcoin could be consuming enough electricity to power the U.S. by the middle of 2019. Six months later, that demand could equal the entire world's power consumption.
-- Daniel Shane contributed to this report.


The Middle East is another geopolitical fault line. Donald Trump's recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital has unleashed criticism and violence.
Sign up for the weekly Quest newsletter in your inbox
Market volatility resurfaced as investors watched all of this. There was a rotation out of technology stocks and into older industrials at first. But by week's end, that rotation had rotated, with the Nasdaq bouncing back. Perhaps we shouldn't be too surprised. The end of the year is nigh. Big tech stocks are sitting on sizable gains that can be locked in while banks, industrials and energy firms offer more value. 
I just wish that the outlook wasn't so unclear and that there weren't so many pitfalls ahead. Worries that many thought were cast aside could rise up and bite back once again.
Bitcoin's blistering run continues

Bitcoin is has topped $16,000, fueling fears of a bubble.
While it's true there is an element of tulip mania here -- even Venezuela wants to launch its own cryptocurrency -- it's worth noting that the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Chicago Mercantile Exchange and Nasdaq are launching bitcoin futures. That may attract more interest from institutional investors.
But bitcoin is very risky. A leading digital currency marketplace was just hacked. Banks are warning regulators about fraud.
And there are concerns about the environmental impact of having massive data centers consuming tons of electricity to mine bitcoin.
-- Paul R. La Monica
Venezuela's woes worsen with new lawsuit

Venezuela has spent the past year sinking deeper into chaos. Now, China is turning up the heat to close out 2017.
One of the country's biggest state-owned firms has filed a lawsuit against Venezuela's oil company, PDVSA, in U.S. court.
Sinopec is accusing PDVSA of breach of contract and conspiracy to defraud, and is asking for $23.7 million plus interest and damages.
It's a headache -- but the amount is ultimately small compared to the estimated $196 billion Venezuela owes in all.
-- Julia Horowitz
Should Elon Musk merge Tesla with SpaceX?

Tesla's stock has cooled lately due to concerns about Model 3 production delays and integration risks with SolarCity. But Morgan Stanley has a suggestion for Elon Musk: Merge with privately held SpaceX, which Musk also runs.
The rocket market could be bigger than electric vehicles. There's also less competition. But does Musk run the risk of having too many balls in the air?
Tesla is also working on a Semi truck -- which beer king Anheuser-Busch just placed a big order for -- and Musk's The Boring Company is proposing a new underground tunnel system for Los Angeles. When does Musk sleep?
-- Paul R. La Monica
GE slashes jobs as American icon shrinks

GE's epic cash crunch has been driven by bad bets on fossil fuels.
GE's power division is bleeding because utilities are moving to renewables like solar. That's painful for GE, which makes equipment that helps power one-third of the world. Worse: GE recently shelled out $9.5 billion on Alstom's coal business.
Now, GE's power business is slashing 12,000 jobs to cut costs and stabilize the depressed stock price. Germany's Siemens similarly cut nearly 7,000 jobs, mostly in its power business. The problem for these companies is the migration away from fossil fuels may only speed up as renewables get cheaper.
-- Matt Egan
Quick takes
Coal CEO loves Trump but hates Senate tax overhaul. 'It wipes us out' 
More alleged shady business at Wells Fargo: 1,500 fake insurance policies
Naming and shaming tax shelters: EU fires off warning to 17 tax shelters
Accounting nightmare: European owner of Mattress Firm crashes as CEO exits
Week of Brexit turmoil: UK doesn't know what it means, costs or how to do it
Saudi elite ensnared by corruption crackdown can escape -- if they pay cash
What's next
Time for the jobs report: The U.S. unemployment rate for November will be released Friday morning. Last month, unemployment dropped to 4.1%, the lowest rate in 17 years.
Anticipating a rate hike: A rate hike is expected when the Federal Reserve meets next Wednesday. Earlier this week, President Trump's pick to replace Janet Yellen moved a step closer to confirmation.


Dollar General has become a shopping staple across the country. It currently has more than 14,000 stores in 44 states, a 35% increase from five years ago.
By the end of the year, more than three in four Americans will live within 5 miles of a Dollar General, the company noted on the call.
Dollar stores are one of the few retail groups that are thriving. Many traditional brick-and-mortar retailers have been eclipsed by the growth of e-commerce.
Shares of Dollar General (DG) have climbed 25% this year. Dollar Tree (DLTR), its top discount competitor, has risen 38%.
Dollar General has succeeded thanks to its lean business model, said GlobalData Retail analyst Neil Saunders. Its smaller stores sell cheap day-to-day essentials, especially in rural areas where it doesn't make sense for Walmart or other large retailers to open up shop.
"The company [is] the closest and most convenient general merchant for millions," said Saunders.
Sales were up 4.3% last quarter at stores that were open a year ago, a sign of retail health. Revenue last quarter ballooned to $5.9 billion -- an 11% uptick from last year -- in part from hurricane-related spending in Texas and Florida.
More middle income and affluent shoppers are helping lift Dollar General's overall sales. The expansion, especially in metro areas, will allow it to continue reaching these shoppers, said Saunders.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
But lower-income Americans remain the store's primary customers. The stores attracted shoppers during the economic downturn in 2008 and 2009, and consumers haven't stopped coming back since, even as the economy has picked up steam.
Analysts expect Dollar General's run to continue as long as government benefits to support poorer Americans, like Medicaid and food stamps, remain steady.
"A reduction in social benefits, like food stamps, and an increase in healthcare or housing costs may continue to be a headwind for Dollar General's customers," said Morningstar's John Brick.


The Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board Options Exchange plan to start listing the contracts later this month. The Nasdaq will launch its own bitcoin futures in 2018.
Analysts say that announcements from the exchanges have helped propel bitcoin prices to new heights, because the moves were seen as signs that big mainstream investors are becoming interested.
Bitcoin (XBT) prices have gained over $4,000 in the past 48 hours to smash through $16,000.
Related: What's driving the bitcoin frenzy?
The FIA, which counts Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MSPRF) among its members, is concerned that exchanges regulated by the CFTC have been allowed to "self-certify" their new bitcoin contracts.
The decision will leave regulators with limited time to review futures offerings.
The FIA said that a "more thorough and considered process" would have allowed exchanges and clearinghouses more time to study trading limits and other ways to protect against price swings.
The group is worried that its members, which act as intermediaries between buyers and sellers, could be left holding the bag if something goes wrong.
"The recent volatility in these markets has underscored the importance of setting these levels and processes appropriately and conservatively," the group said in its letter.
"We remain apprehensive with the lack of transparency and regulation" of bitcoin and "whether exchanges have the proper oversight to ensure [bitcoin is] not susceptible to manipulation, fraud, and operational risk," it said.
Related: Bitcoin boom may be a disaster for the environment
The CFTC has itself warned investors about the dangers of bitcoin, noting that cryptocurrency exchanges are largely unregulated and outside the agency's purview.
"Bitcoin ... is a commodity unlike any the commission has dealt with in the past," CFTC chairman J. Christopher Giancarlo said in a statement on December 1.
"Investors should be aware of the potentially high level of volatility and risk in trading these contracts," the agency added.


Man of the Year is given to players who demonstrate a dedication to their communities off the field while excelling in the sport.
"It's just like a captain's patch," Brees told CNNMoney. "Guys who have a captain's patch wear that with pride, and I think they will wear the Walter Payton Man of the Year patch with pride as well."
Brees won the award for his work with his foundation, which raises money to help find a cure for cancer and help cancer patients.

Related: Colin Kaepernick earns Sports Illustrated's Muhammad Ali Legacy Award
The award is typically given to one player a year, nominated by his teammates. Each of the 32 teams picks a player, and three finalists are selected in January. The winner is announced the night before the Super Bowl.
Last year, Arizona Cardinals wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald and New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning both won the honor.
Fitzgerald credited his mother with encouraging him to be active in his community and give back. He told CNNMoney that he's honored by the award and that his mother, who passed away in 2003, would be proud of him.
While he's a "bit shy" about wearing a patch to commemorate his volunteer work, he said the winners discussed it closely with the NFL. The league wanted to be sure players were comfortable displaying their award on their jerseys.
"The consensus was that the guys were OK with it," he said. "It's about trying to get guys on the same page to continue to inspire and motivate others to get active and have a presence in their communities."
He wouldn't say who he thought deserved to be this year's winner, but he complimented Houston Texans defensive end JJ Watt for the work he did to raise more than $37 million for victims of Hurricane Harvey.
Related: JJ Watt's Hurricane Harvey relief fund tops $20 million
Past winners who are still playing will wear the patch on their jerseys. Other winners who are still active include Carolina Panthers linebacker Thomas Davis and Dallas Cowboys tight end Jason Witten.
All winners will get to wear the uniform patch for the rest of their careers. This season's nominees will be announced Thursday. They will get to wear a Man of the Year decal on their helmets for the rest of the season.
The award has been around since 1970 but was renamed for Hall of Famer Walter Payton in 1999 after his death. Payton was known for his amazing skill as a player and his humanitarian work with at-risk youth.


Mark Fields, Ford's CEO at the time, referred to the plans for the Michigan plant as a "vote of confidence" in the Trump administration.
Related: Why Trump has automakers worried about NAFTA
The company says it will still go ahead with plans to invest and create new jobs at Flat Rock, but that it will build self-driving cars there instead, rather than electric cars.
In fact it now expects to have 850 jobs there, rather than 700. And it has boosted the planned investment in the Michigan plant to $900 million, rather than its $700 million target.
The company, along with every other automaker, is making a major push into self-driving car technology. That's one reason it tapped Jim Hackett, who previously led Ford's self-driving car effort, as CEO when Fields was forced out earlier this year.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
The company will produce the electric cars at its existing Mexican plant in Cuautitlan starting in 2020, but that it won't add any jobs there. Ford currently builds the Fiesta there, which isn't very popular.
"We have excess capacity at that plant," said Ford spokeswoman Kelli Felker.
Ford is also trying to play catch-up on electric cars. It has only one all-electric vehicle, and it is not competitive with either GM's (GENERAL MOTORS) Chevy Bolt or the Tesla (TSLA) Model 3, which each cost about $35,000 and can go more than 200 miles on a single charge.
Related: Ford workers are testing out exoskeletons
Moving electric car production to Mexico could lower the cost of the making the cars, which have been money losers for every automaker so far. But it also entails the risk that the Trump administration could put steep taxes on new cars built in Mexico as it seeks to renegotiate the NAFTA trade deal.
Ford is also moving ahead with plans to build all of its small cars for the U.S market at existing facilities in either Mexico or China, and to keep its U.S. plants building larger, more profitable vehicles. It won't shut down any U.S. production. It scrapped plans for a new small car plant in Mexico because demand for them is so weak, not to shift any manufacturing back to the U.S.
All the major automakers make some of their cars for the U.S. market in Mexico, and all depend on Mexican parts suppliers for cars built at U.S. plants. The automakers met with Vice President Mike Pence recently to express concerns about moving away from NAFTA.


Businesses are preparing to move jobs and investment out of the U.K. in early 2018 if trade talks haven't started.
Nervous investors have pushed the pound down against the dollar this week.
Here's why:
1. Britain doesn't know what Brexit means
The biggest question Britain must answer is what kind of relationship it wants with the EU, its biggest export market, once it has left.
May has made clear that the U.K. will leave the EU's internal market and customs union. But beyond those red lines, little has been settled.
Britain must decide whether it wants to negotiate continued easy access to EU markets or accept significant barriers to trade.
Both scenarios come with economic risks, and political consequences, that are bound to upset factions within May's own party.
Settling on a preferred course of action has been made more difficult by the fact that her cabinet, which has different views on what the "end state" should be, has yet to debate the issue.
"We have not had a specific mandating of an end state position," Treasury chief Philip Hammond said Wednesday.
One example of the resulting confusion: Hammond also said it was "inconceivable" that Britain would walk away from the EU without settling its financial commitments -- in effect, paying a divorce bill that could run to tens of billions of euros.
The prime minister's office countered quickly, saying that "nothing is agreed until everything is agreed" with the EU.
The risks of putting off the decision too long are profound. Crashing out of the EU without a deal could mean grounded flights, rotting food at the borders and a shortage of parts for automakers in the U.K.

2. The government hasn't assessed the economic impact
Britain's top Brexit negotiator David Davis said Wednesday that his department has not studied how leaving the EU would affect specific sectors of the economy.
"I think ... there's no systematic impact assessment, no," he told a parliamentary committee.
Related: Britain and EU make progress on Brexit divorce bill
Davis defended the government's preparedness, arguing that such studies would "not necessarily be informative" and that their usefulness would be "near zero."
"You don't need to do a formal impact assessment to understand that if there is a regulatory hurdle between our producers and their market, that there will be an impact," he said.
Hilary Benn, a member of the opposition Labour Party, said it was "extraordinary" that Davis had not analyzed the economic impact of such a major event.
Davis said his department had studied the size and scope of industries -- but had not tried to assess how their performance would be affected by Brexit.
Consulting firm Oliver Wyman says 75,000 finance jobs could be lost in the long term if there's no Brexit deal.
Britain's automotive industry has warned that the price of cars imported from Europe would go up by £1,500 ($2,000).

3. There's no clear path forward
May failed earlier this week to move Brexit negotiations on to the critical issue of future trading arrangements.
The prime minister hoped to convince the EU that hard barriers would not return to the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland after Brexit.
The deal was scuttled after Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), which props up May's minority government, objected.
Irish border: The 'oxymoron' that could derail Brexit
The episode underscores the difficult balancing act facing May.
Her political party is divided on Brexit, and she must keep the DUP happy in order to prevent her government from collapsing.
In addition to the Irish border and the divorce bill, the rights of EU citizens that live and work in Britain, and the rights of Brits who live in the EU, must be settled to the satisfaction of all 27 remaining EU members.
Only then can talks move onto trade. That may not happen now this year.


The company says the job cuts will mostly be outside the United States. The power division's headcount will be reduced about 18%. About 295,000 people worked for GE overall at the end of last year, but the company has cut jobs and costs throughout this year. It hopes to reduce costs by $1 billion next year.
Russell Stokes, president and CEO of the power division, called the cuts "painful but necessary."
Competition from renewable energy is putting pressure on the traditional power business. GE said disruption in the industry has reduced the need for its products by 40%. Just last month, the German industrial conglomerate Siemens (SIEGY) announced plans to cut 6,900 jobs, mostly in its power division.
Related: How decades of bad decisions broke GE
GE, an icon of the American economy for more than a century, faces a cash crunch that could take years to recover from. It has been left in turmoil by years of questionable deal-making, needless complexity and murky accounting.
Flannery is trying to make the company more nimble and focused on its strengths -- health care, power and aviation. GE has put its railroad business up for sale and is looking for a buyer for the part of the company that makes light bulbs.
Related: Fixing GE won't be quick or easy
Last month, it slashed its cherished stock dividend in half, only the second cut GE has made in its payment to shareholders since the Great Depression.
There's even talk that the Dow could drop GE. That storied barometer of the stock market has included GE for 110 years, longer than any other company.
But GE is cutting jobs at a time when the U.S. labor market is strong. The unemployment rate is 4.1%, the lowest in 17 years. Layoff announcements this year are at a 20-year low, the firm Challenger, Gray and Christmas reported Thursday.
GE stock moved only slightly higher in premarket trading on Thursday after the cuts were announced.
--CNNMoney's Matt Egan and Alanna Petroff contributed to this report.


The move is in keeping with longstanding Republican beliefs.
"SNAP was created to provide people with the help they need to feed themselves and their families, but it was not intended to be a permanent lifestyle," said Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue. "We want to provide the nutrition people need, but we also want to help them transition from government programs, back to work and into lives of independence."
The agency last week sent a letter to all state food stamp coordinators listing three key areas of focus. The first one: self-sufficiency.
Related: Trump administration open to making some Medicaid recipients work
"The American dream has never been to live on government benefits," wrote Brandon Lipps, the agency's Food and Nutrition Service administrator. "People who can work should work. We must facilitate the transition for individuals and families to become independent, specifically by partnering with key stakeholders in the workforce development community and holding our recipients accountable for personal responsibility."
The other areas the agency cited are rooting out waste, fraud and abuse and providing good customer service.
Some 41.3 million people receive food stamps, down from more than 47 million in 2013, when the nation was still recovering from the Great Recession.
Trump administration officials and congressional Republicans have said multiple times in recent weeks that they will look at overhauling the nation's welfare system once they are done with tax reform.
"Does anybody want welfare reform?" Trump said to applause in a speech in Missouri last week. "I know people, they work three jobs and they live next to somebody who doesn't work at all. And the person who's not working at all and has no intention of working at all is making more money and doing better than the person that's working his and her ass off ... So we're going to go into welfare reform."
The Agriculture Department's letter mirrors one sent by the Department of Health and Human Services in March inviting states to apply for waivers that would add work requirements to Medicaid. The Obama administration had denied state requests to mandate that Medicaid recipients work.
The food stamp program, however, already requires childless adults to work, and states can impose additional employment or training rules, experts said. All states run work programs, but only about half make them mandatory and take away recipients' benefits if they don't comply. In some states, parents are also required to work.
Adults without minor children can only receive benefits for three months out of every 36-month period unless they are working or participating in training programs 20 hours a week. States can waive that requirement for areas where unemployment is at least 10% or there is an insufficient number of jobs, as defined by the Department of Labor.
The Trump administration's budget proposal earlier this year called for limiting the waivers to areas where unemployment is at least 10%. Currently, about one-third of the country lives in an area that waives this requirement, according to the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Under the Trump budget, only 1.3% of the nation would.
Related: Republicans want the poor to work for their government benefits
Many food stamp recipients already work. In households that receive SNAP and have at least one non-disabled adult, 58% are employed and 82% worked in the year prior to or after enrollment, according to the left-leaning Center for American Progress.
While Republicans have long favored adding work requirements to welfare programs, experts on both sides of the ideological divide question how effective they would be. Many recipients already work, and those that don't often can't because of physical or mental health conditions or because of a lack of job opportunities.
"If you really want people to have upward mobility, there has to be upward mobility to something," said Joe Antos, a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative think tank. "In a lot of places in the U.S., there are no jobs."


Why does this matter?
Iger has repeatedly extended his tenure in recent years amid a troubled search for a successor.
The Financial Times reported earlier this week that James Murdoch, the current chief executive of Fox, could join Disney as part of the deal. The newspaper suggested he could even succeed Iger.
2. Bitcoin hits $15,000: Another day, another bitcoin (XBT) record.
The digital currency has shot above the $15,000 mark for the first time -- the fourth big barrier it's broken in less than two days.
It had already zipped past $12,000, $13,000 and $14,000 within 24 hours before hitting $15,000 on Thursday morning in New York.
Despite a flurry of warnings from top economists and business leaders, its upward trajectory has continued -- albeit with a few sharp dips along the way.
After breaking above $11,000 last week, it abruptly plunged by more than $2,000 before resuming its climb. Buyer beware!
3. Brexit bites: British Prime Minister Theresa May is trying again to make progress on the Irish border, one of three key issues that must be addressed before negotiators can discuss trade terms with the EU.
May is racing to get a deal before a key EU summit next week.
But she is being hobbled by divisions within her own party, which remains at loggerheads over its plans for Brexit.
Opposition lawmakers aren't happy either: They've been angered by news that the government department charged with negotiating Brexit hasn't examined its potential economic impact.
The pound, which has been under pressure all week, dropped 0.1%.
4. Media deal in court: AT&T (T) and the U.S. Department of Justice will be in court on Thursday.
The Justice Department filed a suit to block AT&T's bid to buy Time Warner (TWX), CNN's parent company, citing antitrust concerns. The first big question the judge needs to decide is when to schedule a trial. The two sides disagree when that should be.
The case could have implications for other big mergers, including CVS' (CVS) $69 billion acquisition of Aetna (AET).
5. Market overview: European markets were higher in early trade, but gains were limited to less than 1%. Asian markets were mixed, with Japan's Nikkei adding 1.5%.
U.S. stock futures were higher.
Wednesday was a mixed bag: The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 0.2%, while the S&P 500 was flat. The Nasdaq added 0.2% to snap a three-day losing streak.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
6. Earnings and economics: Dollar General (DG) will release earnings before the open. Firearms manufacturer American Outdoor Brands (AOBC), formerly known as Smith & Wesson, will report after the close.
U.S. data on initial jobless claims will be published at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
7. Coming this week:
Thursday -- DOJ vs. AT&T in court Friday -- U.S. Jobs report


So how does the virtual digital currency work -- and what's behind its spectacular rise?
Related: Bitcoin pops above $17,000 for the first time
WHAT IS BITCOIN?
Bitcoin (XBT) was created in 2009 by an unknown person using the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto. Many of its backers saw it as a simple global payment system for anyone to use rather than a financial asset for investors to trade.
Unlike the U.S. dollar or Japanese yen, digital currencies such as bitcoin aren't issued by central banks like the Federal Reserve. Instead, they are "mined" by computers using complex algorithms.
Related: Bitcoin bubble brewing or is it still a bargain?
Payments in bitcoin can be made without traditional middlemen such as banks and without the need to give your name.
That made bitcoin popular with criminals and others who wanted to move money anonymously. It's also been adopted by businesses around the world as a way to pay for everyday things like groceries, train tickets and haircuts.
Exchanges, or marketplaces, allow people to buy or sell bitcoins using different currencies. People can send bitcoins to each other using mobile apps or their computers. It's similar to sending cash digitally, and a fee is charged for every transaction.
Bitcoins are stored in a "digital wallet" — a kind of virtual bank account that allows users to send or receive bitcoins, pay for goods or save their money. 
Its price has taken off this year as mainstream investors have become more interested.
National governments are trying to keep up, puzzling over how to regulate bitcoin and other so-called cryptocurrencies. Countries like China and Venezuela have expressed interested in creating their own digital forms of money.
Related: Venezuela plans its own version of bitcoin
WHY HAVE PRICES GONE CRAZY?
Some experts say the biggest force pushing bitcoin prices higher this year has been ... higher prices.
Investors have been buying in this year out of "FOMO," or the fear of missing out, according to Dave Chapman, managing director of Octagon Strategy, a Hong Kong-based cryptocurrency exchange.
"There is admittedly a lot of speculation in this market," he said.

Bitcoin is also being driven higher by the hands-off approach many financial regulators seem to be taking toward the digital currency, Chapman said.
Japan's government, for example, gave bitcoin the seal of approval and started licensing bitcoin exchanges earlier this year.
The only black mark has been China, which has been cracking down on some uses of the virtual currency.
Announcements from some major financial institutions in the U.S. are helping bitcoin gain greater mainstream acceptance.
Related: Bitcoin craziness spreads to Overstock, Square
This month, investors will be able to start trading bitcoin futures via the Chicago Board Options Exchange and Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
New York's Nasdaq plans to launch its own bitcoin futures in 2018.
"The fact the CME, CBOE and Nasdaq will now all offer bitcoin products lends additional legitimacy" to the digital currency, said Chapman.
WHO'S BUYING IT?
For much of this year, it's mom-and-pop investors who have been buying in.
Many are in Japan and South Korea, where recent regulation changes have made it easier to trade bitcoin, according to experts.
But the biggest gains from the virtual currency's massive rally are likely to be concentrated among a relatively small number of investors.
Related: Russia eyes cryptocurrency dominance
When you invest in bitcoin, you don't have to buy a whole unit. According to research site BitInfoCharts, the vast majority of bitcoin accounts contain just 0.1 bitcoin or less. Just 3% of more than 20 million bitcoin accounts hold one bitcoin or more.
Big institutional investors such as hedge funds and assets managers have largely stayed on the sidelines. But some experts predict they'll move into the market in the coming months, despite skepticism from the likes of Warren Buffett and JPMorgan Chase (JPM) CEO Jamie Dimon.
WHAT'S NEXT?
Some industry insiders are incredibly bullish.
Arthur Hayes, CEO of Hong Kong bitcoin exchange Bitmex, predicts prices could hit a mind-boggling $50,000 by the end of next year, driven by the flow of money when institutional investors "pull the trigger" on investing in the digital currency.
Octagon's Chapman is willing to stick his neck out even further. He thinks it will go above $100,000 before 2018 is over.
Related: Nobel winner says bitcoin 'ought to be outlawed'
With a total value of around $270 billion, the bitcoin market is small compared with more established assets.
"This is a drop in the ocean compared to the trillions transacted daily" in currency and stock markets, said Thomas Glucksmann, head of marketing at Hong Kong bitcoin exchange Gatecoin. Just a small amount of mainstream investors' money would make a big difference to bitcoin prices, he said.

But some finance industry veterans are wary.
Oanda's Innes, who has worked in currency trading for decades, referenced a famous piece of investment advice from Buffett: "Be fearful when others are greedy."
"Following the herd rarely produces large scale gains," Innes said.
Investors were given a reminder of bitcoin's unpredictability in November. After topping $11,000, it plunged more than $2,000 before resuming its ascent.


But bitcoin's value on various exchanges can be quite different.
One exchange, Coinbase, listed the price of a single bitcoin at more than $18,400 at one point Thursday morning. By the evening, it showed it trading around $17,300.
Related: What's driving the bitcoin frenzy
No matter what exchange you check, bitcoin has experienced a stunning rise this year. It's drawn increasing attention from mainstream investors.
The cryptocurrency has climbed -- with a few sharp dips along the way -- despite a flurry of warnings from top economists and business leaders.
Related: Millions of dollars may have been stolen in bitcoin hack
"Bitcoin now seems like a charging train with no brakes," said Shane Chanel, an adviser at investment services firm ASR Wealth Advisers. "There is an unfathomable amount of new participants piling into the cryptocurrency market."
Bitcoin is the most popular cryptocurrency -- a kind of virtual "coin" that is "mined" by computers using complex algorithms.
During its epic rally this year, bitcoin has suffered a series of steep drops, reminding of its extreme volatility. After breaking above $11,000 last week, it abruptly plunged by more than $2,000 before resuming its climb.
Related: Nobel winner says bitcoin 'ought to be outlawed'
Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz said last week that bitcoin "ought to be outlawed." But experts inside the industry predict its rally has a lot farther to run.
Bitcoin's rapid rise this year has been powered in part by expectations that established fund managers are set to start pouring money into the virtual currency as it gains legitimacy.

The digital currency has also gotten a big lift this year from mom-and-pop investors in countries like South Korea and Japan who don't want to miss out on the prospect of more big gains.
But a study published this week by Natixis Investment Managers, a major French asset management firm, found that 64% of institutional investors think bitcoin is a bubble.


"Investors seem to be taking a shoot first, ask questions later approach," RBC Capital Markets analyst Shelby Tucker wrote in a research note Tuesday.
Related: This stock has lost almost 20% since the California wildfires
The series of blazes have scorched more than 83,000 acres in Ventura, Santa Barbara and Los Angeles counties. Around 13,000 residents didn't have power as of 9 a.m. Pacific Time Wednesday, Edison said.
Edison has said there's "no indication that the company's facilities were a source of these fires," but some investors are worried the company could be forced to foot the bill if it's found liable for them.
In a major decision last week, California's Public Utilities Commission ruled that a San Diego utility was responsible for a 2007 fire. The utility had to pay nearly $400 million in damages and was forbidden from passing those charges onto customers.
Edison's losses come on the heels of concerns about PG&E's role in the October wildfires that devastated Northern California's wine country. PG&E (PCG), California's largest utility company, has shed about $8 billion in market value since the fires.
"Investors are extremely concerned about open-ended utility liability for fire damage in California," Morgan Stanley analyst Stephen Byrd wrote in a note Wednesday.


The move was announced in a letter sent to all NFL owners Wednesday by the league's compensation committee, which is comprised of six owners: Arthur Blank of the Falcons, Clark Hunt of the Chiefs, Robert K. Kraft of the Patriots, John Mara of the Giants, Bob McNair of the Texans and Art Rooney of the Steelers.
"Our Committee unanimously supports the contract and believes that it is fully consistent with "market" compensation and the financial and other parameters outlined to the owners at our May 2017 meeting, as well as in the best interests of ownership," the letter, which was obtained by CNNMoney, reads.
Related: Thursday night's NFL game is getting a whole new look
Goodell has faced criticism over how he has handled domestic violence issues as well as players protesting racial injustice on the field.
When some players kneeled during the National Anthem, many felt the gesture was disrespectful. While Goodell made it clear he believed players should stand, he didn't create a rule requiring them to stand, which sparked a backlash.
By far the biggest obstacle to his contract extension was posed by Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones. He was a vocal critic of the deal and even threatened to sue his fellow owners in an attempt to block negotiations.
Members of the committee told Jones that his actions were "damaging the league," and that he should stop trying to sabotage their work.
Eventually Jones stepped back from his threat of a lawsuit.
The letter from the compensation committee sent Wednesday describes the decision to re-up Goodell's contract as a move to "avoid further controversy," though it did not explicitly state to which controversy it was referring.
Related: Papa John's says NFL protests are hurting sales
One thing working in Goodell's favor was the timing of his contract's expiration.
The league's collective bargaining agreement with players expires after the 2020 season, and several lucrative TV deals end in 2021 and 2022.
If the NFL had decided to bring in a new commissioner, that person would only have had a year or so to get up to speed. And they might not be as skilled at negotiating as Goodell. The past two TV deals he did were favorable for owners, according to former NFL attorney Jodi Balsam.
The league is also dealing with declining TV ratings and growing concerns about brain injuries caused by high-impact hits to the head.
While it's unclear how much Goodell will be making with his new contract, a source familiar with the deal said 85% of his compensation will be performance based.
He was paid $31.7 million in 2015, the most recent figure publicly available.
His salary was cut continually between 2012, when he made $44.2 million, and 2015. That is when the NFL dropped its federal tax exemption. As a result, Goodell's salary is no longer public.
Goodell took the job in 2006. Between 2008 and 2015, he was paid more than $205 million.


Related: Treasury's tax analysis still missing ahead of key Senate vote
Wyden said the 2102 economic paper had "contradicted" an assertion made by Mnuchin in September about how corporate tax cuts could ultimately benefit workers.
Earlier this fall, the secretary said "most economists believe that over 70% of corporate taxes are paid for by the workers." However, the paper by the agency's Office of Tax Policy "strongly disputed that conclusion," arguing that workers only end up paying for 18% of corporate taxes. That paper later disappeared from the Treasury Department's website.
Rich Delmar, general counsel for the Treasury inspector general, told CNN the agency is working to incorporate questions posed by the senator into the agency's ongoing review.
Delmar didn't offer any guidance on when its review would be complete, but he called the issue a "top priority" for the agency.
A Treasury spokeswoman did not respond to a request for comment.
Related: Poor Americans would lose billions under Senate GOP tax bill
Wyden's request comes on the heels of another letter sent to the inspector general of the agency by Democratic Sen. Elizabeth Warren last week. Her letter, which was sent the day before the Senate prepared to vote on a sweeping tax reform plan, raised concerns about the promised analysis that has yet to be released by the agency.
The IG's office had begun looking into the matter before it received Warren's letter, according to Delmar.
In her letter, Warren also raised the possibility Mnuchin had "misled the public about the extent of the Treasury Department's analysis, "despite his repeated public assurances that an analysis existed and the tax plan would 'pay for itself.'"
Mnuchin has repeatedly pledged that more than 100 career staff members were "working around the clock on running scenarios" to show how the costs of the $1.5 trillion GOP proposal would be covered by economic growth. He even noted in September that an in-house analysis showed the bill would reduce the deficit by $1 trillion rather than increase it.
Related: Republicans working on tax hike 'trigger' to ease deficit concerns
At The Wall Street CEO Council conference in November, Mnuchin reaffirmed that Treasury had completed an analysis and pledged "complete transparency" in its accounting for the growth benefits of the tax plans.
The agency has yet to release anything.
Warren has asked the inspector general to find out whether Treasury's staff were directed to analyze the Republican tax proposal at all and if so, why the results weren't publicly released or given to Congress. She also asked the inspector to look into whether there was any political interference that would have impacted the outcome of the analysis or who participated in the efforts.


"As the U.S. economy begins to show signs of life and shake off the doldrums of a slow recovery, and Americans hit the mall to get their holiday spirit on as they await the much-anticipated tax reform (or cut), the timing could not be worse," Bovino wrote.
"In particular, if a shutdown were to take place so far into the quarter, fourth-quarter GDP would not have time to bounce back, which could shake investors and consumers and, as a result, possibly snuff out any economic momentum," she added.
President Trump has already said that a shutdown "could happen" and he was blaming Democrats for threatening to vote against a spending bill unless there are changes made to some of Trump's controversial stances on immigration policy.
Bovino said she still thinks the odds of a shutdown happening are slim. In fact, her report Wednesday is an update from one she put out in August -- before a deal was reached just after Labor Day with Democrats to keep funding going through mid-December.
Investors don't seem overly nervous either. Stocks were flat Wednesday and remain not too far from their all-time highs.
But Bovino conceded that anything is possible in Washington these days.
"Betting the holiday budget on a rational U.S. government may be a risky proposition that leaves the cupboards bare to start 2018," she wrote.
Related: How tax reform could hinder innovation in the U.S.
Bovino added that Trump's rhetoric about Democrats wanting to let in more illegal immigrants could make negotiations even more difficult.
"The unthinkable has suddenly wandered into the realm of what may come to pass," she wrote.
So how much of a hit could the economy take if there is no deal? The S&P Global team of economists estimated that a shutdown would trim at least 0.2% points, or $6.5 billion, from real GDP growth for each week a shutdown lasts.
Government workers will be hurt, as would private contractors who will be losing out on getting paid during a shutdown.
"Holiday vacations and school trips may be curtailed when hundreds of national parks and monuments are closed for business," Bovino wrote. "And with the risk of fewer paychecks, some may rethink whether it's practical to travel home for the holidays."
But there's a bigger issue at play as well. Any stalemate on the budget could potentially impact negotiations to raise the government's borrowing limit, the so-called debt ceiling.
"The shutdown and the looming debt ceiling combined could significantly hurt business and consumer sentiment, as well as the overall economy," Bovino wrote.
It gets worse.
"Government disarray may dim the afterglow that GOP lawmakers hope to bask in" if a reconciled tax bill makes it through the House and Senate and is then signed into law by Trump.
Related: Here's what's in the Senate tax bill -- and how it differs from the House
And then there's this dire warning.
"The impact of a default by the U.S. government on its debts would be worse than the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, devastating markets and the economy," Bovino wrote, adding that "the economy would fall back into a recession, wiping out much of the progress made by the recovery."
The last time that the U.S. seriously flirted with a default in 2011, S&P wound up downgrading the nation's credit rating -- even though lawmakers did wind up raising the debt ceiling at the last minute.
So here's hoping lawmakers and President Trump come to their senses and don't wind up being the Grinch this holiday season.


These insurance policies were sold to Wells Fargo (WFC) customers at computer kiosks inside bank branches between 2008 and 2016.
Even though the insurance policies were provided by Prudential (PRU) and other third-parties, Wells Fargo's notoriously unrealistic sales goals counted these insurance referrals towards employee compensation goals.
"Many customers complained they simply had no knowledge of ever signing up for such policies," the complaint said.
Other Wells Fargo customers said bank employees entered their information onto a policy application "in the guise of merely issuing a quote, when in fact such applications were later submitted." That's despite the fact that the kiosks were supposed to be "self service" because Wells Fargo workers weren't licensed to sell insurance.
Authorities said Wells Fargo "caused" a total of 1,469 unauthorized insurance policies to be issued to California customers. It's not clear how many customers from other states were impacted.
California regulators are now moving to suspend or even revoke Wells Fargo's insurance licenses, after the investigation found the bank "lacking in integrity," "not of good business reputation" and having "shown incompetency or untrustworthiness."
The probe also determined that Wells Fargo employees were selling insurance without a license.
"We are sorry for any harm this caused our customers," Wells Fargo said in a statement, adding that it's been cooperating with California authorities. Wells Fargo said it suspended the bank's online insurance operation in December 2016 and is "making things right" for customers with refunds.
Related: Wells Fargo fires powerful exec for misconduct
It's the latest example of Wells Fargo's rotten sales culture hurting customers. The bank has uncovered as many as 3.5 million fake bank and credit card accounts created by workers trying to meet unreachable goals.
Last week, Wells Fargo announced plans to exit the personal insurance business. It's a significant shift for Wells Fargo. Since 2003 the bank has provided auto, homeowners, renters and umbrella personal insurance products. It plans to keep its life insurance business.
Most of the unauthorized insurance sales took place between 2008 and 2012 and concerned renters insurance issued by American Modern Insurance Group. Premiums typically ranged between $12 and $28 per month and were often automatically transferred from customer's bank accounts.
Wells Fargo caused 1,258 unauthorized American Modern Insurance Group renters insurance policies to be issued, regulators allege. American Modern Insurance Group did not respond to requests for comment.
Investigators found another six unauthorized renters insurance policies provided by Assurant (AIZ), which replaced American Modern Insurance Group in 2012.
In a statement, Assurant said it has been "made aware of this matter" but it does not "comment on ongoing investigations.
Wells Fargo's branch kiosks also allowed customers to sign up for term life insurance provided by Great-West Financial and Prudential. These policies had monthly premiums of $29 to $37.
California regulators uncovered 187 unauthorized Great-West term life insurance policies sold to Wells Fargo policies. Great-West terminated its agreement with Wells Fargo in 2014 following complaints, according to regulators.
"We did not suspect any fraudulent activity on the part of Wells Fargo," a Great-West spokesman said. "We ended the relationship because we did not believe the business model was effective."
Related: More Wells Fargo workers allege retaliation for whistleblowing
There were another 18 unauthorized term life insurance policies at Wells Fargo when Prudential took over in 2014.
Prudential suspended its agreement with Wells Fargo in December 2016 and launched a review of the insurer's relationship with the bank. That decision came after Prudential employees alleged in a lawsuit that Wells Fargo customers were sold insurance products they didn't want. The Prudential lawsuit said that some insurance applications listed obviously fake home and email addresses on their applications like "Wells Fargo Drive" or "noemail@wellsfargo.com"
An investigation released earlier this year by Wells Fargo's board of directors acknowledged that "sales practice concerns" have been "implicated" with the bank's online insurance program. The board report said Wells Fargo has hired outside lawyers to conduct a probe into the insurance problems.
Prudential declined to comment. The insurer has said it's willing to reimburse concerned customers.
A spokeswoman for the California Department of Insurance said that any decision to suspend or revoke Wells Fargo's license would block the bank from selling life insurance in California.


"It defies logic and wisdom, not to mention the Bankruptcy Code, that a bankrupt company would now propose further multi-million dollar bonuses for the senior leadership of a company that began the year with employee layoffs and concludes it in the midst of the holiday season in bankruptcy," she argued in her filing. "Apparently, this Christmas, Toys "R" Us intends to deliver not only 'children their biggest smiles of the year' but the insiders, too."
Related: Make or break holiday shopping season for battered retailers
In its filings in favor of the bonusues, the company had argued the payments were necessary to get executives to perform at a high level during its bankruptcy.
"It is the [company's] employees - and more particularly the senior management team - that must execute at this critical juncture and provide the foundation for a successful turnaround," it said in a filing.
U.S. Bankruptcy Court Judge Keith Phillips approved the payouts on Tuesday. Because Toys "R" Us filed for bankruptcy in September, it must now must get court approval for many of its basic business decisions.
These new bonuses will be in addition to another $8.2 million in retention bonuses paid to some of these same executives before Toys "R" Us filed for bankruptcy. They would be required to return the retention payments should they quit the company within a year of receiving them.
Among the 17 executives who would get payments is chairman and CEO David Brandon, who joined the company in 2015.
Related: Why Hasbro might buy Mattel
The company said it also has filed for an incentive program for other employees beyond the senior management, and that such bonus plans are standard practice for companies going through a bankruptcy restructuring.
While the company asked for $16 million, the bonus plan could actually pay out $32 million if the company reaches much better than expected profit targets. But that's a result the company "will find very difficult to achieve," according to the filing.
The company said it had 1,600 stores at the time of the bankruptcy filing, and 65,000 employees, although it has gone ahead with plans to hire additional seasonal help for the holiday season. It lost $330 million in the first half of this year as sales fell by 5%, and has lost more than $1.8 billion since its last reported an annual profit five years ago.
Toys "R" Us has been struggling for years, not just with a shift of consumers buying goods from online competitors such as Amazon (AMZN), but also with increased competition from traditional brick-and-mortar retailers such as Wal-Mart (WMT) and Target (TGT).
Bankruptcy filings this year alone include Gymboree, Payless Shoes and RadioShack, which recently completed its second trip through bankruptcy.
Bankruptcies in the retail sector are up about 30% so far this year, according to BankruptcyData.com, and the number of store closings has more than tripled to about 6,700, breaking the record set during the worst of the Great Recession.


Usually attended by heads of state, only two took part in Tuesday's summit: the emir of the host country, Kuwait, and his counterpart from Qatar. Other countries sent less senior officials.
Close allies Saudi Arabia and the UAE also chose Tuesday to unveil their own plans for even deeper bilateral cooperation in political, economic, military and cultural fields -- without reference to the GCC.
"While the GCC will continue to exist on paper, it is likely to become ever less relevant in reality," said Kristian Ulrichsen, associate fellow at the Middle East and North Africa program at Chatham House, an international affairs think tank in London.

The GCC was formed in 1981 to coordinate policy. It has had some notable successes, such as establishing a customs union in 2003 and a common market in 2008. Its citizens are supposed to be able to travel and work in any member state, and goods and services move much more freely across borders.
Related: Oil pain continues: IMF slashes growth forecast for Gulf states
It also helped deal with the economic fallout from the 2014-2015 slump in oil prices that wreaked havoc on government finances. In February, GCC members agreed to introduce a sales tax, although the details about rates and timing were left to the individual states.
Other, more ambitious, plans have failed.
Hopes for creating a single currency -- the Gulf Dinar -- were dashed in 2009 when the UAE withdrew after Riyadh was chosen as the location for the proposed central bank. And a Saudi proposal in 2013 to transform the GCC into a bloc similar to the European Union fizzled out. Most foreign and economic policy is still made independently by GCC member states.

Experts said the decision by Saudi Arabia and the UAE to establish a bilateral cooperation committee signaled a serious intent, and could have significant consequences for the GCC.
"It can be interpreted as a step towards a union stronger than the existing confederate nature of the GCC," said Amer Al Adhadh, a non-resident fellow of the Atlantic Council, a think tank based in Washington. "The next few moves by the committee should be interesting in defining the extent of this."
"Where this leaves Oman and Kuwait, still less Qatar, is still uncertain," said Chatham House's Ulrichsen. "But Bahrain is likely to fall into the Saudi-UAE partnership, so at the very least a two- or even three-tier Gulf is evolving."
The decision by Saudi Arabia, UAE and Bahrain to cut diplomatic ties and transport links with Qatar in June took the region by surprise. They accused Qatar of funding terrorism, a charge it denies.
The three countries ordered Qataris to leave their countries, and their citizens to return home indefinitely. They also presented the small but wealthy country with a list of demands it must meet in order to restore normalcy.
Efforts to restore ties, brokered by the emir of Kuwait, Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah, have so far proved fruitless.
Related: Qatar burns $38 billion in reserves as boycott bites
This is not the first time the GCC has been put to the test. In 2014, Saudi Arabia, UAE and Bahrain withdrew their ambassadors from Doha after accusing Qatar of ignoring an agreement not to interfere in each others' affairs.
Qatar is seen as a supporter of Islamist groups such as the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt and elsewhere in the Middle East -- which are viewed with suspicion or outright hostility by some fellow GCC members. Qatar has also been criticized by its Gulf neighbors for cosying up to Iran.
Still, some observers say it's too soon to call the death of the council.
"It's right for some people to feel let down after the 38th cooperation summit... but those who think the council has ended are ignorant," tweeted Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, a political science analyst in the UAE.


"Tesla's addressable market of sustainable transport will attract fierce competition from some of the world's best capitalized tech firms with arguably superior access to capital, talent and business models that can monetize vehicle data and content opportunities," Jonas wrote.
Jonas added that this is "threatening the long-term independence of Tesla as a stand-alone entity."
Tesla is currently valued at about $50 billion, making it worth more than established auto giants Ford (F), Fiat Chrysler (FCAU) and Nissan (NSANY) and putting it within striking distance of surpassing GM (GM) and Honda (HMC).
But even though Tesla's stock is still up 40% in 2017, it has plunged more than 20% since it hit an all-time high near $390 a share in mid-September.
Concerns about production delays for the Model 3, which is meant to be Tesla's affordable, mass market car, are weighing on the company.
The fact that Tesla has added yet another new product to the mix -- a Semi truck -- also has investors nervous about Tesla biting off more than it can chew.
And there are lingering questions about whether Tesla's acquisition of SolarCity, a renewable energy company, co-founded by two of his cousins, of which Musk was chairman, will serve as yet another distraction for the still unprofitable Tesla.
Related: Tesla's truck won't be out until 2019...but there are already orders for it
That's where SpaceX comes in. SpaceX, which has backing from Musk as well as venture capital firm Draper Fisher Jurvetson, mutual fund giant Fidelity and Google owner Alphabet, is valued at $21.5 billion, according to research firm CB Insights.
That makes SpaceX the sixth-most valuable unicorn startup on the planet, albeit a company that's not as big as Tesla.
But Jonas thinks SpaceX has a brighter future than Tesla. He argues SpaceX could be worth as much as $121 billion if everything goes right for the company. The space travel business could be worth as much as $1.75 trillion by 2040, Jonas wrote.
And while SpaceX must contend with the Jeff Bezos-backed Blue Origin and United Launch Alliance -- a joint venture of Lockheed Martin (LMT) and Boeing (BA) -- there is far less competition than there is in the automotive world.
"Our preliminary modeling of SpaceX reveals a launch business that could be in a highly dominant position, positioning the company to enter highly profitable markets, such as proprietary satellite broadband," Jonas wrote.
Related: Musk trolls Tesla haters on Twitter
Jonas noted that Tesla and SpaceX already share knowledge about manufacturing -- particularly the use of aluminum casting --and that SpaceX employees have often been used to beta test Tesla cars. So a further alliance wouldn't be out of the question.
A merger of Tesla and SpaceX could also reassure Wall Street that Musk will remain as focused on his electric car business as he is on one day setting foot on Mars.
"Investors widely expect Elon Musk to, over time, devote increasing amounts of his time and talents to SpaceX, raising the very real question of who could replace him at Tesla. A combination of efforts between the two firms could address this important issue," Jonas wrote.
Jonas added that there seems to be a shift in how Musk has addressed the SpaceX-Tesla speculation in the past year.
Related: Tesla board member leaves firm amidst misconduct allegations
During a conference call in August 2016, Musk said, "I don't think there's a strong product rationale to combine SpaceX and Tesla" and added that while the companies cooperate, "it's not enough that would justify merging them into one entity."
Fast forward to August of this year though and Musk said the "cross-fertilization of knowledge from the rocket and spacecraft history to auto...has really been quite valuable" and it's helped him think about how Tesla can better make mass-market vehicles.
Tesla and SpaceX were not immediately available for comment about the Morgan Stanley report.


Related: Trump's top trade issues: Where they stand
The Commerce Department took up the case in November. It hit Vietnam on Tuesday with duties of more than 500% on cold-rolled steel that's based on Chinese materials and over 200% on corrosion-resistant steel with similar origins.
Steel has for years been a major point of trade friction between the U.S. and China, the world's biggest producer of the metal.
American and European steelmakers have accused China of dumping its unwanted metal on other markets, pushing down prices, forcing rivals to close their plants and killing thousands of jobs.
U.S. Steel said the move "represents a critical step to shutting down one of the many paths used to flood the U.S. with dumped and subsidized steel."
"This decision presents an encouraging sign for the steel industry and should put other countries and companies on notice that their cheating will no longer be tolerated," the company said in a statement.
Beijing has defended itself, saying overcapacity is a global problem brought on by weaker demand.
The Chinese and Vietnamese governments didn't immediately respond to requests for comment Wednesday.
Related: U.S. trade deficit with China and Mexico is growing
Last month, a European Union agency said it had also found that Chinese steel was being rerouted through Vietnam to evade tariffs, according to Reuters.
President Trump has criticized China in the past over steel, accusing it of cheating on prices. But his administration hasn't yet announced the results of a separate investigation into whether shipments of steel from other countries pose a risk to national security.
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross had said his team would announce its findings, which could result in big tariffs, by the end of June. But Trump told The Wall Street Journal in July that he wanted to tackle several other big goals, including passing tax cuts, before he returned to the investigation.
The U.S. Commerce Department said Tuesday that it would make its final ruling on the Vietnam steel case in February.


The firm, which was scheduled to publish its annual report on Wednesday, said it would release the results "when it is in a position to do so."
It said it would also investigate whether previous financial results need to be corrected.

Steinhoff, which was already facing a criminal and tax investigation in Germany, said that it approached PwC about conducting an independent investigation into its accounting issues.
The firm's market value on Tuesday had been roughly €13 billion ($15.4 billion).
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
The fallout spread quickly.
Steinhoff spun off its Africa business earlier this year, but retains a majority stake in the firm. Its stock tumbled by as much as 29% in Johannesburg.
Steinhoff reminded shareholders in a statement that it "has a number of high quality profitable businesses around the world" and urged them to "exercise caution."


The stumbling block remains how to pay for the reauthorization bill that will fund CHIP for the next five years. The House bill, which passed in November largely along party lines, would squeeze funds out of the Affordable Care Act and Medicare, which Democrats have decried. The Senate hasn't made much progress on the bill and hasn't specified how it would pay for the funding.
Congress is under a lot of pressure to provide some immediate support for CHIP as part of its temporary funding plan to prevent a shutdown Friday. The legislation "includes a provision to assure states of the future of the Children's Health Insurance Program while a bipartisan reauthorization agreement is completed," said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell Tuesday.
Related: Displaced Puerto Ricans face obstacles getting health care
Not every state can simply end coverage for children. It depends on how they set up their programs.
States have been able to keep their CHIP programs going since the federal funding expired by using their unspent allotments and by receiving grants from the federal Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. Some 16 states, plus the District of Columbia, have received a total of $1.2 billion of the $2.9 billion available in grants, said Maureen Hensley-Quinn, senior program director at the National Academy for State Health Policy.
Are your children currently enrolled in CHIP? Are you concerned they may lose their health insurance because Congress has not reauthorized the program. Tell me about it at healthcarestories@cnn.com. You could be featured in an upcoming CNNMoney story.
However, some states are starting to run out of funds, and a few have begun notifying parents that benefits may end in coming months. Some 3.7 million kids were enrolled in standalone CHIP programs, and 1.2 million of them could become uninsured if they can't afford alternate coverage, according to the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission.
Late last month, Colorado began informing parents that the program will end on Jan. 31 if Congress doesn't reauthorize the funds. The state, which has 75,000 children and 800 pregnant women enrolled in CHIP, urges them to get whatever medical care they need now and to start researching private insurance options.
Related: Senate may strengthen Obamacare even as it kills individual mandate
Both parents and medical providers are worried about what this would mean, said Colorado Lieutenant Governor Donna Lynne.
"You can imagine the uncertainty it creates for families," Lynne said. "Providers are very concerned about their patients."
Oklahoma, meanwhile, is telling participants in some of its CHIP-funded programs that their coverage may terminate at the end of February if Congress doesn't act.
There's not much parents can do if their states eliminate the program, said Genevieve Kenney, co-director of the Health Policy Center at the Urban Institute.
"They can't really prepare for this," she said. "There's not much in their control that can minimize the fallout."
Even if Congress agrees to reauthorize the program, some policy experts fear the damage can be long lasting.
The CHIP program has greatly reduced the number of uninsured children in America. But if parents think the program is unstable, they may not opt to enroll their kids, said Joan Alker, executive director of the Center for Children and Families at Georgetown University.


"This wipes out everything that President Trump has done for coal," said Murray, the CEO of Murray Energy, one of America's largest coal companies.
The tax bill the Senate passed last week would help companies by lowering the corporate tax rate, but it also eliminates some tax breaks.
For coal companies, it could be a double-whammy. It would preserve the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) and impose new limits on the interest payments that businesses can write off. Murray Energy estimates that these changes would raise its tax bill by $60 million per year.
The House bill eliminates the AMT, something that would save Murray Energy and other companies money. The AMT prevents companies from claiming so many tax credits and deductions that they owe Uncle Sam nothing at all.
Like other coal companies, Murray Energy borrows heavily to pay for its expensive mining operations. The Senate bill would cap the amount of interest payments that can be written off to 30% of a company's income.
Auto dealers would also have been harmed by the Senate bill's interest deduction cap. But, after fierce lobbying from auto dealers, the Senate made a last-minute change to the legislation that exempts them from the interest deduction cap.
Related: Senate bill would allow oil drilling in Alaskan refuge
Murray declined to say if he shared his concerns with Trump, who has promised to "put our coal miners back to work" by reducing environmental regulations. Trump attended a West Virginia fundraiser hosted by Murray in June 2016.
"I know he cares about the coal miners and their jobs," Murray said.
Murray warned that a bankruptcy of his Ohio-based company would hurt its 5,500 employees along with their families. Asked if other coal mining companies could go out of business, he said: "Most certainly."
Roughly half of American coal jobs have disappeared since the end of 2011 amid a wave of coal bankruptcies, according to a Columbia University study. The research found that coal's decline has been mostly caused by an abundance of cheap natural gas that has led power plants to switch away from coal. Regulation, which Trump commonly blames for coal's troubles, also hurt coal but not by as much as natural gas.
More recently, the coal industry has been pressured by declining costs for renewable energy like solar and wind.
Related: John Oliver sued by coal CEO over 'character assassination'
Murray's comments about the tax overhaul are not the first time he's made dire predictions about his own business.
In August, Murray warned that his company could immediately go bankrupt if the Trump administration didn't issue an emergency order protecting coal-fired power plants from being closed. "Our time is running out. Please fight for us," Murray wrote in a letter to the White House.
The Trump administration ultimately rejected the cry for help, deciding there wasn't enough evidence to "warrant the use of this emergency authority."
Murray told CNNMoney that his company now believes it can survive by ramping up exports. That could shield Murray Energy from the shutdown of more U.S. power plants that it supplies. "We believe we can get through it," he said.
Murray is known for fiercely defending the coal industry. In June, he filed a defamation lawsuit against comedian John Oliver, HBO and CNN owner Time Warner (TWX), alleging "character assassination" during an episode of "Last Week Tonight." HBO has filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit. A hearing on the motion is scheduled for January 10 in West Virginia, according to an HBO spokesman.
The coal boss has also enraged environmentalists by repeatedly denying the risks posed by climate change, a stance he repeated on Tuesday.
"Climate change is not only a hoax, it's a fraud," Murray said.
--CNNMoney's Lydia DePillis and Chris Isidore contributed to this report.


Speculation reached a fever pitch after the Financial Times said that Murdoch's son James could join Disney as part of the deal, and perhaps succeed CEO Bob Iger.
The two companies have declined to comment, but investors won't be changing the channel.
2. Retail trouble: Shares in Steinhoff International plunged as much as 60% on Wednesday.
Steinhoff isn't a household name in the U.S. But the retailer is a major player in Africa and Europe, where its holdings include the U.K.'s Poundland.
CEO Markus Jooste resigned on Wednesday and the company announced an investigation into "accounting irregularities."
Steinhoff also delayed its annual results, saying it would publish "when it is in a position to do so."
3. Global markets drop: It's shaping up to be a tough day for stocks.
U.S. stock futures were lower. European markets were awash in red, following the mood set in Asia.
The benchmark Shanghai Composite was about the only index to buck the trend, posting a gain of nearly 0.7%.
U.S. oil futures dropped 0.4% to trade near $57 per barrel.
On Tuesday, the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 0.5%. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq suffered smaller losses.
4. But wait! Bitcoin is back: Bitcoin has surged above $12,000 for the first time.
The digital currency is up 1,100% since the start of the year -- despite leading figures in finance and economics warning of a bubble.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Companies and economics: American Eagle (AEO) and H&R Block (HRB) will release earnings before the open, while Broadcom (AVGO) and lululemon (LULU) will follow after the close.
The U.S. crude inventories report for the week of December 2 is set to be released at 10:30 a.m. ET.
Canada's central bank will announce an interest rates decision at 10 a.m. ET.
The Australian dollar dropped against other major currencies after new data showed the economy grew slower than expected in the third quarter. Australia has not suffered a recession, defined as two consecutive quarters of contraction, since 1991.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Wednesday -- H&R Block (HRB), American Eagle (AEO) earnings Thursday -- DOJ vs. AT&T status conference Friday -- Jobs report


Related: What the heck is going on with bitcoin?
Much of the stunning ascent has been driven by the expectation that big, professional investors are set to start trading it. It's also been propelled by mom-and-pop investors who don't want to miss its meteoric rise.
People are bidding its price higher even though leading figures in finance and economics are telling them to beware.
Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz said last week that bitcoin "ought to be outlawed." Criticism has also come from the likes of JPMorgan Chase (JPM) CEO Jamie Dimon and legendary investor Warren Buffett.
Related: Nobel winner says bitcoin 'ought to be outlawed'
But some financial institutions are helping bring bitcoin more into the mainstream.
Starting next week, investors will be able to trade bitcoin futures via the Chicago Board Options Exchange, which is expected to increase interest from hedge funds and big asset managers.
Futures allow traders to bet on the future price of assets like currencies, metals and agricultural commodities.

The Chicago Mercantile Exchange is set to follow with a similar move later in December, while New York's Nasdaq wants to list bitcoin futures starting in the middle of next year.
"The fact the CME, CBOE and Nasdaq will now all offer bitcoin products lends additional legitimacy," said Dave Chapman, managing director at Hong Kong's Octagon Strategy, a digital currency exchange.
Bitcoin is one of many cryptocurrencies, virtual "coins" that are "mined" by computers using complex algorithms.
Its recent rise has been far from smooth. After powering past $11,000 last week, it plunged by more than $2,000, providing a stark reminder of its extreme volatility.
Related: Can anything stop bitcoin?
But cryptocurrency industry insiders are unfazed. They predict bitcoin will soar far higher in the coming months.
Arthur Hayes, CEO of Hong Kong's Bitmex, an exchange for trading financial instruments based on bitcoin, told CNNMoney last week that he thinks it could hit $50,000 next year.
Octagon's Chapman is willing to go even further. He believes bitcoin could reach $100,000 before 2018 is out despite a growing number of rival cryptocurrencies that could vie for investors' attention.
Bitcoin is "the most battle hardened and proven cryptocurrency right now," he said. "For now, it's unsurpassable."


Those senators, along with others, offered legislative fixes -- including protecting private student loan borrowers, holding financial executives accountable for causing harm to the U.S. economy and providing consumers with stronger tools to control their credit reports.
While a number of technical corrections were made, none of the proposed changes were adopted.
"I will offer amendments today to try to make improvements to this bill," said Brown at the hearing. "But I am not optimistic that many will be adopted, because what is driving this bill is the demands of the banking industry, not the needs of ordinary Americans."
Related: Next up: Big fight over Dodd-Frank rollback
In order to advance the bill, Republicans and several moderate Democrats on the Senate panel brokered a deal not to accept any amendments to the legislative proposal, which was spearheaded by the committee chairman, Sen. Mike Crapo.
Crapo's measure not only raises the threshold for too-big-to-fail banks but it also exempts financial institutions with less than $10 billion in assets from the so-called Volcker Rule, which bars banks from making risky market bets with their own capital.
"This bill, like the tax bill last week and the health care bill before it, sends the message that this Congress is not very interested in helping hardworking middle class Americans," said Brown during the hearing.
Crapo agreed there were gaps in the proposal, but said a driving reason certain provisions were not included was a failure to reach bipartisan agreement on many of them.
"Some of us, I'm one and you're one," Crapo said, as he nodded to Brown, "would like to see other financial issues covered. But we were not able to get the kind of consensus we needed on many of them."
At the outset of the hearing, a number of senators made clear they planned to vote down any legislative fixes in order to honor the months of work to craft the bipartisan legislation.
"This bill is a product of months of bipartisan negotiation," said Sen. Jon Tester, a Democrat, who described proposed amendments as having "the sole goal of potentially driving wedges" between lawmakers.
"The fact is it's been years. We've been at this for five or six years negotiating on a bill -- and this is the final product," he said.
Senators on both sides of the aisle acknowledged their Democratic colleagues offered "many good agreements," but said they would still stick to their pledges.
"We've agreed to link arms to make sure that we don't move this bill dramatically in any one direction or the other," said Sen. Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat.
Related: Republicans say CFPB is crippling the economy. Really?
While Tester acknowledged he and other members of the panel didn't get everything they wanted, he said the proposal is "a very good step."
That sentiment was echoed by Republican lawmakers, who also noted its imperfections.
"This is a good bill ... but there ain't no Coupe de Ville hiding at the bottom of a Cracker Jack box," Sen. John Kennedy, a Republican, said referencing a song by Meatloaf called "Two Out of Three Ain't Bad."
"There are going to be some amendments offered today that have merit, but I'm going to have to reluctantly vote against them because I gave my word that we wouldn't start to retrade the agreement," said Kennedy.
Warren expressed alarm over her colleagues' actions.
"I am very disturbed to hear my colleagues say they are going to vote down amendments, even amendments they think are good amendments, because of a deal that was negotiated behind closed doors," said Warren. "We ought to pass a better bill than the one that has been offered to us."
Related: Too-big-to-fail banks keep getting bigger
Crapo initially began the process of drafting a legislative proposal with Brown. But talks broke down earlier this fall, prompting Crapo to negotiate with moderate Democrats on the Senate panel, including Sens. Jon Tester, Heidi Heitkamp and Joe Donnelly.
Efforts to overhaul the 2010 Dodd-Frank law have failed in the past because Democrats have argued Republicans went too far in gutting safeguards aimed at protecting consumers and ensuring that Wall Street doesn't cause another meltdown.
The latest plan, however, has gotten initial support from regulators like Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen and Jerome Powell, Trump's pick to be the next Fed chair.
In testimony before the Joint Economic Committee in November, Yellen said the bill is "a move in a direction that we think would be good," while emphasizing she hadn't reviewed the proposal closely.
Powell also endorsed Crapo's measure to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions during a hearing last week, while agreeing it would still give latitude to the Fed to supervise and regulate banks as needed.


"We have resolved the situation that created the delays," Gaut told CNNMoney.
The holidays are always a frenzied period for delivery companies. But the growing popularity of online shopping has made for more packages to process and deliver.
This year's Cyber Monday was the largest online shopping day ever. A record $6.59 billion was spent online overall, according to Adobe Analytics data.
Related: Holiday hiring is getting more difficult for retailers
UPS (UPS) predicts that it will deliver 750 million packages between Thanksgiving and Christmas. That's up 5% from last year, when UPS delivered 712 million packages.
The seasonal challenges have been compounded by the fact the improving economy has made it more difficult -- and expensive -- to find seasonal help.
This year, UPS brought on 95,000 seasonal workers for the holidays. It added the same number of people in 2015 and 2016.
And as usual, the company has leased additional planes and rented more trucks to manage the high volume, and has assigned more workers to office locations that are typically swamped.
"We are taking all necessary steps to ensure we are serving our customers' demand, especially during this holiday period," Gaut said.
Additionally, UPS has told more than 100 package delivery centers in areas with high demand that drivers may be asked to work extra hours through January 5 -- up to 70 hours over eight days.
The Teamsters union, which represents 250,000 UPS employees, isn't happy with that plan. James Hoffa, the Teamsters' general president, said in a letter to UPS CEO David Abney on Monday that the move will take a "physical toll" on workers, and hinders their ability to spend time with family over the holidays.
UPS and the union are currently in the middle of contract negotiations.
-- CNNMoney's Chris Isidore and Kaya Yurieff contributed to this report.


Related: CVS is buying Aetna in massive deal that could transform health care
Of course the deal is not a sure thing. It needs to get antitrust clearance from the Justice Department and courts. And part of the value of the deal is tied to CVS stock, which could fall in value before the deal is expected to close in late 2018.
Investors seem to be skeptical that the deal will close at all, with Aetna shares trading more than 10% below the stated $207 price.
Related: What the CVS-Aetna deal means for consumers
Bertolini would also collect nearly $10 million in cash under a "change of control" clause in his compensation package, according to analysis by executive compensation firm Equilar. That provision would also accelerate stock option vesting that would add another $70 million to his net worth.
Bertolini, 61, has been at Aetna since 2003, and CEO of the company since 2010. Even though shares are trading well below the $207 merger price, they are up more than 400% since he became CEO.


The poll of 150 CEOs was taken between November 2 and November 17 as the Republican tax plan was building momentum in Congress. The Business Roundtable said many CEOs are confident that the legislation, which would slash the corporate tax rate to 20% from 35%, will get enacted.
Despite anticipating tax cuts, the Business Roundtable's employment gauge retreated a bit from the four-year highs hit during the summer. The percentage of CEOs who plan to cut jobs ticked up to 18%.
None of that is to say that business leaders sound bummed about Washington or the economy. On the contrary, more CEOs are also planning to step up capital spending on things like new equipment and factories. That's a good sign because business spending has been a missing link during the recovery from the Great Recession.
Dimon, who serves as the Business Roundtable's chairman, predicted that overhauling the outdated tax system will make the United States more competitive and eventually help American workers.
"We're in favor of wages going up for the American public," Dimon, the CEO of JPMorgan Chase (JPM), told reporters during a conference call. Under Dimon's leadership, the Business Roundtable has spent millions to champion tax reform through a national TV and online advertising campaign.
Related: Tax cuts could make it harder to fight next recession
Dimon said that tax reform will "lead to capital expenditures, productivity and wages." He cautioned though that it may take time for workers to see the benefit, saying the "cumulative effect is more important than what happens tomorrow."
For many Americans, the key will be whether they will finally enjoy stronger wage growth after years of anemic pay hikes that have struggled to keep up with inflation.
One reason for hope: 31% of CEOs polled by Business Roundtable pointed to labor costs as the greatest cost pressure facing their company.
Pointing to several studies that he did not name, Business Roundtable CEO Joshua Bolten predicted that a "substantial portion of the corporate rate cut" will "ultimately benefit" workers.
It's the first time in six years that regulatory costs were not the biggest expense headache for business leaders. Bolten said business leaders no longer "have to anticipate the next regulatory hammer that's going to hit their industry."
Related: How tax reform could hinder innovation in the U.S.
However, it's not clear if rising CEO optimism and euphoria on Wall Street will translate to new and better jobs for Main Street.
Rather than ramp up hiring, many companies may instead use their tax savings to reward shareholders with mega share buybacks and generous dividends. After all, companies already have tons of cash and CEOs will be reluctant to hire more workers unless they know the demand is there to justify the expenses.
"You don't just 'build it and they will come,'" said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices.
More critically, the U.S. may lack the qualified workers required to feed a hiring boom. The unemployment rate has dropped to a 17-year low of 4.1% and companies are struggling to find skilled workers to fill record-high job openings.
"With an unemployment rate of 4.1%, we're basically out of supply," said David Kelly, chief global strategist at JPMorgan Funds. "I don't think you will get much more employment growth."


The trade deficit in goods and services was $463 billion from January through October, up 12% from a year ago, the Commerce Department said Tuesday. The United States has a surplus in services, such as banking, but a bigger deficit in goods, such as cars.
And the gap with Trump's two favorite rhetorical trade targets, Mexico and China, is getting bigger. The overall trade deficit with Mexico is up 11% this year, and the deficit with China is up 7%.
A trade deficit doesn't mean the United States is losing money to China or Mexico, which is how Trump sometimes framed it during his presidential campaign. It means American businesses and consumers bought more goods and services from Mexico or China than those countries' consumers bought from American businesses.
Trade experts say the deficit is not an appropriate way to value a trading relationship. The Trump administration disagrees.
The trade deficit does point out some problems in America's relationships with other countries. For example, economists widely believe the deficit with China is bigger because China blocks some American companies from its market.
But there is no correlation between a growing U.S. trade deficit and a weak economy. When the U.S. economy was growing 4% a year in the late 1990s, the trade deficit was ballooning. When the Great Recession began in late 2007, the trade deficit shrank.
This year, consumer confidence and business optimism are at their highest in years. Unemployment is 4.1%, the lowest since 2000. Those factors drive up demand for imports, which are up 6% this year. Exports are up 5%.


The fast food chain first introduced the Dollar Menu in the 1990s but started tweaking it to include higher priced items in 2013, when the company was suffering from a sales slump. It called that menu the Dollar Menu & More.
McDonald's (MCD) profits have increased significantly this year, compared to last year, and its stock price has soared by about a third.
"We built this menu with variety and value firmly in mind," said Chris Kempczinksi, president of McDonald's USA, in a statement.
Related: McDonald's brings back the McRib
The new menu will offer $1 items like sausage burritos, McChicken sandwiches, cheeseburgers and soft drinks of any size.
The $2 items will include Sausage McGriddles, 2-piece Buttermilk Crispy Tenders, Bacon McDoubles and small McCafé beverages (but not coffee or iced coffee.)
Related: McDonald's vows to reboot Szechuan Sauce for 'Rick and Morty' fans
The $3 items will include the Sausage McMuffin with Egg, the Triple Cheeseburger and the Happy Meal. This will also have a new item called the Classic Chicken Sandwich.
It's the first time Happy Meals have been included on a value menu, according to McDonald's.


Compared to male-owned companies, startups owned by women "face different sets of challenges in terms of operating and growing," said Dell Gines, senior community affairs advisor at the Kansas City Fed.
The report continues to beat the drum on the topic of female participation in the economy. It's a subject that Fed Chair Janet Yellen has championed.
Yellen argues that overall economic growth would be stronger if more women were in the job market.
She noted in a speech in May that despite progress over generations "evidence suggests that barriers to women's continued progress remain."
Related: Yellen's solution for the economy: More working women
That narrative is especially true in the small business sector. Companies run by women were more challenged to make a profit, generate revenue above $1 million and boost employment compared to their male counterparts. They were also turned down for loans more often than male-owned firms.
About the same number of male and female-owned companies have outstanding debt, but women tend to take out far less. Approximately 65% of women-owned businesses had $100,000 or less in debt; about half of male-run firms had more than $100,000 in debt.
Despite the lower debt load, women are more likely to report financial problems in the first 12 months of opening a business than men. They more frequently reported not applying for loans for fear of being turned down. About 47% of women-run firms that applied for financing got it, compared to 61% of firms operated by men.
To make up for lack of access to credit, women rely more heavily on credit cards and small business grants to run their businesses. And their small businesses tend to truly be quite small: 60% of them have one to four employees. Only 3% of them have 50 employees or more.
The New York and Kansas City Fed surveyed nearly 16,000 firms and employers nationwide for their report.


More than 75% of U.S. industries have experienced an increase in concentration levels over the last two decades, according to a study by three professors -- Gustavo Grullon of Rice University, Yelena Larkin of York University and Roni Michaely of Cornell.
The trend is a good one for companies. Corporate profits and stock prices are up, and the consolidation and reduced competition is clearly part of the reason, said Larkin. But a lack of competition can lead to higher prices and lost jobs, among other problems.
Related: CVS is buying Aetna in massive deal that could transform health care
"Even in cases where prices have fallen, such as airlines, service has deteriorated with the decreased competition," said Dean Baker, co-chairman of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a liberal think tank.
And Baker says if tax reform does bring about a sharp drop in corporate taxes, that could free up money for companies to make even more acquisitions.
CVS (CVS), which just announced a deal to buy health insurer Aetna (AET), is the latest example of this consolidation trend.
The drug store sector is now dominated by two major players -- CVS and Walgreens (WBA), which has purchased a number of other chains in order to grow. About 10 years ago CVS bought Caremark, which administers prescription drug benefits. That's now the majority of its business. With its proposed purchase of Aetna (AET), it's taking the next step to becoming a major player in the health insurance industry.
Of course, consumer choice isn't necessarily dwindling in every industry. Technology has created new players into many established sectors. Uber is competing with long-entrenched taxi services. Airbnb gives travelers an alternative to hotels. And when it comes to media, the competition has only gotten tougher thanks to the streaming services such as Netflix (NFLX), Amazon Prime and Hulu that are taking on broadcast and cable networks.
Air travel is another industry that has experienced a rash of consolidation. The nation began this century with ten major carriers. A series of bankruptcies and mergers has narrowed those carriers down to just four -- American Airlines (AAL), United Continental (UAL), Delta (DAL) and Southwest (LUV). Between them, they control more than 80% of U.S. air traffic.
Related: CVS-Aetna deal is a major test for Trump
U.S. air fares are actually lower than they were before the last 20 years of mergers. But they're higher than they would be without so much consolidation, said Philippon. He points out that the profit earned for every mile flown by passengers is twice as great for U.S. airlines as it is for European airlines, where there is far less consolidation.
The nation's largest banks were already considered "too big to fail" at the time of the financial markets meltdown a decade ago. Since then, they have only gotten larger, partly due to mergers that occurred during that crisis. As a result, the four largest banks -- JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Bank of America (BAC), Citigroup (C) and Wells Fargo (WFC) -- hold an even larger percentage of the nation's deposits and loans than they did prior to the meltdown.
The retail sector, meanwhile, is now dominated by fewer players even without the help of mergers, thanks to Amazon (AMZN) and the growth of online shopping. But it had already been turned on its head by the growth of big box retailers like Walmart (WMT).
In many ways, Amazon and Walmart are becoming something of a duopoly, growing and grabbing more market share. And they've used that strength to buy smaller companies -- Amazon recently bought grocer Whole Foods while Walmart bought online retailer Jet.
Together they have driven many Main Street stores and some national retailers out of business. They're also a big driver behind a record number of store closings by troubled retail chains such as JCPenney (JCP) and Sears (SHLD).


Mark Zoradi, CEO of Cinemark, told CNNMoney that the new pricing program is clearly geared toward Millennials, who are used to paying monthly fees for TV and movies on Netflix (NFLX) and Amazon (AMZN) and music subscriptions on Spotify.
Zoradi added that Cinemark has been researching the idea of a monthly service since the start of the year and found that most consumers wanted the ability to stockpile discounted tickets.
In other words, if you sign up for Movie Club but you really only care about summer blockbusters, you could wind up with four months of discounted tickets to use just as May rolls around and Hollywood starts churning out action movies and sequels.
Movie Club also differs from a service called MoviePass, which introduced a $9.95 a month plan in August that lets you see an unlimited number of movies in theaters. It subsequently rolled out a limited time offering for an $89.95 annual plan too.
MoviePass buys tickets from Cinemark and other chains and resells them to consumers at a discount. On the surface, it's a better deal if you really like to go to the movies a lot but don't want to buy any pricey popcorn or sodas.
And shares of the company that is in the process of buying a majority stake in MoviePass, Helios and Matheson Analytics (HMNY), have soared more than 265% this year.
The new Movie Club service from Cinemark could be a way to lure back customers to theaters after a tough 2017.
Related: Can MoviePass be the Netflix of theaters?
There were several big duds at the box office this summer and it's unclear if even a successful debut of "Star Wars: The Last Jedi" later this month will lead to a winning year for studios and theater chains.
The slump at the multiplex is a big reason why theater chains have missed out on this year's big market rally.
Cinemark's shares have fallen 5%. Regal (RGC) is flat. IMAX (IMAX) is down more than 20%. And AMC (AMC) has plunged more than 50% this year after warning in August that its earnings would miss forecasts.
The industry's challenges are even leading to some consolidation. Regal said Tuesday that it plans to be bought by the U.K.'s Cineworld.
The movie theater chains face many headwinds. Many are in investment mode, spending more to make theaters nicer to attract more customers.
Part of the problem is the Alamo Drafthouse Cinema phenomenon, as many consumers in urban areas are going to chains like Alamo that offer more upscale food and drinks as well as a movie. The standard multiplex at the suburban mall may be losing its allure.
Related: 'House of Cards' made Netflix a powerhouse. What now?
Zoradi conceded that it was necessary to make the theater experience more swanky to get people off the couch -- and/or mobile devices. That means better food and booze options, more reclining seats and other luxury items.
"We have spent a lot of time and money to make the theatrical experience unique," he said. "We know people want to get out of the house and have a shared experience."
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
The big chains also seem to be recognizing that the industry's business model just needs to change.
While Cinemark thinks that a flat subscription plan could work, Regal's CEO told investors in October that the company plans to start experimenting with charging more for tickets during peak movie times and less at times when attendance tends to be lighter.
In other words, it's Uber-esque surge pricing for movies.
So will any of these experiments work?
Zoradi thinks that there are still plenty of movies that people want to see in theaters instead of waiting for them to come out on Netflix or on demand. But time will tell if a monthly subscription plan like Netflix is the cure for what's ailing Hollywood.


"We should be paying down the debt now, so if we have a war or recession and we need to use tax cuts or increase government spending we're in a position to do so," said David Kelly, chief global strategist at JPMorgan Funds.
U.S. national debt held by the public has nearly tripled over the past decade to nearly $15 trillion today.
"It's wrong to deficit-finance a tax cut in a full employment economy when we already have high deficits," he said.
Republicans argue that the tax plan -- which would slash the corporate tax rate to 20% from 35% and encourage companies to repatriate overseas profits -- will pay for itself with much faster economic growth.
Independent analysts doubt that. In fact, the Joint Committee on Taxation, the Congressional scorekeeper for tax bills, estimates the Senate tax bill will only generate enough growth to create about $408 billion in net new revenue over the next decade.
That means even including the economic boost from the tax plan, the bill would still add about $1 trillion to deficits. In other words, the tax cuts may pay for less than one-third of their cost.
"It could leave the government with fewer bullets during the next downturn," Jaret Seiberg, managing director at Cowen Washington Research Group, wrote in a report.
Related: Here's what's in the Senate tax bill
Debt problem 'should keep people awake'
The eight-year-old recovery from the Great Recession hasn't been robust, but it has been resilient. It's already the third-longest expansion in history. While few economists anticipate an imminent downturn, another one will come eventually. And when that happens, the government's borrowing costs may not be as absurdly cheap as they are now.
Seiberg wrote that the next recession could be "deeper and longer than it might otherwise be" if the government is unable or unwilling to pile on more debt due to the tax plan.
Goldman Sachs recently warned in a report that larger deficits and rising debt could "reduce the ability to ease fiscal policy in response to an economic downturn."
The Federal Reserve's options may be more limited as well. While the Fed has begun to raise interest rates and shrink its $4.4 trillion balance sheet, both remain near crisis levels.
Fed chief Janet Yellen told Congress last week that America's debt burden is very concerning and "should keep people awake." Yellen indicated the problem will worsen as the country's population ages because spending on Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security will outpace tax revenue.
The GOP tax plan could leave Congress with less financial flexibility to tackle these long-term challenges.
Related: 13 ways the tax bills would affect people
Modest economic benefit
To be sure, there is widespread consensus that the U.S. tax code is outdated and overdue for a makeover. But many observers don't believe the bills passed by House and Senate offer the kind of reform that's needed.
"These are deficit-financed tax cuts that do little to reform the tax code...The code remains complex," Seiberg wrote.
Not only that, but the tax plan may not provide the kind of growth that would justify the cost.
Goldman Sachs estimates that the Senate tax legislation would boost growth by about 0.3 percentage points in 2018 and 2019. Goldman said the effect in 2020 and beyond "looks minimal and could actually be slightly negative."
JPMorgan's Kelly thinks the tax overhaul will only contribute "a little bit" to faster wage growth and hiring.
Keep in mind the U.S. is already enjoying the lowest unemployment rate in 17 years and there is a shortage of skilled workers to fill record-high job openings.
"We are basically out of qualified workers, or very close to it. That will limit economic growth," Kelly said.
Related: The real reason Wall Street is euphoric over tax plan
Will Main Street get a raise?
Trump often mentions the trillions of dollars sitting overseas that companies would be given a tax break on if they return it to the U.S. Those repatriated profits could be used to hire more workers and boost wages.
However, Goldman Sachs said "we do not estimate a growth effect from those repatriated profits." That suggests the money is likely to have a bigger impact on investors through massive share buybacks and fat dividends.
Wall Street seems to be betting that many CEOs will spend their tax savings on shareholders, not workers. The Dow has soared nearly 1,000 points over the past month as the tax overhaul made its way through Congress.
But markets are notoriously short-sighted and Wall Street's interests often don't align with Main Street's.
"This is unambiguously positive to the stock market," said Kelly. "The real question is whether it's the appropriate thing to do in the long-term interest of the economy."


A Fed governor since 2012, Powell is seen as a non-controversial pick for the role.
2. The deal that wasn't: British Prime Minister Theresa May failed Monday to move Brexit negotiations with the European Union on to the critical issue of future trading arrangements.
May traveled to Brussels to outline arrangements that she hoped would convince the EU that hard barriers would not return to the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland after Brexit.
The deal was scuttled after Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party, which props up May's minority government in Westminster, made its objections clear.
The episode underscores the fragile nature of the negotiations, which must be completed by March 2019. Many businesses are preparing to move jobs and investment out of the U.K. in early 2018 if trade talks haven't started.
The pound, which had gained on hopes of progress in the talks, dropped 0.7% against the dollar on Tuesday.
3. Movie merger: U.K. theater operator Cineworld has struck a deal to buy Regal Entertainment Group (RGC) for $3.6 billion.
The deal will give Cineworld access to the largest box office market in the world. The combined company will have more than 9,500 screens across Europe and the U.S.
Shares in Cineworld were off by less than 1% in London.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were mixed.
European markets were in positive territory. Britain's FTSE 100, which is stocked with exporters that love a weaker pound, added 0.3%.
Asian markets ended with losses. The Shanghai Composite was particularly hard hit, shedding nearly 2%.
5. Monday market recap: The Dow Jones industrial average added 0.2% on Monday, while the S&P 500 posted a small loss.
The Nasdaq dropped 1.1% in a session that saw tech stocks like Adobe (ADBE) and Nvidia (NVDA) tumble.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
6. Earnings and economics: AutoZone (AZO) and Lands' End (LE) will publish earnings before the open, while Dave & Busters (PLAY) will follow after the close.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
7. Coming this week:
Wednesday -- H&R Block (HRB), American Eagle (AEO) earnings Thursday -- DOJ vs. AT&T status conference Friday -- Jobs report


As part of the investment in Boom, JAL also has options to purchase as many as 20 of the supersonic planes.
Related: Five airlines want you to fly supersonic again
JAL's funding is a significant endorsement from a highly respected airline.
"This is about signaling to the broader ecosystem that this is something that there's real airline customer interest in," Blake Scholl, Boom's founder and CEO, said in an interview with CNNMoney. "The money is largely symbolic, but it's an important symbol. JAL doesn't put $10 million around without thinking really hard about it."
Scholl said Boom has been working with JAL since last year. Airlines who get in line early for all-new jets can benefit from intimate involvement in the design process, giving their wish list for features they think will please passengers, pilots, flight attendants and maintenance crews.
Related: Branson and startup unveil supersonic plane
Civilians haven't been able to buy a ticket to fly supersonic since Concorde was retired from in 2003. The Franco-British jet traveled at twice the speed of sound, crossing the Atlantic in just three and a half hours.
The iconic plane flew regularly between Europe and New York for 27 years but was withdrawn from service because of high costs. Its retirement was also hastened by a crash in 2000 that killed 113 people.
Including JAL's investment, Boom has now raised a total of $51 million, according to Scholl, and he suggested more funds are in the pipeline.

The money the company already has is more than enough to get it through developing a small two-seat demonstration aircraft and conducting its first test flight, he said. That aircraft, dubbed the XB-1, is expected to fly by the end of next year.
The project still faces extremely high hurdles. Its initial funding is a drop in the bucket compared with the billions of dollars Boom will need to develop, build, test, certify and mass produce a full-scale airliner.
Related: What ever happened to the Soviets' spectacular rival to Concorde?
In the jet age, there has never been a new entrant in commercial aviation that didn't receive significant state funding or already have a track record producing other aircraft.

Boom says it has interest from five airlines in buying a total of 76 of its supersonic airliners if it succeeds in bringing the plane to market.
Virgin Atlantic Airways is the only other customer that's been publicly identified. It holds options to purchase the first 10 Boom jets.
"Richard got a special deal in exchange for being first," Scholl said, referring to Virgin founder Sir Richard Branson.
Related: Elon Musk wants to fly you anywhere in the world in less than an hour
Scholl acknowledged that JAL is the first airline to place appreciable dollars behind its interest in the aircraft, which would fly at more than twice the speed of sound.
Plane makers covet the backing of large and established airlines. JAL and rival All Nippon Airways, were among the first to purchase Boeing's (BA) 787 Dreamliner back in 2004, a major boost to the program.
"Through this partnership, we hope to contribute to the future of supersonic travel with the intent of providing more 'time' to our valued passengers while emphasizing flight safety," Yoshiharu Ueki, president of Japan Airlines, said in a statement about the Boom investment.
Related: Sharp-nosed Japanese jetliner could be game changer for U.S. flyers
The Japanese archipelago is among the most attractive areas for supersonic flying because planes don't have to travel over very much land to reach big cities. That reduces the risk of noise pollution caused by a sonic boom. Supersonic flight is banned over Europe and the United States.
At twice the speed of sound, a flight between San Francisco and Tokyo would take around five and a half hours, including a stop for fuel along the way, Scholl said. Today, a conventional subsonic aircraft does the journey in just over 11 hours.
The speed isn't just attractive for intercontinental flights, Scholl said. A flight from Tokyo to Hong Kong could be cut from roughly five hours to around two hours, offering airlines a supersonic shuttle between two of the world's biggest financial centers.


A Fed governor since 2012 and a former Treasury official under the George W. Bush administration, Powell is seen as a non-controversial pick for the role and is widely expected to secure the job.
Related: Jerome Powell says Fed likely to hike rates in December
"We expect an uncomplicated committee vote, despite some Democratic opposition," Ian Katz, an analyst at policy research firm Capital Alpha Partners wrote in a note to clients. "Full Senate approval by early February, when Janet Yellen's term ends, appears likely at this point."
During Powell's first confirmation hearing before the Senate last week, there was strong support for the president's choice.
"Governor Powell has proved he is qualified to lead the Fed," Sen. Mike Crapo, a Republican from Idaho and chairman of the committee, said at the hearing.
Democrats voted nearly unanimously to confirm Powell when President Obama nominated him to the Fed board in 2012 and then again in 2014. Now, some are raising questions about whether he would be too aggressive in dialing back post-crisis reforms.
Warren told the Senate panel on Tuesday that she would not support Powell's nomination over concerns about the rollback of the Dodd-Frank rules.
"Our financial rules need to be stronger not weaker," she said, expressing her doubts that Powell wouldn't direct the Fed to preserve critical rules.
Related: Janet Yellen submits resignation from the Fed
Conversely, Republicans have offered few, if any, criticisms of Powell this time around.
His nomination under Obama drew opposition from Republicans like former Sen. David Vitter, who tried to delay Powell's confirmation process, arguing he would be a 'rubber stamp' for Fed chairman Ben Bernanke's policies.
Sen. Dean Heller, a Republican from Nevada, told Powell at last week's hearing he was trying to get to yes, after voting against him twice during the Obama years.
Powell, 64, has affirmed his leadership at the Fed would represent continuity with his predecessors: Yellen and Bernanke. He has also lauded the central bank's patient approach in gradually moving interest rates higher and slowly unwinding its $4.5 trillion balance sheet.
Powell has played a key role in helping to shape the Fed's policies over the last five years, and has been a consistent ally of Yellen.
The Fed governor has also left the door open to consider "appropriate ways" to ease rules on banks, while still preserving core pieces of the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory law, including annual stress tests and strong capital requirements.
At the confirmation hearing last week, Powell endorsed a GOP plan by senators to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions, while agreeing it would still give latitude to the Fed to supervise and regulate banks as needed.
In April, the Fed tapped Powell to serve as the new point man overseeing how Wall Street banks are regulated after Daniel Tarullo, the central bank's regulatory czar, stepped down. Tarullo held the position for the past eight years.
Related: Powell would be the first investment banker to chair the Fed
Powell spent much of his career in investment banking and private equity before joining the Fed.
A Princeton graduate, he was a lawyer in New York before he joined the investment bank Dillon, Read & Co. in 1984. He stayed there until he joined the Treasury Department in 1990. After he left Treasury, he became a partner in 1997 at The Carlyle Group (CG), the private equity and asset management giant. He left Carlyle in 2005.
Should he be confirmed, Powell would not only be the first former investment banker to head the Fed, but he'd also be the first individual who is not an economist to take the helm in more than 40 years.
--CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie and Chris Isidore contributed to this report.


Spearheaded by Sherrod Brown, the ranking member of the Senate Banking Committee, and Sen. Gary Peters, the letter was sent in response to Trump's decision to name Office and Management Budget Director Mulvaney to temporarily lead the CFPB. Trump made the appointment on November 24, shortly after the previous director Richard Cordray announced it would be his last day at the federal government's controversial consumer watchdog agency.
Related: Republicans say CFPB is crippling the economy. Really?
Proponents of the agency argue naming Mulvaney, who worked to kill the agency while he served in Congress, signals Republicans are still out to dismantle it.
In their letter, Democrats described Mulvaney's appointment under the Federal Vacancies Reform Act as tantamount to "political interference" of an independent agency by the White House. They said the move would jeopardize the work of the bureau.
"Assigning leadership of the CFPB to someone who already has a full-time job reporting to the White House and who does not believe in the CFPB's mission jeopardizes the agency's independence and effectiveness," the senators wrote.
Democrats argue the agency has worked to helped millions of Americans who have been ripped off by mortgage schemes or taken advantage of by predatory financial firms. Actions by the agency have resulted in $12 billion in relief for more than 29 million Americans.
Critics of the agency -- including Mulvaney -- argue the CFPB is the epitome of government overreach and wields too much unchecked power.
Mulvaney has argued the agency is "trampling on capitalism" and has promised to remedy that problem immediately.
Related: Why Wall Street and Republicans hate the CFPB
Since starting the job last Monday, he's already announced a 30-day freeze on new regulations to make sure they are not "choking off" lending.
"Rumors that I am going to set the place on fire, blow it up or lock the doors are completely false," Mulvaney said last week.
But Mulvaney's public distaste for the bureau is raising questions about what will happen to the many open investigations and lawsuits the agency has launched against companies and banks. He's expected to be briefed on roughly 100 lawsuits it is involved in.
Court documents and regulatory filings show these include Wells Fargo (WFC), online real estate firm Zillow (Z) and student loan processor Heartland Campus Solutions. There are likely other ongoing investigations into companies that the CFPB has yet to disclose.
Last week, Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren called for the agency's inspector general to review several of Muvlaney's early directives, including the 30-day regulatory freeze.
"Mr. Mulvaney provided no clarity on his authority to enact these moratoria, their impact, or how they would be implemented," Warren wrote in a Nov. 30 letter. "For all intents and purposes, Mr. Mulvaney appears to have announced a 30-day shutdown of the CFPB."
--CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed to this report.


Auto dealers pay a lot more in interest than many other businesses because they use loans to buy the cars from automakers that they then sell to consumers.
But late Friday night, the auto dealers' lobbying organization won a change in the bill that makes these auto dealer loans exempt from the bill's new interest deduction cap.
"Without the change [in the legislation] you would have seen dealers having significantly higher tax liability," said Jared Allen, spokesman for the National Automobile Dealers Association. To make up for that, he said, they would order fewer cars from the automakers.
The same change was made to the House version of the bill, which means that the new language will probably make it into the final version of the law.
The cost of giving dealers the interest payment tax break hasn't been calculated. The 30% cap on interest deductions was expected to raise tax revenue by about $300 billion over the next 10 years, but only a fraction of that would have been accounted for by auto dealership loans.
Related: The Senate tax bill would allow oil drilling in the Alaska wilderness
Even if this tax breaks won't cost all that much, it's an example of what's wrong with the tax reform process, said Howard Gleckman, editor of the blog TaxVox, and senior fellow at the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center.
"It's what one of my colleagues likes to call 'tax deform,' rather than tax reform," Gleckman said.
He said that tax breaks aimed a specific industries or even specific companies were supposed to be eliminated in return for lower corporate tax rates on businesses.
These types of tax breaks are inserted into bills in order to win the votes of specific members of Congress and get the legislation passed. In this case, the language came from Sen. Rand Paul, an early critic of the bill who ended up voting for it.
"It's not surprising it was included," said Gleckman said, referring to the break for dealers. "Congress has been doing this since there's been tax legislation."
13 ways the tax bills would affect people: Senate and House differ on key points
Auto dealerships have quite a bit of political sway. They are spread fairly evenly across all 435 congressional districts, and are often major contributors to congressional and legislative races. And they employ about 1.1 million people, more than the number of people who work building cars and auto parts.
"Almost every congressional district has a significant number of jobs in dealerships," said NADA's Allen. "The members of Congress understand they are small business owners who employ locally, pay taxes locally. We make very good neighbors and constituents for thousands of communities."
Besides auto dealers, the tax break also stays in place for other dealerships that sell trucks, recreational vehicles, farm equipment and construction equipment.


AT&T would control Time Warner's content that airs on AT&T's DirecTV and U-Verse offerings. CVS would control Aetna, whose doctors prescribe drugs that are insured and sold by CVS.
Prior to AT&T-Time Warner, vertical mergers were practically guaranteed approval. But by taking AT&T and Time Warner (TWX) to court, Trump's Justice Department could be the first since the Carter administration to challenge a vertical merger through the court system.
Just because it's a vertical merger doesn't mean regulators will block CVS (CVS) from buying Aetna. The Trump administration has approved other vertical mergers, including Amazon's purchase of Whole Foods.
"Every case is fact-specfic," said David Balto, a Clinton administration policy director for the Federal Trade Commission, another antitrust regulator. "Other cases of vertical mergers don't raise competitive concerns."
Related: Trump Justice Department puts Corporate America on notice
But the CVS-Aetna deal shares another, perhaps more important trait with AT&T and Time Warner: They're both at least partially "defensive mergers," meant to stave off competition.
AT&T (T) is trying to buy a giant content maker to protect itself against Netflix and other streaming competitors. Similarly, CVS wants to prevent Amazon from luring customers away from its pharmacy business.
That could be a dealbreaker: The Justice Department has recently shown little tolerance for defensive mergers.
When Staples claimed in 2015 that it needed to buy OfficeDepot to fend off Amazon (AMZN), regulators offered no sympathy and later blocked the deal. Halliburton was prevented from buying Baker Hughes last year, even though crashing oil prices hurt both companies.
Regulators also blocked two health insurance mega-mergers earlier this year -- including Aetna's proposed deal for rival Humana -- despite claims from the insurance industry that the deals were necessary to protect themselves from growing uncertainty in the marketplace.
On the surface, the CVS-Aetna merger seems like one that the new antitrust sheriff, Assistant Attorney General Makan Delrahim, would at least heavily scrutinize -- if not block.
Related: AT&T's battle with Trump could enter rare territory
Yet every deal is unique, with its own particularities. The health insurance market is very different from the media industry. So the Justice Department will have to weigh each case on its own merits.
"The issues in the CVS-Aetna merger are not all going to be similar to those in AT&T-Time Warner," said Maurice Stucke, antitrust law professor at the University of Tennessee and former DOJ prosecutor in the Clinton and George W. Bush administrations. "I would expect a careful review, but it's premature to say if the merger will be blocked."
The Justice Department's argument against AT&T's purchase of Time Warner is that the deal could allow AT&T to charge competitors like Comcast more to carry Turner television networks, including TNT, TBS and CNN.
If Comcast refused to pay, those stations could be blacked out for Comcast subscribers, and AT&T could lure away angry customers with its DirecTV service. (DirecTV would have access to those stations because they'd be part of the same parent company.) AT&T has promised the Justice Department it would settle disputes with content providers in arbitration rather than taking them off the air.
It's not immediately clear that CVS's purchase of Aetna (AET) would create a similar situation.
For example, CVS already serves as the pharmacy benefits manager for Aetna customers, so CVS wouldn't be adding any share of the market by buying the insurer. One big caveat: The companies negotiate those agreements every few years, so CVS wouldn't have to worry about losing Aetna to a rival one day.
Stucke said Delrahim and the Justice Department would look at a basic question when considering the deal: Could CVS and Aetna illegally work together to hurt competing pharmacies and insurance companies, reducing consumer choice and raising prices?
CVS dominates the pharmacy business, but it accepts insurance from Express Scripts (ESRX) and other rivals, not just the CVS-owned Caremark plan. And Aetna and CVS don't compete much, except in offering drug plans for Medicare subscribers.
Regulators could approve the deal on the condition of so-called behavioral remedies, under which CVS and Aetna would promise to play fair in the marketplace. But Delrahim isn't known as a dealmaker. He has said publicly that he shuns that kind of promise. Instead, the companies could be forced to sell off some of their Medicare business.
In 2010, Delrahim was on the other side. He lobbied for Comcast when it was trying to merge with NBCUniversal, a deal that was approved in 2011 after the companies agreed to their own behavioral remedies related to net neutrality.
It's hard to read the tea leaves on this deal. The only thing that seems certain is we can throw out our old assumptions about antitrust enforcement.
"We've had 35 years of light antitrust enforcement, and now there are growing signs of skepticism," Stucke said. "If companies expected leniency with a Republican president -- that assumption is being challenged by the AT&T merger."


Aetna CEO Mark Bertolini said during a conference call with analysts Monday that the combined resources of CVS and Aetna could make the pharmacies and walk-in clinics kind of like the medical version of the Genius Bar at Apple Stores, with experts dispensing quick, convenient and reliable health care knowledge.
"The combined company will also be able to better understand patients' health goals, guide them through the health care system, and help them achieve their best health. There will be expanded opportunities to bring health care services to consumers every day," the companies added in a release.
The company explained this with an example of how diabetics could get quicker, easier treatment.
CVS and Aetna said that patients will be able to go to a local CVS or minute clinic in between doctor visits for glucose level monitoring, counseling on how and when to use medications and advice on weight loss programs and better dietary habits.
"These types of interventions are things that the traditional health care system could be doing, but the traditional health care system lacks the key elements of convenience and coordination that help to engage consumers in their health," CVS CEO Larry Merlo said in the release.
Related: CVS is buying Aetna in a massive health care deal
Merlo added during the conference call that rising health care costs are a major problem for consumers and that the combination of CVS and Aetna will lead to lower expenses and better service for consumers and health care providers.
It's unclear just how quickly customers might start seeing savings -- and how much cheaper drugs might actually be, for that matter.
It's also not certain if this will mainly be good for the 90 million customers of CVS and Caremark as well as the 23 million people who have Aetna insurance or if people with other insurance and pharmacy plans can also benefit.
CVS also recently took over the pharmacy operations at Target (TGT).
CVS has existing partnerships with UnitedHealth's OptumRx and is planning to create a new pharmacy benefits management company with insurer Anthem called IngenioRx.
Merlo and Aetna's Bertolini, who will join the combined company's board if a deal goes through, both stressed that CVS-Aetna will also be better able to serve the aging population in the U.S., which is increasingly relying on the government's Medicare and Medicaid programs for health care.
Bertolini said during the conference call that many Medicare/Medicaid patients are "confused" and "wandering through the system" seeing numerous doctors and taking many different medications.
He said that the CVS-Aetna merger can eliminate much of the "unnecessary complexities" consumers face when seeing a doctor and create a "new front door to the health care system."
In other words, CVS and Aetna would rather that sick people go to a pharmacy or minute clinic first instead of an already stressed emergency room.
So how close to reality is this vision, one where a trip to the drug store makes visits to the doctor's office or hospital less necessary? That's not clear. It's uncertain if the CVS-Aetna deal will be approved by federal regulators.
Keep in mind that Aetna had tried to merge with competitor Humana (HUM) and that deal was blocked on antitrust grounds. So was a deal between two other insurers -- Anthem (ANTM) and Cigna (CI).
But the fact that CVS and Aetna are not really competitors could make it more likely that Washington will approve the combination. And if CVS and Aetna are allowed to merge, more deals could follow that may drastically change how you get health care services.
There is already speculation that the other insurers could now be a good strategic fit for CVS rival Walgreens (WBA) as well as Walmart (WMT), which operates a lucrative pharmacy business.
There is also rampant speculation about what plans Amazon (AMZN) has for the drug business after it received wholesale pharmacy licenses in a dozen states in October.
Related: CVS to offer next-day drug delivery
Could Amazon, which has expanded its own brick and mortar operations through the opening of its own book stores and purchase of Whole Foods, be looking to become a big drug store retailer as well?
What's more, many businesses offer their employees health care plans that feature a combination of one of the big five insurers -- UnitedHealth (UNH) is the other -- and pharmacy benefits management services from CVS and Caremark, UnitedHealth's OptumRx or their rival PBM giant Express Scripts (ESRX).
It is possible that if CVS-Aetna leads to other insurer-drug retail deals, then CVS and other pharmacy chains may be able to negotiate for more favorable employee insurer plans and cheaper prices for prescription drugs from Big Pharma giants like Pfizer (PFE), Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Eli Lilly (LLY).
The ultimate goal, after all, is a land grab. CVS would rather become the preeminent place for all health care needs before Walgreens, Walmart or Amazon beats them to the punch.
So if CVS-Aetna gets the green light from Washington, the way Americans get medical advice may drastically change over the next few years. More people could go to one-stop shops where they are diagnosed, given medications and treatment plans all at once.


The back-and-forth day was almost the mirror image of what happened on Friday when concerns about the Russia scandal caused stocks to plunge before they eventually rebounded.
Related: The real reason Wall Street is euphoric over tax plan
Despite the turbulence, it's clear Wall Street loves the tax overhaul making its way through Congress. The Dow did manage to close at its 81st record high since last year's election. The U.S. Tax Reform Fun, (TAXR) an ETF that holds stocks that could benefit from the tax overhaul, jumped another 1%.
Both the House and Senate bills, which now have to be reconciled, call for slashing the corporate tax rate to 20% from 35%. They would also offer a tax break for companies to bring foreign profits sitting overseas back to the United States.
While Republican leaders promise the tax plan will unleash huge economic growth, spur hiring and lift wages, Wall Street and many economists are far less certain of such an outcome.
But investors can win, even if Main Street doesn't. Markets are betting companies will use their spare cash to help Wall Street by ramping up stock repurchases and bolstering their dividends. Both moves could keep the stock market soaring, even if jobs and wages don't take off as well. The Dow, up an incredible 6,000 points since President Trump's election, smashed through the 24,000 level last week.


"I just felt so alone," says Alba, reflecting on being one of the only women in a leadership role during her early days at the company.

Alba, now 36, knew she wanted to start a company that made safe, organic products. She says she had an allergic reaction to baby detergent while cleaning onesies for her first child.
"I just felt like how the heck could something that's marketed to babies specifically, and all of that, give me this type of reaction. Like what's going on?" Alba recalls.
So she started researching online and eventually made her way to Washington D.C., lobbying for chemical reform on Capitol Hill, and later partnering with three other co-founders -- all men -- to launch The Honest Company.
The mother of two, who has a third on the way, co-founded the consumer goods brand in 2011. When she was raising her initial seed funding she was pregnant with her second child, and pitching to a room full of mostly men.
Alba also says many potential investors didn't take her seriously because she was a celebrity.
"It made me more determined... Everyone pretty much thought I was nuts," the Golden Globes nominee admits. "Being successful in entertainment doesn't mean you're going to be successful in business."
Related: Christy Turlington Burns on her mission to help all mothers
Alba says she worked with her co-founders to make the board more diverse, but they initially had other priorities.
"It's not that they didn't want to, it's just, we were thinking month-to-month about financial goals and that's more important than building a long-term vision and strategy," she tells Harlow.
The Honest Company tells CNN that Alba and Brian Lee, a co-founder and former CEO, sought out women to join the board but it was challenging to get anyone -- women or men -- to commit to a VC-backed startup.
Lee, who left his post as CEO in March, did not respond to a request for comment from CNN.
Today, Alba says she is committed to changing the company's demographics. She hired a new CEO, Nick Vlahos, who is restructuring the company's management team. And she is devising ways to help women at the company build their career paths and get to that "C-suite executive capability."
"We're going to have a curriculum and a program and a mentorship in-house, inside of The Honest Company, for women specifically. It's necessary," Alba says.
The Honest Company's Chief People Officer Janis Hoyt, is among the women hired under the new leadership.
"We're taking an opportunity to really focus on women and how they are represented, especially in the VP level and above," Hoyt says. "As we've grown from a startup to a more structured consumer, products, goods company, we're able to focus on that now and move in that direction."
Related: Diane von Furstenberg: 'I've never met a woman who isn't strong'
The Honest Company recently launched its first employee resource group, Women Excelling in Leadership and Living. "This group is really here to shed light on some of the bias that plays out in workplace, but also how can we offer professional development and growth and really support the network of women," Hoyt says.
A recent McKinsey report finds that companies with more gender diversity are 15% more likely to have financial returns above their industry averages.
The Honest Company, which is based in Santa Monica, California, launched with 17 home products and now makes more than 100, including diapers, cleaning supplies and personal care products. The company reported $300 million in sales in 2016.
The brand has also encountered some hurdles, including getting hit with several lawsuits. It recently agreed to pay $1.55 million to settle a nationwide class action lawsuit that claimed the company misled buyers about some ingredients in its laundry detergent and dish soap.
"We have to be more stringent on the way we communicate our marketing materials," Alba says.
She argues that the company sometimes faces more scrutiny from the press because she is a celebrity.
"We've had exchanges before they write articles. And I say, 'Why don't you bring in X, Y, and Z company, that is dealing with the exact same thing?' And they're like, 'Because they're not Jessica Alba,'" she says.
During her toughest moments as an entrepreneur, Alba says she often would seek inspiration from Eleanor Roosevelt's leadership style. "She was a huge inspiration for me," she later told CNN.
"She did so many things for so many different people and groups of folks, and she was just one woman," Alba says. "One person can move mountains if you have the perseverance and the determination and the vision to make it happen."


More good news came Friday: The manufacturing industry expanded in November for the 15th month in a row, according to the monthly ISM index. It's been growing almost nonstop since a brief five-month recession that began in late 2015.
Related: NAFTA talks are in trouble
And the United States has added 138,000 manufacturing jobs so far this year, far better than the 34,000 factory jobs lost over the same period last year. Last year's losses reinforced President Trump's portrayal of manufacturing in a long decline.
"One by one, the factories shuttered and left our shores, with not even a thought about the millions upon millions of American workers left behind," he said in his inaugural address in January.

Despite that narrative of lost jobs, some measures show the industry is thriving. For example, what's known as the industry's total real output, the value of all the goods it produces, has been hovering near an all-time high for three years.
Trump campaigned heavily on bringing manufacturing jobs back to the United States, particularly by renegotiating America's trade deals, such as NAFTA, the pact with Canada and Mexico. All three countries say NAFTA negotiations are not going well, despite some progress on peripheral issues.
Regardless of trade policy, though, manufacturing has rebounded for a variety of reasons, both domestic and global.
Related: U.S. wins tuna trade battle against Mexico
Manufacturing has benefited this year from a weaker U.S. dollar. The industry depends heavily on exporting its products -- from pipes to pickup trucks. When the dollar's value is high, as it was in 2015, when manufacturing was in a recession, U.S. exports are more expensive and less attractive to foreign buyers.

The dollar is down about 9% compared with the world's most traded currencies this year, according to the ICE dollar index. At the same time, the global economy is on pace to post its best year of growth since 2011, according to the IMF.
Put those two factors together, and it's not surprising that U.S. exports were up 8% in the first half of this year compared with the same period in 2016.
Another factor: The U.S. economy is performing well. Unemployment is 4.1%, its lowest since 2000. The economy has added jobs for 85 consecutive months, the longest streak in recorded U.S. history. A healthy economy increases demand for manufactured goods in America, from cars to solar panels.
Companies have been hiring in particular for manufacturing jobs in metals and electronic products. Those sectors have added 32,000 jobs and 13,000 jobs respectively.
Related: Mexico is surviving Year 1 of Trump
Germán Curá plans to bring 600 manufacturing jobs in December to Bay City, Texas, where his European firm, Tenaris, is opening a $1.8 billion steel pipe plant. The rise of the U.S. shale industry largely drove the company's decision to open the plant, but Curá argues that the ability to use advanced technology to create jobs also played a role.
Along with market size and enforcement of trade laws, "I think manufacturing in the States is coming back because companies have understood that with the appropriate technology with automation ... in the end it's translated in our ability to look at manufacturing as a sustainable, feasible activity," he says.
That sentiment may mark a shift in manufacturing, which has long been considered a victim of automation. One study from Ball State University estimates that 87% of the manufacturing jobs lost between 2000 and 2010 were attributed to automation and improved efficiency.
Curá says the typical employee at Tenaris, which also has operations in Canada and Mexico, has changed from "a person pushing a pipe to a person operating a robot."
In surveys, manufacturers across the United States say they can't find workers with the right skills, causing some positions to go unfilled. The Trump administration plans to invest more federal dollars in apprenticeship programs.
Curá adds that manufacturers don't have a choice. They need to prepare workers for the factory jobs of the future. Tenaris has an in-house job training program for new hires.
"Our job as a manufacturing industry overall is to embrace something that's unavoidable and retrain workers," Curá says.


The acquisition is not a done deal. It will have to be approved by antitrust regulators, who have been skeptical of similar health care mergers.
Aetna shares were higher ahead of the open. CVS shares were sharply lower.
2. Brexit crunch lunch: British Prime Minister Theresa May will meet European leaders Jean-Claude Juncker and Donald Tusk for lunch in Brussels.
The meeting could be a crucial turning point in Brexit talks.
May is hoping that the European Union will soon certify that "sufficient progress" has been made on three key issues: The Irish border, citizens' rights and a financial settlement.
If a breakthrough is achieved, Britain will be able to start work on the hundreds of trade, regulatory and legal agreements that are needed to ensure its economy can avoid significant disruption after March 2019.
3. Tax plan: The U.S. dollar has strengthened after the Senate passed a sweeping tax overhaul bill early on Saturday.
Just one Republican, Bob Corker of Tennessee, voted against it on deficit concerns.
However, the Senate bill differs from the tax bill passed by the House in mid-November. Those differences now must be reconciled and a final piece of legislation voted on by both chambers.
Wall Street is betting that companies will use spare cash from the tax cuts to purchase boatloads of stock and beef up their dividends.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were higher.
European markets posted gains in early trade, while Asian markets ended the session mixed.
The dollar added 0.3% against a basket of major currencies. U.S. crude oil futures dropped 1% to dip below $58 per barrel.
The Dow Jones industrial average shed 0.2% on Friday, but still managed to add 2.9% over the week. It was the index's best week this year.
The S&P 500 and Nasdaq also posted losses on Friday.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Earnings and economics: U.S. factory orders data will be published at 10:00 a.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- NABE Economic forecast survey; Brexit lunch Wednesday -- H&R Block (HRB), American Eagle (AEO) earnings Thursday -- DOJ vs. AT&T status conference Friday -- Jobs report


Maduro said the Venezuelan cryptocurrency would be backed by the country's oil, gold, gas and diamond reserves. Venezuela is home to the world's largest crude oil reserves, but its production has steadily declined to a 13-year low after companies halted some operations because of unpaid bills.
Related: 'Death spiral': 4,000% inflation in Venezuela
Its gold, gas and diamond holdings are few smaller and they're counted by the nation's central bank in its $9.7 billion of dwindling foreign reserves, a paltry sum for any country.
Maduro blames Trump administration sanctions for making U.S. banks unwilling to participate in financial transactions with the Venezuelan government, either as buyers or payment processors.
However, the cryptocurrency is unlikely to resolve the country's deep financial problems.
The Venezuelan government and its state-run oil company, PDVSA, both defaulted on certain bonds in November, according to ratings agencies. Many experts believe the missed payments mean the country is set to default on all of its roughly $65 billion debt due to bondholders. That would likely worsen the nation's already severe food and medical shortages.
In total, Venezuela owes about $141 billion to its investors. They include China, Russia, oil service companies and a slew of other entities, according to Moody's Investor Service. Russian leaders recently agreed to delay $3.5 billion of Venezuelan debt payments, but that break is unlikely to resolve the South American nation's debt crisis.
Related: Russia extends financial lifeline to Venezuela
Maduro's announcement also comes at a time of growing interest in cryptocurrencies.
Bitcoin has enjoyed a stunning rise, soaring more than 1,000% in value this year. It started 2017 at less than $1,000, but skyrocketed past $11,000 last week. But some high-profile figures in finance and economics have warned of a potential bubble.

What's also breathtaking is the collapse of Venezuela's currency this year. It took about 3,100 bolivars to buy one U.S. dollar at the beginning of the year. Now, a dollar is worth 103,000 bolivars, according to the unofficial exchange rate tracked by dolartoday.com. One expert says inflation is on track to hit 4,000% this year.
Maduro said Sunday that the new cryptocurrency would be used to make financial transactions. But it's unclear whether bondholders would exchange payments due in U.S. dollars -- the dominant global currency -- for a new and potentially unpredictable digital currency.
Maduro, whose regime has been widely labeled a dictatorship, didn't say whether the cryptocurrency would be used by ordinary Venezuelans to buy groceries, medicines or other basics.
Related: Venezuela just defaulted, moving deeper into crisis
It isn't the first time Maduro has been creative with Venezuela's cash. His government created a new exchange rate in 2015 then later got rid of it. The country's other two official rates are considered meaningless and heavily overvalued in light of the nation's economic collapse and lack of reliable data.
With soaring inflation, Maduro promised a year ago to print bills of bolivars with higher denominations to try to alleviate Venezuelans' financial pain somewhat. But there was such high demand for them upon arrival that cash shortages persisted. Venezuelans queue up daily outside ATMs, sometimes for over an hour. The maximum that can be withdrawn from an ATM in Venezuela is 30,000 bolivars (about 30 U.S. cents).
Maduro is known to make sweeping statements that are met with applause but don't produce any tangible results. In September, he announced a plan to give rabbits to families suffering from food shortages in order to help address widespread hunger.
So far, no further news of the "rabbit plan" has emerged.


ANWR has been closed to oil exploration since 1980 because of concerns about the impact on the region's caribou, polar bears and other fragile ecosystems.
Related: Here's what's in the Senate Republican tax bill
The 1002 area, which is thought to contain massive oil reserves, has been the topic of fierce debate since at least the late 1970s.
So far, bids to allow drilling in the area have been unsuccessful.
But Murkowski, like her politician father before her, has lobbied hard to lift the drilling ban. She argues it will spur Alaska's economy and help pay for the tax breaks, which an analysis shows could add more than $1 trillion to the country's national debt.
Alaska's other senator, Republican Dan Sullivan, has also argued in favor of developing there. In a Washington Post op-ed last month, he said the state requires developers to use the "best available technology" and ensure the "protection of our incredible species."
But environmentalists say drilling poses a significant threat to the area's wildlife.
On November 9, more than 30 scientists sent a letter to Murkowski that called on her to ensure the zone remains protected.
Related: Trump wants to drill for oil in Alaska's fragile wildlife refuge
"Based on our experience in the Arctic, we oppose oil exploration, development and production in the Arctic Refuge. Such activity would be incompatible with the purposes for which the refuge was established, including 'to conserve fish and wildlife populations and habitats in their natural diversity,'" the scientists wrote.
After Saturday's Senate vote, one of the co-signers, David Yarnold, called the provision "simply shameful" in a statement.
"The Arctic Refuge isn't a bank," said Yarnold, who's also the CEO of Audubon, an environmental and conservation nonprofit. "Drilling there won't pay for the tax cuts the Senate just passed."
Nothing is set in stone. The House and Senate versions of the tax bill look very different, and a single version will need to be hashed out in a process known as reconciliation. Lawmakers would need to add the drilling provision to the House bill for it to become law.
Both chambers will need to vote again on the final draft.
Correction: The headline on an earlier version of this article incorrectly referred to the part of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge that would be opened to drilling.


The acquisition is not a done deal. It will have to be approved by antitrust regulators, who have been skeptical of similar health care mergers.
Buying Aetna puts CVS in a better position to compete with other integrated health care providers, such as UnitedHealthcare (UNH) and pharmacy benefits manager Optum. PBMs like Optum and CVS's Caremark help manage prescription drug plans for commercial health insurers.
Together, UnitedHealthCare and Optum have already taken business away from CVS, said Ana Gupte, a health care analyst for investment firm Leerink.
Gupte added that Amazon's rumored desire to enter into the pharmacy business could be another motivating factor.
Related: Amazon may be factor behind rumored CVS, Aetna merger
Aetna, meanwhile, hasn't been growing as quickly as its peers, Gupte pointed out. A shakeup could be good for business.
And by teaming up, CVS and Aetna are following broader industry trends, said George Hill, a health care technology & distribution analyst with RBC Capital Markets.
Pharmacies like CVS and health care providers like Aetna are looking for ways to make it cheaper and easier for their clients to access medication and care, he said, because that's what their clients want. Joining forces is an efficient way to do that.
But it's not entirely clear if or how quickly savings would get passed down to consumers. Gupte pointed out that Aetna already has a deal with CVS Caremark, so prescription drug prices may not go down. Customers could see benefits down the road, however, if CVS turns some storefronts into clinics or primary care centers.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
But advocacy groups have criticized the deal. The Coalition to Protect Patient Choice said that "mergers like these have a dismal history," adding, "consumers suffer by paying more and getting less choice for the vital drugs they need."
The prospects for the deal are uncertain, since mergers involving health insurance companies have recently run into regulatory roadblocks. In 2015, Aetna and Humana (HUM) announced a $34 billion merger, while Anthem (ANTX) agreed to acquire Cigna (CI) for $54 billion. Both deals were called off in February after they were blocked by federal judges citing antitrust concerns.
-- CNNMoney's Nathaniel Meyersohn and Seth Fiegerman contributed to this report.


Covered California's marketing riches contrast starkly with the advertising budget for the federal health insurance exchange, healthcare.gov. The feds have slashed ad dollars to $10 million, down from $100 million last year.
The huge discrepancy reflects conflicting attitudes toward the ACA, commonly known as Obamacare, said Gerald Kominski, director at the University of California-Los Angeles Center for Health Policy Research.
"A $10 million advertising budget for healthcare.gov, which supports exchanges in 30-something states, is ... in keeping with the goal of this administration to destroy the ACA," he said. "California's budget reflects a different approach to the ACA, which is that it is an important source of insurance."
Other health care experts say marketing is not the best use of money now that the exchanges are a known commodity, especially in California. They suggest the dollars could be better spent on things like reducing premiums.
"All of this money being used on murals and bus tours and TV ads, etc., it's not going to change the number of enrollees that much," said Sally Pipes, the president and CEO of the Pacific Research Institute in San Francisco, which advocates for free-market policies. "It would be better to save money and reduce taxes so that people have lower tax burden."
Related: These states are doing Obamacare open enrollment their own way
California is one of 11 states, plus the District of Columbia, that operate their own exchanges. The remaining 39 states use the federal healthcare.gov site.
Altogether, Covered California plans to spend $111.5 million on marketing in 2017-18, which includes support for enrollment helpers called navigators, ads, staff salaries and more.
Covered California leaders and consumer health advocates say the agency's sizable marketing budget is necessary because of recent federal moves to undercut the ACA. The Trump administration shortened the enrollment period to 45 days in most states and stopped paying insurers to provide a subsidy that helps many low-income consumers with out-of-pocket medical costs.
"It sounds like a lot ... but it's a very legitimate expenditure," said Betsy Imholz, director of special projects for Consumers Union.
The federal government's $10 million advertising investment is "ridiculously inadequate" by comparison, she said. Covered California will spend that amount on online ads alone.
Ed Haislmaier, a senior research fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation, said the feds' advertising cuts reflect the needed transition from promoting the exchange as a new option to maintaining it as an established program.
"Growing awareness is not going to magically get desired people to enroll," he said.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), which runs the federal exchange, explained that it cut advertising in part because it did not seem to be boosting first-time enrollment. For 2017 plans, first-time enrollment declined by 42% and total enrollment fell by 500,000 people to 12.2 million. Covered California has about 1.4 million enrollees.
HHS plans to use its smaller budget on digital media promotion like YouTube videos and targeted ads on search engines. It will also focus on emailing and calling healthcare.gov consumers directly to remind them of the Dec. 15 enrollment deadline.
Californians who purchase their insurance through Covered California or on the open market will continue to have three months, until Jan. 31, to enroll in plans for next year.
Related: Why California is wincing over Trump-backed health plan associations
Peter Lee, Covered California's executive director, said he believes that spreading the word about open enrollment creates a risk pool that includes both healthy and sick people.
"Yes, marketing costs money, but marketing means more people sign up, and the people that sign up are healthier and help lower premiums," he said.
Advertising likely helped lower premiums by 6% to 8% in 2015 and 2016 by creating a more balanced risk pool, according to a recent marketing report from Covered California.
This year, as in some previous years, Lee paraded across the state in a colorful charter bus promoting the start of open enrollment. He touted the 12 new murals, and echoed the primary message of Covered California's ads: Life can change in an instant due to unexpected injuries, such as falling off a ladder.
One mural painted outside an AltaMed clinic in East Los Angeles features people dancing and exercising around a doctor. A mural painted outside La Familia Counseling Center in Sacramento shows a woman holding a bowl above her head, out of which flow children riding bikes and a basketball player.
How much the murals, the tour bus or the ads will help cut through the confusion, let alone increase enrollment, is unclear.
"I don't know if marketing will be able to address how complex this open enrollment will be," said Kevin Knauss, an insurance agent in the Sacramento area.
Kaiser Health News senior correspondent Anna Gorman contributed to this report.
Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.


But Wall Street can cash in, even if Main Street doesn't.
Markets are betting that companies would use their new spare cash to help investors: by purchasing boatloads of stock and beefing up their dividends. Both outcomes can help propel the soaring stock market to new heights, even if jobs and wages don't follow suit.
"The additional cash will definitely help buybacks," said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S&P Dow Jones Indices.
Investors love stock buybacks because they're less risky than investments in new projects that may or may not work. Even better, buybacks make earnings per share, a key measure of profitability, instantly look better simply by reducing the number of shares in the ratio. Underlying profits don't even need to improve.
During the last overseas tax holiday in 2004, companies leaned very heavily on buybacks. In fact, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities later concluded that the 2004 tax holiday "did not produce the promised economic benefits" because companies mostly bought back stock instead of investing to grow their businesses.
Related: Goldman warns markets haven't been this pricey since 1900
Stock buybacks have been a centerpiece of the current bull market. S&P 500 companies have repurchased an incredible $3.8 trillion of stock since the end of March 2010, according to Silverblatt. This key source of market support has been slowing, but the tax bill would likely put CEOs under pressure to ramp it back up.
Silverblatt joked that the big winner from the GOP tax plan would be Home Depot because companies will have to "reinforce their boardroom doors" from all the shareholders screaming for buybacks.
What about hiring and boosting wages? The outlook looks less certain there. The unemployment rate is at 4.1% and job openings are at an all-time high.
And it's not like companies are cash-strapped. Even before potential tax cuts, S&P 500 companies have a record $1.5 trillion in cash.
"Companies already have enough money to do whatever they want now," said Silverblatt.
2. Jobs report: The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics plans to report November's jobs numbers on Friday.
We've had a good run. The economy has grown by roughly 1.7 million jobs so far in 2017. In October, 261,000 jobs were added -- making it the best month for job growth of the Trump administration. Unemployment fell to 4.1%, a 17-year low.
But wages continue to disappoint. Last month, they grew by just 2.4% compared to the same period last year, even lower than September's growth rate.
Related: U.S. unemployment drops to lowest in 17 years
November's numbers will be revealed as the government continues to hash out a tax bill the president promises will boost wages by $4,000 a year on average. Experts warn that figure may be inflated.
3. Government budget showdown: Funding for the government is set to expire on December 8, and partisan issues -- like the future of DACA -- mean negotiations will be fierce.
Related: Hill leaders take first steps to prevent year-end shutdown
Legislators on Capitol Hill are hoping to avoid a shutdown by pushing the deadline. House Speaker Paul Ryan announced plans this week to pass a short-term spending bill to keep Washington open while budget talks continue, and Senate Democrats seem eager to keep the government open. But Trump has signaled that he may want to play hardball.
4. Media deal in court: AT&T (T) and the Justice Department will be in court on Thursday.
The Justice Department filed a suit against AT&T and Time Warner on November 20 to block AT&T's bid to buy Time Warner (TWX), CNN's parent company, citing antitrust concerns. The first big question the judge needs to decide is when to schedule a trial. The two sides disagree when that should be.
The case is being closely watched. It also could have implications for other big mergers. CVS (CVS) reportedly is poised to possibly acquire Aetna (AET).
5. Coming this week:
Monday -- NABE Economic forecast survey
Wednesday -- H&R Block (HRB), American Eagle (AEO) earnings
Thursday -- DOJ vs. AT&T status conference
Friday -- Jobs report


Related: Republicans say CFPB is crippling the economy. Really?
"There seems to be a collective amnesia in this room, in this committee, in this Congress -- a collective amnesia about what happened 10 years ago," Brown said last week during Jerome Powell's confirmation hearing to be the next Fed chair.
"But Americans still struggle because of low wages, because of underemployment or unemployment, and lack of opportunities. Loosening the rules for some of the country's largest banks is not the way to solve these problems."
A handful of Republicans including Senator Dean Heller of Nevada and Tim Scott of South Carolina have also filed their own remedies to the bill.
Senator Mike Crapo, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee who spearheaded the bill with the support of 20 senators, has touted it as one that has garnered "very strong bipartisan support for tailoring and simplifying regulations" for smaller institutions and community banks, while also improving access to mortgage credit and housing for Americans.
One of the biggest changes in Crapo's measure calls for raising the threshold at which banks are labeled as too big to fail to $250 billion from $50 billion in assets -- an effort both Powell and Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen have expressed support for. Doing so, would alleviate those firms from some of the most stringent rules under the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory reform law.
Related: Too-big-to-fail banks keep getting bigger
It would also exempt banks with less than $10 billion in assets from the so-called Volcker Rule, which bars institutions from making risky market bets with their own capital.
And while the legislative proposal has the backing of 10 Democrats, progressive like Brown and Warren have staunchly opposed the measure for its inadequate consumer protections.
Republican efforts to overhaul the 2010 law have failed in the past because Democrats have argued they went too far in gutting safeguards aimed at protecting consumers and ensuring that Wall Street doesn't cause another meltdown.
Crapo initially began the process of drafting a legislative proposal with Brown. But talks broke down earlier this fall, prompting Crapo to begin negotiating with moderate Democrats on the Senate panel, including Senators Jon Tester, Heidi Heitkamp and Joe Donnelly.
Among the more than 100 proposed fixes are giving Americans greater control over their own personal information and stronger tools to oversee their credit reports.
Related: Senators introduce data breach disclosure bill
Other changes include exempting banks from any form of regulatory relief if the financial firm has previously failed its annual Fed stress test or has a history of misconduct tied to its home mortgage business.
Democratic staffers told reporters on Friday the bill as proposed would put taxpayers at greater risk for another bailout by loosening regulations on how often banks face a financial health checkup and would exempt dozens of the largest U.S. firms from drafting so-called "living wills," a plan required to unwind a failing bank safely.
What's more Crapo's proposal would also erase a number of critical protections to home buyers, according to Democratic staffers.
For example, it would block certain homeowners from going to court to stop banks from wrongfully foreclosing and kicking them out of their homes.
Related: Trump kills rule that made it easier for people to sue banks
The proposal would also allow the banks to sell customers adjustable rate mortgages without disclosing what the interest rate would rise to when the teaser rate expires.
It would also rid of new reporting requirements of mortgage data collected by banks that impede regulators ability to spot lending trends like discriminating against minorities.
Crapo's bill would also provide Americans with less protection from massive data breaches like Equifax under the proposal, according to staff.
Still, the bill has gotten some early support from regulators at the Federal Reserve.
Powell endorsed Crapo's measure to provide regulatory relief to financial institutions during Tuesday's hearing, while agreeing it would still give latitude to the Fed to supervise and regulate banks as needed.


Now, President Donald Trump wants to promote a renaissance of these health plans and make it easier for them to operate across state lines — with less regulation.
In a recent executive order, Trump directed the Department of Labor to look into ways to "allow more small businesses to avoid many of the [Affordable Care Act's] costly requirements."
Because the plans would do business in more than one state, they could "figure out a way to pull back some authority states have," said Kevin Lucia, senior research professor at Georgetown University's Center on Health Insurance Reforms.
Related: Rising Obamacare costs frighten some early retirees
That does not sit well in California, where key state policymakers warn that weaker regulation of these plans could destabilize the small-employer and individual markets, which have gained important consumer protections under the ACA and state health laws — including minimum benefit levels.
"President Trump is trying to loosen those rules, and return us to the bad old days" that were disastrous for consumers, said California Insurance Commissioner Dave Jones. Tens of thousands of consumers were "left in the lurch" without insurance when their associations folded, and millions of dollars in medical claims went unpaid, he said.
In the 1980s and 1990s, association plan failures hit a number of small businesses, affecting employees across industries. Thousands of farm workers suffered when a plan created by Sherman Oaks-based Sunkist Growers collapsed. When Irvine-based Rubell-Helms Insurance Services went out of business, it reportedly left $10 million in medical claims unpaid.
In 1995, California banned a common form of health care associations known as multiple employer welfare arrangements, or MEWAs, in which small businesses jointly purchased health coverage in the same way Trump is now proposing. The plans that already existed at the time could remain in business as long as they met certain financial requirements.
That ban followed "decades of bad experience," said Jones.
But some business groups say that these plans offer companies flexibility in the face of state regulations that add cost and administrative burdens.
"Small-business owners are being pummeled," said Tom Scott, California director of the National Federation of Independent Business. The looser regulations could save businesses thousands of dollars a year, he said.
Still, California lawmakers said they will do everything they can to prevent these plans from bypassing state regulations.
State Senator Ed Hernandez (D-West Covina), chairman of the Senate Health Committee, said he will consider legislation to ban the sale of policies that don't meet minimum benefit requirements.
Related: Latinos may not get the same hard sell on Obamacare this year
"I'm committed to do everything I can to make sure we don't go backward to having skinny plans in the state," he said. Consumers need to be guaranteed coverage with robust health benefits and a cap on out-of-pocket expenses, he added.
Policy experts say the impact of Trump's plan will depend on the precise details, which are still being considered by the Department of Labor. But Trump has suggested he wants the association plans to be treated the same as large-employer insurance, which would free them from regulations that govern the benefits they offer.
Supporters of the idea argue that the greater flexibility on benefits, plus the bargaining clout that comes with size, would lower the cost of these plans, providing relief to small employers hit by rising health care costs and state taxes.
"It's very, very easy and it's very competitive," said Jack Stoughton, CEO of Los Angeles-based Stoughton Printing Co., which produces 12-inch record jackets for vinyl records by bands such as Led Zeppelin and Wilco.
His workers receive health benefits through one of the few remaining MEWAs in California.
But Beth Capell, a longtime health care consumer lobbyist, said these cheaper plans compromise the quality of health coverage for small-business employees and individuals.
"There was a fairly concerted outcry" to get rid of association health plans in the 1990s, and they should not be resurrected, Capell said.
Deborah Kelch, director of the Insure the Uninsured Project in Sacramento, said state officials banned new MEWAs in the 1990s because they feared the associations would siphon off healthy people, leaving many small businesses with sicker and costlier enrollees — and higher premiums. The legislative changes from the 1990s helped ensure that the remaining MEWAs stayed afloat, she said.
Today, only four MEWAs remain in California, covering about 150,000 employees and their dependents. The enrollees say the model works.
Stoughton's roughly 50 workers have a choice of three insurance carriers — Kaiser Permanente, Health Net and Blue Shield — and the association acts as an intermediary between the employees and the insurers.
The Printing Industries Association of Southern California, a trade association for printers, administers the insurance for Stoughton's business. That allows him to limit his human resources staff to half of a full-time employee, he said.
"We want to be able to concentrate on what we do. We don't want to shop around" for health insurance, he said.
The greatest number of association health plan members in California are in agriculture. Two farm trade groups, UnitedAg and Western Growers, offer farmers health care that they say caters to their unique workforce, which includes a large number of Spanish-speaking immigrants.
Related: These states are doing Obamacare enrollment their own way
Kirti Mutatkar, CEO of UnitedAg, which covers 700 agricultural businesses and 43,000 members through its association, says her company doesn't offer "cookie-cutter" health coverage.
UnitedAg offers free telemedicine and 10 free clinic visits in some of its plans, she said. It has bilingual customer support services and a network of doctors in Mexico. The members of the board includeenrollees who have a say in what their health coverage looks like.
"If UnitedAg could take their brand of administering health care to other areas, I can't see the downside," said A.J. Cisney, general manager of Rancho Guadalupe, which grows fruit and broccoli on California's Central Coast.
But that would be anathema to actuaries and health insurers, who worry about competing with more lightly regulated plans. They say the proliferation of such plans could undermine consumer protections and increase the potential for the kind of health insurance fraud that plagued many of the old association plans.
But Scott, of the National Federation of Independent Business, does not believe past is necessarily prologue.
"Times change, business models change," he said.
Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.


Related: The worst day for mall diamonds in 25 years
The filing said the enforcement office thinks Signet may have violated a federal law that bars companies from "unfair, deceptive, or abusive act or practice" when offering consumers a financial product or service.
Signet, which owns Kay Jewelers, Zales and Jared The Galleria Of Jewelry, offers customers financing options through company credit cards.
In addition, Signet said the New York Attorney General's Office "is investigating similar issues." The AG's office told CNNMoney it is investigating the company's financing practices.
Signet said it believes it has acted lawfully, adding "Signet has been cooperating with both regulators and maintains its belief that the CFPB and NYAG's potential claims lack merit."
The company said last month that revenue fell $30 million during the most recent quarter. It also warned that profit heading into next year will be light. Hurricanes and weak sales on engagement and wedding rings led to a "challenging" quarter, CEO Virginia Drosos said.
Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly said the CFPB's enforcement office had recommended action against Signet. In fact, it is considering a recommendation.


The moderate senator said Thursday these provisions will "most likely" be included in the upcoming continuing resolution to temporarily fund the federal government. She noted Friday that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell "committed to support passage" of the bills before the end of the year.
Related: Here's what's in the Senate tax bill
Since the Senate and House still have to agree on a joint tax bill in conference committee, Collins has time to see whether the two Obamacare measures are passed in the spending bill.
"So I'm going to know whether or not those provisions made it and that matters hugely to me," she said at a Christian Science Monitor breakfast Thursday, adding she's primarily concerned about the increase in premiums that could result from ending the mandate.
The elimination of the mandate could increase premiums by 10% and could leave 13 million more people without coverage over a decade, according to the Congressional Budget Office. But it could also prompt healthy people to forgo coverage, leaving mostly sicker people in Obamacare policies. This, in turn, could make insurers flee the Affordable Care Act exchanges, which would rock the individual market.
The stabilization bill, co-authored by Tennessee Republican Senator Lamar Alexander and Washington Democratic Senator Patty Murray, calls for funding Obamacare's cost-sharing reduction payments for two years. In October, President Trump ended federal support for these subsidies, which help lower-income enrollees pay for medical care. The elimination of this funding prompted insurers to raise premiums for 2018 since they must still provide the subsidies.
Meanwhile, Collins said Friday her bill would appropriate $5 billion in 2018 and in 2019 to help states create state-based reinsurance programs that would help insurers pay for high-cost patients. (The original Collins-Nelson bill introduced earlier this year would have appropriated $2.25 billion each of those years.)
"The combination of those two bills would more than than offset the premium increase that would be caused by [repealing the individual mandate]," Collins said at the breakfast.
Related: Obamacare enrollment could fall millions short for 2018
But the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office and health policy experts don't agree.
The CBO issued a report Wednesday that said that passing the Alexander-Murray bill will not substantially change the impact of repealing the mandate.
And health policy experts have questioned whether Collins' bill would help reduce premiums long-term since it only provides funding for two years.
An even bigger question is whether either of these bills will actually become law. Conservative House Republicans said earlier this week that they would not support the Alexander-Murray bill, which they called a bailout for insurance companies.
.@RepMarkMeadows explaining what CSR payments actually do - it's a payment to insurance companies, not individuals



Electronically enabled luggage has grown in popularity as road-warriors opt to make their luggage useful beyond simply storing clothes.
Related: The suitcase to consider when you're going Away
American spokesman Ross Feinstein said the airline has had no incidents with "smart bags," but said the airline's new rules are designed to align with the existing regulations.
The Federal Aviation Administration has long-standing rules about lithium ion batteries in items like laptops and medical equipment. It requires spare uninstalled batteries to travel in carry-on baggage with the passenger.
The FAA rules are designed to keep possible over-heating or short-circuiting batteries out of the cargo hold in case they catch fire. In the cabin they can quickly be reached by a crew member or a passenger in the event of an issue. Only U.S. airlines are subject to the FAA rules.
Related: This suitcase will follow you home like a puppy
American is the first airline to extend those FAA rules to smart bags. The other major U.S. airlines are expected to follow suit and the International Civil Aviation Organization has a working group among airlines and regulators to develop a broader standard.
Separate from any federal requirement, American Airlines says it conducted its own analysis of the "smart bags" and decided to implement these new rules itself.
"Smart bags" can mean a lot of different things. They include luggage doubling as a scooter or personal transportation vehicle, a suitcase with a power bank to charge electronic devices, a suitcase with a GPS locator or electronic lock or self-propelled bags that follow their owner.


And the updated dip could soon appear on a new menu item: Nachos. Arnold said the dish -- which stacks chips, queso, beans and salsa -- is currently being served at the company's test kitchen in New York City.
The news was reported earlier by Business Insider.
After a series of food safety scandals over the past few years, Chipotle (CMG) has struggled to draw customers back to its stores.
Related: Chipotle looking to hire a new CEO
So when the burrito chain announced plans to add queso to its menu in July, it was pegged as the cheesy vehicle that could vault Chipotle out of its sales slump.
But the roll out has not been smooth. Critics couldn't get past the queso's gritty texture and lack of spice. One customer declared the dish "tastes like crayons."
Chipotle defended the product, insisting the unusual texture could be chalked up to the use of all-natural ingredients.
Arnold, the Chipotle spokesperson, said the new recipe achieves a smoother consistency but still leaves out preservatives and artificial ingredients.
Reporters at CNNMoney who tried both versions of the dip confirmed the new recipe brings marked improvement in texture, but some tasters agreed Chipotle could crank up the spiciness.
Even as Chipotle fine tunes its queso recipe, the company says it's driving sales.
Related: Chipotle's profit ravaged by hurricanes, hack and high avocado prices
During an earnings call with investors in October, Chipotle chief marketing officer Mark Crumpacker noted "the addition of anything new [to the menu] generates significant interest, positive and negative."
The company's sales rose 17% last quarter and its profits more than doubled. That ended a long streak of declines for Chipotle. The same quarter in 2016, for example, saw sales down 22% compared to the same period in 2015.
"This new menu item not only increased sales with existing customers, it also attracted new and lapsed customers into our restaurants. About 19% of these new and returning customers are trying queso, while many of the others were simply driven in by the advertising," Crumpacker said.
For the uninitiated, queso is Spanish for "cheese," but it commonly refers to a melted cheese dish popularized in Tex-Mex cuisine. The warm cheese is typically blended with chile, peppers or other seasonings.
Queso's flavor and consistency can vary and its taste is distinct from its distant cousin, nacho cheese, a standard side dish at ballparks, arenas and movie theaters.
--CNNMoney's Danielle Wiener-Bronner contributed to this report.


That's hardly a big drop when you consider that stocks hit all-time highs this week on growing hopes that the Senate will pass a tax reform bill. The Dow topped 24,000 for the first time on Thursday.
This also is not the first time the market has grown nervous about Trump administration chaos. But previous sell-offs have been fleeting.
The Dow plunged 373 points on May 17 after reports surfaced of a memo from former FBI Director James Comey that said Trump had asked him to stop the investigation of Flynn.
But the market quickly rebounded and hit an all-time high on June 8 -- the day Comey testified in front of Congress.
Related: CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index still shows signs of greed
Stocks also fell briefly on July 11 after Donald Trump Jr. released a chain of emails showing that he had agreed to meet a Russian attorney who claimed to have incriminating information on Hillary Clinton. Stocks recovered by the end of the day.
Then, on August 17, there were rumors that Gary Cohn, the director of the White House's National Economic Council, was thinking of resigning because of Trump's initial response to violence at a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. Trump blamed "both sides."
The Dow plunged nearly 275 points that day as investors worried that Cohn, formerly the chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs, might leave. But those rumors didn't last long, either.
The bottom line is that Wall Street still believes in the Trump agenda.
Investors are still in a cheery mood because the economy seems to be gaining steam, the job market is healthy, consumers are spending, and businesses are churning out solid profits.
"Tax reform doesn't need to be affected by the political and legal issues facing Mr. Flynn, and ultimately the market will look past the politics and focus on the positive economic fundamentals and benefits of tax reform," said Chris Zaccarelli, chief investment officer with Independent Advisor Alliance, in an email.
"The Trump rally may be interrupted, but it will resume as long as the economy continues to improve and corporate profitability continues on the path it's been on," Zaccarelli added.


Blue Apron (APRN) is the worst-performing IPO of the year, according to data from Dealogic. It's worth around $560 million right now, a fraction of the $1.9 billion valuation that Wall Street awarded it when it hit the market. Shares are trading at a little over $3, down about 70% from their high.
Although Blue Apron still holds 40% of the U.S. meal kit market share, it dropped 17 percentage points from last year, according to a study by Second Measure. 860,000 customers use the service, according to the company's November quarterly filing.
Blue Apron said customers fell 9% last quarter because it cut back on advertising spending to save money.
Related: Blue Apron serves up lukewarm IPO
It's already unprofitable, so customer defections make matters worse. Blue Apron had anticipated that it would one day turn a profit -- but groceries are an expensive business, and it likely needs to maintain a higher level of customer growth to achieve its goal.
A number of missteps over a tumultuous past five months haven't helped the company's cause.
One of its co-founders stepped down as COO a month after the IPO. In August, the company said unforeseen delays at a new fulfillment center in Linden, New Jersey hurt business.
In October, Blue Apron slashed its workforce by 6%, laying off roughly 300 employees.
In Salzberg's letter to employees, he noted "near-term challenges and uncertainty created with the launch of our Linden fulfillment center" have plagued Blue Apron.
But the company's issues stretch beyond self-inflicted wounds. Competition from rival start-ups and consolidation within the grocery industry have taken their toll.
Related: Tech industry food fight heats up
In September, Albertsons, which owns the Safeway supermarket chain, bought Plated for around $200 million.
HelloFresh, a German meal kit company that operates in the United States, announced in October that it was going public on Frankfurt's stock exchange.
Start-ups Sun Basket, Home Chef, Green Chef and Chef Plate also round out a crowded food service delivery field.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
And then, of course, there's the biggest cook in the kitchen: Amazon.
In July, three weeks after buying Whole Foods, Amazon filed to trademark a prepared meal service with the motto "We do the prep. You be the chef."
Blue Apron's new leadership will have to stir up a fresh recipe quickly to avoid slipping further down the food chain.
--CNNMoney's Seth Fiegerman, Paul La Monica and Matt Egan contributed to this report.


"This drama is clearly going to cause some near-term volatility," said Ryan Detrick, senior market strategist at LPL Financial.
The VIX, a barometer of market turbulence, soared as much as 29% to its highest level since August before retreating. Gold, which often does well during times of fear, gained 0.5%. The S&P 500 fell 0.2%. The Nasdaq closed down 0.4%.
The sharp slide in the stock market came within minutes of the ABC News report on Flynn, who pleaded guilty on Friday to charges he lied to the FBI about conversations with Russia's ambassador, according to court documents.
"This is how a market reacts when there is a large unknown. Everyone wants to know: What's the next shoe to drop?" said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities.

Related: Dow rockets past 24,000
Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group, said it's "obvious" that the ABC News report was the catalyst for the tumble.
"It's potentially the biggest political headache he has to deal with," Boockvar said.
The selloff reflects fears that the Russia scandal will imperil Trump's economic agenda, especially tax cuts. Indeed, the market trimmed its losses after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell declared that Republicans have enough votes to pass the tax bill.
The GOP tax plan has helped send U.S. stocks soaring in recent weeks. The Dow spiked 332 points on Thursday and closed above the 24,000 level for the first time.
Despite Friday's panic attack, the Dow still rose 2.9% for the week, its best performance of 2017.


Robert Shiller, who won a Nobel for his work on bubbles, said the currency appeals to some investors because it has an "anti-government, anti-regulation feel."
"It's such a wonderful story," he said at a conference in Lithuania, according to Bloomberg. "If it were only true."
Wall Street titans were getting in on the action, too.
Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein told Bloomberg that the currency serves as "a vehicle for perpetrating fraud." Billionaire investor Carl Icahn said on CNBC that it "seems like a bubble."
The digital currency previously attracted the derision of JPMorgan boss Jamie Dimon, who called it a "fraud" that would "eventually blow up." Warren Buffett has warned of a "real bubble."
Related: Bitcoin at $11,000: What the heck is going on?
The criticisms have done little to temper bitcoin's (XBT) meteoric -- if wild -- rise this week.
The virtual currency powered above $11,000 for the first time on Wednesday, capping a jaw-dropping rally of more than 1,000% since the start of the year. But it then plunged by more than $2,000, providing a stark reminder of its extreme volatility.
It was trading at $10,700 on Friday.
Some experts argue that the gains in recent weeks have been driven in part by the expectation that more major investors -- like hedge funds and asset managers -- are gearing up to start investing in the digital currency.
CME Group, which owns the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, said Friday it will list bitcoin futures in mid-December. Nasdaq, meanwhile, plans to launch bitcoin futures next year. Futures allow traders to bet on the future price of assets like currencies and metals.
Blankfein acknowledged that the currency could have potential if volatility drops.
"If it works out and gets more established ... we'll get to it," he said.
There appears to be substantially more enthusiasm for bitcoin in Silicon Valley, where tech luminaries Peter Thiel and Marc Andreessen are among its backers.
-- Daniel Shane contributed reporting.


A decade later, the American economy has recovered in many ways. Employers have been steadily adding jobs since early 2010, the stock market is booming and home prices have reached new all-time highs.
Related: U.S. economy posts best growth in years
But in other ways, Americans still carry the scars of the recession, some of which will never heal.
Take Karen Moyers, 58, of Conroe, Texas. After building up her savings in the hairdressing business, she lost nearly all of it in an investment fund managed by a financial advisor during the crash. Now, she is working in a jewelry store for lower wages than she once made and only has enough savings to live on for about a year should she lose her job.
"I can't save any money like I used to," Moyers said. "You think it'll come back, and it never came back."
One decade later, here's where the economy has recovered and where it still has a ways to go.
Jobs are back, but the workforce has shrunk
One of the most remarkable aspects of America's rebound is the unemployment rate. It sunk to a 16-year low of 4.1% in October, with some industries — like trucking, construction, and oilfield services — reporting difficulty finding workers.
Even a more expansive measure of unemployment -- which includes people who want a job but have been discouraged from looking for one and those who work part-time but want to work full-time -- has matched its pre-recession low of 7.9%.

But even that isn't the whole story. The share of Americans who are working or want to work has been falling for a couple decades, from a peak of 67.3% in 2000 to 62.5% in 2015.
In large part, that reflects how America's workforce is getting older and retiring faster, and economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas expect the overall rate to keep falling. Still, participation rates for prime-age workers remain depressed as well, with large numbers of people sidelined by opioid addiction, low wages that make work less attractive, and the high cost of childcare that keeps women in particular at home.
There is some good news: As the labor market has tightened up, employers have started to hire people who often face discrimination in the workplace, such as the formerly incarcerated, as Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen mentioned before the Joint Economic Committee this week. Partly as a result of the tighter labor market, African Americans have narrowed the labor force participation gap with white people in recent years, going from more than three percentage points below average labor force participation in 2011 to only half a point today.
How have you fared in the 10 years since the recession began? Click here to share your story with CNNMoney.
Wages are rising, but wealth hasn't recovered
For several years during the recovery, the big problem was wages: Even as hiring picked up, paychecks remained depressed.
That started to change around 2015, as state and local minimum wage hikes kicked in and employers started raising base pay to attract and retain good workers. Now, median household income is back up to approximately where it was in 2007, at just above $59,000 a year.
In 2016, the Federal Reserve found that 70% of adults reported living comfortably or doing okay financially, up from 62% when they began asking the question in 2013.

But the recession didn't just impact earnings — it also took a sledgehammer to savings and investments. The median household's net worth dropped by 40% between 2007 and 2013, according to a triennial survey by the Fed, and had only recovered slightly by 2016.
"It's no surprise that people aren't back to where they were in 2007, but incredibly striking that we haven't gotten back to where we were 20 years ago," said Harvard University economics professor Karen Dynan, a former chief economist at the U.S. Treasury Department. "Even more so because people have gotten older and closer to retirement."
Net worth is also highly stratified by race, with black households holding one-tenth the assets of white households. Also, wealth inequality by income level grew to its widest point ever in 2016.

The decline in net worth has implications for retirement security, with 28% of Americans over age 18 claiming no savings whatsoever, a 2016 Fed survey reported. Still, Americans are feeling better about their prospects, according to Gallup: 54% of those who haven't retired yet say they'll be able to live comfortably when they do. That's up from 38% in 2012, but still below pre-recession levels.
Home prices are rising, but fewer people are buying
A big part of the plunge in household net worth had to do with housing.
As the financial crisis deepened, the delinquency rate for single-family mortgages spiked to 11.5%, and millions of homes went into foreclosure. In three years, the total amount of equity held by homeowners was cut in half.
Now that the real estate market has recovered and mortgages have stabilized, household equity has bounced back to exceed its pre-recession high. The delinquency rate has also steadily been sinking back towards its 2005 low of 1.42%.
However, owning a home just isn't as popular as it used to be. The homeownership rate sank from 69.4% in 2004 to 63.1% in the middle of last year, and has only just started to bounce back.
The reasons behind that trend are complex. First-time homebuyers have been locked out of the market by tight credit, shaky incomes, hefty student loan debts, and skyrocketing home prices in cities with available jobs, forcing many younger people onto the apartment market. Although many of them neither rent nor buy: One in three young people lived with their parents in 2015, up from one in four a decade earlier, the Census Bureau reported.
In recent months, economists have been scanning the horizon for another crisis that could destabilize American families, identifying everything from rising interest rates to subprime auto loans as potential risks.
In a speech this month at the Brookings Institution, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation chairman Martin Gruenberg warned against proposals in Congress aimed at weakening the regulations that were passed in the wake of the financial collapse.
Related: Janet Yellen touts economy before stepping down
"History shows that the seeds of banking crises are sown by the decisions banks and bank policymakers make when they have maximum confidence that the horizon is clear," Gruenberg said.
Dismantling the Dodd-Frank rules that keep those institutions in check and protect consumers, he said, will make it harder to protect the economy from a crisis like the one that happened a decade ago.


Best known for its vegan mayo, Just Mayo, Hampton Creek also sells cookie dough and salad dressings in stores like Whole Foods, Kroger, and Walmart. The company plans on selling Just Scramble directly to restaurants for now, and to consumers through grocery stores by the end of 2018.
For a company best known for producing a version of the blandest condiment, Hampton Creek has been a surprising magnet for drama.
Its entire board of directors, minus Tetrick, resigned in June amid rumors of clashes with the founder. Target announced it would no longer sell the brand in August, citing food safety allegations. The company was briefly under investigation by the government after a Bloomberg News story alleged it artificially inflated demand for its mayo with fake shoppers. It has been sued by competing mayo makers and Jaden Smith over product names, and tangled with the FDA over health claims and its use of the word "mayo."
If successful, the new egg substitute could be a palette cleanser for the company, which has raised around $245 million. It announced a new round of funding led by Radicle Impact and Blue Horizon on Thursday, but did not disclose the amount.
Hampton Creek held a small breakfast on Thursday so members of the press could taste the final version of Just Scramble. Chefs from Hampton Creek whipped up a dish with mushrooms and goat cheese, as well as a plain version.
When cooked, the texture is incredibly similar to a real scrambled egg, though a touch grainier. When mixed with other ingredients it's probably close enough that anyone who didn't know would assume they were eating a regular egg. On its own, there is a slight earthy aftertaste.
Related: Mayo maker says it is no longer being investigated
For restaurants, how it performs in the kitchen is as important as the taste. Just Scramble cooks as quickly as real eggs without any unusual odors. Each bottle of Just Scramble is the equivalent of about 7 eggs. The form factor is familiar to restaurants, where it's common to use buckets of liquified eggs to make everything from omelets to cakes.
Tetrick said the company struggled with early prototypes and went through thousands of test recipes before it hit on the final formula. Its food scientists tried various beans and plants, including soy and pea protein, the key ingredient in other vegan eggs.
Some batches would evaporate, others wouldn't coagulate at all. A few tests looked great but tasted terrible. Mung bean protein turned out to be the best candidate for taste and texture.
Mung beans are a popular ingredient in many Asian foods. Hampton Creek is currently getting its supply, which isn't organic, from existing mung bean farms in China. But it touts the crop as an environmentally friendly alternative to poultry farming because it uses less water and results in lower greenhouse gas emissions.
Founded in 2011, the 130-person company is also working on making lab-grown meats from real animal proteins. Its goal, according to Tetrick, is to provide more environmental alternatives to meat that will appeal to regular people, not just vegans and vegetarians.
"At the end of the day we've found there's a limited number of things consumers are thinking about, led by, 'Shut up, does it taste good?'" said Tetrick. "Does it taste good, does it make me feel good and can I afford it?"
Hampton Creek did not disclose its price per 322-gram bottle, but says it will be comparable to premium cage-free organic eggs. There are plenty of other egg alternatives on the market, but it is still a niche category mostly relegated to health food stores.
U.S. consumers eat more than 76.5 billion eggs a year. That's a huge opportunity for any company that can make the idea of faux-eggs appeal to mainstream consumers.
Correction: An earlier version of this article reported Hampton Creek raised $220 million.


That's a legacy of the Good Friday Agreement, which dismantled military checkpoints and watchtowers as part of a peace process that sought to end decades of sectarian violence. Gone too are the customs controls and inspections used to catch smugglers.
Britain and Ireland both want to avoid a return to a "hard border" that would not only delay people and commerce, but also revive memories of violence between Catholics and Protestants.

Here's the problem: Britain has made clear that it plans to leave the EU's internal market and customs union in March 2019. It also wants to reduce the number of immigrants after Brexit.
Those plans imply the need for physical controls at the border.
Membership in the internal market has allowed companies in Northern Ireland to do business in all 28 EU member states, selling goods and services to 500 million people living across the bloc.
But Brexit will leave Northern Ireland outside the EU. That means goods crossing into Ireland from Northern Ireland (whatever their origin) will need to be inspected -- and tariffs applied -- before they are allowed to enter that vast market.
"A hard border is a real possibility, and a frictionless border is almost an oxymoron," Katy Hayward of Queen's University Belfast wrote earlier this year. "This is especially true given that the overall logic of Brexit is interpreted by the U.K. government as being to 'take back' control of immigration, laws and trade."
Some analysts have suggested that whiz bang technology that tracks the movement of goods and people can be used to reduce friction.
New IT systems and technology could be combined with inspections and audits of goods away from the border. One think tank has even advocated drone patrols.
The tech solutions are largely unproven, however, and would cost billions.

Related: Britain and EU make progress on Brexit divorce bill
None of the proposals floated thus far are able to match the frictionless trade made possible by EU membership.
"We do not currently see how it will be possible to reconcile there being no border with the [British] government's policy of leaving the single market and the customs union," a committee of U.K. lawmakers warned Friday.
"The government's proposals, by its own admission, are untested and to some extent speculative," it added.
Related: 17 years without a raise? Welcome to Brexit Britain
The EU, meanwhile, has said that Northern Ireland might need to remain inside its internal market and customs union. Doing so would effectively create a sea border between Northern Ireland and the rest of the U.K.
The British government has argued for months that it can only fully address the Irish border issue when there is more clarity on future trade rules with the EU.
But negotiators are now racing to make headway on the issue, one of three areas where "sufficient progress" must be made before the EU will allow the Brexit to move onto future terms of trade.
Time is of the essence: Only 16 months remain until Britain leaves the EU and a border returns in Ireland.
If a breakthrough is achieved, Britain will be able to start work on the hundreds of trade, regulatory and legal agreements that are needed to ensure its economy can avoid significant disruption after March 2019.
If talks collapse, or get stuck on the Irish border issue, businesses are likely to start activating contingency plans in early 2018, moving more jobs and investment out of the U.K.


The S&P 500 added 0.8% and the Nasdaq gained 0.7% on Thursday. Both are near record highs.
Friday could be more restrained: U.S. stock futures were pointing lower.
2. Tax bill hurdle: The dollar is under pressure after U.S. tax reform hit a snag in the Senate.
Senate Republicans had hoped their tax bill would easily win approval this week, but there are now concerns over its cost.
Sen. Bob Corker, a Republican from Tennessee, has made clear that he will not vote for a tax bill that increases the deficit.
The problem: A new analysis shows the bill would add more than $1 trillion to the federal budget deficit over the next decade.
Republicans, who had been on track to pass the bill along party lines, are now considering whether to include future tax increases.
3. Oil up: U.S. crude futures were trading 0.5% higher at $57.70 per barrel.
The gain comes after OPEC and other major oil producers including Russia agreed to extend their production cuts until the end of 2018.
OPEC and its allies first agreed to slash output in late 2016, a response to oversupply and an oil price crash.
There are signs that the global oil glut is now shrinking.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Global market overview: European markets opened lower, while Asian markets ended the session mixed.
Bitcoin (XBT) continued its wild ride, swinging as high as $10,050 and as low as $9,400.
Gold reversed some of its weekly losses, edging 0.2% higher.
5. Earnings and economics: Big Lots (BIG) will release earnings before the U.S. open.
The Institute for Supply Management will publish its November index at 10:00 a.m. ET.
Canada will release third quarter GDP and November unemployment data at 8:30 a.m.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday -- Institute for Supply Management index; Auto sales data; Canada GDP and unemployment data


But having visited a bitcoin mine in Iceland this summer, I saw the thousands of computers racing to authenticate bitcoin transactions. You can't just dismiss this as a fad.
Sign up for the weekly Quest newsletter in your inbox
Still, there's another (pardon the pun) side to the bitcoin. We should not just accept the notion that bitcoin is the new source of money for the future, replacing paper currencies and gold. The fact that bitcoin prices roared up to over $11,000 and then just as quickly fell back to $9,300 in a matter of hours shows all the hallmarks of pure speculation. Money is being invested purely on the possibility of making more money because other investors are pouring in and pushing the price higher. This is different from stocks where the price is led by the earnings of the company involved, dividends and other tangible financial measures.
Whatever happens to bitcoin, other cryptocurrencies are gaining ground and more respect. Ethereum, for instance, has far more transparency. So while this week reinforced the fact the crypto revolution is coming, it also showed you can lose your shirt buying and selling bitcoin.
Trump impressed with Modi's moves in India

A Trump administration official said the White House is "very encouraged" with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's reforms -- especially efforts to overhaul India's tax code and simplify regulations. The comments came as Ivanka Trump spoke at the Global Entrepreneurship Summit in Hyderabad and encouraged India to boost the number of women in the workplace.
President Trump has a personal stake in India's success. The Trump Organization, now run by sons Donald Jr. and Eric, has five properties in development in India.
And India's economy is starting to rebound, but its growth rate still trails China's.
-- Paul R. La Monica
Stocks on fire as Dow hits 24K. Too hot?

The Dow has rocketed through another milestone: 24,000. That marks a nearly 6,000-point boom since last year's election.
The latest milestone happened as support builds in the Senate for corporate tax cuts, stimulus that could bolster already-strong earnings and economic growth.
But stocks are so hot that it's pretty tough to find a bargain on Wall Street right now. Even some retailers like Macy's and Sears have come back to life. Goldman Sachs says stocks, bonds and credit are more expensive than at any time since 1900.
Lofty price tags mean long-term returns are likely to be less explosive.
-- Matt Egan
What's left for Trump to sanction?

President Trump is getting ready to turn up the heat on North Korea again. But after a heavy clampdown on Kim Jong Un's regime earlier this year, what options are left?
In short, North Korea's access to Chinese banking institutions, cutting down on oil exports to North Korea and putting more strain on the country's shipping industry, given its heavy reliance on trade.
Trump's challenge: Getting China and other countries to pressure North Korea, too. So far, their pressure hasn't amounted to the kind of regime change Trump wants to see.
-- Patrick Gillespie
Why Matt Lauer's firing is a big deal

On Wednesday, NBC fired Matt Lauer, the longtime co-host of the "Today" show, after the network received a complaint about "inappropriate sexual behavior in the workplace."
The program is broadcast to millions across the U.S. each day and is one of the most profitable franchises on television. It's also notable because Lauer led conversations on air about sexual assault and harassment.
Lauer joins a growing list of men in media who have been pushed out following allegations of sexual misconduct.
-- Julia Horowitz
Quick takes
Republican tax bill could be devastating for hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico
U.K. makes Brexit progress with EU, but London Stock Exchange is in turmoil
Don't cry for me? Wall Street bulls love Macri and are coming back to Argentina
The royal wedding of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle could cost millions
U.S. automakers are worried about Trump's stance on NAFTA
Sears, Barnes & Noble suffer. Kroger rebounds. Amazon's big Cyber Monday
What's next
Europe's comeback continues: Eurozone growth comes out next Thursday and it will likely show another quarter of sequential and annual growth, a welcome sign for the region's economy, which has been sluggish for years. Eurozone growth is expected to be 2.5% annually for the third quarter. It's the final revision.
Is Japan finally breaking deflation? Its growth comes out at 6:50 p.m. ET on Thursday. Growth is only expected to be 1.7% but the outlook has slightly improved for Japan this year as it continues its decades long battle with deflation -- when prices and wages go down.
Brazil's anemic recovery: The country is just beginning to emerge from its longest recession in history. Unemployment is still over 12%. GDP comes out Friday and is expected to be about 1%.
Manufacturing in Year 1 of Trump: The key U.S. manufacturing index ISM publishes on Friday. It has wavered between a surge of optimism for President Trump's fiscal agenda and concerns that he may not be able to herald it through. But lately it's having a moment. It's also a key U.S. economic indicator.
Look for the Trump tweet on...the U.S. trade deficit! America's trade balance comes out on Tuesday and Trump uses the U.S. deficit to justify his unusual trade practices. So far this year, the deficit is larger than it was in 2016.


Related: World gets first peek at Boeing '797'
Boeing (BA) hasn't yet given the green light to build the small twin-aisle airplane, which will seat between 225 and 270, though the company in September formally created a program office to oversee the possible development. Beezhold is the second executive Boeing has publicly named to the team. The other is the program office's vice president. The jet is dryly called the New Mid-Market Airplane, but has already been dubbed the Boeing '797' by prospective customers.
The airplane would be larger than Boeing's biggest single-aisle 737 Max jets, but would not have the flying endurance of its 787 Dreamliner. Airlines want to relieve congestion on busy routes currently flown with smaller jets.

Analysts estimate the '797' project will cost between $10 billion and $15 billion to develop and the plane wouldn't be ready until 2024 or 2025.
Related: Boeing '797' doesn't exist yet. One airline already says it wants it first
Beezhold is a long-time company veteran who in 2011 was in charge of developing new tools and processes to significantly reduce the cost of designing and manufacturing airliners. That work was put into action developing the 777X, which is manufactured using significantly more automation than previous Boeing airliners.
Correction: An earlier version of this article incorrectly reported that Beezhold had been named chief project engineer of Boeing's New Mid-Market Airplane, or the '797.'


Here's where key trade topics and issues stand:
NAFTA talks are not making progress; Trump threatens to withdraw
Trump would undoubtedly put NAFTA, the trade pact between the U.S., Canada and Mexico, in the "horror show" category.
True to his word, his administration has started to renegotiate the deal with America's southern and northern neighbors. Round 5 of the NAFTA talks began on Friday in Mexico City.
But negotiations aren't going well: Round 4 ended with sharp rebukes from Canadian and Mexican leaders toward Trump's top negotiator, Robert Lighthizer. He hurled criticism back at them. Little progress has been made on key issues, such as how and where cars are manufactured in North America.
Trump routinely threatens to withdraw from NAFTA.
Relations have been rocky for other reasons. The U.S. just won a contentious trade battle over tuna imported from Mexico. The Trump administration also hit Canada with tariffs as high as 18% on softwood lumber.
On top of all that, the U.S. and Canada are also in a bitter dispute over American aerospace giant Boeing's trade complaint against Canadian rival Bombardier.

Trump and China: Lots of smiles, not much change
Trump lauded Chinese President Xi Jinping during his visit to Beijing last week, tweeting that Xi "is a highly respected and powerful representative of his people."
But in the 10 months since Trump took office, not much has changed for U.S.-China trade relations.
Trump did sign $250 billion of deals while he was in China across industries such as energy, technology and aviation.
But some are nonbinding, meaning the companies involved don't have to stick to the terms of the deal. And one agreement for China to buy $37 billion of Boeing jets may not be new. In 2015, Xi announced a $38 billion deal when he visited Boeing's plant in Washington state.
More broadly, Trump didn't expand market access for U.S. companies in China, nor was there any word about the U.S. investigation into Chinese intellectual property theft, something U.S. businesses say is a major problem.
Trump also completely reneged on a campaign promise to label China a currency manipulator. During his campaign, he cited China's currency manipulation as a key reason the U.S., in his view, was losing in trade to China.
But Trump never did label China a currency manipulator -- saying publicly he wouldn't because he wants China to help with the North Korea nuclear threat.
Trump has gotten tough with China in some respects. His administration has slapped tariffs on Chinese goods, such as aluminum foil, plywood, tool chests and other items. However, those are relatively minor issues compared with intellectual property theft and dumping of major commodities, such as steel.
TPP is coming back -- without the U.S.
One of Trump's first actions as president was to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a sweeping trade agreement with 11 other nations meant to lower trade barriers. At the time, many considered TPP dead.
But it made a surprise comeback this week. During Trump's Asia trip, trade ministers from all other TPP nations -- which include Mexico, Canada and Japan -- agreed to "core elements" of TPP. Talks will continue into next year.
Trump and his trade team aren't participating in the new talks. They prefer to sign one-on-one deals, also known as bilateral trade agreements. Trump argues that bilateral deals are easier to enforce compared with major multinational ones.
The U.S. trade deficit is getting bigger
Arguably Trump's biggest trade promise has been his vow to lower the U.S. trade deficit. Trump says a trade deficit is like losing money. Trade experts say a trade deficit is not at all like losing money, nor is it an accurate reflection of the benefits and costs of a trade deal.
So far this year, the U.S. trade deficit is $405 billion. That's higher than the same period last year ($370 billion) and 2015 ($376 billion), according to Commerce Department figures from January to September. That does not mean the U.S. lost $405 billion. It means American businesses and consumers imported more than they exported, which is in line with a consumer economy.
Through the first half of this year, the U.S. trade deficit with Mexico and China also got bigger. It would be hard for Trump to reverse those years-long trends overnight, but some experts argue it might be nearly impossible for him ever to lower the trade deficit without harming U.S. workers.
Many U.S. factory jobs depend on cheap imports of parts, like tubes, wheels and screws, to stay in the United States. If Trump makes those imports more expensive, companies will have to raise prices, which would likely result in fewer sales and jobs.
Looming investigations: Trump's ' big sledgehammer'
The Trump administration launched two controversial trade investigations earlier this year that have an uncertain fate. The Commerce Department is determining whether imports of steel and aluminum pose a risk to U.S. national security.
If the investigations find there is a national security risk, Trump can apply tariffs on all steel or aluminum imports from around the world. He can also raise tariffs as high as he wants. A former Clinton administration official dubbed the so-called Section 232 investigation a "big sledgehammer."
Trade experts say the investigations could risk a trade war in which the U.S. slaps tariffs on other nations and they retaliate.
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said in the spring that he aimed to have the investigations finished by June. But they've been put on hold. Trump told The Wall Street Journal in July  that he wanted to repeal Obamacare, pass tax cuts and maybe get an infrastructure bill done before he returned to the investigation.
--CNNMoney's Jethro Mullen and Daniel Shane contributed reporting to this article.


"It has been my great privilege and honor to serve in the Federal Reserve System," Yellen, the first woman to lead the Fed, wrote to Trump.
The president decided in October not to nominate Yellen for a second term as Fed chair, despite having said that she was doing an "excellent" job. Trump instead chose Powell, who is currently a Fed governor.
In her letter to Trump, Yellen praised Bernanke for his leadership during the financial crisis. She also touted the economy's gains over the last eight years, noting that 17 million jobs have been created.
Yellen served at the Fed in various roles over the course of three decades. She was originally a Fed governor, then president of the Fed's San Francisco branch, then Fed vice chair.


Of course, bitcoin's meteoric rise has led to some skepticism. JPMorgan Chase (JPM) CEO Jamie Dimon has bashed it on numerous occasions, calling it a "fraud" that's better off being used by drug dealers and North Korea.
And Saudi Prince Alwaleed, a billionaire whose Kingdom Holding Company owns stakes in Apple (AAPL) and Citigroup (C), told CNBC before he was arrested in a sweeping anti-corruption probe that he thought bitcoin was an "Enron in the making" that will implode.
But while some see a bubble about to burst, others see opportunity. Lloyd Blankfein, the CEO of JPMorgan Chase rival Goldman Sachs (GS), took issue with bitcoin critics.
Blankfein tweeted last month that "folks also were skeptical when paper money displaced gold." Interestingly, technical analysts at Goldman also correctly predicted earlier this month that bitcoin prices would soon top $8,000.
Related: Bitcoin hits $13,000 on Zimbabwe exchange
Blankfein raises an interesting point though. Sure, some investors are likely flocking to bitcoin as a speculative bet because they've watched the price climb higher and higher.
But there's also a legitimate case to be made that bitcoin, ethereum, litecoin and other cryptocurrencies are the future of money and that more and more people will conduct actual transactions using these currencies.
To that end, Square -- the popular mobile payment service run by Twitter (TWTR) CEO Jack Dorsey -- recently announced a trial that will let some users of its Cash app purchase bitcoin.
"We're always listening to our customers and we've found that they are interested in using the Cash app to buy bitcoin," said a spokesperson for Square (SQ) in an email to CNNMoney.
"We believe cryptocurrency can greatly impact the ability of individuals to participate in the global financial system," the Square spokesperson added.
And CME Group, owner of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, said earlier this month it plans to soon list bitcoin futures contracts. CME (CME) CEO Terry Duffy noted that there has been "increasing client interest in the evolving cryptocurrency markets."
Futures let investors buy and sell an asset at a specified price at a later date, They're popular bets for currencies, metals and agricultural commodities. In other words, CME Group is now treating bitcoin as a legitimate financial asset.
Related: Bitcoin prices have been incredibly volatile. What's going on?
Many others agree. Frank Holmes, CEO and chief investment officer of U.S. Global Investors, wrote in a recent note to clients that bitcoin prices should keep rising simply because more and more people are likely to use it.
"Bitcoin adoption could multiply the more people become aware of how much of their wealth is controlled by governments and the big banks," he said.
Holmes added that more startup companies are also looking to raise money through so-called initial coin offerings - the sale of digital currencies to investors instead of stock. That should lead to a further rise in bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.
Dragonchain, a crytpocurrency startup originally backed by Disney (DIS), has held an ICO. Filecoin, a cloud storage company, raised more than $250 million earlier this year from an ICO -- the biggest ever.
And online retailer Overstock (OSTK) is even planning an ICO for its tZero blockhain unit.
"In an effort to bypass the rules and costs associated with getting listed on an exchange, many startups now are opting to raise funds by issuing their own digital currency based on blockchain technology," Holmes wrote.
Related: Cash is still king in the digital era
To be sure, bitcoin prices have moved wildly in the past couple of months. There have been several big crashes of at least 20%.
Still, the price has always come roaring back -- and analytics firm Meltwater has noted an interesting trend. Bitcoin prices have moved higher simply based on the sheer volume of news coverage... regardless of whether the reports or positive or negative.
In other words, there is no such thing as bad publicity for bitcoin, no matter how much Jamie Dimon and others bash it.
Have you been buying bitcoin? Do you view it more as an investment like stocks and commodities or as the currency of the future? Email me at paul.lamonica@turner.com or DM me @lamonicabuzz on Twitter and you may be included in a future story.


In 2006, $783 billion worth of U.S. dollars was changing hands globally. Last year, it was $1.46 trillion, the San Francisco Fed found in a study. A separate New York Fed study estimates that the majority of dollars are held outside the country.
"Reports of the death of cash have been greatly exaggerated," San Francisco Fed President John Williams wrote in a blog post. "In most countries, demand for notes and coins is strong and shows no signs of slowing down."
Economic factors, fluctuating interest rates and even natural disasters can cause demand for dollars to increase. Around the world, the dollar is seen as a safe currency to hold at times of political and economic turmoil.
Related: Venmo now lets you shop online
But cash of all kinds is growing, not just dollars. Williams found that in 40 of 42 major economies -- from Europe and Asia to Latin America and the United States -- the growth of cash circulation outpaced economic growth over the last 10 years.
The San Francisco Fed's findings are backed up by the private sector. Today, 83% of global transactions are in cash, according to Western Union, the payment transfer service. That's down only slightly from 85% a decade ago. (Western Union did not provide a U.S.-only figure.)
"We don't believe in a world that will be cashless," said Odilon Almeida, president of Western Union's global money transfer division. "Cash will continue to be the bulk of payments ... for the next 50 years. But digital will grow faster."
There are plenty of reasons to prefer cash. It's convenient. It doesn't require a bank account or a mobile phone. And in emergencies, it's good to have stashed under the mattress.
Related: Move over Venmo. Meet Zelle, the latest mobile payment app
Take Argentina. Cash circulation there rose 900% in the past decade, the most of any nation, according to the Fed study. For much of that time, Argentina's economy suffered from high inflation and populist policies that crushed the value of the currency, the peso, and ultimately caused a recession.
The former government's ruling populist party, which lost the presidential election in 2015, also restricted Argentines from taking U.S. dollars out of their bank accounts. That probably contributed to the cash surge.
Cash circulation also increased dramatically in other nations in varying types of distress: 442% in Mozambique, 413% in Myanmar, 355% in Ukraine.
In more advanced countries, cash circulation didn't soar as much, but it still outpaced overall economic growth. That includes the United Kingdom, Canada and Japan.
Related: U.S. unemployment drops to lowest in 17 years
The exceptions in the Fed report are Sweden and Norway, where cash in circulation declined over the past decade. Norway's largest bank, DNB, has eliminated cash at its branches, while Sweden has created an infrastructure that discourages cash payments.
So cash may not be dying, but checks are -- at least in the United States. A separate Federal Reserve study published in June found that checks made up only 13% of noncash payments in America in 2015. In 2000, checks made up nearly 60%.


"I knew after giving birth the first time and my experience delivering Grace that something around the birth and pregnancy space was something I was connected to and wanted to do something about," she says in a new podcast episode of CNN's Boss Files with Poppy Harlow.
A lot has changed since Turlington Burns rose to fame as one of the first supermodels in the 1990s. "I always had the hope that I would do something else," she says. Turlington Burns is now also a mother of two.
Related: Diane von Furstenberg: 'I've never met a woman who isn't strong'
On a 2005 trip to her mother's native El Salvador as an ambassador with the non-profit CARE, Turlington Burns says she "realized that if I gave birth in that community with my first pregnancy that had the unexpected third stage of labor, I would not have made it. I'm sure I wouldn't have. I left that trip thinking 'Okay this is a community, this is the kind of community that I want to be able to help and impact.'"
After she returned from that trip, she enrolled at Columbia University -- where she studied public health. Simultaneously, she produced the global maternal health documentary No Woman No Cry in 2010.
The same year she founded the non-profit Every Mother Counts. The mission is simple, yet critical: To make pregnancy and childbirth safe for every mother, everywhere in the world.
Today, Every Mother Counts provides aid to mothers in the U.S., Bangladesh, Guatemala, Haiti, India, Tanzania and Uganda. The non-profit addresses three key barriers to maternal health: Transportation to medical care, education to ensure women are prepared for motherhood and essential supplies for prenatal and postnatal care.
Maternal mortality is on the rise in the U.S., making it the only industrialized country where that is the case. The number of women in the U.S. who die due to complications during pregnancy and childbirth has nearly doubled in the past 25 years, according to EMC. Roughly 700 women die each year in the United States as a result of pregnancy or delivery complications, according to the CDC.
The risk is particularly high for African American women, who die from pregnancy-related complications four times more than white women, Turlington Burns notes. The divide is even more staggering in her hometown where it's "12 times [higher] in New York City, and there are pockets all over the country where that's true," she says.

The loss of her father to lung cancer in 1997 is, in many ways, what first turned Turlington Burns on to doing public advocacy work. Both she and her father had previously been smokers -- but after his death she picked up the phone and started calling organizations including the American Cancer Society. She told her personal story in a Public Service Announcement.
"I just completely lost it on camera. I think that campaign was really effective. I still have people that will come to me and go 'I quit smoking because of that PSA'."
That was a turning point for her. "I think that feeling of in a way healing, a loss like that, through taking action was really important," she says.
More recently, her organization has teamed up with CNN and Every Mother Counts for a new CNNGo series presenting the journeys of women giving birth across America. The films seek to raise the profile and issues of maternal health in the United States. Turlington Burns is the executive producer.
Despite her meteoric rise to fame as a supermodel -- Turlington Burns says it is her education, not her looks, that has given her the most confidence in life. She was honored in 2014 as one of Time's 100 Most Influential People -- and has held positions on Harvard Medical School's Global Health Council and the Harvard School of Public Health Board of Dean's Advisors.
Related: Gretchen Carlson speaks: 'The floodgates have opened'
Asked what she hopes her two young children will say about her one day, Turlington Burns responds. "I would want them to think that I cared about others more in a way than myself...that my focus was and is about everyone having the same opportunities and chances and accesses."
Turlington Burns says, she is always striving to choose the path that's going to serve others. "I am proud of the choices that I've made and I think about the choices as examples to my kids all the time of," she says. But, she tells Harlow, "I always think that there's more. There's so much more to do."


"Anyone in this country, now in this time, can be a great entrepreneur or an owner of a great company," said Hassan Alansary, 23, who is studying public relations at Riyadh's Imam University.
"The last action of prince Mohammed bin Salman... [tells us] that corruption is not going to be a problem anymore: 'Go work, go find a job, go develop your skills. I'll be with you through all the challenges.'"

The anti-corruption drive took foreign investors by surprise, coming just days after the kingdom hosted a huge conference -- dubbed "Davos in the Desert" -- attended by many global fund managers.
There has been an "uptick" in money transfers out of Saudi Arabia following the arrests, and ratings agency S&P warned Sunday of a "new level of uncertainty."
Related: Arrested Saudi prince built empire from Riyadh to Silicon Valley
But the crackdown could also improve prospects for the economy in the medium-term, the agency added, and "empower Saudi citizens."
"I think of it as making the economy more efficient, streamlining economic activity and making sure everything is systemized," said Abdulaziz Albassam, a Harvard Business School graduate who runs Oasis Capital, a fund that invests in early stage startups in the U.S.
"We are going into a new era, change is happening... it's going in the right direction."

The 28-year-old executive moved back to Saudi Arabia in May, excited at the opportunities he believes will come from the crown prince's Vision 2030, a blueprint for breaking the kingdom's addiction to oil by diversifying its economy.
"I had a chance of staying in the U.S. and after a while that place got comfortable to me," he told CNNMoney in Riyadh. "But with all the reforms, the exciting momentum happening here, I thought why stay there when I can come back and be a force of further change through my entrepreneurial efforts."
Albassam is working on launching an online banking platform, together with a business partner.

That enthusiasm was shared by attendees at a youth forum in Riyadh last week, sponsored by the crown prince.
In addition to tackling corrupt practices that have cost the kingdom at least $100 billion, Mohammed bin Salman's reforms have included cutting subsidies, introducing new taxes and lifting a ban on women driving next year.
"Everybody here has to be ready for change," said Amani Almasaad, a 32-year-old business analyst at Saudi Telecom. "After enabling ladies this year... everyone has to decide how to use this to enable them."
Related: Saudi Arabia wants to build a $500 billion mega-city spanning 3 countries
Many are being encouraged by Saudi Arabia's new emphasis on technology and innovation. Last week, the government said it would make it easier for foreign entrepreneurs to get licenses to launch startups in the kingdom. That's part of an effort to boost the contribution of the private sector to 65% of GDP from 40% at present.
Lujain AlUbaid, co-founder of a non-profit incubator and accelerator called Tasamy, says she's received more than 2,000 applications for new startups in 2017, more than the combined total for the last three years.

"As a society, we are changing a lot," AlUbaid told CNNMoney. "But what has changed the most over the last two years, is that the language of the leadership has changed... knowing there is a lot of transparency and support."
Foreign companies are also seizing opportunities to grow.
GE (GE), which has been in Saudi Arabia for decades and employs more than 4,000 people there, has already trained more than 500 young men and women on a new program to expose students to innovation, invention and advanced manufacturing.
Related: Saudi Arabia wants foreign help in its massive economic overhaul
"What is exciting now is this energy that you are seeing... There is more momentum now and there's more focus. We can do even a lot more," said Rania Rostom, regional chief innovation officer at GE.


For GE's 300,000 employees and millions of shareholders, the consequences have been painful. More than $100 billion in market value has vanished from GE since November 2016, more than the combined values of Ford (F), Delta (DAL) and UnitedContinental (UAL). GE, still a staple in investment portfolios, has plummeted 42% this year.
The stock crashed to a six-year low last week after the company admitted it can no longer afford the dividend that once symbolized its stability. It's only the second time since the Great Depression that GE has cut the dividend.
John Flannery, the CEO brought in to clean up the mess, acknowledged that fixing GE will take time and require selling off another chunk of its shrinking empire.
This mainstay of corporate America is experiencing a low point even as the rest of the economy surges.
"When many people think of GE, they think of America," said John Inch, a Deutsche Bank analyst who covers GE. "It's hard for them to understand how this thing fell apart so quickly."
Related: GE is broken. Fixing it will be long and difficult
GE's shopping spree gone bad
Welch, the CEO from 1981 to 2001, built GE into a super-conglomerate that owned a major bank and NBC. But that business model has since been cast aside as overly complex, and in retrospect, it's clear that Welch's shopping spree masked problems.
Those problems blew up when he left. The most obvious example is GE Capital, the finance company that dealt GE a near-fatal blow during the 2008 crisis.
"Immelt inherited a company from Jack Welch that had brushed a lot of issues under the rug," Inch said.
Martin Sankey, a senior research analyst at Neuberger Berman who has been following GE closely since 1981, said Welch made his share of mistakes with deals and operations, "some of which showed up on his watch and others showed up later."
Not long ago, the criticism of Welch would have been unthinkable. He was a larger-than-life force whom Fortune named "manager of the century" in 1999. That aura has since been punctured.
Welch, who declined to comment for this story, still appears frequently on CNBC. He recently launched an online MBA program at Strayer University, named after himself.

Related: GE is breaking up with the light bulb
'Train wreck'
One of the chief responsibilities of the CEO is deciding where to deploy cash. After Immelt took over from Welch, GE often picked the wrong places at the wrong times.
Those poor decisions about mergers and acquisitions have contributed to the cash crunch: This giant company no longer generates enough money to pay for investments in the business and dividends for shareholders. The crunch has been years in the making, but only recently has Wall Street come to grips with how bad it is.
Consider GE's $9.5 billion acquisition of Alstom's power business, which makes coal-fueled turbines used by power plants. The 2015 transaction was GE's biggest-ever industrial purchase.
For GE, the deal represented a doubling down on fossil fuels, even as renewable sources of energy, like solar, were gaining popularity. Not surprisingly, GE admitted this week that Alstom has been a major disappointment, and that its power business is in shambles.
"If we could go back in the time machine today, we would pay a substantially lower price than we did," Flannery said on CNBC.
Inch called the Alstom deal a "disaster" that supports GE's reputation for "buying high and selling low."
Elsewhere, he said GE overpaid for many of its oil-and-gas properties, forcing it to merge those businesses last year with Baker Hughes (BHGE), a major provider of services and equipment for oil drilling. GE said this week it's already exploring ways to exit its majority stake in Baker Hughes.
GE has had an "abysmal M&A history," Scott Davis, CEO and lead analyst at Melius Research, wrote in a recent report.
Much of it occurred under Immelt, who himself once had a reputation as a world-class CEO. He was named one of the "world's best CEOs" by Barron's three times and sat on CEO councils under both President Trump and former President Barack Obama.
Yet GE was the worst-performing stock in the Dow during Immelt's 16-year reign. It was an original member of the venerable stock average. Now there's talk of kicking GE out of the Dow altogether.
Davis described Immelt's tenure was a "train wreck" and said his exit this year "came about 10 years too late."
Related: Will GE get kicked out of the Dow?
Immelt is gone now, and GE is shedding businesses -- but at a time when many of those businesses are at a low point. For instance, the company has put its century-old railroad business up for sale. But Flannery has warned that rail faces a "protracted slowdown" in North America, suggesting that buyers will not exactly be lining up.
Likewise, GE is looking to unload its business that makes light bulbs -- the product that, perhaps more than any other, symbolizes the company's history of innovation. Light bulb sales soared between 2007 and 2014, thanks to the LED lighting that GE helped to invent. The problem is that LED bulbs last for decades, so sales have tumbled.
Aswath Damodaran, a finance professor at the Stern School of Business, blamed Immelt for not moving more quickly and aggressively to shrink a maturing GE.
"Accept the fact you're aging. Don't fight it with acquisitions," said Damodaran. "That's like a 75-year-old doing a face lift. You can't look good for long because gravity will work its magic sooner or later."
Immelt declined to comment.
'Too proud' to let go of GE Capital
Consider GE Capital, which was built into a behemoth by Welch and Immelt through a series of acquisitions. It was essentially a too-big-to-fail bank, inside a company that makes power plants and MRI machines.
GE Capital became a huge liability during the financial crisis. It got so bad that GE couldn't borrow money when the overnight lending market vanished, forcing it to get an emergency investment from Warren Buffett and other investors.
Pankaj Patel, who worked at GE during the 1990s, defended GE management by arguing the company was a victim of a once-in-a-generation meltdown.
"They got caught in the middle of the financial crisis," said Patel.
Others argue GE should have sold GE Capital long before it got so big that it endangered the rest of the company.
"They were too proud. They couldn't let it go. By the time they spun off GE Capital, it was already damaged and nobody would give them a fair price," Damodaran said.
Related: GE cuts dividend for 2nd time since Great Depression
'Murky' accounting
GE has long been criticized for using cloudy accounting and confusing reporting metrics that made it difficult for investors to determine the company's true health.
The SEC charged GE with accounting fraud in 2009, alleging the company used "overly aggressive accounting" to make false and misleading statements to investors. GE agreed to pay $50 million to settle the charges, though the company neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing.
GE's accounting remains controversial. The Wall Street Journal published a recent series highlighting how the company's "murky" accounting makes it hard to understand its cash flow.
Take GE's "industrial CFOA," which is supposed to gauge free cash flow. But a footnote explains this measure excludes deal taxes as well as pension plan funding, a huge cost at GE.
"It's gone on for many years," said Deutsche Bank's Inch. "The important numbers are buried. They don't want people to understand."
Acknowledging that these issues have hurt GE, Flannery promised last week to simplify reporting and increase transparency. However, GE stopped short of abandoning customized metrics altogether.
Flannery has downplayed accounting concerns, telling CNBC, "There is no accounting issue. ... No one's been had."
GE declined further comment.
Accounting scrutiny is a headache GE does not need. Flannery already faces what he calls a "heavy lift" turning around this great company. He expressed optimism about that challenge, citing GE's long history of remaking itself.
For this next chapter in the GE story, the company is planning to shrink itself by selling its transportation, light bulb and other businesses.
The goal is to make the GE of the future more nimble, easier to operate and squarely focused on its core strengths: health care, power and aviation. Flannery has also vowed to improve GE's culture by making it more open and transparent. And to do a better job of allocating GE's limited resources.
The dream is to make GE a modern industrial leader that is once again on a sustainable financial path.
"This is the opportunity, really of a lifetime, to reinvent an iconic company," Flannery said.


"Whoever controls the lithium supply chain will control the future of the electric vehicle space," said Simon Moores, managing director at research and data provider Benchmark Mineral Intelligence. "There's a global battery arms race."
Related: How China plans to beat the U.S. at technology
China has limited lithium resources of its own, so it's looking abroad.
In September, Chinese automaker Great Wall Motor (GWLLF) bought a stake in Pilbara Minerals (PILBF), an Australian lithium miner. Earlier this year, China's Ganfeng Lithium snapped up 20% of an Argentine project. Last year, China's Tianqi Lithium took a 2% stake in Chile's SQM (SQM), one of the world's top miners of the metal.
The Chinese government has been quietly instructing state-owned enterprises to hunt down lithium resources outside China, according to Francois Perrin, a portfolio manager at investment firm East Capital. He predicts that over the next few years, China will wield increasing influence over the supply of lithium and other metals used in electric batteries.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said he didn't have any specific information on the trend of Chinese investment in lithium supplies.
"We always strive to deepen economic cooperation with all countries in all fields, including in energy and auto sectors," he said in response to a question from CNN. "I wouldn't find it surprising if there is Chinese cooperation with other countries in mining certain minerals."

The Chinese firms involved in the recent deals didn't respond to requests for comment. Neither did the National Development and Reform Commission, which helps guide the country's economic policies.
Beijing has a track record of directing Chinese companies to do its bidding, such as squeezing South Korea's tourism industry earlier this year over a dispute with Seoul over a U.S. missile defense system.
It also has history of using crucial natural resources under its control as diplomatic weapons: it was widely accused of restricting exports in 2010 of a group of minerals that are vital for many high-tech devices.
The pursuit of lithium for electric cars fits with Chinese President Xi Jinping's plans, according to analysts.
"China's aggressive moves in the lithium sector speak to the country taking leadership around important issues such as public health and fighting climate change," said Chris Berry, founder of research firm House Mountain Partners. China wants to be a global leader in lithium, from mining the metal to processing it, he said.
Related: These countries want to ban gas and diesel cars
Western companies haven't so far shown much interest in the kinds of investments for electric cars made by their Chinese counterparts, according to experts.
"They're late to the party," Moores said.
Like China, the U.S. and Europe have few lithium resources of their own and rely on supplies shipped from elsewhere. Tesla (TSLA) and other electric car makers could end up scrambling for a limited supply of crucial resources where China is the biggest player.

The growing global appetite for lithium is already driving up its price. It's gained 40% since the start of the year to trade around $14,000 per ton, according to Benchmark Mineral Intelligence.
"This is an incredible bull market like lithium's never seen," Moores said.
A lot of the demand comes from China's large and growing battery manufacturing industry.
Tesla's huge Gigafactory in the Nevada desert gets a lot of headlines, but China produces about two-thirds of the global supply of batteries for electric vehicles, according to Benchmark Mineral Intelligence. And the firm estimates that China is building about half of the 20 or more battery mega-factories currently in the works.
Related: Inside Tesla's enormous Gigafactory
With the biggest market for electric vehicles and the biggest battery supply, China is making itself an inescapable destination for global automakers. They have been lining up recently to announce plans to make their electric cars in the country.

"The message to Tesla and other aspiring electric vehicle makers: 'You are free to produce anywhere in the world, but better to produce electric vehicles inside China,'" said Michael Dunne, head of Hong Kong-based consultant Dunne Automotive.
Tesla has said its working on plans for building its cars in China. Volkswagen (VLKAY), the world's biggest automaker, has just announced a $12 billion plan to make electric cars in the country. Experts say others will soon follow.
Related: Volkswagen needs batteries that would fill 4 Gigafactories
And it's not just lithium that China's locking down.
Cobalt, another metal used to make electric vehicle batteries, is even scarcer. Almost two-thirds of supply is mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo, a war-torn country in central Africa.
Last year, China bought a majority stake in Congo's biggest cobalt mine for more than $2.5 billion, helping secure long-term supply of the metal. Since that deal, the price of cobalt has more than doubled.
"The cobalt supply situation is a serious concern," Perrin said.


The economic impact is likely to be limited, however.
"The economy is in such good shape with 2.5% growth, strong business confidence, full employment and a fiscal surplus that few major decisions need to be taken for the time being," said Holger Schmieding, chief European economist at Berenberg Bank.
2. Brexit jobs losses: The European Union will announce new host cities on Monday for two coveted agencies that are leaving Britain because of Brexit.
The European Medicines Agency and the European Banking Authority, which employ roughly 1,000 people, had been based in London.
It's one of the first concrete examples of organizations and jobs leaving Britain because of Brexit.
3. Markets in fear mode: The CNNMoney Fear & Greed Index has swung into "fear" territory.
The gauge of investor sentiment, which tracks volatility and six other key market barometers, had been indicating "greed" for several weeks.
U.S. stock futures were pointing lower.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed 0.4% lower on Friday, while the S&P 500 dropped 0.3%. The Nasdaq shed 0.2%.
Still, It's been at least a decade since things were going this well for Wall Street. The Nasdaq is up 26% this year, compared to a 15.5% jump for the S&P 500 and an 18% gain by the Dow.
4. Global market overview: European stocks were mostly lower in early trading. Asian markets ended mixed.
U.S. oil futures edged higher to trade around $56.80 per barrel.
Bitcoin has surged above $8,000, the latest in a series of milestones to be topped by the digital currency. A year ago, Bitcoin was trading at around $740.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Earnings and economics: Urban Outfitters (URBN) will report earnings after the closing bell.
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi is speaking at 9:00 a.m. ET in Brussels.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- Urban Outfitters (URBN) earnings Tuesday -- Campbell (CPB), Lowe's, Salesforce and HP earnings Wednesday -- Consumer sentiment survey, U.K. budget, Fed minutes Thursday -- Markets closed for Thanksgiving  Friday -- Markets close at 1 p.m.


The firm has until next March to dig itself out of massive debt and get its balance sheet in order, failing which it will have to stop trading publicly.
Related: Apple-backed group to buy Toshiba chip business for $18 billion
Seeking a major injection of cash is the latest survival move from Toshiba, which is dealing with a crippling financial crisis.
The struggling company agreed to sell its prized memory chip business in September, to a consortium led by private equity firm Bain Capital and backed financially by Apple, (AAPL) Dell (DVMT) and other U.S. and Japanese firms.
But regulatory reviews and a challenge from U.S. data storage firm Western Digital could delay the sale beyond the critical March deadline.
Related: Toshiba: Too big to fail?
The collapse of Toshiba's U.S. nuclear unit Westinghouse, which filed for bankruptcy earlier this year, cost the storied Japanese company some $6.4 billion.
The loss forced Toshiba to report a negative net worth for the last fiscal year.


But Jodi Balsam, a former NFL lawyer who was responsible for the league constitution and bylaws from 1994 to 2007, says it's unlikely the other owners would level such severe punishment on Jones.
The reason, she says, is that owners fear their own turn in the barrel.
"Jones has a lot of friends in the league, and it's unlikely they would agree to punish one of their own because what comes around goes around," Balsam, now an associate professor at Brooklyn Law School, tells CNNMoney.
The NFL executive committee, made up of the owners of all 32 teams, can oust a fellow owner. But it takes a three-quarters vote. And Jones is powerful, despite his occasional flair for public controversy.
Besides winning three Super Bowls and running the most valuable team in America's most profitable sport, he helped Las Vegas and Los Angeles land NFL teams. And he was instrumental to securing the league's lucrative TV rights deal.
Related: NFL: Jerry Jones is hurting the league
Jones is upset that his star running back, Ezekiel Elliott, was suspended six games earlier this season for domestic violence allegations. He also has taken a much harsher stance than Goodell on players who kneel during the National Anthem to protest racial injustice. At one point Jones said he wanted to bench players for kneeling.
To block Goodell's path to a new contract, Jones has argued that every owner should get to review the terms of any deal. But in May, all 32 owners voted to give that power to a committee of six owners. (Jones was an honorary, non-voting member until he threatened to sue and was removed.)
In response to the threat of a lawsuit, the lawyer representing that committee sent a letter to Jones' lawyer warning Jones to stop sabotaging the negotiations.
Related: What's driving Jerry Jones' beef with Roger Goodell
Balsam says an NFL owner has never been removed for misbehavior.
In the NBA, Clippers owner Donald Sterling was pushed out of the league in 2014, but that was for racist comments that turned him into a national outcast. Sterling was banned from his own team and forced to sell.
Balsam says when NFL owners have lost teams, it's usually been for financial reasons.
"The league usually works these things out behind the scenes," she said. "But owners have quietly departed as a result of persuasive efforts by fellow owners and the league office when they're incapable of running the team."
What's more likely is that Jones might be fined, Balsam says.
The bylaws allow either the executive committee or the commissioner to fine an owner up to $500,000 for each violation.
Balsam says it's highly unusual for the NFL to fine owners for their comments and actions. It's different from other leagues in that way. For example, the NBA has fined Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban several times for his behavior.
But, while it might be unusual to incur a fine, Jones is more than just badmouthing Goodell. He's threatening to sue the league -- his fellow owners.
If he is punished, Balsam says it would be more effective for the committee to do it because Goodell has a personal tie to the matter. His job is at stake.
Related: NFL owners weigh contract extension for Roger Goodell
Goodell's contract still has more than a year and a half to run. But the calendar could be pressuring the league to act now to renew his deal.
Not only are major network TV deals ending in 2021 and 2022, but the league's collective bargaining agreement with players ends after the 2020 season. If the NFL brought in a new commissioner, that person would only have a year or so to get up to speed.
Balsam says she doesn't understand Jones' endgame. She says the best time to replace a commissioner is after he or she negotiates a successful CBA -- not right before. And Goodell is a very skilled negotiator, she says: The past two deals he did were favorable for owners.
Goodell worked in the league for 24 years before being named commissioner. In that time he handled football and business operations and played a key role in the league's expansion.
When he took over as commissioner he helped broker a 10-year CBA and nine-year deals with CBS, NBC and Fox.
He also helped grow the league's revenue to over $12 billion in 2014 and has set a goal of $25 billion by 2027.
The NFL, Jones' attorney and the Dallas Cowboys did not respond to requests for comment.


The House bill that passed last week would slash the corporate tax rate to 20% from 35%. The tax cut would lift big bank earnings by 15%, according to KBW. Profits at Wells Fargo (WFC), Bank of America (BAC) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM) could soar by 20% or more.
Of course, the tax overhaul still faces obstacles in the Senate. And even if it gets through there, it'll have to be reconciled with the starkly different version passed by the House.
Still, hopes for big tax cuts have helped lift the stock market to new heights. The Dow has surged nearly 19% this year, while the Nasdaq is up a whopping 26%.
Stocks aren't just booming in the U.S. It's a global phenomenon, driven by a rare period of synchronized growth from major economies. The global stock market has climbed every single month this year, something that's never happened during the 30-year history of the MSCI AC World Index, according to Charles Schwab.
It also helps that inflation remains very low, something that should keep central banks from raising interest rates too rapidly. Wall Street has dubbed it a "goldilocks" backdrop: steady growth that is neither too hot nor too cold.
If anything, the risk is that euphoria takes over and ruins the party by sparking a melt-up that overheats the market.
There are already signs that investors are chasing gains, no matter the price level.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch polled investors and found record-high levels who believe stocks are overvalued (48%) and are taking above-normal levels of risk (16%). Yet they continue to plow into stocks, with average cash levels dipping to four-year lows.
The survey is, according to BofA, "an indicator of irrational exuberance."
2. Black Friday is finally here: Holiday shopping season is officially here. Unofficially, it's been here for weeks. Amazon (AMZN), Sears (SHLD), Home Depot (HD) and other retailers are already offering reduced prices for some items, and Walmart (WMT) already hosted some of its shopping parties (yes, shopping parties).
But that doesn't mean Black Friday and Thanksgiving don't matter to retailers. This year, several stores will open their doors on Thanksgiving Day and remain open or reopen them on Black Friday. Some, like GameStop, are reversing decisions made in previous years to close on Thanksgiving in honor of the holiday. And the stakes are high for brick-and-mortar locations -- more store closings have been announced in 2017 than any other year on record.
Last year, more people shopped on Black Friday than they did in 2015. But they spent less, according to the National Retail Federation. This year, the NRF expects holiday sales in November and December to tick up by about 4% compared to 2016 -- but PricewaterhouseCoopers predicts that Black Friday shopping will fall by 16%.
3. U.K. budget announcement: The British government will publish its autumn budget on Wednesday. U.K. citizens will be watching for whether Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Hammond will dip into the country's reserves to prepare for a "no deal" Brexit: The nightmare scenario in which Britain leaves the European Union in 2019 without agreeing to a new deal with the bloc.
If that happens, it would be a financial and logistical disaster: Flights would be grounded, border crossings delayed, and tens of thousand of jobs lost. And without a trade deal with Europe, British households could pay an extra $345 per year.
Talks between the U.K. and the E.U. are supposed to wrap up next summer, but little progress has been made so far.
4. Earnings end on a high note? After weeks of mostly solid earnings this past quarter, we'll hear from three more high-performing companies. Hewlett Packard (HPE) and Salesforce (CRM), both set to report on Tuesday, have soared by more than 45% and 56% this year, respectively.
Lowe's (LOW), which also plans to share its results on Tuesday, has risen nearly 12% this year. That still puts it well ahead of most other retailers.
5. Coming this week:
Tuesday -- Campbell (CPB), Lowe's, Salesforce and HP earnings
Wednesday -- Consumer sentiment survey
Thursday -- Markets closed for Thanksgiving
Friday -- Markets close at 1 p.m.


Opens: 5 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day and will stay open until 1 a.m. Friday. Reopens Friday at 8 a.m. and closes at 10 p.m.
Highlights: You can get a 50-inch 4K Smart TV for $180 (save $320), a Google Home Mini for $30 (save $20 plus get a $10 gift card), or up to $150 off a 10.5-inch iPad Pro. Get more details here and see the full ad here.
Pro-Tip: My Best Buy members get early access to Black Friday deals starting Monday November 20.
Online: Best Buy says "almost" every deal will be available online beginning Thanksgiving morning. Shoppers get free shipping all season long.
Dick's Sporting Goods
Opens: 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving and will remain open until 2 a.m. Friday. Reopens Friday from 5 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Highlights: "Select" locations will have discounts on items exclusively available at Dick's -- including apparel from Patagonia and Adidas and the Bowflex M5. The store is also offering rewards cash for Yeti purchases, 50% to 70% off bikes, 40% off Adidas apparel, a Warrior in-ground basketball hoop for $400 (save $600), and a Stiga tennis table for $250 (save $250). See the full ad here.
Online: All deals will be available online Thanksgiving day. The site offers free shipping or the option to pick up in stores. Dick's will also hold a Cyber Week sale that kicks off Sunday November 26.
Kmart
Opens: 6 a.m. on Thanksgiving and will stay open until 10 p.m. on Black Friday. Some stores close at midnight or 2 a.m. on Friday and reopen at 6 a.m.
Highlights: Grab a 55-inch Samsung 4K Smart TV for $500 (save $200) or luxurious 1,000 thread count sheets for $20 (save 30). Barbie dolls will go on sale for $2 (save $5 to $8), and some small kitchen appliances will be 50% off. See the full ad here.
Online: Kmart's discounts will be available online from 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving through 2 p.m. on Black Friday.
Kohl's
Opens: 5 p.m. on Thanksgiving Day. Hours may vary by location.
Deals: Shoppers can snag a PlayStation 4 for $200 (save $100), a diamond bracelet for $70 (save $230), a Google Home for $80 (save $50), or a Sky Rider HD camera drone for $50 (save $100). For $20, parents can grab a Disney castle toy or an indoor basketball game. See the full ad here.
Pro-Tip: According to Wallethub, Kohl's will offer some of the steepest discounts of any major retailer this Black Friday. On average, its markdowns will hit 66.3% off. Deals will be especially hot for jewelry.
Online: Some deals go live on Kohls.com Monday November 20 at 1 a.m. ET. Doorbuster deals go live at 1 a.m. ET on Thursday November 23.
Macy's
Opens: 5 p.m. on Thanksgiving, though it may vary by location.
Highlights: The steepest discounts will be so-called doorbusters that will be available when doors open on Thanksgiving through 1 p.m. Friday. The discounts will briefly come back Saturday until 1 p.m. Mail-in rebates, offered only in stores, will score you some free items, such as a glassware set or select kitchen electronics. See the full ad here.
Pro-Tip: If you need a blender, Wallethub says Macy's is offering one of the best discounts around for its A3500 Vitamix blender. You can grab it for $350 (save $250) on Black Friday.
Online: More than 500 deals will be live online beginning Thanksgiving morning. A round of Cyber Week savings will go live on Sunday, November 26 and end Wednesday November 29.
Sears
Opens: 6 p.m. to midnight on Thanksgiving, though some locations will stay closed. All stores will reopen at 5 a.m. on Black Friday.
Highlights: You can save more than $1,000 on a Kenmore refrigerator or a NordicTrack elliptical. They'll go on sale for $1,000 and $600, respectively. Most deals will end at 2 p.m. on Black Friday. See the full ad here.
Online: All deals will be available online all day Thanksgiving through 2 p.m. on Black Friday.
Target
Opens: 6 p.m. on Thanksgiving, closes at midnight and reopens Friday at 6 a.m.
Highlights: Target is promising the "lowest prices of the year" on video games, TVs and other electronics. Customers who spend $50 on Black Friday will get a 20% off coupon for a future shopping trip.
Deals include an XBox One S 500 GB console for $190 (save $90 and get a $25 gift card) and a 65-inch Samsung 4K TV for $850 (save $156). Get more details here and see the full ad here.
Pro-Tip: REDcard holders will get early access to more than 100 deals online starting Wednesday Nov. 22.
Online: Black Friday deals will be available on Target.com early Thanksgiving morning.
Toys "R" Us
Opens: 5 p.m. on Thanksgiving until 11 p.m. Friday.
Highlights: A few pre-Black Friday sales will show up Sunday November 19 and run through Wednesday November 22. A few deals will be available only in stores through midnight. They include a a Barbie Pink Passport Townhouse for $60 (50% off) and a motorized Power Wheels Boomerang for $250 (save $150). Get more details here and see the full ad here.
Online: Black Friday deals will go live on Toysrus.com/BlackFriday Wednesday Nov. 22 at 9 p.m. ET. Toys "R" Us offers a pick-up-in-store option.
Walmart
Opens: Black Friday sales begin at 6 p.m., but most Walmart stores will be open all day on Thanksgiving. Hours vary by location.
Highlights: Walmart will release color-coded maps of its stores to help customers find what they are looking for. Among the deals it's touted: a Dyson cordless vacuum cleaner for $190 (save $176), a Google Chromecast for $20 (save $15), a iPad 5th Gen 32GB for $249 (save $80), and a Samsung 65-inch Class Curved 4K Smart TV for $1,000 (save $300). Get more details here and see the full ad here.
Online: Deals begin on Walmart.com at 12:01 a.m. ET on Thanksgiving.


Ending the DACA program, which was enacted through an executive order by President Barack Obama in 2012, could upend the lives of the nearly 689,000 15- to 36-year olds who gained DACA status.
But there is still some hope for DACA recipients. The Trump administration gave Congress until March 5 to enact an alternative before those protected under the program lose their ability to work, study and live without fear in the U.S.
Related: DACA in flux: 5 things business owners need to know
Should Congress fail to meet the deadline, those with DACA status will lose their work authorization and their employers may be forced to lay them off.
Many graduating high schoolers may no longer be able to attend college. And all DACA status holders would lose their identification cards, which in many states allows them to drive legally.
This is a significant problem, said Randy Kapps, director of research with Migration Policy Institute. "If they get caught driving without a license, they can be arrested and held in ICE custody and potentially face deportation," he said.
While their future in the U.S. now hangs in the balance, a report from the Migration Policy Institute provides a detailed profile of Dreamers with DACA status. Here are some of the key findings:

In order to qualify for DACA status, a person must either be enrolled in school, already have a high school diploma or have a GED. This means almost all of those covered by DACA are high-school educated.
Of the 689,800 DACA holders, 20% are currently in middle or high school and a little less than half (44%) have graduated high school, but have not enrolled in college.
Related: DACA students are worried. The clock is ticking
Another 18% of DACA recipients are enrolled in college, making them almost as likely to enroll in college as the average American in the same age group. The difference is that just 4% of DACA recipients have completed a bachelor's degree -- a much smaller percentage than their American peers.
The report also found that one out of three DACA recipients who is enrolled in school also holds a job, which is on par with other young American adults.

Just over half (55%) of DACA recipients -- about 400,000 -- are working, while most of the rest are in school, unemployed or not in the labor force, the report said.
And Dreamers are employed across a variety of service and professional jobs.
"What our research shows is that DACA recipients are largely a working class population," said Kapps.
"This may come as a surprise to people that so many of them are in these mid-skill jobs," he said.
While a large number of Dreamers hold retail jobs or work in the food services or hospitality industries, many are also teachers, health care providers, business managers and social workers.
The report found that about 9,000 are employed as teachers, while some 14,000 are working as health care practitioner and support jobs. Another 14,000 work as managers.
"The jobs they hold are generally better compared to someone who is undocumented and not eligible for DACA," said Kapps.
The report said DACA recipients are half as likely to work in construction as compared to undocumented individuals who don't have DACA status.

Should Congress fail to act by the March 5 deadline, the Migration Policy Institute estimates that an average of 915 DACA holders every day will lose their ability to work and their protection from deportation every day between March 6, 2018 through March 20, 2020.
Related: These men and women will be out of work if Trump repeals DACA
"The stakes are high for several hundred thousand immigrants who could lose their work authorization and also be at risk of deportation," said Kapps. "The same holds true for the many businesses that employ them, and for the communities where they live."


Both sides choose to highlight different measures, or stress the estimated effects of the bill in different years.
The truth is there are many ways to determine how a tax plan might help or hurt income groups.
One key assessment is what happens to after-tax income. That's a measure economists use to assess an income group's well-being once tax changes are made, said Martin Sullivan, chief economist of Tax Analysts.
And it's one way to measure how progressive tax changes would be. The more after-tax income rises for low- and middle-income households as a result of those changes, the better off they'll be.
To see how middle-income and other households might fare under the Senate bill, CNNMoney calculated after-tax income changes using distribution tables created by the Joint Committee on Taxation, the nonpartisan tax scorekeeper for the House and Senate.
One caveat: the JCT's analysis excludes certain measures in the bill -- including the doubling of the estate tax exemption, which would disproportionately benefit higher income groups if it were included.
Broadly speaking, middle-income groups would see their after-tax incomes rise on average in four of the five years the JCT analyzed. But those increases are mostly modest and often less than that of the wealthiest households.
What's more, the size of the increases for the middle class shrink over time, in part because their tax cuts in the bill would expire after 2025, and because the Senate bill would slow inflation adjustments in the tax code. That means over time more income from the middle class could be taxed at higher rates and the value of their tax benefits would decline, according to Lily Batchelder, a former chief tax counsel on the Senate Finance Committee.
Here's how the numbers break out from year to year:
In 2019: Every income group would end up with more after-tax income. Those making between $50,000 and $75,000 would see theirs rise by 1.3%, less than the 3% jump for those making between $500,000 and $1 million, or the 2.1% bump for households making more than $1 million.
In 2021: The $200,000 to $500,000 income group would do best, seeing a 2% rise in after-tax income. But those making $40,000 to $50,000 would only see a 0.5% bump. Those making $50,000 to $75,000 again get a 1.3% increase, just a little below the 1.5% jump in after-tax incomes for those making $1 million or more.
In 2023: The $30,000 to $40,000 band would see zero change while those making less would actually see slightly less after-tax income than they would if no tax changes were made.
Groups making $40,000 or more would have a little more money after paying Uncle Sam. But those who would enjoy the biggest bumps are those making from $500,000 to $1 million (2%) and those making $200,000 to $500,000 (1.6%).
In 2025: Those making $30,000 to $40,000 would see zero change in their after-tax income while those making less would see a less than 1% drop in their after-tax incomes.
By contrast, those making between $500,000 and $1 million would see a 2% jump.
And those making $50,000 to $75,000 along with those making more than $1 million would get less of a pop, at 0.8%.
In 2027: Every group would experience drops in average after-tax income or no change, except for those at the high end. Households bringing in $500,000 or more would see tiny increases of less than 0.5%.


In the latest evidence of volatility, CNN has learned that IAC is entertaining potential buyers for The Daily Beast, the news and opinion site launched nearly a decade ago by former Vanity Fair editor Tina Brown.
"IAC has made it known it's a seller and various outlets are taking a look," one source with knowledge of IAC's sales pitch said. "They're shopping to all interested parties."
Other sources with knowledge of the talks said IAC was only entertaining offers initiated by outside parties, and that no formal sales effort was in place.
The sources did not disclose any other details, including how much IAC hopes to get for the Beast. An IAC spokesperson said "IAC does not comment on rumors or speculation."
Minutes after this report was published, Daily Beast president Heather Dietrick emailed staff and said there was "no sales process going on for The Beast," but that IAC often "fields inquiries from third parties looking to talk about purchases, sales, or investments."
"In fact I wouldn't be surprised if others come by and ask to take a peek because of the way we've been driving the conversation in news lately," she wrote.
The Daily Beast is hardly alone.
Related: Why there's so much anxiety in the media business right now
Mashable, which was valued at $250 million early last year, has reportedly agreed to sell itself for just $50 million to the trade publisher Ziff Davis.
Univision is reportedly looking for investors to buy a minority stake in their Fusion Media Group, which includes the former Gawker Media sites and the Onion, as well as Fusion TV.
Meanwhile, BuzzFeed is on track to miss its revenue targets by as much as 20% and is no longer likely to file for an initial public offering next year, the Wall Street Journal reported Thursday. Vice, too, will fall short of its projected revenues.
Even CNN Digital, which brought in its highest revenue in history this year, expects to fall short of its revenue projections by at least $20 million dollars, according to BuzzFeed.
So, what happened?
In a number of cases, companies failed to meet the sky-high numbers they promised to investors. Some, like BuzzFeed and Mashable, scaled-up by being omnipresent on social media without figuring out how to make enough money off those platforms.
Meanwhile, those platforms -- most notably Facebook and Google -- started taking larger and larger chunks of the available advertising revenue. Today, the Facebook-Google duopoly owns between 60 to 70% of the U.S. digital ad market, leaving digital media companies to fight over crumbs.


Walmart was not available for comment and Tesla was not commenting on specific orders.
Meijer, a Michigan-based supermarket chain, told Bloomberg at Thursday's event that it had placed orders for four trucks, putting down a $5,000 deposit for each one.
The company said in a statement it had made a "small financial commitment" to test the new truck technology, "which has the potential to not only reduce our carbon footprint but also realize cost savings that will allow us to keep prices low for our customers."
And J.B. Hunt Transport Services (JBHT), a top logistics and trucking company, said Friday it had made a reservation to buy "multiple" Tesla Semis.
"Reserving Tesla trucks marks an important step in our efforts to implement industry-changing technology," said J.B. Hunt CEO John Roberts in a statement.
Related: Does Tesla have enough cash to fix Model 3 production issues?
Roberts added that the use of these trucks will be most beneficial for local routes and that J.B. Hunt planned to first deploy the Tesla Semi on the West Coast.
That makes sense, according to Jerry Hirsch, editor at Trucks.com.
Hirsch thinks Tesla may only get a small number of orders for the Semi from companies mostly looking to use them for short hauls -- about 20 to 250 miles -- from ports on the California coast to distribution centers in the inland part of the state.
That's because there still appear to be limitations for how far the Semi can go before being charged. Musk boasted that the Semi will be able to go 500 miles at full speed before needing to stop to recharge the battery.
But as CNNMoney's auto guru Peter Valdes-Dapena pointed out, diesel trucks can travel much further before needing to be refueled. And filling up the tank is a lot faster than charging a battery.
Hirsch agrees. "The Tesla Semi is not for long haul trucking," he said.
Related: An Elon Musk email from May is making people upset
Still, the Semi is likely to make some waves in the industry. Hirsch said that the decision to have the driver sit in the center of the truck will improve the aerodynamics of the vehicle and that other truck manufacturers may follow suit.
"Everybody in the trucking industry is going to look at this," Hirsch said. "This is going to spark a change among other manufacturers, radical changes that have been previously resisted."
But Hirsch is still not certain that the Semi will wind up being a huge generator of sales (or profits) anytime soon for Tesla.
For one, it's unclear if Tesla will actually get the Semi rolling out by 2019 as promised. Musk is notorious for making overly lofty promises and missing deadlines.
Tesla also has a lot on its plate right now with trying to deliver its new Model 3 to customers in a timely fashion.
The "cheaper" Model 3 is what many on Wall Street hope will vault Tesla into the upper echelon of mass market auto makers. Tesla is currently more of a niche, luxury car company, selling the high-end Model S sedan and Model X crossover.
Wall Street seems to be buying into the Tesla (TSLA) hype though. Shares rose Friday and they are up almost 50% so far this year. The surprise introduction of a new version of Tesla's beloved Roadster sports car also helped push the stock higher.
But Tesla has pulled back recently due to concerns about Model 3 production and integration issues with Tesla's acquisition of solar panel company SolarCity -- a firm co-founded by two of Musk's cousins. Tesla shares are about 20% below their record high.
Related: Tesla's cars can now accelerate...more slowly
And Hirsch thinks that tough competition could be a problem for Tesla too. The company is not alone in trying to reinvent the trucking industry and make it more green.
He noted that engine maker Cummins (CMI), German auto giant Daimler (DDAIF) and commercial truck company Navistar (NAV) are all working on their own electric trucks.
Toyota (TM) is testing a hydrogen fuel cell truck as well. And so is a startup called Nikola Motor, which just so happens to be the first name of the famed inventor that Tesla is named after.
All this competition could become a problem if Tesla can't live up to its production goals.
"Tesla never gets things done in the time frame they say they will," Hirsch said. "There may not be meaningful distribution of this vehicle for at least three years."


It doesn't seem like a children's retailer would have much in common with a home-improvement store, but successful retailers share a winning formula for keeping Amazon at bay.
Controlling costs
Walmart (WMT) knows that keeping its costs low can go a long way toward boosting its profit.
Its decision not to hire holiday workers this season will likely increase its profitability this quarter, the company said. This week, Walmart boosted its forecast for the holiday shopping season.
Related: Walmart is killing Target and making Amazon sweat
Best Buy (BBY) has also successfully avoided financial mismanagement and high debt burdens, which have brought down its competitors like the bankrupt RadioShack.
And Costco has put pressure on vendors to bring down costs, letting it keep prices low for customers.
"When times are tough, such as they have been for the past ten years, executives need to really know what they're doing," says Richard Feinberg, professor of retail management at Purdue. "All these retailers control their costs, which can be more effective than simply increasing revenue."
That's because a dollar saved is a dollar earned in profit, whereas a dollar raised in revenue only increases profit by a percentage (the profit margin).
Becoming a destination
Children's Place (PLCE) is more than just a kids clothing store, says Ron Friedman, a retail expert and partner at Marcum LLP.
"It's a children's apparel destination," Friedman says. "It's a brick and mortar store just for kids. It's in the name."
That kind of experience-oriented focus is a common factor in keeping successful retailers humming.
"Retailers that want to succeed have to be an entertaining destination for consumers, especially Millennials," Feinberg says.
Similarly, Best Buy established itself as a destination to ask for help and advice with home and electronics needs. That's particularly important in the age of smart houses.
Best Buy has benefited from hiring teams of experts to help consumers understand and install new smart products.
Related: When will stores open on Black Friday 2017?
Just as Amazon doesn't do a great job helping customers understand how to work their new smart oven, it also can't help customers understand the difference between a socket wrench and a ratchet set.
"Home Depot is a place where you can go and ask questions, like Best Buy," Friedman says. "People value that."
Selling stuff Amazon can't
Think about it: When was the last time you purchased a $2 hand soap online? Shipping costs more than the soap!
By keeping prices cheap and plentiful stores, Dollar General (DG) has kept itself Amazon-proof.
Amazon probably could sell dollar items, but likely wouldn't make much money on them because of shipping costs, according to Feinberg.
"Dollar stores are, for now, a special form of business," Feinberg says.
Costco (COST) is another company immune to the rise of e-commerce as consumers save by buying in bulk.
And Home Depot's (HD) items are too onerous for a company like Amazon to ship. Buying plywood online doesn't make a lot of sense -- for customers or for retailers.
However, Feinberg warns that no business, not even home improvement, should turn a blind eye to Amazon.
Amazon has already started to disrupt businesses that are seemingly out of Amazon's element, like pharmaceuticals and groceries.
"If you're not buying your plywood from Amazon now, you will be in the future," he says. "They'll find a way to do it."


"The company walked away from $400 million at the same time they changed their promotional appeal," said Instinet analyst Simeon Siegel.
While Victoria's Secret was in the middle of its reboot, a consumer shift took hold that opened the door for competitors: "Bralettes."
Designed for comfort, bralettes are unconstructed bras without padding or underwire. They're around half the price of Victoria's Secret underwire bras, which run about $35.
Victoria's Secret tried to step up its bralette appeal, promoting "no padding is sexy" ads.
But the consumer shift chipped away at the store's stronghold on bras and paved the way for more options online and lower-cost retailers.
Related: Fallen angels? Victoria's Secret sales plunge
American Eagle's Aerie collection gained a foothold and startups and smaller companies entered the market.
"Anyone who could make a T-shirt could make a bralette," said Siegel.
At the same time, online shopping hurt Victoria's Secret, a staple of malls across the country.
Victoria's Secret sales have slipped 11% from last year, parent company L Brands reported on Thursday.
L Brands  (LB) has stumbled 25% this year as Victoria's Secret hits the reset button (L Brands also owns Bath & Body Works, a bright spot: Bath & Body sales have climbed 4% this year).
Despite headwinds from bralettes and a rapidly-changing retail industry, Victoria's Secret says its best days are still ahead.
The store believes bralettes are a short-term trend and that structured bras are making a comeback. As consumer preferences switch back, Victoria's Secret believes it's well positioned to capitalize, said Siegel.
"It all depends on their ability to bring customers back by selling an experience that is not replicable online," he said.
Analysts also say there is significant opportunity in international markets like China. The store's annual fashion show is in Shanghai later this month for the first time.
Victoria's Secret will be put to the test during the holiday shopping stretch and into next year, said Morgan Stanley analyst Kimberly Greenberger.
But analysts like Greenberger are optimistic about the store's strength in the long run. Victoria's Secret still holds the largest market share of intimate apparel in the country and can fend off new rivals as it continues to adapt to changing customer preferences.


As long as you've already got enough emergency savings, investing a little extra cash in the market is a great way to start growing your money.
"No amount is too small to get started," says LJPR Financial Advisors CEO Leon LaBrecque. "Spare change can really add up."
Related: The secret to being a great saver
Starting out when you're young is even more valuable because there's more time for your investments to grow.
So what's the game plan? Should you buy big names? What about exchange traded funds (ETFs)?
CNNMoney spoke with the pros to help you cut through the noise and make smart financial choices as you dive into the market.

Don't put all of your eggs in one basket
Experts agree that if you don't have much money, it's best to avoid investing in individual stocks. That's because having a broad range of investments will substantially lower your risk.
"Diversified mutual funds or exchange traded funds (ETFs) are the best way to grow," says Luxenberg. "Picking one or a handful of stocks is a crapshoot and one could hit a home run but more likely you'll strike out."
Mutual funds, which are operated by professional fund managers, allow you to pool together smaller amounts of money with other investors to create a diversified mix of stocks, bonds or other securities. You'll own a slice of the total pie.
These funds give you a variety of options and maximize your exposure to a swath of the market. The idea is that by spreading out your money, you're less likely to get burned by one or two poor-performing stocks.
Luxenberg recommends a fund that gives you a chunk of the whole market. Vanguard has several mutual fund options, including ones tied to international indexes or emerging markets. Fidelity and Charles Schwab also have a variety of funds to choose from that will track an entire index.
Related: How to invest $1,000
ETFs have become another great way to diversify. Much like mutual funds, they also track entire sectors or major indexes, but they're traded on exchanges just like stocks and usually have lower fees than mutual funds.
An ETF like  SPDR (SPY), which tracks the S&P 500's performance, is a popular play. It has grown nearly 25% over the past three years.
You can also invest in an ETF that follows whole industries like tech, aerospace or pharmaceuticals.
Keep your fees low
Financial professionals stress keeping your account fees low, especially If you only have a little bit of money to invest.
"You don't want to incur high commissions or high fees because that really eats into your investment." says Luxenberg.
With the rise of low-fee ETFs, be wary of paying more than 0.4 or 0.5% in fees. Fund managers usually charge a bit more in fees than an account you'll manage yourself. But funds that follow indexes usually charge less than actively managed funds.
Related: 10 best investing apps (and sites)
Save with an app
Plenty of new investing apps will save you money on fees, and allow you to invest with as little as $1.
Robinhood launched in 2015 and offers free trades. All you need is enough money to buy a single share.
Acorns, which charges $1 a month until you hit $5,000 (then you pay a 0.25% fee), links to your debit card and automatically rounds up your change to the next dollar. The app invests that extra change into an investment account.
If you're having trouble deciding which stocks to buy, consider Betterment and Wealthfront. The apps ask you basic questions about your age, income, goals and risk-level, and selects a portfolio that makes sense based on sophisticated computer models.
Betterment offers fees ranging from 0.15% - 0.35% depending on how much money you invest and you only need $1 to start. You'll need $500 to start with Wealthfront, but the app manages your money for no cost up to $10,000.
FeeX can also help you track your fees. The website is free and analyzes your accounts to tell you whether your fees might be too high.
--CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie contributed to this report
Got a money question for Broke No More? Ask us here to be included in a future column.


That's not all. The U.S. recently won a longstanding trade battle with Mexico over tuna. Canada is pushing back against U.S. tariffs on Canadian lumber. Along with several other nations, Canada and Mexico are trying to revive TPP, the trade deal Trump left. Mexico is also pursuing talks with Brazil, Argentina and the European Union.
Related: Canada fights back against Trump tariffs
Things could be easier this round, experts say. For one, the politics have changed. Republican senators support NAFTA and Trump needs them to pass tax reform so he's unlikely to threaten a NAFTA withdrawal like he did in October..
All sides agreed to take a different tack this time around. After the fireworks to end Round 4, Freeland, Guajardo and Lighthizer won't be attending this time, though they all recently convened at a summit in Vietnam.
The three leaders are letting their negotiating teams take the reins and focus on areas where everyone agrees. The negotiators may also focus on items not currently covered by NAFTA, such as digital commerce. NAFTA became law in 1994 before the Amazon economy existed.
"They could probably check some boxes off and make some progress," says Welles Orr, a lawyer at the firm Miller & Chevalier who served on the original U.S. staff that helped get NAFTA passed into law.
But Orr adds:"They're going to give the negotiation time to revisit some of the more explosive, controversial, call it 'poison pill' proposals the administration has put out."
Related: Mexico is surviving Year 1 of Trump
Indeed, the thorny issues are unlikely to be discussed during this round, according to a Trump administration statement. The main disagreement revolves around how and where cars are manufactured across North America. NAFTA currently requires that 62% of parts used to make cars sold in North America must come from the region in order for the car not to be taxed at the border.
The Trump administration wants to raise that threshold to 85% in an effort to create more manufacturing jobs in the United States. And there's another twist: Trump's team wants half of all car parts made in the region to be manufactured in the U.S., and the rest to come from Canada and Mexico. Canadian and Mexican officials made it clear that's a deal breaker.
However, another proposal may be seeing the light of compromise. Trump's trade team is proposing a "sunset clause" which means NAFTA would terminate every five years unless all three countries agreed to keep it for another five. Initially, that was met with swift rebuke.
But Guajardo, the Mexican trade official, is proposing an alternative. He said Wednesday that in the new agreement, all three countries could legally be forced to evaluate the benefits and costs of NAFTA every five years, though he wouldn't commit to terminating it.
"We're making a compromise that every five years we will evaluate what's happening," Guajardo told Radio Formula in Mexico. But "we aren't putting in an automatic termination mechanism," because it would send a "bad message for investors."


Wells Fargo declined to give further details or to say when the alleged misconduct took place. The bank said it plans to announce a successor by the end of the year. Codel, a 24-year veteran of the bank who was also on the operating committee, was unavailable for comment.
"Difficult as this situation is, the decision reflects our commitment to our values and culture and to executive accountability," CEO Tim Sloan said in a statement.
Related: Wells Fargo illegally repossessed another 450 service members' cars
Wells Fargo's infamous fake-accounts scandal forced the ouster of longtime CEO John Stumpf last year as well as community banking boss Carrie Tolstedt. The bank has also terminated an unspecified number of bank managers over sales issues.
The division that Codel led is one of the biggest lenders in America. The business funds nearly one in every eight loans in the country and is a major servicer of loans. It employs about 45,000 people.
One of the division's biggest departments is Wells Fargo Dealer Services, the bank's troubled auto lending business.
Just this week, the Justice Department said Wells Fargo illegally repossessed the vehicles of 450 service members between January 2008 and July 2015. That's on top of a settlement last year with the Justice Department for illegally seizing 413 vehicles owned by service members.
Wells Fargo's auto business has also admitted charging as many as 570,000 customers since 2012 for car insurance they didn't need. The bank estimates that about 20,000 of those customers may have had their cars repossessed because they couldn't pay for the additional insurance.
Wells Fargo recently said one former employee has alleged "retaliation for raising concerns" about the bank's auto lending tactics.
The mortgage business has also been in trouble. In October, Wells Fargo said it wrongly hit an unknown number of homebuyers with fees to lock in mortgage rates. Borrowers were charged for missing a deadline to lock in promised interest rates, even though the delay was the bank's fault.
Despite all those problems, Wells Fargo said Codel's firing "did not involve the business or operations of Consumer Lending, the servicing of its customers, or its performance or financial results."


Requests for comments are open until Jan. 16 and, Hoadley said, it may be a challenge to institute any changes before 2020.
Related: Pressure builds to cut Medicare patients in on Part D drug deals
But other parts of the proposed rule are more likely to take effect sooner. Those include:
-- Allowing enrollees to buy drugs at the pharmacy they prefer, by revising participation rules to motivate more local pharmacies to participate in the program.
-- Lowering drug costs by allowing for midyear changes to prescription drug formularies when a generic becomes available.
-- Treating lower-cost drugs called biosimilars, such as cancer drug Zarxio, the same as generics when determining how much they cost out-of-pocket.
While the request for information on the fees and discounts is not yet a proposal, pressure has been building for the administration to take action.
Earlier this year, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) released a fact sheet that set the stage for change, describing how the fees kept Medicare Part D and monthly premiums lower but translated to higher out-of-pocket spending by enrollees and increased costs to the program overall.
Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.


The upgrade is welcome news for Modi, who has seen India's GDP growth slump to a three-year low on his watch. The drop -- from 7% at the end of last year to 5.7% in the quarter ended July -- is being blamed on two of his biggest initiatives.
Related: India's economy in 'downward spiral.' What did Modi get wrong?
Modi abruptly banned 86% of the country's cash in November last year, with the aim of combating tax evasion and promoting digital payments. The ban delivered a sharp shock to India's cash-dependent economy that many businesses haven't recovered from.
Then, in July, the government replaced dozens of state tariffs with a single national sales tax. While largely seen as a positive move, the change further disrupted economic activity as businesses struggled to adapt.
Moody's acknowledged that the cash ban and tax reform "have undermined growth over the near term."
But the policy changes would ultimately foster "strong and sustainable growth" by making it easier to do business, boosting productivity and stimulating investment, the ratings agency added.
Related: India's small firms reel from 'terrible year' after cash ban
The government celebrated the rare upgrade.
"It is a major international recognition of major economic and institutional reforms," Finance Minister Arun Jaitley told reporters.
But some analysts questioned Moody's timing and reasoning. Rival agencies such as S&P and Fitch have not upgraded India since 2006 and 2004 respectively.
Describing the cash ban as a positive factor for the Indian economy "should raise some eyebrows," Shilan Shah, India economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a research note.
Shah added that Moody's had ignored loan waivers for farmers doled out by several Indian state governments this year, which could put more pressure on the country's public debt.
India will report its latest GDP growth figures on Nov. 30.


Moutai's stock has been on a tear this year, soaring by as much as 107%. With a whopping market value of $130.9 billion, the company dwarfs Diageo (DEO), the producer of Johnnie Walker whisky.
At the heart of the popular brand is baijiu, a Chinese liquor distilled from sorghum and rice. Baijiu used to be a premium beverage, passed out at events such as government banquets. Now, it's found across the country.
Soon after Xinhua published its rare critique, Moutai acknowledged its stock price "has risen a lot."
"Moutai is aware of recent media and research reports," it said in a statement to the Shanghai stock exchange. "We solemnly remind investors to take account of potential risks, invest rationally and not to follow the trend blindly."
Related: The world's most valuable liquor company is now Chinese
Hao Hong, head of research at BOCOM International, the securities arm of China's Bank of Communications, called the Xinhua column "the catalyst" for Friday's stock plunge.
"Any sort of negative news, especially from official media, could be a catalyst for people to take their money off the table," he told CNNMoney.
It is unusual for Chinese authorities to single out a stock. The last time it happened in such a high-profile way -- when Tencent (TCEHY) was blamed for children spending too much time playing its "Honor of Kings" mobile game -- the tech giant also suffered a selloff, Hong noted.
Officials were probably trying to "protect smaller investors" from rising risk, he added.
Investors have been excited by Moutai's robust earnings growth, its beloved brand and a cash flow rarely seen among Chinese firms, helped by a steady rise in prices.
"Very predictable company -- I mean, that's the beauty of it," Hong said. "Only two other companies can generate such big [profits]: Tencent and Alibaba (BABA)."
Related: How to drink baijiu: Beijing's pros share their tips
By Friday's market close, Moutai had stabilized slightly, trading down 4%. Most analysts continue to have a buy rating on the stock, and zero recommend selling.
-- Serenitie Wang contributed reporting.


Now 22 years old and soon to receive her teaching certificate from the University of Wisconsin, Pigorsch faces a vastly changed landscape.
Along with diminished leverage with school boards, teachers have seen lower pay, reduced pension and health insurance benefits and higher turnover as educators hop from one district to another in search of raises, a new report finds.
With the Supreme Court preparing to hear a case that could make paying dues to unions voluntary for public sector employees -- like they already are in right-to-work states -- Wisconsin's experience could soon confront teachers across the country as well.
In the five years since Act 10 was passed, median salaries for teachers in the state have fallen by 2.6% and median benefits declined 18.6%, according to an analysis of state administrative data by the left-leaning Center for American Progress Action Fund.

In addition, 10.5% of public school teachers in Wisconsin left the profession after the 2010-2011 school year, up from 6.4% the year before. The exit rate remains elevated, at 8.8%.
As a consequence, the report found, Wisconsin's educational workforce is less experienced: Teachers had an average of 13.9 years experience under their belt in the 2015-2016 academic year, down from 14.6 years in 2010-2011.
Teachers aren't just moving out of the state or out of the field entirely. A higher percentage of teachers are also moving to other districts: From 2015 to 2016, the percentage who did so jumped from 1.3% to 3.4%, according to the report.
"In a climate right now where we see the only way an educator could get a pay raise is moving to another district, that's a natural outcome," said Christina Brey, a spokeswoman for the Wisconsin Education Association Council, which represents grade school employees.
That's particularly difficult for rural districts, which can't afford to pay more to retain good teachers. The report found that teachers in rural areas were the most likely to move districts, and the average level of experience among teachers in those areas had fallen the most: One out of four rural teachers had taught for fewer than five years in 2015-2016, up from 17.6% in the year before Act 10 passed.
"Rural schools oftentimes are seen as starting grounds, where newer teachers can put in a year or two before moving to a wealthier area where they can get a pay raise," Brey said.
So how has all this affected kids?
Related: Billionaire pulls the plug on DNAInfo, Gothamist after vote to unionize
The report's authors, David Madland and Alex Rowell, reviewed other research that suggested that as collective bargaining agreements expired, students performed slightly worse on standardized tests, particularly in already struggling schools.
But perfect measurement is difficult, since the tests have changed several times since Act 10 passed. The conservative, Madison-based John K. MacIver Institute for Public Policy, which supports Act 10, argues that other metrics — such as graduation rates and the number of advanced placement tests taken — are trending upward.
"I think if this cataclysmic destruction scenario was going to play out, you wouldn't be seeing such positive education news," says Chris Richardson, the organization's communications director.
Nobody disputes, however, that Act 10 had a devastating impact on Wisconsin's unions, which went from representing 14.1% of workers in the state in 2011 to 9% in 2016.
The case currently pending before the Supreme Court, Janus vs. AFSCME, could make paying dues to unions voluntary for public sector employees. (Currently, in non-right-to-work states that allow collective bargaining for public employees, all workers covered by a union contract must pay dues.)
That would cut into the unions' budgets and reduce their power, which could lead to the same weakening of pay and benefits that Wisconsin's teachers have experienced.
But unions in other states have seen this coming for a long time. The unions weathered a similar case that deadlocked last year after the death of Justice Antonin Scalia, and they have since taken steps to build confidence among their membership so they will keep paying dues even if it's no longer required.
Related: Why the world isn't getting a pay raise
"As a result of the dress rehearsal that they got, they all in their own ways have taken steps to be as prepared as they can be," says Michael Childers, director of the School for Workers at the University of Wisconsin. "It's not like they haven't seen this coming."
In the years since Act 10 passed, Brey said her union has adapted by becoming more active on the local level, and offering more training and other services to make membership more appealing for teachers.
Meanwhile, Pigorsch is considering where to look for a job after she earns her certificate in January. Many of her peers, she said, have been warned off by older teachers who've become cynical about the changes to Wisconsin schools. She wants to stay and try to improve things in Wisconsin, but better pay and stronger representation are just across the St. Croix River in Minnesota.
"A part of me thinks I want to start my career feeling good about being a teacher, and being respected, and having the benefits that a union can give me," Pigorsch said. "If the students from the state's top teaching school don't even want to teach in their own home state, I don't think that's a very good sign."


Disney (DIS) has also expressed interest in a similar deal. Those talks are no longer active, but could be revived.
The suitors want Fox's movie and television studios, entertainment cable networks, and international businesses. Fox would keep its news and sports holdings.
Any deal would be a global media blockbuster.
2. Tesla surprises: What will investors think of this? Tesla (TSLA) unveiled two electric vehicles on Thursday.
The first is an all-new version of its Roadster sports car that can go from a stop to 60 miles an hour in 1.9 seconds. The $200,000 car will have a range of 620 miles and a top speed of over 250 miles an hour.
The second is a new semi-truck, which CEO Elon Musk said can go zero-to-60 in five seconds with an empty trailer. With a full load, the truck can still reach that speed in 20 seconds, much faster than any diesel-powered truck.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Oil leak in U.S.: TransCanada (TRP) shares could take a hit after the firm announced an oil leak from its Keystone Pipeline in Marshall County, South Dakota.
A total of 210,000 gallons of oil leaked out before crews shut down the pipeline Thursday morning. The amount of leaked oil is equivalent to one-third of an Olympic swimming pool.
Officials are investigating the cause of the leak.
Nebraska officials are expected to announce a decision in the coming days on whether the proposed Keystone XL Pipeline, a sister project, can move forward.
4. Global stock market overview: U.S. stock futures were lower after a stunning rally on Thursday.
Stocks soared thanks to strong quarterly results and healthy outlooks from Cisco Systems (CSCO) and Walmart (WMT). A tax reform bill -- which has a long way to go -- was approved by the House.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose nearly 200 points to snap a two-day losing streak. The S&P 500 added 0.8% and the Nasdaq jumped 1.3% to hit a record high.
European markets dipped in early trading on Friday. Asian markets ended the day with mixed results.
5. Earnings and economics: Retailers Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF), Buckle (BKE) and Foot Locker (FL) will release earnings before the opening bell on Friday.
Shares in Ross Stores (ROST) are expected to surge at the open after the company reported better-than-expected quarterly numbers.
The U.S. Census Bureau will release data on October housing starts and building permits at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday -- Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) earnings


Real estate brokers told CNNMoney that the huge deposit (which is refundable) applies to 10 luxury apartments in the complex that are set to go under the hammer.
"This is an indication of how hot the market is here in Hong Kong," said Paul Zimmerman, director of think thank Civic Exchange and a district council member in the city. Prices have been fueled by years of low interest rates and money flowing in from mainland China, he said.
Related: Move over London, the world has a new luxury housing capital
Prospective buyers for the luxury condos at the new complex, which is named Victoria Harbor, are expected to have deep pockets.
They have to be willing to buy at least two units and cough up the eye-watering deposit just for a 90-minute viewing session. Even then, they don't get to set foot in the actual apartments but have to make do with a mockup in a different part of the city.
What's more, paying the deposit doesn't guarantee they will actually get the apartments, as they then have to bid against other potential buyers.
The brokers declined to give estimates for how much the condos, which range from 1,200 to 1,600 square feet, are likely to sell for. But similar sized units in the same neighborhood sold this month for as much as 66 million Hong Kong dollars ($8.5 million), according to data from real estate agent Centaline.
A spokesperson for Sun Hung Kai said the viewing arrangement was "not uncommon" for high-end properties in the city, calling the apartments "rare and of high quality."
Related: Could these stacked homes solve Hong Kong's housing problem
Stratospheric real estate prices are nothing new in Hong Kong. The city's housing was named the world's priciest housing market for the seventh year running in the latest annual study by public policy firm Demographia.
Home prices have soared by around 170% since the dark days of the global financial crisis in 2009, according to Centaline data.
But many inhabitants have been left out of the property boom in Hong Kong, which is known for its high levels of inequality. About 20% of Hong Kongers live in poverty, according to official statistics.


Sign up for the weekly Quest newsletter in your inbox
What's fascinating is the enormous swell of support from the youth for these changes. "About time" is the response to the economic changes. "Good riddance" (and worse) is thrown at those arrested for corruption.
It's too soon to say what the long term result will be, but life is changing here in Saudi and it's about time.
Canada fights back as NAFTA talks restart

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau isn't tolerating President Trump's tariffs on Canadian lumber.
Trudeau's administration filed a motion to create a panel of trade judges to resolve a dispute between American and Canadian lumber companies. The U.S. has slapped an 18% tariff on Canadian lumber. The timing is critical: NAFTA talks aren't going well and Round 5 begins in Mexico City on Friday.
Trudeau, and Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, are also looking for alternatives: Their countries essentially agreed to revive TPP with nine other countries. Trump didn't commit, but he did return from Asia to brag about all the deals he signed with China and others.
-- Patrick Gillespie
Can Saudi Arabia be the next Silicon Valley?

Saudi Arabia wants to become less reliant on oil.
The government is taking steps to make it easier for entrepreneurs to launch startups there. Saudi Arabia has no major tech firms, but a Saudi governor who helps oversee small businesses hopes the kingdom will one day be home to its own Apple or Google.
Meanwhile, the United States is becoming more like Saudi Arabia. Thanks to a booming shale gas industry, the International Energy Agency predicts America will export more oil than it imports within the next decade.
-- Paul R. La Monica
Boeing & Airbus fly high in battle for the skies

Boeing and Airbus were big winners at the Dubai Air Show. Boeing inked deals to sell 225 of its 737 Max planes to FlyDubai and 40 787-10 Dreamliners to Emirates. The two purchases are worth $42 billion at list prices.
But Airbus countered that with a sale of 430 A320neo jets to Indigo Partners, which owns several low-cost airlines around the globe. The deal is worth $50 billion at list prices.
Investors are giddy. Airbus rose this week and its stock is up more than 35% this year. Boeing rallied too. It's soared 70% in 2017 -- tops in the Dow.
-- Paul R. La Monica
The Chinese tech giant taking on Facebook

Watch out, Zuckerberg. Shares in Tencent, a Chinese social media and gaming conglomerate, have more than doubled in value over the past year, and the company is inching closer to Facebook's $570 billion market cap.
Its secret weapon: WeChat, a wildly popular social networking platform with almost one billion users.
While Facebook is decidedly more global -- almost all of WeChat's users are in China -- investors also have their eyes on Tencent's investments in smartphone games, mobile payments and music streaming.
-- Julia Horowitz
Quick takes
Putin gives Venezuela a lifeline after default. Watch out: You may own its debt
Speaking of Russia, Moscow is relinquishing control of iconic Kalashnikov
GE's cash crunch forces dividend to be halved. Fixing this mess will be difficult
Life in Zimbabwe under Robert Mugabe: Food shortages, corruption, inflation
Norway used oil to build a $1T pension fund. Now it wants to dump oil stocks
What's next
Thanksgiving festivities: U.S. markets will be closed on Thursday in observance of Thanksgiving Day. Trading will also shut down at 1 p.m. ET on Friday. Due to the holiday, Quest's Profitable Moment will be published on Wednesday next week.
Earnings parade continues: Not to be outdone by the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade in Manhattan, another batch of major companies are due to report results next week. Highlights include Lowe's, Salesforce, GameStop, Campbell Soup and both HP Inc. and HP Enterprises.


Sign up for the weekly Quest newsletter in your inbox
What's fascinating is the enormous swell of support from the youth for these changes. "About time" is the response to the economic changes. "Good riddance" (and worse) is thrown at those arrested for corruption.
It's too soon to say what the long term result will be, but life is changing here in Saudi and it's about time.
Canada fights back as NAFTA talks restart

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau isn't tolerating President Trump's tariffs on Canadian lumber.
Trudeau's administration filed a motion to create a panel of trade judges to resolve a dispute between American and Canadian lumber companies. The U.S. has slapped an 18% tariff on Canadian lumber. The timing is critical: NAFTA talks aren't going well and Round 5 begins in Mexico City on Friday.
Trudeau, and Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, are also looking for alternatives: Their countries essentially agreed to revive TPP with nine other countries. Trump didn't commit, but he did return from Asia to brag about all the deals he signed with China and others.
-- Patrick Gillespie
Can Saudi Arabia be the next Silicon Valley?

Saudi Arabia wants to become less reliant on oil.
The government is taking steps to make it easier for entrepreneurs to launch startups there. Saudi Arabia has no major tech firms, but a Saudi governor who helps oversee small businesses hopes the kingdom will one day be home to its own Apple or Google.
Meanwhile, the United States is becoming more like Saudi Arabia. Thanks to a booming shale gas industry, the International Energy Agency predicts America will export more oil than it imports within the next decade.
-- Paul R. La Monica
Boeing & Airbus fly high in battle for the skies

Boeing and Airbus were big winners at the Dubai Air Show. Boeing inked deals to sell 225 of its 737 Max planes to FlyDubai and 40 787-10 Dreamliners to Emirates. The two purchases are worth $42 billion at list prices.
But Airbus countered that with a sale of 430 A320neo jets to Indigo Partners, which owns several low-cost airlines around the globe. The deal is worth $50 billion at list prices.
Investors are giddy. Airbus rose this week and its stock is up more than 35% this year. Boeing rallied too. It's soared 70% in 2017 -- tops in the Dow.
-- Paul R. La Monica
The Chinese tech giant taking on Facebook

Watch out, Zuckerberg. Shares in Tencent, a Chinese social media and gaming conglomerate, have more than doubled in value over the past year, and the company is inching closer to Facebook's $570 billion market cap.
Its secret weapon: WeChat, a wildly popular social networking platform with almost one billion users.
While Facebook is decidedly more global -- almost all of WeChat's users are in China -- investors also have their eyes on Tencent's investments in smartphone games, mobile payments and music streaming.
-- Julia Horowitz
Quick takes
Putin gives Venezuela a lifeline after default. Watch out: You may own its debt
Speaking of Russia, Moscow is relinquishing control of iconic Kalashnikov
GE's cash crunch forces dividend to be halved. Fixing this mess will be difficult
Life in Zimbabwe under Robert Mugabe: Food shortages, corruption, inflation
Norway used oil to build a $1T pension fund. Now it wants to dump oil stocks
What's next
Thanksgiving festivities: U.S. markets will be closed on Thursday in observance of Thanksgiving Day. Trading will also shut down at 1 p.m. ET on Friday. Due to the holiday, Quest's Profitable Moment will be published on Wednesday next week.
Earnings parade continues: Not to be outdone by the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade in Manhattan, another batch of major companies are due to report results next week. Highlights include Lowe's, Salesforce, GameStop, Campbell Soup and both HP Inc. and HP Enterprises.


He has reiterated his criticism of current Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, who claims tax reform will pay for itself, and expressed concerns about how the proposal will add to the national debt.
"There's little reason to think this is going to spur much investment or growth. Look how low interest rates already are. Look how high the stock market is," he said.
Summers, a Democrat who led the Treasury Department under President Clinton and served as one of President Obama's top economic advisers, called the Trump administration's claim that middle class American families will receive a pay raise of $4,000 to $9,000 "ludicrous" and "absurd."
Related: Will Trump's tax plan really give you a $4,000 pay raise?
While Summers agrees that the corporate tax rate should be cut, he said he's worried that the House and Senate bills favor businesses over individuals.
"I cannot understand what possible values would lead you to set up a tax plan where the benefits to people go steadily down over time and the benefits to corporations go steadily up, up over time," he said.
And he called it "madness" that Senate Republicans wanted to wrap in a repeal of the Obamacare individual mandate, which requires people to have health insurance.
Summers has been particularly critical of Mnuchin's claims as to how much the GOP tax plan will cost. In an interview with Politico, Summers said he was "not aware of so irresponsible an estimate coming from a Treasury secretary in the last 50 years."
He told Gangel that he doesn't think he's made it too personal.
"I've been doing this for a lot of years and I've never said anything like that about any public official before. But when claims become unmoored from any possible reality, I think it's important to call that out," Summers said.
Mnuchin, for his part, said Sunday that "lots and lots of economists" have come out in support of the administration's claims.
"We've been completely transparent. Different models will show different things," Mnuchin said.
Related: Mnuchin says most in middle class will get a tax break
Mnuchin seems to be under a lot of pressure from Trump, Summers said.
"There's enormous pressure within that administration for loyalty and fealty," he said.
Still, Summers said that he would have resigned by now.
"I would have resigned to any administration of which I was a part that had gone anything like this far, in terms of fake facts on the economic side, or in terms of embracing racists in its political rhetoric," he said. " ... I don't know how some of these people face their children."
He said he's "surprised and disturbed" that there haven't been more resignations, especially considering President Trump's response to a rally of white supremacists in Charlottesville. The president blamed the conflict that left one counter-protester dead on "many sides."
"The idea that there would be an expectation that cabinet officials would be defending comments at press conferences that others saw as racist, that doesn't seem to me to be a healthy way to run a government," Summers said.


The gamble paid off. Sales grew 1% last quarter, and profit in its consumer food division was up 10%. That offset an 18% decline in coffee earnings.
There's more buzz-worthy news: Coffee has been steadily getting cheaper. Its price has fallen more than 20% over the past year. That's a trend Smucker's Chief Financial Officer Mark Belgya said he expects to continue into 2018.
That was enough to send Smucker's (SJM) stock up 10% Thursday.
Related: Your morning cup of coffee will get more expensive
Smucker's got burned in the past when boosting coffee prices.
When it raised coffee prices by nearly 10% in the summer of 2014, due to higher commodity costs, it had to scale back after conceding that the price hikes were too aggressive.
Mark Smucker, president of U.S. retail coffee for the firm, said the company "wouldn't rip the Band-Aid off as quickly again in the future" if commodity prices rose again.
But it did.
When the company reported in August, the head of Smucker's coffee and U.S. food and beverage businesses said coffee prices were "out of line" and lowered prices again.
Smucker isn't the only company to take advantage of lowered Arabic coffee costs. Starbucks raised their prices on higher commodity costs in 2016, but it hasn't lowered them. When coffee prices fell, Starbucks continued to cite "rising costs" for keeping prices at their elevated levels.


There is still a ways to go before any tax bill is passed by both chambers of Congress and then gets sent to President Trump to sign into law.
But consumers aren't waiting to see if their tax bill will be lower. They are continuing to shop until they drop. Walmart's solid sales -- both at its brick-and-mortar stores and its rapidly growing online business -- are a testament to that.
And businesses are spending too. Cisco surged to its highest level in 16 years thanks to healthy sales of security products used by corporations around the globe.
"Volatility finally made an appearance and it only lasted a few days," said Paul Townsen, managing director at Crossmark Global Investments. "Earnings seem to make people forget about everything else. They continue to be the driver of the market."
Cisco's earnings fueled another big move in tech stocks, which have been among the top market performers this year. The tech heavy Nasdaq jumped nearly 1.4% to a new all-time high and briefly topped the 6,800 level.
The Nasdaq is up 26% this year, compared to a 15.5% jump in the S&P 500 and 19% gain for the Dow.
Apple (AAPL), Google owner Alphabet (GOOGL), Microsoft (MSFT), Amazon (AMZN) and Facebook (FB) -- the five largest companies in America and among the top stocks on Wall Street this year -- all rallied Thursday.
Related: Walmart is killing Target and making Amazon sweat
Is there anything that could slow this red hot market down?
Steve Cucchiaro, president and chief investment officer at 3EDGE Asset Management, said he's a little worried that inflation may eventually come back with a vengeance. But there's no sign of it just yet.
So for now, investors may be able to sit back and enjoy the market's relentless grind higher. Nothing has been able to hold back stocks for long.
Political fights in Washington, worries about Brexit and concerns about China's economy slowing down have, so far, been mere speed bumps on Wall Street.
"This recent 1% dip in stocks had people talking about the beginning of the end," Cucchiaro said. "But we've had many tests and the market has succeeded in passing all of them."


If he is appointed as interim head of the consumer watchdog agency, Mulvaney would also continue to serve as director of the OMB. Mulvaney was one of the agency's most vocal critics during his time in the House and voted in favor to kill the agency.
The administration can appoint a current government official into a new job as long as they are confirmed by the Senate under the Federal Vacancies Act to serve in an acting capacity. The official is not required to leave their current position to fill the new role until a permanent replacement is confirmed by the Senate.
"The Administration will announce an acting director and the President's choice to replace Mr. Cordray at the appropriate time," said Raj Shah, principal deputy press secretary told CNN in a statement.
Republicans have long loathed the fledgling agency, which was created under the 2010 Dodd-Frank regulatory reform law. They argue that Cordray overstepped his regulatory authority and has lacked oversight during his tenure at the CFPB.
Democrats are already lining up to scrutinize any future Trump nominee.
"The White House has said it wants to stand up for the middle class. If that's true, the President must nominate a successor who will put working people ahead of Wall Street," Sen. Sherrod Brown, the top Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee said in a statement Wednesday.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat from Massachusetts who helped create the CFPB, said the new director "must be someone with a track record of protecting consumers and holding financial firms responsible when they cheat people."
Related: Trump's war on regulation comes with big tradeoffs
"This is no place for another Trump-appointed industry hack," she said in a statement.
Trump has come out against regulations that he sees as hurting businesses -- a position that's put his administration and the CFPB on opposite sides of many issues.
Earlier this month, Trump signed legislation repealing a rule issued by the CFPB that made it easier for consumers to team up to sue banks and credit card companies.
At the OMB, Mulvaney has spearheaded efforts by the administration to slash regulations on businesses as part of the administration's efforts to spur economic growth.
--CNNMoney's Julia Horowitz contributed to this report.


Barnes & Noble confirmed Sandell's offer in a statement, but said the company is skeptical that the deal could work as proposed. It added that Chairman Leonard Riggio "has no intention" of participating in Sandell's plan.
This isn't the first time Sandell has attempted to take Barnes & Noble private.
Barnes & Noble's (BKS) stock spiked 17% in July after Sandell approached it with an offer, but the bookstore rebuffed the plan.
The trouble Barnes & Noble faces are familiar for retailers: Amazon has eaten into sales at its 632 locations across the country, leading to tumbling profit over the past several years. Sales were down more than 6% last year.
Related: Barnes & Noble reeling as Amazon eats its lunch
"2017 has proved to be an extremely challenging year for Barnes & Noble," chairman Leonard Riggio wrote in a June letter to shareholders. "Consumers are changing their shopping behavior and we have to do a better job of anticipating their needs."
Despite the boost it received from takeover rumors, the bookseller is down 35% this year and more than 50% over the past three years.


The House bill would mean tax cuts on average for all income groups in 2018 and most income groups in 2027, but the biggest benefits go to those at the top, according to the Tax Policy Center.
But that doesn't mean everyone in every income group would pay less. The TPC estimates that next year about 10% of middle income filers and 20% of the highest income households would pay more. Those percentages rise to 30% for each group by 2027.
Here are some key provisions in the bill.
FOR INDIVIDUALS
Reduces income tax brackets: There are seven federal income tax brackets in today's code that are taxed at 10%, 15%, 25%, 28%, 33%, 35% and 39.6%.
The House bill consolidates those into four brackets:
12% (up to first $45,000 of taxable income for individuals; $90,000 for married couples filing jointly)
25% (over $45,000 to $200,000 for individuals; over $90,000 to $260,000 for married couples)
35% (over $200,000 to $500,000 for individuals; over $260,000 to $1 million for married couples)
39.6% (over $500,000 for individuals; over $1 million for married couples)
There is also a 6% surtax or "bubble rate" that applies to adjusted gross income over $1 million ($1.2 million for couples) until it effectively claws back the benefits of the 12% bracket for the highest income households.
Doubles the standard deduction: The bill raises today's standard deduction for singles to $12,200 from $6,350 currently; and it raises it for married couples filing jointly to $24,400 from $12,700.
That would drastically reduce the number of people who opt to itemize their deductions, since the only reason to do so is if your individual deductions combined exceed the standard deduction amount.
Eliminates personal exemptions: Today you're allowed to claim a $4,050 personal exemption for yourself, your spouse and each of your dependents. The House bill eliminates that option.
Related: Senate tax cuts permanent for business, temporary for you
For families with three or more kids, that could mute, if not negate any tax relief they might enjoy as a result of other provisions in the bill.
Expands child tax credit: The bill would increase for five years the child tax credit to $1,600, up from $1,000, for any child under 17.
But that $600 increase won't be available to the lowest-income families if they don't end up owing federal income taxes. That's because unlike the first $1,000, the extra $600 won't be refundable. Refundable means that if your federal income tax bill is zero, you get a check from the government because of the credit.
The bill would let more people claim the child tax credit. The income level where the credit starts to phase out would increase to $115,000 for single parents, up from $75,000 today, and to $230,000 for married parents, up from $110,000.
Creates a new $300 family tax credit: Taxpayers may claim a $300 non-refundable tax credit for themselves as well as any nonchild dependent -- for instance, a son or daughter over 17 whom you're supporting, an ailing elderly mother or an adult child with a disability.
So a family of four -- two parents, a 12-year-old daughter and an 18-year-old son -- could reduce their tax bill by up to $2,500, said Elaine Maag, a senior research associate at the Urban Institute. They could claim the $1,600 child tax credit for the daughter, the $300 nonchild dependent credit for the son and a $300 credit for each parent.
The income thresholds governing the family tax credit are the same as for the child tax credit.
The family credit would expire after five years.
Kills state and local income tax deduction, limits property tax break: The prospect of fully repealing the state and local tax deduction, which lets filers deduct their property taxes as well as their state and local income or sales taxes, has been met with strong opposition from lawmakers in high-tax states and cities.
So the House bill preserves an itemized property tax deduction for property taxes but only up to $10,000.
Limits deductible mortgage interest: The bill preserves the mortgage deduction as is for existing mortgages. But for newly purchased homes, you would only be able to claim a deduction for interest you pay on mortgage debt up to $500,000, down from $1 million today.
But since the bill doubles the standard deduction, only 4% of filers would still claim the mortgage interest deduction, down from 21% today, according to Tax Policy Center estimates.
How do you think tax reform will affect you? Share your story with CNNMoney here
Repeals many other deductions: These include those for medical expenses, tax preparation fees, alimony payments, student loan interest and moving expenses.
Repeals the Alternative Minimum Tax: The AMT, originally intended to ensure the richest tax filers pay at least some tax by disallowing many tax breaks, but it most typically hits filers making between $200,000 and $1 million today.
Those who make more usually find they owe more tax under the regular income tax code, so end up having to pay that tab instead.
Repeals the estate tax: The estate tax today affects just 0.2% of all estates, and only those with more than $5.49 million in assets (or $10.98 million if you leave a spouse behind).
Nevertheless, Republicans are still pushing to repeal it. The House bill, however, would delay repeal until 2024, and in the meantime doubles the exemption levels.
Given that the White House and Republicans have been pushing tax reform as a boon to the middle class and given that the estate tax exemption levels already protect the vast majority of family farms and businesses from having to pay it, this provision may face a steep climb to the finish line.
FOR BUSINESSES
Lowers corporate tax rate: The bill would permanently cut the corporate rate to 20% from 35%.
Republicans argue that corporate tax cuts are good for the middle class because they will increase investment, jobs and wages. The White House even asserts that a corporate tax cut will result in at least a $4,000 boost in annual income for households.
But a lot of economists push back on the idea that the middle class will see a big raise soon, if at all.
Creates territorial tax system: U.S. companies owe U.S. tax on all their profits, regardless of where those profits are earned.
Many argue that this "worldwide" system puts American businesses at a disadvantage to foreign competitors. That's because those competitors come from countries with territorial tax systems, meaning they don't owe tax to their own governments on income they make offshore.
The House GOP bill would switch corporate taxation to a territorial system. That way, American companies would owe U.S. tax only on what they earn here. Their offshore profits would only be taxed by the country where the money is made.
Taxes existing overseas profits: The House bill would impose a one-time rate of 14% on existing foreign profits if they're being held offshore in cash. Foreign profits that are invested in noncash assets offshore would be taxed at 7%. Companies would have up to eight years to pay what they owe.
The measure would raise revenue from income that has so far escaped U.S. taxation. Under current law, companies pay U.S. tax only when they bring the money home. But it's also meant to entice companies to invest some of the foreign profits stateside.
Lowers tax rate on pass-throughs: Most U.S. businesses, large and small, are set up as pass-through businesses, not corporations. They're called pass-throughs because their profits are passed through to the owners, shareholders and partners, who pay tax on them through their personal returns.
The House bill would lower the top income tax rate on pass-throughs' profits to 25% from 39.6% today.
It would also offer a phased in lower rate of 9% for businesses that earn less than $75,000. That's below the 12% bottom bracket in the House bill and below today's 10% bracket.


"The power generation industry is experiencing disruption of unprecedented scope and speed," explained Lisa Davis, a Siemens board member. "Renewables are putting other forms of power generation under increasing pressure."
Related: GE is broken. Fixing it will be long and difficult
Another Siemens division that provides large electrical motors and generators to miners, steel producers and shipbuilders will also shed some jobs.
The job cuts amount to nearly 2% of Siemens' global workforce of more than 370,000. About half of them will fall in Germany, where some locations will close. In the U.S., 1,800 jobs will be lost through the consolidation of production facilities and administrative functions.
Siemens said it's hoping to move quickly to slim down these businesses. However, speed isn't guaranteed.
"Given the structure of the businesses that are affected, it might take years to implement the restructuring," spokesperson Robin Zimmermann told CNNMoney.
The company said it currently has 3,200 open positions and it hopes to transfer affected workers into these jobs whenever possible.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
The job cut announcement comes in the same month that a Siemens-controlled business in Spain -- Siemens Gamesa -- announced it would cut 6,000 jobs, or about 22% of its workforce.
This renewable energy business sells wind turbines globally. It said the job cuts would be spread across 24 countries.


What do you get for your money with Curry?
The fee gets you a lifetime subscription to at least 15 pre-recorded video lessons designed by Curry that cover shooting, ball-handling, footwork and scoring. You also get a workbook, access to other students online and interactive assignments.
Yup, it seems Curry's class comes with homework.
While Curry may offer comments during office hours, he generally won't be providing feedback directly to students. According to MasterClass, the company behind the lessons, Curry may choose to evaluate the work of a select few students. (The company asks begs you not to submit work unless you're asked.)
Related: Fast break: Nike's new NBA jerseys keep ripping apart
MasterClass says Curry's lessons will show players how to transform their games.
Curry was often overlooked  by college coaches but went on to have a stellar career at Davidson College. He was drafted seventh by the Warriors in 2009 and is now one of the best players in the league.
Basically -- if anyone knows how to undergo a radical transformation, it's Curry.
One note though: There's no guarantee that you'll get drafted by an NBA team and beat LeBron James in the Finals.


Matsen said the decision does not reflect a particular view on energy prices or the sustainability of the sector.
It's a dramatic shift for a fund that still sources much of its capital from oil revenue.
Norway is a major oil producer, and it has plowed its energy earnings into the fund in order to fund pensions and other government expenses.
The fund is among the world's biggest investors in stocks, owning $667 billion worth of shares in over 9,000 companies globally.
It owns on average 1.3% of all listed companies worldwide.
Oil and gas stocks account for around 6% of its benchmark index. Its biggest holdings include stakes in Royal Dutch Shell (RDSB), Exxon Mobil (XOM), and BP (BP).
Related: This pension fund is now worth $1,000,000,000,000
Government finances in Norway have been hit hard by the drop in oil prices in recent years. In 2016, the government tapped the fund for the first time ever in order to plug a hole in its budget.
The pension fund's managers said they remain worried about the impact of falling oil prices on overall government revenue.
Norway, for example, owns two thirds of state oil company Statoil.
"The government's wealth can be made less vulnerable to a permanent drop in oil prices if the [pension fund] is not invested in oil and gas stocks," the fund's managers said.
The proposal to sell oil and gas stocks must be approved by the government.


Walmart, which owns Jet.com, ModCloth, Bonobos, Moosejaw and several other shopping sites, said its digital sales rose a stunning 50% in the United States during the third quarter.
That's more than double the growth rate that Target (TGT) just posted for online sales. It's higher than Amazon's growth rate for revenue, too.
Walmart has made a big bet on digital.
It recently bought Parcel, a logistics startup that will allow Walmart to launch same-day delivery services for online purchases in New York City.
Related: Cool or creepy? Walmart to deliver to your home...and come inside to put everything away
It's working with the smart-lock company August Home on a test program that will let you order food from Walmart and have the delivery people come and put it away in your fridge.
And Jet recently launched a line of household products targeted at millennial shoppers called Uniquely J.
Walmart also revamped its return policy to make it easier and faster for customers to start the return process using the Walmart app.
And Walmart is taking a page from Amazon's book by selling other retailers' products on its own site. Walmart recently announced that it will sell clothes from Lord & Taylor.
The company is thriving in China as well. Sales from Walmart and Sam's club locations there are solid, and online growth is robust thanks to a partnership with the Chinese e-commerce firm JD.com (JD), the top rival to Alibaba (BABA).
Related: Target's holiday outlook isn't very merry
This and other initiatives are helping boost traffic and sales at Walmart's physical stores, not just its digital sites. And Wall Street has noticed.
Shares of Walmart are up about 45% this year, while other big retailers like Target, JCPenney (JCP), Macy's (M) and Sears (SHLD) have plunged.
It seems investors and shoppers alike are increasingly viewing the online mass-merchandise battle as one with two winners -- Walmart and Amazon (AMZN) -- and many losers. Amazon's stock has soared more than 50% this year.
Walmart is also holding its own in the supermarket business, posting solid sales growth, particularly online. That's despite an increased threat from Amazon, which now owns Whole Foods and has been cutting that chain's prices.
Related: Walmart is putting even more robots on its stores
There may be room for some other specialty retailers to thrive.
Best Buy (BBY) disappointed Wall Street on Thursday with sales that missed forecasts and a tepid outlook, but its stock is still up nearly 30% this year.
Home Depot (HD) is benefiting from the housing boom, partly because homebuilders and do-it-yourself customers want to see its products in a brick-and-mortar store. Kiddie apparel company Children's Place (PLCE) has enjoyed solid sales, too.


But the appearance of tanks on the streets of the capital Harare have pushed the price gap even wider. Bitcoin was trading on international exchanges for roughly $7,500 on Thursday.
The digital currency was quoted more broadly in line with world prices in online market places that allow buyers and sellers in Zimbabwe to deal directly with each other.
Related: Mugabe's exit is 'a done deal' but Zimbabwe is still in limbo
Elevated Bitcoin prices in Zimbabwe appear to be the result of the country's dysfunctional economy and mismatched supply and demand.
Since 2009, business in the country has been conducted in a number of foreign currencies, but exchange rates on the thriving black market are highly distorted. Dollars are in short supply, and strict capital controls are in place.
Last year, the country started printing bond notes -- backed by U.S dollars -- in a bid to ease a chronic shortage of cash. But many Zimbabweans worry they are a backdoor to the reintroduction of a local currency that would be doomed to massive devaluation.
"In Zimbabwe, you are very limited with what you can do with the money in your bank account," Golix says on its website. "Bitcoin is better than the money we're using now."
Related: How Robert Mugabe killed one of Africa's richest economies
There is also the problem that local demand for Bitcoin far outstrips supply.
Only 16 Bitcoin have been traded on Golix over the past 24 hours, and 160 over the previous month.
Bitcoins are created through "mining" -- a process in which computers race to solve complex math problem, and winners are rewarded with chunks of the digital currency.
Mining requires huge amounts of electricity, and Golix says that energy prices in the region are simply too high to make the process cost effective.
Related: What is Bitcoin?
"Bitcoin in circulation in Africa comes from people who bought it at an exchange elsewhere," the exchange says on its website.
Supply is likely remain low, however. Golix doesn't allow Bitcoin sellers to take their money away in cash.


"It is the [company's] employees - and more particularly the senior management team - that must execute at this critical juncture and provide the foundation for a successful turnaround," it said in the filing.
Among the 17 executives who would get payments is chairman and CEO David Brandon, who joined the company in 2015.
The company said it also has filed for an incentive program for other employees beyond the senior management.
"This type of plan is standard practice for a company involved in a restructuring," it said in response to questions. It said it will continue consulting with its creditors about the incentive program ahead of approval by the bankruptcy court.
While the company asked for $16 million, the bonus plan could actually pay out $32 million if the company reaches much better than expected profit targets. The filing says that's a result the company "will find very difficult to achieve."
Related: Why Hasbro might buy Mattel
The filing also disclosed that some of Toys "R" Us's top executives received a combined $8.2 million in "retention" bonuses prior to the bankruptcy filing. But those payments are not included in the new incentive plan for which the company is seeking permission. They would be required to return the retention payments should they quit the company within a year of the payment.
The company said it had 1,600 stores at the time of the bankruptcy filing, and 65,000 employees, although it has gone ahead with plans to hire additional seasonal help for the holiday season. It lost $330 million in the first half of this year as sales fell by 5%, and has lost more than $1.8 billion since its last reported a profitable year five years ago.
Toys "R" Us has been struggling for years, not just with a shift of consumers buying goods from online competitors such as Amazon (AMZN), but also with increased competition from traditional brick-and-mortar retailers such as Wal-Mart (WMT) and Target (TGT).
Related: Target's holiday outlook isn't very merry
It is also not the only traditional retailer to run into financial trouble. Bankruptcy filings this year alone include Gymboree, Payless Shoes and RadioShack, which recently completed its second trip through bankruptcy.
Earlier this year Sears Holding (SHLD), owner of the Sears and Kmart brands, warned there was "substantial doubt" it will be able to stay in business.
Bankruptcies in the retail sector are up about 30% so far this year, according to BankruptcyData.com, and the number of store closings has more than tripled to about 6,700, breaking a record set during the worst of the Great Recession.


Related: How China plans to beat the U.S. at technology
Under the plan announced Thursday, VW and its partners are aiming to develop and produce as many as 40 new electric and hybrid vehicle models in China between now and 2025. It expects the first of the new models to hit the Chinese market next year.
VW's top China exec, Jochem Heizmann, said the German company is "determined to be at the forefront" of China's electric vehicle revolution.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
China accounts for about 50% of the global market for clean energy vehicles, according to investment firm East Capital. Chinese officials said two months ago that they were working on a plan to eventually phase out the production and sale of vehicles powered solely by fossil fuels.
Governments in the U.K., France and India have also set out timetables for doing away with vehicles that run purely on gasoline.

China is already a massive market for VW, and the company has a lot of experience making cars there with local partners. Doing so avoids hefty import tariffs but also means it has to share its technology with the Chinese firms.
Tesla (TSLA), which has been trying for years to figure out how to produce its electric cars in China, may set up a factory in Shanghai's free trade zone. That arrangement could enable the U.S. company to avoid teaming up with a Chinese company, but it would still have to pay the import tariffs.
Related: Tesla could face an uphill slog in China
VW said last year that it aims to sell 1.5 million electric and hybrid vehicles in China by 2025.
Other Western automakers are also revving up electric car businesses in China.
Earlier this month, Ford (F) announced it would create a new brand to make fully electric cars in China with a local partner.


The major question for investors is whether the House and Senate Republicans will be able to reconcile their competing versions of the plan without losing votes.
One sign of trouble: Sen. Ron Johnson became the first Republican to formally come out against his party's plan on Wednesday.
2. Markets rebound: Global markets are swinging higher after several days of rough trading.
U.S. stock futures were up and European and Asian markets were higher. Oil prices rebounded to gain 0.3%.
The Dow Jones industrial average and the S&P 500 closed 0.6% lower on Wednesday. The Nasdaq shed 0.5%.
3. Volkswagen goes electric: Shares in Volkswagen (VLKPY) opened 2% higher in Frankfurt after the automaker announced plans to spend, together with a local partner, $12 billion on electric cars in China.
China is Volkswagen's biggest single market. The company delivered 303,800 vehicles in the country in October, an annual increase of 9.2%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Stock market movers: Cisco Systems (CSCO) shares were higher in extended trading after the company said it expects revenue to jump after two years of declines.
5. Earnings and economics: Best Buy (BBY), J.M. Smucker (SJM), Viacom (VIAB) and Wal-Mart (WMT) will release their earnings before the open, while Gap (GPS), Haynes Intl (HAYN) and Williams-Sonoma (WSM) will follow after the close.
The Bank of England is holding a forum in Liverpool. Officials will discus the state of the U.K. economy and how the central bank's policies affect Britons.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Thursday -- Best Buy, Walmart, Gap, Viacom (VIA) earnings  Friday -- Abercrombie & Fitch earnings


The debt relief couldn't come at a better time for Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro. American ratings agencies, such as S&P Global, declared Venezuela and its state-run oil company, PDVSA, in default this week.
Despite the help from Russia, Venezuela's debt woes won't go away anytime soon. It owes over $60 billion just to bondholders. Its central bank only has $9.6 billion left. Venezuela has slowly drained its reserves in recent years to make debt payments.
A default could trigger a dangerous series of events that would ultimately exacerbate Venezuela's humanitarian crisis, which is marked by severe shortages of food and medicine.
But for now, President Vladimir Putin continues to make life a little easier for Maduro. It's a trend that's ratcheted up this year after China, once a major lender to Venezuela, has shown no interest in giving Maduro more money.
Related: Venezuela is in default, moving deeper into crisis
In October, Putin and Maduro met in Moscow, and some foreign policy experts see Putin's investment as a geopolitical attempt to build influence in Latin America, a region where the U.S. once held complete sway. President Trump has slapped several tariffs on Maduro and his government. Maduro calls Trump an "emperor" waging an "economic war."
Beyond the desire to get paid back, Russia's state-run oil company Rosneft has a vested interest in Maduro's government. Last December, Roseneft took a nearly 50% stake in Citgo, a U.S.-based oil company that's owned by Venezuela's energy giant, PDVSA, as collateral for a $1.5 billion loan to Maduro's government.
Venezuela's oil minister said in October that he's in talks with Moscow for a potential swap, exchanging Rosneft's stake in Citgo for Russian ownership of Venezuelan oil fields. He did not give further details on the plan. Reuters first reported the potential swap.
The Russia-Venezuela ties raised eyebrows when Citgo made a $500,000 donation to President Trump's inauguration committee. The donation occurred on December 22, 2016, according to Federal Election Commission records released in April. News outlets first reported on Russia's stake in Citgo the very next day -- December 23.
At a time when Venezuela faces mass shortages of basic food and medicine, the Citgo donation was equal to what Pepsi (PEP), Verizon (VZ) and Walmart (WMT) combined had donated to the inauguration committee.


Related: Tax reform: It's now or never says White House adviser Gary Cohn
But when a moderator asked the executives in the room if they would increase their investments in the U.S. if the GOP's tax overhaul plan passes, only a few raised their hands.
The ho-hum response surprised Cohn, who was on stage, prompting him to laughingly ask, "Why aren't the other hands up?"
In an interview with CNBC last week, Cohn identified CEOs as the "most excited group out there" when it came to the GOP's tax plans.
The administration has touted its plan as the biggest cut ever to the corporate tax rate -- from 35% to 20%. Provisions would also allow companies to write off the cost of any new capital purchases over the next five years.
On Monday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin also reassured executives, telling them President Trump would never sign a tax bill with a corporate tax rate above 20%.
"It's not going up," he said at the Wall Street Journal event. "I can tell you this is one of the things the president feels very strongly about."
Related: Mnuchin says most in the middle class will get tax break
The GOP tax plan also seeks to encourage U.S. multinationals to bring their existing overseas profits back to the U.S. by offering a one-time, low tax rate on them. It's called "deemed repatriation" and means corporations would have to pay the tax whether they bring the money back or not. The one-time tax also serves to capture revenue on overseas profits that under current law are subject to U.S. taxes.
Under today's tax code, companies would have to pay a 35% rate on those profits when they bring them home. But both the Senate and House tax proposals would tax them at far lower rates.
The goal is to get companies to use that cash to create jobs by building new factories and investing in their businesses.
American companies had about $1.3 trillion in cash stashed overseas at the end of 2016, according to Moody Analytics.
Related: U.S. companies still hoarding cash overseas
The top 5 U.S. cash hoarders -- Apple (AAPL), Microsoft (MSFT), Alphabet (GOOG), Cisco (CSCO) and Oracle (ORCL) -- held 88% of their money overseas at the end of last year.
It's not just Big Tech though. Other cash-rich companies include Johnson & Johnson (JNJ), Amgen (AMGN), Gilead Sciences (GILD), Ford (F), Merck (MKGAF) and Pfizer (PFE). Each of them were sitting on at least $25 billion in cash at the end of last year, according to Moody's.
It's unclear whether companies would use their cash for something else like paying down corporate debt. Or reward investors with dividend increases, share buybacks and other measures to boost stock prices, which wouldn't help average Americans who have little, if any money, in the stock market.
--CNNMoney's Matt Egan and Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report.


What's more, if you take a step back and look at how Coke (KO) has done over the past two decades, shares have barely budged while archrival Pepsi (PEP) and the S&P 500 have soared.
It's easy to see why Coke has struggled. Sales and profits haven't been growing all that much.
And there's been a backlash to both full-calorie sodas as well as some of Coke's diet drinks due to the use of artificial sweeteners. Diet Coke's sales slide has been particularly problematic.
That's why Coke began to transform into more of a diversified beverage giant, as opposed to just carbonated colas, under Kent's watch.
Related: Want to buy the world a Coke? Asia sales give Coca-Cola a boost
Kent was CEO from 2008 until earlier this year and the company's chief operating officer before that. (Quincey was also Coke COO before getting promoted.) Coke started to push its bottled water brand, Dasani, more aggressively.
Coke also bought vitaminwater maker Glaceau in 2007 while Kent was COO and then purchased stakes in K-cup coffee maker Keurig Green Mountain and energy drink leader Monster Beverage during Kent's tenure as CEO.
Keurig was eventually sold to Krispy Kreme and Panera owner JAB and Coke booked a more than $25 million profit by unloading its investment to JAB.
But what's next for Coke under Quincey, who has promised to turn Coke into a "total beverage company?"
For starters, investors will surely grill Quincey about whether Coke plans to buy the remaining stake in Monster Beverage (MNST). There has been constant speculation about a full-blown takeover ever since Coke first invested more than $2 billion in Monster in 2014.
The success of seltzer may also be something that Coke wants a bigger part of. The company recently bought Mexican sparkling water brand Topo Chico, which is popular in Texas.
That's led to speculation that Quincey may want to promote Topo Chico even more nationwide in an attempt to steal the thunder from National Beverage's (FIZZ) super popular LaCroix brand.
Wall Street will also want to know whether Quincey aims to make even bigger bets outside of the core beverage market. Pepsi has found success by branching out into snacks and cereal with Frito-Lay and Quaker.
Some analysts are speculating that Coke could make a bold acquisition in order to diversify further.
Related: Coca-Cola replacing Coke Zero with a new soda
Susquehanna analyst Pablo Zuanic wrote in a preview to the Coke investor day that investors may push Coke to do food deals of its own.
Brand-name food giants have been on a buying binge lately, scooping up trendy snack companies. It might make sense for Coke to try and get a piece of this market too.
In just past the few years, Hershey (HSY) bought jerky snack maker Krave, ConAgra (CAG) acquired Boomchickapop parent company Angie's Artisan Treats and Kellogg (K) gobbled up Chicago Bar, the owner of the RXBar protein bar.
Zuanic also suggested that Coke could consider buying a coffee chain like Dunkin' Donuts.
It makes some strategic sense. Coke is already producing and selling Dunkin'-branded iced coffee beverages in supermarkets.
But Coke could find some competition if it wanted to buy the doughnut company's parent Dunkin' Brands (DNKN). There is speculation that JAB might be interested.
Still, the potentially most lucrative, albeit controversial, move that Coke could make is to graduate towards more adult beverages and make a big push into alcohol. And why not? Jack Daniel's and Coke is already a popular bar staple after all.
Related: Coke plans job cuts as sales slump
Bonnie Herzog, an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities, wrote in a report this week that the question of how much of a presence Coke wants to have in alcohol is among the most important the company faces.
Would Coke want to buy a brewer or wine and spirits company outright? Starting its own brand could be costly. An easier route could be for Coke to simply start making more non-alcoholic mixers, such as juices and syrups, that can be added to booze.
But whatever it is that Quincey touts to Wall Street, it's clear that Coke must do more to boost sales or it could find itself vulnerable to a takeover.
Zuanic speculated that Anheuser-Busch InBev (BUD) could be a natural buyer.
A-B InBev is backed by private equity giant 3G, the company that has done several partnerships with Warren Buffett, whose Berkshire Hathaway (BRKB) firm just so happens to own 400 million Coca-Cola shares.
Buffett, a diehard Cherry Coke fan, would likely jump at the chance to own Coke outright if a deal made financial sense -- but it probably wouldn't unless Coke stock continues to lag the overall market.


The change was made to accommodate complicated budget rules that Republicans have chosen to use so they can pass tax reform without any Democratic votes.
By contrast, the bill still makes permanent the corporate tax rate cut to 20%, along with most other business tax provisions.
Related: 3 ways the tax bills could affect homeowners
As it is, Republicans in the House and Senate have already agreed to let a tax reform bill add $1.5 trillion to deficits over 10 years. But because of the complex budget rules allowing passage on a strict party-line vote, the bill is not allowed to add to deficits beyond the first decade.
Making all tax cuts permanent would violate that rule. So Republicans have essentially created yet another major fiscal cliff in 2025 akin to the one Congress dealt with in 2012 when faced with the expiration of the Bush tax cuts.
And just as lawmakers in 2012 chose to make the majority of Bush tax cuts "permanent," Republicans are likely banking on a future Congress to do the same in 2025.
"Does anyone really believe Congress will allow the individual tax cuts to sunset in eight years? This is an obvious ruse to hide very real costs and make more room for debt-financed cuts and giveaways," said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.
Related from CNN: GOP in House and Senate confident they have vote on tax bills
If those tax cuts are extended, the bill will add much more to deficits over time than the official "score" of the bill will reveal.
And that means that sometime in the future, should lawmakers decide they need more money to, say, keep paying promised benefits in Medicare or Social Security or to keep pace with fast-growing interest payments due on the nation's debt, they'll need to either raise taxes or cut spending even more than otherwise might be the case.


Of the people who have selected Obamacare plans for 2018, about 346,000 were new to the exchanges while 1.1. million were renewing their coverage.
Still the pace has slowed a bit since the initial days of the open enrollment period, which began Nov. 1 and runs through Dec. 15. Just over 150,000 people picked plans in each of the first four days, on average, but that rate cooled slightly to 134,000 in the first 11 days.
The increased interest in Obamacare policies is not necessarily all good news. Usually, the sickest consumers are the ones who rush to secure coverage. Insurers are concerned that younger and healthier people will forgo enrollment for 2018 amid all the uncertainty and negativity coming out of Washington D.C. That could prompt carriers to raise premiums in the future.
Related: What repealing Obamacare's individual mandate means
Also, strong initial sign-ups don't necessarily result in record enrollment. Last year, many consumers rushed to pick policies in November and December, particularly after President Trump was elected. Ultimately, however, half a million fewer Americans signed up for Obamacare coverage for 2017 by the time open enrollment ended on Jan. 31. (Consumers are not actually enrolled until they pay their first month's premium.)
Enrollment in coming years could sag more if Republicans get their way. GOP senators announced Tuesday that they would seek to repeal Obamacare's individual mandate as part of their tax overhaul bill.
Axing the mandate, which requires nearly all Americans to have health insurance or pay a penalty, would likely wreak havoc on the Obamacare market. It would remove the stick that the health reform law wields to prod younger and healthier people to sign up for coverage.
Some 4 million fewer people would be covered in the first year the repeal would take effect, the Congressional Budget Office said last week. That number would rise to 13 million by 2027, as compared to current law. Meanwhile, premiums would rise by about 10% in most years of the decade.
While experts have mixed views on how effective the mandate has been, many feel that removing it would cause the Obamacare market to tilt even more towards sicker and older consumers.
Related: Trump administration is making it even harder to sign up for Obamacare
That, in turn, could make insurers think twice about participating in the exchanges, especially since they would still be required to cover those with pre-existing conditions and not charge them more based on their medical history.
Regardless of what Congress does, the Trump administration has taken several steps that critics say will dampen enrollment for 2018. While it is maintaining the federal exchange, healthcare.gov, it has slashed funding for open enrollment advertising and support. Also, consumers will have only six weeks to sign up for coverage on the federal exchange, rather than the three months or more they had in previous years.
Premiums for the benchmark silver Obamacare plan are soaring 37%, on average, for 2018. But eight in 10 consumers will be able to find policies for $75 or less. That's because the price spike means many enrollees will receive more generous premium subsidies.
Are you shopping for Obamacare coverage for 2018? What has your experience been? Tell us about it at healthcarestories@cnn.com and you could be featured in a CNNMoney story.


Here's the story behind Zimbabwe's economic rise and fall:
1980s
Mugabe was elected the first prime minister of a newly independent Zimbabwe in 1980 after spending years in prison for his politics.
He was adored by many as a Nelson Mandela-style figure who would lead the country forward following decades of British and white-dominated rule.
"He always had a populist stance, which meant he wanted to work in the best interest of his people but not necessarily the economy," said Funmi Akinluyi, a portfolio manager who invests in Africa and frontier markets at Silk Invest.
Mugabe earned international recognition for education and health initiatives, and the nation steadily grew its exports of manufactured and agricultural products. Zimbabwe was famous for its tobacco production, and its weather supported year-round farming.
1990s
As Mugabe's political momentum faded, critics accused him of using brutality and bribery to maintain his power. He has consistently denied wrongdoing.
Mugabe's mismanagement of the country's farming sector was a turning point that contributed to an economic catastrophe.
The aim of government land reforms was to end decades of farm ownership by white landlords, which many viewed as a colonial injustice.
The 1992 "Land Acquisition Act" allowed Mugabe to force landowners to give up their property and redistribute it. In 1993, Mugabe threatened to expel white landowners who objected to the rules.
2000s
It wasn't until 2000 that Mugabe's campaign gathered strength and he forced 4,000 white farmers to give up their land. Zimbabwe's agricultural output dropped almost overnight.
"There was an immediate food shortage," remembers Akinluyi. "People went hungry."
The move was followed by two years of bad harvests and an extended dry spell, leading to the country's worst famine in 60 years.
In the midst of chronic shortages of basic goods, the central bank ramped up its money-printing machines to finance imports. The result was rampant inflation.
At the peak of the crisis, prices were doubling every 24 hours. Cato Institute economists estimate monthly inflation peaked at 7.9 billion percent in 2008.
Unemployment soared, public services collapsed and the economy shrank by 18% in 2008.
Zimbabwe abandoned its currency in 2009, leaving transactions to be conducted in U.S. dollars, South African rand and seven other currencies.
2010s
Mugabe responded to international sanctions in 2010 by threatening to seize all Western-owned investments in the country.
The threat has kept prospective investors away.
"The political risk outweighs the opportunity that you know is there," said Akinluyi.
Mugabe's government had shifted its focus from farms to mines, ordering nearly all diamond miners to halt activity and abandon their facilities. The plan is for a state-run entity to take over operations.

Zimbabwe now struggles to earn cash from outside nations after strangling top export industries. A severe drought has squeezed the country further, leading to frequent bank runs in 2016.
Late last year, the country began printing so-called bond notes, worth $1 each, in a bid to ease a chronic cash shortage.
Akinluyi said the current situation is upsetting because Zimbabwe had so much potential.
"They have diamonds, coal, copper, iron ore... [You] name it, they have resources," she said. "I personally think it would be quick [to turn things around] with the right person in power."
-- Ivana Kottasova and Eleni Giokos contributed reporting.


Earlier this month, Trump's commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross, reaffirmed tariffs as high as 18% on Canadian lumber exported to the United States. The tariffs were applied in April.
Related: Mexico is surviving Year 1 of Trump
The latest turn in the lumber fight comes at a particularly tense time.
The United States, Canada and Mexico are renegotiating NAFTA, the trade pact that President Trump has called the worst deal ever. Trump's trade team has proposed erasing the provision in NAFTA that allows countries to convene panels of judges to resolve disputes like the lumber battle.
The next round of NAFTA negotiations begins Friday, and the talks aren't going well.
At the last round, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer lambasted his Canadian and Mexican counterparts for what he said was an unwillingness to compromise. Those two sharply criticized Lighthizer's trade proposals at the same press conference.
Trump routinely threatens to withdraw from NAFTA, and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau acknowledged during a recent visit to Washington that the agreement may not last much longer.
Lumber and NAFTA aren't the only points of contention. Canadian plane manufacturer Bombardier and its American competitor Boeing are in a bitter dispute that has brought in both governments. Ross, the commerce secretary, slapped a 300% tariff on one of Bombardier's jets sold in the United States.
Related: Mexico loses trade battle to Trump
American and Canadian companies have argued about lumber since the 1980s. One point of dispute is that American companies tend to harvest trees on private land but Canadian firms work in forests owned by the Canadian government.
The George W. Bush administration hit Canadian lumber with tariffs in the early 2000s. Canada claimed at the time that they resulted in the loss of 30,000 lumber jobs.
Those tariffs were lifted after the World Trade Organization ruled in Canada's favor, and a temporary pricing agreement was in place until last year. Canadian and American officials couldn't reach a new deal during the Obama administration, and once the pricing agreement expired, American lumber firms filed new complaints with the Trump administration.
--CNNMoney's Jon Ostrower contributed to this report.


Sears spent just $67 million on all of its advertising in in the first half of this year, according to figures from Kantar Media -- on television and digital ads as well as print, radio and direct mail. That's down 29% from the same period in 2016. Kmart cut in its ad budget by 41%, to $21 million in the same period.
Related: Cash-starved Sears is putting everything on sale
Compare those figures to Walmart (WMT), the nation's largest retailer, which spent $227 million on advertising in the first half of this year. Macy's (M) spent $186 million and Target (TGT) budgeted $164 million. Even JC Penney (JCP), which has plenty of its own problems, spent more than double what Sears did.
Sears was the biggest advertiser in the retail sector as recently as 2003, and it held that title going back as far as 1996, when Kantar started keeping records. "Come see the softer side of Sears," was an ad slogan well known by virtually every American.
And Kmart was among the top five retail advertisers as recently as 2001. Many of its ads in the late 90's and early 2000's featured Martha Stewart, who had locked in a splashy partnership with the company to peddle her lifestyle brand. Some of its ads were even directed by Spike Lee. Now it isn't even among the top 20 among advertisers in retail.
Sears would not comment on Kantar's estimates of its ad spending "for competitive reasons." Analysis of the effectiveness of its marketing caused it to cut back on traditional television and print ads and concentrate more on digital and social channels, according to spokesman Brian Hanover.
He pointed out that both brands have started their holiday sales early and brought back its Wish Book catalog.
Related: Sears revives its classic Wish Book
The advertising pullback comes as difficulty mounts at the two chains, prompting Sears Holdings (SHLD) to admit there is "substantial doubt" about its ability to stay in business.
Shoppers have turned their backs on both stores.
Less than 8% of households visited a Sears in September, the most recent month available, according to figures from Kantar Retail, another arm of the Kantar research firm. Slightly fewer households visited a Kmart. That compares to 63% of households that shopped at Walmart and the same percentage of homes that shopped at Amazon (AMZN).
Other retailers trail far behind that figure, but well ahead of Sears and Kmart. For instance, 29% of households shopped at a Target and 18% at went to JC Penney. In fact, more households shopped at Rite-Aid and Office Depot than at Sears or Kmart that month.
"Their issue is not just share of households. It's share of mind, share of awareness," said Leon Nicholas, an analyst at Kantar Retail. "It's very, very, very hard to see a way this works."


To redeem the discount, Amazon is offering a printable coupon only accessible to Prime members on its website.
Related: Amazon pop-up stores to open in Whole Foods stores
"These are the latest new lower prices in our ongoing integration and innovation with Amazon, and we're just getting started," Whole Foods CEO John Mackey said in a prepared statement. Whole Foods said this Prime-specific deal is a "sneak preview" for future exclusive deals.
Whole Foods also announced it is cutting prices on boneless skinless chicken breasts, shrimp, Russet potatoes, bagged salad mixes, broccoli, organic eggs and milk from Organic Valley, Applewood hot dogs, and Chobani and Fage yogurt.
It's the second time Amazon took the knife to Whole Foods' prices. The company slashed prices on nearly 500 grocery items in August, shortly after its $13.7 billion purchase closed. The cheaper prices led to a foot traffic spike at Whole Foods, with many new customers defecting from its rivals.


The buyer is a private company called TransKomplektHolding, which is owned in part by Kalashnikov chief executive Alexey Krivoruchko. The firm already has a 49% stake in Kalashnikov.
The sale is a part of a broader privatization drive, announced by President Vladimir Putin in 2016. Back then, Russia was suffering from a double whammy of collapsing oil prices and sanctions, and needed cash desperately.
Late last year, Moscow sold a 19.5% stake in its oil giant Rosneft to Qatar's sovereign wealth fund and Glencore.
Oil prices have since recovered somewhat, easing the pressure on the government to rush privatizations of some of its most prized assets.
Kalashnikov suffered a slump in export revenues after sanctions were imposed on Russia following the annexation of Ukraine. The company was banned from importing its guns into the United States.
However, a major modernization of Russia's military arsenal has boosted domestic sales.
Related: Russia may build its new jetliners in the Middle East

Krivoruchko could soon solidify his control over the company.
A spokesperson for Rostec confirmed Tuesday that a second deal was in the works that would see two other investors in Transkomplektholding -- Iskander Makhmudov and Andrei Bokarev -- sell their stakes. Kalashnikov confirmed their exit on Wednesday.
Russian state news agency Tass and the business newspaper Kommersant have both identified Krivoruchko as a potential buyer.
Kalashnikov supplies 95% of all small arms in Russia and exports to more than 27 countries around the world. It has also recently diversified into other products including drones and boats.
Its famed AK-47 was designed for the Soviet military by Mikhail Kalashnikov under the direction of Josef Stalin. The assault rifle became popular because of its light weight, and ability to be used in all weather conditions while holding high capacity magazines. The weapon is used by militaries and insurgent groups around the world.
-- Anastasia Anashkina and Sebastian Shukla contributed reporting.


Target, like most other retailers, is contending with tough competition from Amazon (AMZN) as well as a resurgent Walmart (WMT).
Target has been boosting its online retail presence to try and attract more customers.
But it said Wednesday that digital sales were up 24% in the quarter -- a pullback from the 32% increase it posted in the second quarter and lower than the e-commerce growth rates that Amazon and Walmart posted in the third quarter.
CEO Brian Cornell also pointed out that the company expects the overall retail environment in the fourth quarter to be "highly competitive." Translation: More price cuts will probably be needed to entice customers to shop at Target.
Related: Jeff Bezos is having a moment
Target's stock is now down more than 20% this year. While that's not as horrific as the drops for Macy's (M), Sears (SHLD) and JCPenney (JCP) -- which have all lost more than 45% of their value this year -- it's obviously a troubling sign.
Investors and consumers seem to increasingly view the general merchandise retail race as one primarily between Walmart and Amazon.
Walmart shares have gained more than 30%, thanks in large part to strong online sales growth and a flurry of digital acquisitions, such as Jet.com, ModCloth and Bonobos.
And Amazon's stock has soared more than 50%. Its purchase of Whole Foods may put even more pressure on the grocery business of Target.
To that end, Amazon and Whole Foods announced price cuts for all customers (with even deeper ones for Amazon Prime members) on organic and no antibiotic turkeys as well as other holiday food staples on Wednesday.


All four states -- Arkansas, Indiana and New Hampshire, in addition to Iowa -- have expanded Medicaid under the health law, which allowed states to include adults with incomes up to 138% of the federal poverty level, or about $16,000 for one person. So, in theory, most adults are required to have insurance under the ACA. In practice, each state still has a significant number of uninsured, ranging from 5% to 8% of the population.
The retroactive coverage "can compensate for the sorts of errors and lapses that can so easily occur on the part of both the applicant and the government bureaucracy" that delay applications, said Gordon Bonnyman, staff attorney at the Tennessee Justice Center, a public interest law firm that represents low-income and uninsured residents.
State and federal officials say eliminating the retroactive coverage helps encourage people to sign up for and maintain coverage when they're healthy rather than waiting until they're sick to enroll. It also fits into federal officials' efforts to make Medicaid, the federal-state program that provides health care for low-income adults and children, more like private insurance.
But consumer advocates and health care providers say the shift will saddle patients with hefty medical bills and leave hospitals to absorb more uncompensated care when patients can't pay. Some worry this could be the start of a trend.
In Iowa, the change applies to just about anyone coming into Medicaid — except for pregnant women and children under age 1. The change will affect up to 40,000 residents annually and save the program more than $36 million a year.
Related: Trump administration opens door for states to impose Medicaid work requirements
"We're making it a lot more likely that Medicaid-eligible members are going to incur significant medical debt," said Mary Nelle Trefz, health policy associate at the Child & Family Policy Center in Des Moines, whose organization opposed the change.
When someone has a traumatic health event, the initial focus is to get them stabilized, not figure out how to pay for it, said MaryBeth Musumeci, associate director of the Program on Medicaid and the Uninsured at the Kaiser Family Foundation. (Kaiser Health News is an editorially independent program of the foundation.)
Patients may neglect to apply immediately for Medicaid, leaving them financially responsible for days or months of care they received before they got in their application, even though they may have been eligible for Medicaid all along.
That's not the only issue, advocates say. Unlike the commercial insurance market where re-enrollment through someone's employer is routine, Medicaid requires that beneficiaries' eligibility be reassesed every year.
"People fall through the cracks," said Andrea Callow, associate director of Medicaid initiatives at Families USA, a consumer advocacy group.
In addition, complications can arise for people who might need Medicaid coverage for long-term care services.
"The criteria are complicated. For a layperson to find those criteria and figure out if they're eligible" is challenging and they may need extra time, said Musumeci. Once patients have secured coverage, they may already have accrued hefty expenses.
Maybe so, but some people argue that a 90-day retroactive eligibility guarantee is counterproductive.
"We're trying to get people to behave more responsibly, not less responsibly," said Gail Wilensky, an economist who oversaw the Medicaid and Medicare programs in the early 1990s under President George H.W. Bush. "That is not the signal you're sending" with three months of retroactive eligibility. A 30-day time frame is more reasonable, Wilensky said.
In contrast to Iowa, the waivers in Arkansas, Indiana and New Hampshire generally apply only to adults who gained coverage under the law's Medicaid expansion. (Indiana's waiver also applies to other groups.)
Related: Pressure builds to cut Medicare patients in on prescription deals
Kentucky has a request pending that, like Iowa, would eliminate retroactive Medicaid eligibility except for pregnant women and children under 1, according to KFF.
Under federal law, officials can waive some Medicaid coverage rules to give states flexibility to experiment with different approaches to providing services. And retroactive eligibility waivers in Medicaid are hardly new. A few states like Tennessee have had them in place for years. Tennessee officials eliminated retroactive eligibility for all Medicaid beneficiaries in 1994 when the state significantly expanded coverage under TennCare, as Medicaid is known there. At the time, the state even allowed uninsured people to buy into the program who wouldn't otherwise qualify based on income, said Bonnyman.
"There was no reason for anybody to be uninsured except undocumented immigrants," said Bonnyman. "It didn't seem to have the potential for harm."
But state officials revamped that program after serious financial problems. Eligibility for TennCare has become more restrictive again.
Other states that waived retroactive coverage for at least some Medicaid groups include Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts and Utah, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.
Bonnyman said his group frequently works with Medicaid beneficiaries who have medical bills they can't afford that accumulated during the months before they applied for Medicaid.
"If you're a moderate- to low-income working family, one or two days in the hospital is enough to ruin you financially," he said.
Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit health newsroom whose stories appear in news outlets nationwide, is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation.


Some 4 million fewer people would be covered in the first year the repeal would take effect, the Congressional Budget Office said last week. That number would rise to 13 million by 2027, as compared to current law. Meanwhile, premiums would rise by about 10% in most years of the decade.
Related: Axing Obamacare individual mandate would save $338 billion: CBO
But most importantly, repealing the mandate would remove the stick that Obamacare wields to prod younger and healthier Americans to sign up for coverage. While experts have mixed views on how effective the mandate has been, many feel that removing it would cause the Obamacare market to tilt even more towards sicker and older consumers.
That, in turn, could make insurers think twice about participating in the exchanges, especially since they would still be required to cover those with pre-existing conditions and not charge them more based on their medical history.
Repealing the ACA's individual mandate doesn't sound like something that could be bad for anyone. But, it's the mechanism that allows guaranteed coverage for pre-existing conditions.
There is substantial uncertainty about how effective the individual mandate has been. But, what matters is whether insurers would be willing to participate in a market that guarantees coverage for pre-existing conditions with no mandate. I'm doubtful.

A coalition of physician, hospital and health insurance industry associations called on Congress Tuesday to keep the individual mandate. The group, including the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, America's Health Insurance Plans and the BlueCross BlueShield Association, warned the Republican and Democratic leaders of the House and Senate that there would be "serious consequences" if Congress simply repeals the mandate while leaving Obamacare's other regulations in place.
"Repealing the individual mandate without a workable alternative will reduce enrollment, further destabilizing an already fragile individual and small group health insurance market on which more than 10 million Americans rely," the coalition wrote. "Eliminating the individual mandate by itself likely will result in a significant increase in premiums, which would in turn substantially increase the number of uninsured Americans."
Related: Individual mandate repeal to be included in Senate's tax bill
The penalty for not having health coverage in 2017 is $695 per adult and $347.50 per child, or 2.5% of one's household income, whichever is greater.


Related: What bad year? Facebook's stock is up 50%
Facebook runs the world's most popular social network, with more than 2 billion users globally. It also owns two other hugely popular global platforms, Instagram and WhatsApp.
Tencent's own social network, WeChat, has almost one billion users, mostly in China. With Western rivals like Facebook and Twitter (TWTR) shut out, WeChat has a commanding position in the world's most populous country.
But it isn't just social networking that has gotten investors excited about Tencent. The company has been expanding deeper into other areas including smartphone games, mobile payments and streaming music. All that has helped fuel record profits this year.
On Wednesday evening in Hong Kong, the company reported that profits jumped almost 70% in the latest quarter compared with the same period last year. That comfortably beat analysts' forecasts.
Tencent is also investing heavily in other tech companies around the world. As well as pouring money into startups in Asia, it's taken a 5% stake in Elon Musk's electric-car maker, Tesla (TSLA), and bought up 12% of Snap (SNAP), the parent company of SnapChat.

Even before the latest set of bumper profits, analysts expected Tencent's shares to keep rising.
Some of them predict the Chinese tech company will soon pass the $500-billion milestone, putting it in the ballpark of another U.S. giant, Amazon (AMZN), which is worth roughly $550 billion. But it would still have a long way to go to catch up with top dogs Apple (AAPL) ($880 billion) and Google's parent company, Alphabet (GOOGL) ($720 billion).
Related: How China plans to beat the U.S. at technology
The speed of Tencent's charge toward the half-a-trillion mark is highlighted by the fact that it only hit the $300-billion mark about six months ago.
It isn't the only Chinese tech titan getting closer to joining the $500 billion club either.
E-commerce company Alibaba (BABA), which is frequently compared to Amazon, has seen its value soar to around $465 billion. The company's stock price has also doubled over the past year.
Related: $24 billion in 24 hours: World's biggest shopping day sets new record
But those surging share prices and some eye-popping IPOs have led to fears from some market watchers that a bubble could be forming in China's high-flying tech stocks.


Airbus shares jumped 3.3% in Paris.
Rival manufacturer Boeing (BA) quickly struck back, announcing an order from FlyDubai for 737 MAX airplanes with a list price value of $27 billion.
The deal includes a commitment by the low-cost airline to buy 175 planes, with options on a further 50.
2. Markets in the red: Global markets slumped on Wednesday, and U.S. stock futures were pointing to a negative open.
U.S. crude futures were trading 1% lower.
The CNNMoney Fear & Greed Index, which looks at volatility and six other key market barometers, has moved from greed to neutral. The next stop could be fear.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed 0.1% lower on Tuesday, while the S&P 500 dropped 0.2% and the Nasdaq shed 0.3%.
3. Japan's winning streak: Japan's economy grew 1.4% in the third quarter thanks to strong employment, solid domestic consumption and export growth.
The country has now posted seven straight quarters of expansion, its longest period of uninterrupted growth since 2001.
The Japanese yen strengthened against major currencies.
It's not all good news: Economists warn the world's third biggest economy might start running into capacity constraints. Japan's growth story has also been overshadowed by a series of corporate scandals and low wage growth for workers.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Earnings and economics: Target (TGT) plans to release earnings before the opening bell, while Cisco Systems (CSCO), Stein Mart (SMRT) and L Brands (LB) will follow after the close.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics will release its October inflation report at 8:30 a.m. ET. The latest data on retail sales will be released at the same time.
The weekly U.S. crude inventories report will follow at 10:30 a.m.
The U.K.'s unemployment rate was just 4.3% in the three months to September. But prices are rising faster than wages as the country negotiates its departure from the European Union.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Wednesday -- Target, Cisco (CSCO), L Brands earnings; U.S. retail sales for October; U.K. unemployment  Thursday -- Best Buy, Walmart, Gap, Viacom (VIA) earnings  Friday -- Abercrombie & Fitch earnings


Boeing said it was the biggest ever order from the Middle East for single-aisle passenger planes.
Related: Airbus just inked its biggest airplane order ever
Its announcement came less than two hours after Airbus said it had reached a deal to sell 430 A320neo jetliners -- worth roughly $50 billion at list prices -- to Indigo Partners, which owns several low-cost airlines around the world.
Buyers typically receive discounts of 40% to 60% on the list prices, but can get bigger reductions for huge deals.
The flurry of orders for the global rivals came at the Dubai Air Show, one of a series of international events where the two companies like to clinch big deals.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
Boeing stole the early headlines with an order for 40 planes, worth $15 billion at list prices, from Dubai's Emirates airline on Sunday.
But after a quiet start, Airbus seized the attention Wednesday with the enormous Indigo Partners deal, which it said was its "largest single commercial announcement ever."
The U.S. plane maker then fired back with the FlyDubai announcement.
Boeing had a strong lead on its European rival in total orders for this year going into the Dubai event.
FlyDubai, which was already a big Boeing customer, is a low-cost sibling to Emirates, also set up by the Dubai government. The two state-owned airlines have been separate since FlyDubai's founding, but in July announced a partnership agreement that stopped short of a merger but allows them to issue tickets for each other, coordinate schedules and launch new routes.
-- Jon Ostrower contributed to this report.


Related: Boeing gets $27 billion order from Middle Eastern airline
The stunning magnitude of the deal -- which Airbus (EADSF) called its "largest single commercial announcement ever" -- caught many in the aviation industry by surprise. To put it in perspective, a single airline with 430 planes would rank among the 10 largest carriers on the planet.
Worth nearly $50 billion at list prices, the deal is a major rebound for Airbus, which has significantly lagged its U.S. arch rival Boeing in orders this year. Buyers typically receive discounts of 40% to 60% on the list prices, but can get even bigger reductions for really huge deals.
Airbus and Boeing went into the air show with 288 and 605 net orders, respectively. If all the deals they each announced at the show are finalized before the end of the year, they will head into the last weeks of 2017 neck-and-neck in the race for the biggest annual order tally.
Related: Emirates looks past turmoil with huge Boeing deal
The Indigo Partners deal is the single largest order by number of aircraft that any individual plane maker has received. But at this stage, it's still a memorandum of understanding, a non-binding agreement that needs to be finalized before it is considered a firm order.
American Airlines in 2011 ordered 460 new planes in a single deal, but that was spread between both Boeing and Airbus. Indian low-cost airline IndiGo (which isn't connected to Indigo Partners) bought 250 Airbus jets in 2015.

But the biggest order by value came from Emirates airline of Dubai in 2013. It agreed to buy 150 Boeing 777X planes and 50 A380s, which were worth a total of $99 billion at list prices.
Wednesday's historic deal represents a final grand act for Airbus's chief salesman, John Leahy, who plans to retire from the company once a successor is selected.
Related: Frontier Airlines is doubling in size
Leahy, a smooth-talking New Yorker, became a famous thorn in the side of Boeing and other Airbus rivals during his more than 20 years in the job. He sold tens of thousands of jetliners for the European plane maker, helping it draw alongside its big U.S. rival in terms of both sales and deliveries.


As part of a settlement reached last year, Wells Fargo has "identified additional violations" that affected about 450 service members between January 2008 and July 2015, according to the DOJ.
Wells Fargo (WFC) has agreed to repair the credit of the service members and to pay each $10,000, plus any lost equity in the vehicle, with interest.
"Losing an automobile through an unlawful repossession while serving our country is a problem service members should not have to confront," Sandra Brown, acting United States Attorney, said in a statement.
Related: Wells Fargo customer: It felt like my car was held as extortion
Wells Fargo said in a statement that it's committed to "ensuring all service member customers have the protections and benefits available to them." The bank said it's in the process of notifying and refunding impacted customers.
Dennis Singleton found out that Wells Fargo had repossessed his car in 2013 just as he was preparing to go to Afghanistan.
"I said, 'Hey, they can't do that!'" Singleton told CNNMoney last year. "Honestly, I just think it sucks."
Under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, courts must sign off on vehicle repossessions if the service member took out the loan and made a payment prior to entering military service.
Wells Fargo and its troubled auto lending division are no stranger to legal problems. Wells Fargo has admitted to charging as many as 570,000 customers since 2012 for car insurance they didn't need. The bank estimates that about 20,000 of those customers may have had their cars repossessed as a result of their inability to pay for the additional car insurance.
Wells Fargo recently said one former employee has alleged "retaliation for raising concerns" about the bank's auto lending tactics.
All of this is on top of Wells Fargo's infamous fake account scandal. Wells Fargo recently raised its estimate of the number of unauthorized accounts its employees opened to 3.5 million.
--CNNMoney's Jackie Wattles and Aaron Smith contributed to this report.


In addition, FEMA's attorney in Puerto Rico, Graciela Zavala-Garcia, wrote to attorneys at Greenberg Traurig on Oct. 12 saying the agency's chief counsel "concluded that the PREPA contract does not contain some necessary provisions."
Still those warnings were not heeded by PREPA.
Instead, PREPA pressed ahead with the deal on Oct. 17, disregarding lawyers' recommendations, including terms for canceling the contract, ceiling prices and breach of contract.
Related: Here's the other small firm that won a big Puerto Rico power deal
Several lawmakers on Capitol Hill have called for reviews of why Whitefish was chosen over bigger, more established utilities. In the wake of escalating public outrage and a growing litany of government reviews, PREPA agreed to void the deal immediately. That was less than two weeks after the deal was signed.
"A legacy of dysfunction (at PREPA) has created a competence deficit that threatens the Island's ability to improve conditions for its citizens. Confidence in the utility's ability to manage contracts and time-sensitive disaster related infrastructure work is long gone," said Rob Bishop, Chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources in a statement.
Puerto Rico's Governor Ricardo Rossello made two appearances on Capitol Hill Tuesday. At both hearings, Rossello dodged questions about the Whitefish contract, citing the ongoing investigations and referred the questions to the head of PREPA, executive director Ricardo Ramos.
Instead, Rossello reminded lawmakers he called for the cancellation of the Whitefish contract and has been a "willing participant" in investigations into the deal.
Related: Puerto Rico is killing its $300 million Whitefish contract. Now what?
At the Senate hearing, PREPA's Ramos told lawmakers the state-owned utility "could have done better" in terms of how it awarded the contract to Whitefish.
"I chose to contract with Whitefish because my priority was securing the immediate assistance that we needed to begin restoring power as quickly as possible to our most critical customers," said Ramos in prepared testimony.
PREPA has been heavily criticized for allowing Whitefish to charge $319 to $462 an hour for linemen and supervisors, according to the documents released on Monday.
For now, PREPA has defended its decision. Ramos told lawmakers on Tuesday that six private companies bid for the contract and all offered similar labor rates. "If there was price gouging, then it involves six companies," said Ramos.
Related: $300 million Puerto Rico power deal now under government review
Last month, FEMA administrator Brock Long told members of a Senate panel the agency would never have signed off on the deal.
"There's no lawyer inside FEMA that would've ever agreed to the language that was in that contract to begin with," Long said.
To be sure, approval by FEMA on such deals isn't mandatory. The agency only requires a detailed audit of Puerto Rico's emergency spending.
Typically, agencies like PREPA will pay a contractor first as part of a disaster relief deal. Then it would submit a request for reimbursement to FEMA, which would then audit the expense and determine if it is eligible for repayment, an agency spokesperson told CNN. It's unclear how the disaster relief agency makes its assessment.
But lawmakers have raised questions about whether the Whitefish contract would meet the agency's requirements.
"As I understand these contracts, there's a big question about whether you could find them eligible for reimbursement," Rep. Peter DeFazio, a Democrat from Oregon, asked Long at a House hearing earlier this month.
Long assured a Senate panel earlier in the week that "not one dollar" from FEMA has gone toward the Whitefish contract.
CNNMoney's Jill Disis contributed to this report.


Even though revenue grew, the hurricanes took a bite out of Home Depot's profit. Several stores in the hurricane zones were forced to close stores, and they faced shortages as a result of supplier delays.
Also, profit margins on hurricane-related products are tighter than the goods the company typically sells. Plywood and lumber are competitive commodities and only have profit margins of around 20%, while the everyday items Home Depot sells like power tools and accessories can have margins upwards of 50%, explained Wedbush Securities research director Seth Basham.
Home Depot's profit still rose by nearly 11% over the prior year, but it would have been even higher without disaster expenses, estimated GlobalData Retail director Neil Saunders.
Home Depot (HD) gained 1% on Tuesday and is up nearly 25% this year. It's one of the few bright spots in a bleak retail landscape.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
Both Home Depot and rival Lowe's (LOW), which has gained 10% this year, are benefiting from a strong housing recovery.
Total home sales and home prices continue to rise, boosting spending on renovations and upgrades. Home values are up 6.5% in 2017 compared to the same period last year, according to Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the National Association of Realtors.
Home Depot looks like it's Amazon- and Walmart-proof and largely immune to online shopping's disruptions to traditional retailers.
People have proven willing to go to physical stores to buy home improvement products and tools, especially contractors and builders.
"The home improvement sector continues to paint a better outlook as it sidesteps broader retail woes," said Moody's Vice President Bill Fahy.
Home Depot is in position to gain from other retailers' struggles.
For example, as Sears continues to lose its stronghold on appliances, tools and outdoor products, Home Depot could be the main beneficiary, predicts Saunders.


But Buffalo Wild Wings, known as B-Dubs to its fans, has been struggling due to rising food costs and slumping sales. That could make it vulnerable to a takeover. The stock is still down more than 5% in 2017 -- despite Tuesday's big pop.
Longtime CEO Sally Smith announced in June that she would retire at the end of the year after investors elected three candidates to the company's board who were backed by activist shareholder firm Marcato Capital. Marcato owns about a 6% stake in Buffalo Wild Wings.
Still, there have been some recent signs of a turnaround at Buffalo Wild Wings.
Shares soared after its most recent earnings report in October. Sales of so-called boneless chicken wings helped boost profits. One of the problems that Buffalo Wild Wings was facing was a spike in the price it paid suppliers for its namesake wings.
By offering cheaper boneless wings, which are really just breast meat cut to look more like wings, Buffalo Wild Wings was able to boost profit margins.
Related: Buffalo Wild Wings spikes after going boneless
There are still concerns that ratings declines for National Football League games this season are hurting sales though. Papa John's (PZZA), the pizza partner of the NFL, has already blamed the National Anthem protests by some players for weak sales.
Same-store sales at Buffalo Wild Wings, which measure the performance at the company's locations open at least a year, fell 2.3% from a year ago at the company-owned restaurants and were down 3.2% at franchise-run locations.
Buffalo Wild Wings CFO Alexander Ware said during the company's conference call last month that he expected similar sales declines in the fourth quarter on Thursday nights, Sundays and Monday nights when the NFL plays its games.
So Buffalo Wild Wings may still be a company that, like a defensive back struggling to cover a star wide receiver, gets a lot of penalty flags from Wall Street.
For that reason, several analysts think that Buffalo Wild Wings would be wise to say yes to any deal from Roark.
"We believe Roark's extensive restaurant experience could aid Buffalo Wild Wing's turnaround and cash in-hand is difficult to turn down unless investors believe a recovery is already well underway," said BTIG's Peter Saleh in a report Tuesday.
Morgan Stanley analyst John Glass added in a report that a deal makes sense since it would give the investors at Marcato a chance to quickly cash in on their investment.
Related: Panera bought by Krispy Kreme parent for $7.5 billion
Of course, it remains to be seen whether a takeover actually happens or not.
But a Buffalo Wild Wings acquisition would just be the latest deal in what's been an incredibly busy year for restaurant mergers. Private equity firms and other investment companies have been hungry for deals.
Oak Hill Capital bought Checkers. Golden Gate Capital ate up Bob Evans Restaurants. And Krispy Kreme owner JAB acquired Panera.
Publicly traded restaurant chains appear eager to grow as well. Burger King parent Restaurant Brands (QSR) scooped up Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen this year while Olive Garden owner Darden (DRI) gobbled up Cheddar's Scratch Kitchen.


Earlier this year, lawmakers punted on a number of critical issues until the first and second week of December, including a possible government shutdown. Congress has until midnight on December 8 to pass a spending bill, or risk the federal government running out of money.
Related: Mnuchin says most int he middle class will get tax break
"It's really important to get it done," Cohn stressed. "We've gotta get taxes done this year."
Republicans haven't been shy about hiding their motivation to get tax reform done in the weeks ahead. If they fail to do so, their donors could wind up abandoning them, imperiling their chances of keeping the majority in 2018.
Congress hasn't been able to move any significant changes to the tax code in more than 30 years.
CEOs are certainly losing confidence in the prospect, given how far apart the House and Senate proposals are.
Roughly 58% of CEOs surveyed at the conference during Cohn's panel expressed pessimism as to whether Washington can get tax reform done by the end of 2017.
But Cohn waved off doubts, and pointed to the progress that both chambers are making on their respective legislative proposals.
House lawmakers are expected to vote on their tax reform bill this week. In the Senate, Republicans have begun marking up their own tax plan in the finance committee, a process that could take several days.
Related: What's in the Senate Republicans' tax bill
Cohn said he expects both chambers to make significant progress by the end of this week, before lawmakers head to their home states for Thanksgiving recess.
"So by the end of this week... we will have the bill through the House and we will have the Senate Finance committee done," said Cohn. "The only thing left to do is get the full Senate vote on the bill."
He did raise the possibility that both sides would have to reconcile the bill in a conference committee, which would require both chambers to vote on the bill for a second time.
Still, Cohn downplayed differences between the two plans.
"The question should be: 'Do the bills deliver middle-income tax relief?' And the answer to both is, 'Yes'. How they get there is different," said Cohn.
Later Tuesday, Senate Republicans moved to include a repeal of Obamacare's individual mandate in the revised version of the chamber's tax overhaul. That's expected to be released by the Senate finance committee later today.
Cohn suggested on Tuesday that the administration would press ahead regardless of whether enough senators vote to repeal the individual mandate.
"We are still plotting ahead on tax reform whether [that] happens or it doesn't happens," said Cohn.
--CNN's Lauren Fox contributed to this report.


Mattel's stock rose 5% more Tuesday while Hasbro was flat. Hasbro had no comment on the takeover talk. Mattel was not immediately available for comment.
A deal would unite Hasbro, the owner of Mr. Potato Head, Monopoly, Tonka, My Little Pony and most Disney toy licenses, with Mattel, the parent of Fisher-Price, Thomas and Friends, Barbie and Hot Wheels.
Why might a deal make sense? Hasbro is operating from a position of strength. Its stock is up about 25% this year. Analysts expect Hasbro's earnings will increase 12% this year and that sales will rise nearly 7%.
Simply put, Hasbro has the toys that kids want -- and it could scoop up Mattel on the cheap.
That's because Mattel, which lost the Disney (DIS) license -- most notably the lucrative line of Princess dolls and "Frozen" toys -- to Hasbro in 2016, has been in a tailspin.
Profits have been falling as sales have slid. The company even suspended its dividend to shareholders last month after its latest bleak earnings report.
Related: Barbie's first hijab
Mattel brought in a new CEO, former Google (GOOGL) executive Margo Georgiadis, earlier this year to focus more on high-tech toys. But that has not stopped the bleeding. Even with the stock's recent rumor-fueled gains, Mattel shares are down 33% this year.
Another possible reason for a toy tie-up: Both companies could have a disappointing holiday season and a tough 2018 because of the bankruptcy of Toys 'R' Us. A combination could give the two companies more clout with other stores that sell their toys.
Hasbro and Mattel each warned last month that fourth-quarter results won't be as strong as previously thought because of the troubles facing Toys 'R' Us. That's also a key reason why Hasbro's stock, despite the impressive gain this year, is down 17% from its 52-week high.
Hasbro's earnings and sales growth are expected to slow next year, and Wall Street is forecasting yet another decline in revenue for Mattel in 2018. The two companies could arguably do better if they were united.
Still, it remains to be seen whether Mattel wants to be acquired -- and, if it did, whether antitrust regulators would allow such a deal.
Related: Hasbro hurt by Toys 'R' Us bankruptcy
Mattel tried to buy Hasbro once before, in 1996, but Hasbro turned the offer down, citing concerns that the companies would have to sell several brands to get government approval.
Regulators could still argue today that a Hasbro-Mattel deal could create a monopoly -- the real-life kind -- but officials might allow the merger to pass Go this time around.
That's because the entire toy industry has been struggling.
Many kids prefer to play video games on Nintendo (NTDOY), Microsoft (MSFT) and Sony (SNE) consoles, or on apps. The digital world is hurting old-fashioned toy makers.
The rise of Amazon (AMZN) and Walmart (WMT) -- both of whom pride themselves on offering deep discounts -- may also be hurting traditional toy companies. Their increased clout makes it tougher for toy companies to sell their products at a premium price.
Not even the mighty Lego is immune. The maker of the plastic toy bricks posted a surprise drop in sales in September and announced layoffs, too.
Shares of smaller toy companies Jakks Pacific (JAKK) and Canada's Spin Master, which makes Hatchimals toys, have been hit in the past month, too, because of concerns about the Toys 'R' Us bankruptcy.
So while a Hasbro-Mattel deal may not have made sense 20 years ago, the timing might be right now.


Under rules set by its creditors, Greece has to keep a budget surplus of at least 1.75%. But economists expect the surplus to reach 3% this year thanks to higher tax revenues and additional spending cuts.
Tsipras was first elected on the promise of ending years of tough austerity prescribed by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund. The two groups have lent Greece over €300 billion ($350 billion) to prevent it from defaulting on its debts and dropping out of the euro. In return, they asked for deep spending cuts and tax rises.
Tsipras was forced to agree to even more drastic measures in order to secure a third bailout in 2015.
Greece appears to be sticking to the plan, and the economy is growing again after years of recession. The European Commission expects the Greek economy to expand by 1.6% this year and by 2.5% in both 2018 and 2019.
Related: They want to kill the euro
Tsipras said that €720 million ($845 million) will be distributed to roughly 3.4 million lower and middle income families. The tax free payments will vary based on the size and income of families.
Another €315 million ($370 million) will be given to pensioners in the form of rebates for health care payments.
Related: The last thing Europe needs: another Greek crisis
Tsipras angered Greece's international creditors last year when he announced a €600 million ($704 million) bonus for the country's pensioners.
The groups appear to be on board this time around. A European Commission spokesperson said this year's payments appear "to be broadly in line" with discussions between the creditors and Tsipras' government.


The dramatic shifts envisioned by the IEA in its World Energy Outlook would transform the U.S. from an energy importer into a major player in global markets capable of producing 30 million barrels of oil and gas a day by 2025.
The U.S. surpassed Russia in 2011 to become the world's top producer of oil and gas, with a current daily output of 24 million barrels. But the expected increase would put the U.S. further into uncharted territory.
It's a revolution powered by one factor above all others: shale.
"A remarkable ability to unlock new resources cost-effectively pushes combined United States oil and gas output to a level 50% higher than any other country has ever managed," the IEA said on Tuesday.
Paris-based IEA predicts that U.S. shale oil producers will boost their output by 8 million barrels a day between 2010 and 2025, an increase that "would match the highest sustained period of oil output growth by a single country in the history of oil markets" -- rivaling even the massive increase posted by Saudi Arabia between 1966 and 1981.
The expected U.S. surge will account for 80% of the increase in global supply over the time period.
American shale producers have been forced to endure a collapse that sent crude prices from $100 a barrel in 2014 to a low of $26 in 2016. The decline left many producers unprofitable, and tens of thousands of jobs were lost.
But the price crash had another effect: it forced a wave of innovation that has improved shale producers' productivity and efficiency.
"The U.S. [shale] oil industry avoided the blow by morphing into a leaner, more agile version of its former self; it has since proved remarkably resilient to lower prices," the IEA said.
Related: BP CEO: Oil prices won't spike much higher
The report includes several caveats: While the U.S. will become a major exporter of light crude and refined products, it will remain a major importer of heavier crude oil that is used in many of its refineries.
"Even with the extraordinary move to a net export position, the health of the U.S. energy economy remains intricately linked with those of its neighbors in North America and with choices made by countries further afield," the group said.
The forecasts are also underpinned by some major assumptions: The report assumes that governments stick to promises they've made on energy, including pledges by India and China to move away from fossil fuels.
In the U.S., the report assumes that improvements in fuel economy standards for cars and trucks will help reduce demand for oil. If the standards stay at today's levels, the U.S. would remain a net oil importer in 2040.
If the assumptions do hold, the U.S. will find itself in a very rare position.
"There are many examples of a country switching from being a net energy exporter to a net importer: it is very rare to see the opposite, especially when the country in question is one of the world's largest importers of oil."
"Yet this is precisely what is happening as a result of the U.S. shale revolution -- both for oil and for natural gas," the IEA said.


Flannery warned that 2018 will be difficult, dubbing it a "reset year for us."
That's not exactly music to the ears of GE's long-suffering shareholders, especially when the rest of the stock market is booming. GE shares closed at a five-and-a-half year low on Monday.
GE faces a "tough slog ahead," Cowen & Co. analyst Gautam Khanna wrote in a research report on Monday.
Scott Davis, head analyst at Melius Research, said it's still "early days" for Flannery to "fix the GE mess he was handed."
While Davis has "high hopes," he wrote in a report that GE is facing a "debacle" and it's "hard to have much confidence yet."
Related: GE cuts dividend for second time since Great Depression
GE is not just one of America's most storied companies. It's one of the country's biggest employers, with nearly 300,000 workers, and one of its most widely held stocks.
Facing a serious cash crunch, GE has cut its dividend to save about $4 billion a year. It also plans to jettison more businesses, including the transportation division that makes trains and railroad parts. GE is even getting rid of the light bulb business that long symbolized the innovative company. And it's thinking about relinquishing a majority stake in Baker Hughes (BHGE), which was formed when it combined with GE's oil-and-gas assets.
Flannery has said these sales are necessary to simplify GE and refocus the company on core areas: aviation, healthcare and power.
"Complexity has hurt us," the new GE CEO said.
Yet even a slimmed-down GE will still be quite complex, making everything from jet engines and MRI machines to power plants.
And it'll take time to sell off these various businesses, especially the ones like transportation that GE admits are slumping right now. Flannery warned that the transportation division faces a "protracted slowdown in North America" due in part to shrinking coal shipments.
Related: GE is breaking up with the light bulb
The other problem is that some of the businesses GE is keeping are in even worse shape. GE now expects to earn just $1.00 to $1.07 per share next year. That's roughly half the goal GE had less than a year ago.
GE warned it will take one to two years to fix its power division, which supplies over 30% of the world's energy in 140 countries. The business has been hit hard as utilities move away from fossil fuels in favor of renewable energy like solar and wind. GE expects a "challenging market into 2019," which will force further cost-cutting.
"It's a heavy lift to turn around," Flannery admitted.
Davis put it this way: "Power is still a mess."
That mess threatens to delay efforts to fix GE's cash crunch. Free cash flow, which measures how much cash is generated after investing in the business, has dropped for six-straight years.
GE said it expects industrial free cash flow, which includes dividends from Baker Hughes but excludes deal taxes and pension obligations, of $6 billion to $7 billion in 2018.
That's barely enough to cover even the lowered dividend payments.
But Cowen's Khanna thinks GE's "cherry-picked" definition of free cash flow has inflated its figures, making things appear better than they are. He noted that GE is borrowing $6 billion to fund its pension obligations through 2020.
Underlying free cash flow "appears close to zero as most industrial firms would define it," Khanna wrote.


Owning Venezuela's debt has become a divisive issue. Some critics say that by buying the debt, investors are providing a lifeline of support to President Nicolas Maduro, who has been labeled a "dictator" by the Trump administration. They argue that the government has prioritized paying bondholders instead of feeding and aiding its people. Medical shortages have caused children to die in hospitals and food shortages make millions of people go hungry.
Related: Venezuela just defaulted, moving deeper into crisis
Experts on all sides say government policies, not the debt, are to blame for the suffering. The question is whether buying the bonds are allows the government to continue its crippling policies.
Venezuela owes over $60 billion to bondholders. The country's central bank has only $9.6 billion left.
Harvard professor Ricardo Hausmann, who served as a Venezuelan minister in 1990s, calls Venezuelan debt "hunger bonds."
"If you are a decent human being, investing in Venezuelan bonds should make you feel mildly nauseous," Hausmann wrote.
Related: Venezuela: We can't pay our debts anymore
Many Venezuelan bonds aren't purchased directly from the government, which would finance the regime. In fact, as of August, the Trump administration made that illegal. Instead, bond traders buy them from other traders on the "secondary" market, and those funds go the bank or investment firm on the other side of the transaction, not to the Venezuelan government.
Some portfolio managers who own Venezuelan debt condemn Maduro's regime and all its policies.
"We're certainly not propping up this regime," says Michael Conelius, portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price who oversees a bond fund that includes Venezuelan debt. "Bondholders are as much a thorn in the side of the regime as anything else."

All sides agreed that Venezuela's default was only a matter of time. And its debt is held by millions of Americans who have 401(k) accounts, according to data from Morningstar and Market Axess.
These are the top institutional holders of Venezuelan debt -- bonds sold by both the government and state-owned oil company PDVSA:
-- Fidelity Investments: $572 million  -- T. Rowe Price: $370 million  -- BlackRock iShares: $222 million -- Goldman Sachs $187 million  -- Invesco Powershares: $113 million
Fidelity and Invesco declined to comment; BlackRock didn't respond to CNNMoney. Goldman bought bonds soon after the Venezuelan government issued them in May, which sparked huge public backlash. A Goldman spokesperson said at the time that it hopes to see a change of government and policies.
Fidelity's website says it is the top 401(k) provider in the United States with 67.2 million customer accounts. But it's unclear how many of those accounts have money in funds that contain Venezuelan debt. The same goes for the other investing firms.
Fidelity's "New Market Income Fund" holds $252 million in Venezuelan debt, according to an analysis of the most recent prospectus by CNNMoney. It makes up a sliver of the total fund, but some bonds pay hefty interest to investors, as high as 13%. By comparison, interest on a 10-year U.S. Treasury bond is 2.3%.
Related: Venezuelan leaders tell hungry citizens to eat rabbits
Dozens of other mutual funds and investment banks also own the country's bonds.
One caveat: The Morningstar and Market Axess data don't include hedge funds or international investors who don't have to disclose their holdings. Market Axess cautions that much more of Venezuela's debt could be held by those entities than the mutual funds.
Since Maduro announced plans to restructure the bonds -- something investors took to mean he would stop paying -- bond prices have tanked. A PDVSA bond that matures in 2022 plunged to 28 cents on the dollar from 48 cents after the announcement, according to Market Axess BondTicker.


"People want to think about how they can use their money to make a positive impact, but often they don't have the information to make those decisions," said Cherny, who has also worked as a financial fraud prosecutor.
Aspiration was launched in 2014 and so far has raised $20 million in investment, including some from impact investors who target a social or environmental return as well as a profit.
Related: These super-rich families are investing their fortunes to help others
It has developed an app and online checking account that gives customers a personalized sustainability score based on their spending habits.
Helping people and the planet
When you use the account to make a purchase, Aspiration shows you two scores for the vendor: a "people score" based on employee pay and workforce diversity, and a "planet score" that takes into account factors such as emissions and energy efficiency. It also shows you scores for similar businesses.
Aspiration analyzes information about thousands of companies. It's also working on ways to track customer behavior, to see whether they change their spending habits in response to their sustainability score.
One company has already found plenty of evidence that shoppers will make different choices when presented with social and environmental product rankings.
"People are interested in voting with their dollars, and supporting companies that share their values," said Alexander Gillett, chief executive of HowGood, which ranks the sustainability of food products by assessing 60 to 70 data points covering everything from chemical usage to labor practices.
Related: 6 ways to make an impact investment
According to Gillett, products that receive HowGood's top ranking see an average uplift in sales of 230%. This can, in turn, encourage producers to shift towards a more sustainable business model to boost their ranking.
Gillett and his brother Arthur founded HowGood in 2007. They spent five years working with experts from across the food industry to develop their rankings -- good, great and best -- which can be displayed alongside products on supermarket shelves.
HowGood rates more than 250,000 products, and its ratings are on display in grocers across the U.S., including Giant Food. HowGood hopes to further expand online soon.
Impact shopping needn't cost more
Shopping sustainably doesn't necessarily mean spending more.
"There's a myth that you have to go somewhere fancy for sustainability," said Cherny. "Even within categories, there are differences. Pizza Hut does better than Papa John's. McDonald's does better than Burger King."
Related: Investors cash in by keeping convicts out of jail
Like Aspiration, HowGood has its sights set on expanding beyond the U.S. Impact investors and others have so far committed $6.2 million to the company, which has plans to branch out beyond food.
"We want to rate every product in the world ultimately, but we want to rate them well," Gillett said.


Governor Mark Carney said that in addition to using social media to communicate with the public, the Bank of England now limits internal memos to a maximum of six pages.
2. Default in Caracas: Venezuela, a nation spiraling into a humanitarian crisis, has defaulted on its debt, according to a statement issued Monday night by S&P Global Ratings.
The agency said the 30-day grace period had expired for a payment that was due in October.
The default risks setting off a dangerous series of events that could exacerbate food and medical shortages in the country.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Stocks to watch: Shares in Buffalo Wild Wings (BWLD) are set to surge by about 30% following reports that private equity firm Roark Capital is trying to purchase the chain.
Roark Capital, which is based in Atlanta, owns a range of restaurant chains including Arby's and Auntie Anne's.
Shares in Madison Square Garden Company (MSG) could also be on the move after the firm announced CEO David O'Connor has left the business. The stock hit a record high last week.
Dick's Sporting Goods (DKS), Home Depot (HD) and TJX (TJX) are among the firms reporting earnings before the opening bell.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were slightly lower, trading just below all-time highs set earlier this month.
European markets were mostly negative in afternoon trading. Traders are digesting an inflation report from the U.K. that shows prices rose by 3% in October from last year.
Stocks in Germany were flat after the country reported better-than-expected GDP data.
"It will not get better than this," economists at Berenberg Bank said of the 0.8% expansion over the previous quarter. The bank raised its forecast for annual GDP growth from 2.2% to 2.5%.
Most Asian markets ended the day with modest losses.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Tuesday -- Home Depot (HD), TJX (TJX) earnings  Wednesday -- Target (TGT), Cisco (CSCO), L Brands (LB) earnings; U.S. retail sales for October; U.K. unemployment  Thursday -- Best Buy (BBY), Walmart (WMT), Gap (GPS), Viacom (VIA) earnings  Friday -- Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) earnings


If enough holders of a particular bond demand full and immediate repayment, it can prompt investors across all Venezuelan bonds to demand the same thing. Since Venezuela doesn't have the money to pay all its bondholders right now, investors would then be entitled to seize the country's assets -- primarily barrels of oil -- outside its borders.
Related: Trump administration bars U.S. banks from some Venezuelan debt
Venezuela has no other meaningful income other than the oil it sells abroad. The government, meanwhile, has failed for years to ship in enough food and medicine for its citizens. As a result, Venezuelans are waiting hours in line to buy food and dying in hospitals that lack basic resources.
If investors seize the country's oil shipments, the food and medical shortages would worsen quickly.
"Then it's pandemonium," says Fernando Freijedo, an analyst at the Economist Intelligence Unit, a research firm. "The humanitarian crisis is already pretty dire ... it boggles the mind what could happen next."
It's not immediately clear what steps bondholders will take. Argentina went through a vaguely similar default, and its bondholders battled with the government for about 15 years until settling in 2016. Every case is different, though.
Related: Venezuela admits it can't pay all its debts anymore
Venezuela and its state-run oil company, PDVSA, owe more than $60 billion just to bondholders. In total, the country owes far more: $196 billion, according to a paper published by the Harvard Law Roundtable and authored by lawyers Mark Walker and Richard Cooper.
Beyond bond payments, Venezuela owes money to China, Russia, oil service providers, U.S. airlines and many other entities. The nation's central bank only has $9.6 billion in reserves because it has slowly drained its bank account over the years to make payments.
The S&P default announcement Monday came after Venezuelan government officials met with bondholders in Caracas. The meeting was reportedly brief and offered no clarity on how the government plans to restructure its debt.

The Venezuelan government blames its debt woes -- and inability to pay -- on a longstanding "economic war" waged by the U.S. More recently, the Trump administration slapped financial sanctions on Venezuela and PDVSA, barring banks in the U.S. from trading or investing in any newly issued Venezuelan debt.
But experts say the socialist Venezuelan regime that has been in power since 1999 bears the brunt of the blame. It fixed -- or froze -- prices on everything from a cup of coffee to a tank of gas in an effort to make goods more affordable for the masses. For years, Venezuelan leaders also fixed the exchange rate for their currency, the bolivar.
Related: Venezuela is blaming Trump for missed debt payments
Those moves were among the driving forces behind the food shortages. Farmers couldn't sell at low prices without going out of business because their cost of production was much higher. Importers also couldn't afford to ship in food, knowing they would have to sell at much lower prices than what they paid for at the port.
When food shortages grew worse, an illegal black market emerged where venders sold basic foods at vastly higher prices than the government's artificially low prices. Inflation soared, making the bolivar almost worthless.
One U.S. dollar currently buys more than 55,200 bolivars. At the beginning of the year, a dollar was worth about 3,200 bolivars, according to dolartoday.com, a website that tracks the unofficial rate that millions in Venezuela use to determine payments.
The International Monetary Fund predicts that inflation in Venezuela will hit 650% this year and 2,300% in 2018.
--This story has been updated to characterize Venezuela's government as socialist.


"We're kind of getting used to trauma, whatever that may be, geopolitical, economic, terrorists, call it whatever it is. We're getting better at it. This is what we do and we have to be able to take the business on, grow the business," said Emirates President Tim Clark in an interview with CNN.
In addition to the deal with Boeing, Emirates unveiled a new first class for its long-range 777 jets. The opulent suites feature some technology firsts for commercial aviation, including video chat to contact a flight attendant and virtual windows that pipe in fiber optic video for the suite in the middle of the jet's cabin.
But traffic growth is at the lowest level in the region since the global financial crisis in 2009, according to Bernstein Research. Rivals Etihad Airways, based in the nearby United Arab Emirates capital of Abu Dhabi, is in the midst of a management and strategy overhaul after its bets on ailing European carriers Air Berlin and Alitalia turned sour. And Qatar Airways remains in the midst of a regional embargo after the UAE and many of its neighbors cut off diplomatic ties to the Gulf state.
"We've faced a flat-lining of demand for all the reasons out of our control. We have adjusted our capacity...it's only 2% growth, but does that mean to say Emirates is going to be stuck at 2% growth? I don't think so," said Clark.
The phase of slow growth for Emirates comes after a blistering expansion that has added 100 A380s and 109 777s to its fleet over the last decade. That rapid expansion has drawn howls of protest from U.S. and European carriers who allege Emirates, Qatar and Etihad are unfairly reshaping the aviation market with subsidized state support.
Middle East consolidation
But the tumultuous landscape has forced Emirates to adapt, retiring older planes and aligning itself with its low-cost sibling FlyDubai. The carrier began its operations mimicking Southwest Airlines and flying shorter flights around the region with fewer frills. FlyDubai at the show unveiled new lie-flat seats to attract business fliers accustomed to the opulent perks found on Emirates.
The UAE may still undergo a broader airline consolidation and Clark said a similar alignment or collaboration with Etihad may materialize over time.
"I take guidance from my bosses, basically, if they want to take it on, we can do a lot of things," said Clark. "There are things we can do immediately without conflicting with competition rules in the overseas markets and getting better value for both [Emirates and Etihad]."
Rethinking growth
Sunday's Boeing deal comes after Emirates in 2014 canceled an agreement with Airbus for 70 long-range A350 jets after the plane maker decided to redesign parts of the airplane.
The Boeing deal is worth $15.1 billion at list prices, but airlines regularly receive discounts of 40% to 60%.
While a significant win for Boeing, "this is the weakest Dubai Air Show in terms of orders in many years, with only 60 orders after the first two days (2015 had 126 orders and 2013 had 552 orders)," wrote Bernstein analyst Doug Harned.
Related: Superjumbo airline Emirates thinking smaller again
The twin-aisle 787-10, which seats about 320 passengers, doesn't have the globespanning endurance of the larger jets in Emirates' fleet. Instead, the aircraft will likely be deployed on new and existing shorter regional flights that don't need the range or enormous capacity of the Boeing 777 and double-deck A380, for which Emirates is the largest operator of both planes.
"It gives us far more in our arsenal to deal with the type segmentation of demand that we're looking at in the next decade," said Clark.
Over the long term, Emirates plans to move its operations to the new Dubai World Central Airport from Dubai International Airport. The new gateway will eventually be able to accommodate 220 million passengers flying through every year. That's more than double the 104.2 million passengers that used Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport in 2016, the world's busiest airport.


This source also said owners are wary of replacing Goodell so soon before the league's collective bargaining agreement with the players expires, in 2020.
The contract discussion comes at a difficult moment for the league, which faces declining TV ratings, growing concerns about brain damage and domestic violence, and player protests over racial injustice.
The terms of Goodell's deal are being considered by a compensation committee comprising six owners: Arthur Blank of the Falcons, Clark Hunt of the Chiefs, Robert K. Kraft of the Patriots, John Mara of the Giants, Bob McNair of the Texans and Art Rooney of the Steelers.
Those six are expected to talk by phone on Monday.
ESPN reported on Sunday that Goodell had asked for a salary of $49.5 million a year, the use of a private jet for life and lifetime health insurance for his family. Goodell was paid $31.7 million in 2015, the most recent figure publicly available.
Two NFL sources disputed the ESPN report. One NFL source told CNNMoney that Goodell already has use of a private jet and health care for his family.
Goodell's leadership has been tested most recently by the protests. They started during a 2016 preseason game when then-49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick took a knee during the singing of the National Anthem.
The movement grew this year, particularly after President Trump said owners should fire anyone who takes a knee.
Goodell says everyone should stand for the Anthem and the league needs to "move past this controversy." But he also says players have the freedom to express themselves. League rules say only that players "should" stand.
Related: NFL commissioner: 'We need to move past this controversy'
Some fans have said protests are disrespectful to the American flag and to the military, and have boycotted the NFL. Papa John's founder and CEO John Schnatter said the protests have hurt sales and blamed Goodell.
He's not the only person questioning Goodell's leadership and handling of the protests. Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones has even threatened to sue the NFL to block Goodell's contract renewal.
On Sunday, when the Cowboys played the Atlanta Falcons, Jones and Blank, the chairman of the compensation committee, didn't greet each other, as is customary for owners to do at a game.
Jones is also upset over Goodell's treatment of his star running back, Ezekiel Elliott, who was suspended six games earlier this season for domestic violence allegations.
A spokesman for the NFL said all 32 owners agreed previously to give the committee the authority to decide whether Goodell should get an extension.
Related: NFL owners gather to discuss National Anthem protests
It's not clear how much Goodell was paid in 2016 and 2017. His salary was cut continually between 2012, when he made $44.2 million, and 2015. That is when the NFL dropped its federal tax exemption. As a result, Goodell's salary is no longer public.
Goodell took the job in 2006. Between 2008 and 2015, he was paid more than $205 million.


"Budweiser has been declining for a long time," said Eric Shepard, an industry tracker at Beer Marketer's Insights. "Premium light [beer] doesn't have the popularity it once did."
That's particularly true for younger drinkers, Shepard added.
The drop-off in domestic beers isn't confined to just Budweiser and Bud Light: Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP), the maker of Coors Light and Miller Lite, announced last month that U.S. sales dipped nearly 3% last quarter.
Related: Not America's beer? Bud sales fall in U.S.
Budweiser is betting on a management shakeup to help turn sales around.
AB-InBev's announced on Monday that Michel Doukeris, A-B InBev's current chief sales officer, will replace João Castro Neves on January 1 as head of the company's North America division.
The U.S. is AB-InBev's "most important market," CEO Carlos Brito said in a news release.
Aside from the sales slump, Budweiser missed its last attempt to rebrand itself. A-B InBev's highly-marketed campaign to brand Budweiser as "America" on bottles and cans during the summer failed to catch on with beer lovers.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
Budweiser is now turning to its old Prohibition-era lager to return the brew to past glory. A-B InBev announced last month that it was releasing a limited-edition "1933 Repeal and Reserve Amber Lager" with a higher alcohol content than the regular beer for the holidays.
Doukeris and the Prohibition-style bud will also have to compete with rising popularity of Corona and Modelo.
Constellation Brands (STZ), the owner of the two Mexican imported beers, reported that sales increased 13% last quarter. Constellation is up 43% this year compared to A-B InBev's (BUDFF) 11% gain.
-- CNNMoney's Paul R. La Monica contributed to this story.


"We were sorry to hear Jeremy was sick and were able to get in touch with him directly regarding where and when he ate," said Chipotle spokesman Chris Arnold, in an email to CNNMoney. "There have been no other reported claims of illness at the restaurant where he dined. We take all claims seriously, but we can't confirm any link to Chipotle given the details he shared with us."
Representatives for Jordan, a Broadway actor and star of Warner Bros. television show "Supergirl" did not immediately respond to messages from CNNMoney. (Warner Bros. and CNNMoney share the parent company Time Warner.)
Nick Setyan, analyst for Wedbush Securities, said that Jordan's Instagram post was definitely the cause tor the drop in stock price, even if the company wasn't actually to blame.
"It is 100% the reason why it is down today," said Setyan, senior vice president of equity research, in an email to CNNMoney. "Unfortunately, Chipotle is exposed to these types of unsubstantiated claims for the foreseeable future."
Related: Chipotle earnings prevail, despite host of troubles
Since 2015, Chipotle restaurants in various locations around the country have been plagued by outbreaks of E. coli and norovirus, sickening hundreds of people. The most recent reports of illness happened in July at a restaurant in Sterling, Virginia.
Rodents were also sighted at one of its Dallas restaurants earlier this year, and a video of the vermin went viral..
But the Mexican-style fast food chain said that sales and profits rose significantly its latest quarter, despite costly Hurricanes Irma and Harvey and April malware attack.


Still, a GE (GE) without light bulbs feels like an AT&T without telephone service, Campbell's without tomato soup or GM without Chevrolet.
Light bulbs' and GE: An intertwined history
Thomas Edison invented the first commercially viable incandescent light bulb in 1879. A year later, he founded the Edison Lamp Company and began manufacturing light bulbs for sale. By 1890, Edison had consolidated Edison Lamp with most of his other businesses under Edison General Electric, and in 1892 merged with the Thomson-Houston Electric Company to form the GE we all know.
Light bulbs quickly took off after that, as did innovation that improved the invention. In 1892, GE began machine-molding bulbs instead of hand-blowing them. In 1906, GE engineer William Coolidge developed the modern light bulb with a long-lasting and super-bright tungsten filament -- an improvement that GE commercialized in 1911.
Related: GE cuts its dividend for just second time since the Depression
By 1935, GE's light bulbs were bright enough to light the first ever Major League Baseball night game, played in Cincinnati. GE invented the fluorescent bulb in 1938, the halogen lamp in 1959 and the LED in 1962.
GE made more recent advances too. In 2001, it introduced GE Reveal light bulbs that filter out yellow light to produce more natural illumination. And in 2010, it produced its first ever smart LED bulb that connects to the internet.
When GE ditches its lighting division, a move scheduled for next year or 2019, it will be the first time the light bulb hasn't been part of GE since the darn thing was invented.
What's wrong with light bulbs
So why ditch light bulbs now? The market is dimming, so to speak.
Business was booming between 2007 and 2014, when customers bought up expensive LED light bulbs to replace their inefficient incandescents.
But there's a problem for light bulb makers like GE: LEDs last for decades. With no need to replace them, the bottom fell out of the market. Prices -- and revenue -- began to tumble.
Related: GE wants to unload its iconic light bulb business
The dust finally appears to be settling, and IHS lighting analyst Jamie Fox said in a recent report that he expects growth to return to the light bulb market this year.
GE agrees and actually has high near-term hopes for its lighting business. The company said Monday it expects light bulb sales to grow a modest 5% and profit to rise 15% next year.
But that growth will largely be fueled by Current, a billion-dollar GE business that sells LED lighting systems to businesses. GE plans on selling Current along with its consumer lighting division (a buyer has yet to emerge).
In its presentation to investors Monday, GE said its future would focus on businesses with strong growth, predictability and cash generation. None of those apply to light bulbs.


Judge will represent Pepsi beverages, including regular, Diet Pepsi and Pepsi Zero Sugar. The company said it would work with Judge in 2018 and into the future, but did not immediately disclose further terms of the deal.
"We are thrilled to welcome Aaron to the Pepsi family," said Justin Toman, the senior director of sports marketing for PepsiCo (PEP). "He's one of the biggest rising stars in baseball and we're looking forward to working together to engage baseball enthusiasts in new and unique ways next season and beyond."
Related: MLB drops Pepsi for Coca-Cola
Judge's baseball career has seen nothing short of a meteoric rise this year. He scored the most home runs by a rookie and has won over baseball fans everywhere. He's considered a shoo-in to be named American League Rookie of the Year.
The superstar's stately last name has also brought about a slew of punny souvenirs and fan rituals. A section in the right-field bleachers at Yankee Stadium has been christened the "Judge's Chambers," where fans often don judge's robes, barristers' wigs and hold signs reading "All Rise."
Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor is even known to be a fan.
The relationship is also a major get for Pepsi.
Major League Baseball hasn't been a big fan of the company as of late -- in April, the league announced that it was dropping Pepsi in favor of a new deal with rival Coca-Cola.
Even though Coke became the MLB's official sponsor, Pepsi held onto existing partnerships with 11 teams, including the New York Yankees.


The proposed split, or "fork," would have allowed for faster transaction processing speeds.
"One of the main problems with Bitcoin is that it does not scale up properly as more and more users adopt it," said Daniele Bianchi, assistant professor of finance at Warwick Business School.
But not everyone was on board with the plan. Bianchi said that opponents preferred the status quo because they see Bitcoin as an investment rather than a method of payment.
John Spallanzani, chief macro strategist at the broker GFI, said that calling off the split caused Bitcoin prices to collapse and rival digital currencies to surge.
But he expected Monday's rebound and says it could continue.
"Bitcoin has been prone to sizable corrections and we had two such large corrections just this year," he said. "However, [in each case Bitcoin] subsequently made a new high."
Related: What is Bitcoin?
Bitcoin owners don't have too much to complain about. The currency has gained nearly 600% this year, and its price has doubled from as recently as mid-September.
The momentum has been helped by several major endorsements. Japan recognized Bitcoin as legal tender in April. And CME Group (CME), which owns the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, announced plans last month to start listing Bitcoin futures contracts during the fourth quarter.
But analysts are divided on the future of the alternative currency.
"Bitcoin prices will be volatile -- it has been like that the last few years and it will be like that the next few years," said Ronnie Moas, an analyst at Standpoint Research. He thinks Bitcoin could reach $50,000 in just a few years.
Researchers at UBS, however, say that recent price rises are the result of speculative trading.
They wrote in a research note that following a twenty-fold increase in Bitcoin prices over two years, "cryptocurrency prices are almost certainly a bubble."


"Either we can do the deal legally if there is a legal framework," Total CEO Patrick Pouyanné told CNNMoney Emerging Markets Editor John Defterios.
"If we cannot do that for legal reasons, because of [a] change of [the] regime of sanctions, then we have to revisit it."
Trump unveiled a tough and comprehensive new policy towards Iran last month. He accused Tehran of violating the nuclear accord, and announced that he would no longer certify that the lifting of sanctions was in U.S. interests.
The agreement is now effectively in limbo while Congress decides how to respond, but Trump's strategy risks setting off a chain of events that ends up derailing the nuclear deal.
Total is expanding in the U.S.
"If there is a sanctions regime [on Iran], we have to look at it carefully," said Pouyanné. "We work in the U.S., we have assets in the U.S., we just acquired more assets in the U.S."
Total last week increased its U.S. presence with the purchase of a portfolio of liquified natural gas assets from Engie (ENGIY), including the company's stake in the Cameron LNG project in Louisiana, one of the first new gas export terminals in North America.
That deal ups the stakes for the French firm. For now, though, it's business as usual in Iran.
"We are working on the project. We launched the tenders, we should award... contracts by January," Pouyanné said. "I hope by that time, Congress will have an answer for the president and the president will have to renew, or not [renew], the certification."
Losing Total would be a huge blow for Iran. Tehran needs foreign investment to develop its vast energy potential and it was recently touting projects worth $200 billion in the hope of attracting companies such as BP (BP), Russia's Gazprom (GZPFY) and Petronas of Malaysia.


Market research firm Euromonitor International says that South Korean skin care brands that manufacture snail cream have rapidly expanded their presence in the U.S. since 2011.
Now their creams are even being sold by Target (TGT) and CVS (CVS), which says the customer response has been "tremendous."
The chains declined to provide sales numbers for snail cream. But Alicia Yoon, founder of New-York based Peach and Lily, which supplies Target and CVS with Korean beauty products, said snail products are a top seller.
"Snail cream is one of our best sellers on our website," said Yoon. "In the same way that it's become a mainstream ingredient in Korea, I think that's going to happen here in the U.S."
Snail mucin was first used in beauty products by Chilean skincare brand Elicina in 1995. The idea came from snail farmers in the country, who claimed that scratches on their hands healed faster when they handled garden snails.
It wasn't until a decade later, when South Korean companies introduced snail products to their home market, that the creams really took off.
South Korea is a cosmetics powerhouse, and its $7.2 billion market ranks 8th in the world in terms of sales. Its consumers are known for their willingness to experiment with new and unusual ingredients, according to Yoon.
Snail slime advocates say that it can improve skin imperfections like scars, wrinkles and acne.
Sabrina Fabi, a dermatologist and assistant clinical professor at the University of California, San Diego, said there are chemicals in the secretions that may reduce signs of aging.
But she cautioned that the effectiveness of beauty creams depends on the concentration of the active ingredient, and whether it is delivered into the skin.
Related: The visionary behind Africa's leading natural skincare brand

Jeb Gleason-Allured, the editor in chief of Global Cosmetic Industry magazine, said that there may be a limit to American interest in snail slime.
"I suspect in the age of people going for vegan and animal-free products there may be limitations, and also there's the psychological hurdle," said Gleason-Allured.
"But when you polarize people, that means at least a portion of your audience is going to be really compelled by the novelty," he added.
Related: China lifts ban on stinky cheese imports
Beauty labels from around the world are seeking to capitalize on the trend, and have started producing their own creams. Elicina, for example, now sells to 45 countries.
Gleason-Allured said the next key growth market is China.
"China doesn't have as strong a domestic trend-setting beauty industry at this stage," he explained. "That's really the market everyone's going for."


Early alarms have already sounded. Data from Visa and business advisory firm BDO show that October sales at brick-and-mortar shops declined 5% compared to the previous year. Spending on clothing and footwear was particularly weak.
Online sales are rising, but not quickly enough to compensate for losses in the shops.
"Falling real wages, muted consumer confidence and lingering uncertainties over the direction of the U.K. economy are having a substantial impact on spending," warned Annabel Fiddes, an economist at IHS Markit who helped compile the Visa report.

Retailers across developed economies are under intense pressure from e-commerce giants like Amazon (AMZN). In the U.S., thousands of stores have closed.
But experts say that much of the pain in the U.K. is being caused by Brexit.
The value of the pound dropped sharply after Britain voted to leave the European Union in June 2016, forcing Brits to pay higher prices for imported goods.
Wage increases haven't kept pace with inflation, which now stands at 3%. Household debt has been growing by about 4% a year, and the Bank of England just squeezed consumers by hiking interest rates, which makes it more expensive to borrow money.
"There will be spending this Christmas ... but people are being more cautious and more choosy," said BDO's top retail expert, Sophie Michael.
Michael predicts the trend might lead to a winner-take-all scenario during the crucial holiday season where stores that can't attract shoppers could be forced to close.

Many retailers are also worried over how Britain's departure from the EU will affect their business. Nearly 17 months after Britain voted to leave the EU, negotiators still have not broached the subject of their future trading relationship, which is critical for retailers that import goods.
"We've underestimated the impact of Brexit," said James Bidwell, co-founder of the digital consultancy Re_Set. "The inability of the government to actually move the agenda on is making it difficult for all businesses, but particularly retailers."
"It's impacting how consumers are feeling," added Bidwell, the former CEO of Anthropologie's European division.
Related: Walmart is turning holiday shopping into a party
David Roth, head of WPP's global retail division, said that retailers would try to boost sales by advertising on social media. But he predicts holiday retail sales will be flat.
"If I was a retailer and sales were flat, I'd be pleased," he said. "I would chalk that down as a success."


Oil crashed in late 2014 and 2015 before hitting a low of around $26 in February 2016. It has since recovered thanks to supply curbs agreed by OPEC members and some other major producers, such as Russia, a year ago.
In May, the group extended the deal to the end of March 2018.
"OPEC has done something unprecedented by not only working with their own countries, but 24 countries," said the BP (BP) CEO. "It does seem there is cohesion around this... a healthy price above $50 is good for the world."

A recovery in the global economy has also helped.
"There's higher demand than we projected for oil and gasoline globally," Dudley said at an oil conference in Abu Dhabi. "Economic growth around the world is also strong."
Related: India, not China, will lead future demand for energy
Rising tensions in the Middle East have probably added about $5 a barrel to the price of oil, he said.
Rivals Saudi Arabia and Iran are fighting several proxy wars including in Lebanon, Syria and Yemen.

Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen fired a ballistic missile earlier this month aimed at Riyadh's international airport. The missile was intercepted but Saudi Arabia described the attack as an "act of war" by Iran and said it would take "appropriate measures."


The stock has lost 40% of its value this year. GE plunged 8% on Monday, to the lowest level in five and a half years, after the company announced the restructuring and diminished financial targets. The new dividend will be 12 cents a share, down from 24 cents.
GE had been one of the biggest dividend payers in the United States, behind giants like ExxonMobil (XOM), Apple (AAPL) and Microsoft (MSFT).
By cutting the dividend in half, GE will save more than $4 billion per year. That makes it one of the largest dividend cuts in the history of the S&P 500 and the biggest since 2009, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices.
GE made an even bigger dividend cut in 2009, during the Great Recession. But dividend cuts are rare these days. Many companies are increasing them because the U.S. economy is healthy and the stock market is booming.
Related: The incredible shrinking GE is about to get even smaller
The problem for GE is that it's not making enough money to cover its dividend payments. Free cash flow, which measures how much cash is being generated after investing in the business, has deteriorated for six straight years.
Even after the painful dividend cut, about 85% of GE's estimated free cash flow will go toward dividend payments, according to JPMorgan. That's well above rivals like Honeywell (HON) and United Technologies (UTX) and speaks to the seriousness of the cash crunch.
The dividend isn't the only thing getting smaller at GE. The company also unveiled plans to shrink its board of directors from 18 members to a dozen next year. The new board will also include a committee focused on how GE spends its money.
GE has also cut its workforce, which totaled about 295,000 at the end of 2016. GE told investors on Monday that its corporate headcount will be 25% smaller in 2018.
A person familiar with the matter told CNNMoney that about 1,500 jobs were eliminated and the cuts are almost complete. The person said the job cuts focused mostly on corporate functions like GE's global research center and its global growth organization, which promotes international sales.
GE also plans to get rid of $20 billion worth of businesses in the next year or two, including the transportation division, which houses the century-old railroad business that makes locomotives and rail equipment. Among other units on the chopping block, GE reiterated a desire to sell the light bulb business that has symbolized the company for 125 years.
John Flannery, GE's new CEO, said during a presentation that the company is considering "exit options" for Baker Hughes. (BHGE) Baker Hughes is majority-owned by GE and was only formed last year by combining the two companies' oil and gas businesses.
While Flannery said the merger is "going well," he expressed concern over how much the business depends on volatile energy prices.
GE has already gotten rid of its real estate portfolio, its dishwasher and appliance business, and media properties NBC and Universal Studios. More recently, it unloaded its water business and a unit that makes electrical equipment for utilities.
Related: GE is breaking up with the light bulb
All this is part of GE's mission to focus on being a modern industrial company that sells things like jet engines, power plants and MRI machines.
Yet some of GE's core businesses are struggling, especially the power division, which has been hurt as utilities switch to renewable energy like solar.
GE warned it now expects to make just $1 to $1.07 per share next year. That's roughly half of the goal GE had less than a year ago.
Flannery wants to bring more accountability to GE, in part by revamping its pay structure. Under the new plan, about half of senior execs' compensation will come from stock rewards, compared with only 20% now.
"This is our time to reinvent the company," Flannery told employees. "This is our time to show our passion, our fury and our resolve. It's game on."


Related: Trump delivers 'America first' speech at Asia-Pacific economic summit
Brokered on the sidelines of a summit of Pacific nations in Vietnam, the initial accord is "a huge, huge step forward," said Alexander Capri, a senior fellow at National University of Singapore's Business School.
It shows the willingness of countries across Asia and the Americas to move on with broad free trade deals in the face of Trump's "America first" rhetoric, -- of which he delivered a strong dose at the Vietnam summit.
The pursuit of a new-look TPP also highlights the desire of countries like Japan to try to curb China's increasing influence in the region and beyond.
'A large vacuum' in U.S. policy
Trump's withdrawal from TPP left the U.S. with "a large vacuum in its economic diplomacy" in the region, according to Sanchita Basu-Das, a fellow at the ASEAN Studies Centre in Singapore.
Trump has expressed preference for negotiating one-on-one trade agreements with other countries, saying he can ensure a better deal for American workers.
But remaining TPP members like Japan and Vietnam, whom Trump visited on his Asia tour, will be less inclined to do one-on-one trade deals with the U.S. if the new TPP is finalized soon, according to Capri.
"The Trump team basically just wants to pound these guys into submission," he said. "No trade partner of the U.S. wants to do a bilateral with them."
Related: These are the companies behind Trump's $250 billion of China deals
Capri predicts Trump could face pressure at home if U.S. companies start losing business in TPP countries to competitors from places like Canada and Australia.
U.S. could rejoin down the road
The U.S. president made his feelings clear about multilateral trade deals in Vietnam on Friday, saying they "tie our hands, surrender our sovereignty and make meaningful enforcement practically impossible."
But some experts think the U.S. absence from the TPP may only be a temporary one.
"I anticipate that there will be mechanisms available for the U.S. to join at a later stage," said Donald Rothwell, a professor of international law at Australia National University's College of Law.
Related: Trump's trade flashpoints in Asia
It's still not clear, though, when a final deal will be reached on the revised TPP, which is now being called the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Some reports suggested it could happen fast -- in early 2018.
"I'm confident that we will be able to reach an agreement in the not too distant future," Australian Trade Minister Steven Ciobo said Sunday.
The new deal would cut barriers on trade in goods and services between the 11 markets, which make up about 15% of the global economy. It also includes rules on environmental and labor standards.
Importantly, key provisions on e-commerce and cross-border data flows have survived the U.S. pullout and the remaining sticking points appear to be fairly small, according to Capri.
Countering China
Countries like Japan are eager to use the salvaged TPP to counter China's growing sway.
Beijing is increasingly seeking to influence the region, notably through its Belt and Road Initiative that aims to foster greater trade across Asia and Europe through huge investments in things like roads, railways and ports.
"Major Asian powers will continue to seek opportunities to balance against China -- with or without the U.S." tweeted Abraham Denmark, director of the Asia program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center.
And despite Trump's withdrawal from TPP, China won't necessarily find it easy to draw countries fully into its orbit.
Related: China opens up its finance industry to the world
Basu-Das says governments in Southeast Asia are wary, pointing out that Chinese investment often comes with strings attached, like bringing in Chinese workers and materials.
Recent signals from China that it wants to take the lead in globalization "ring hollow," Capri said.
Chinese President Xi Jinping talked up his country as a defender of global trade at Davos in January. But Capri says Beijing's subsidizing of state-owned enterprises and dumping of excess goods in global markets suggest it isn't ready yet to lead by example.


Carriers had to sign contracts in September that locked them into participating next year -- before they knew whether Republicans in Congress would repeal the law or President Trump would upend it by eliminating the individual mandate or cutting funding for a key set of Obamacare subsidies. (Only the final item has come to pass.)
Some 132 insurers will offer policies on the federal exchange next year, down from 167 this year and 237 in 2016. The federal exchange, healthcare.gov, handles enrollment for consumers in 39 states. The remaining states control their own marketplaces.
Insurers are still offering multiple plans in every area, but that array is dwindling too. In 2018, enrollees on the federal exchange will have 25 plans to choose from, on average, down from 30 this year.
The Trump administration and Congressional Republicans have repeatedly pointed to the decrease in insurer participation as a sign that the Affordable Care Act is failing.
Related: Obamacare enrollment soars in first four days
Still, the situation is brighter than it was a few months ago when it looked like tens of thousands of Americans in dozens of counties could have no insurer on their exchange at all. State regulators worked with carriers to alleviate their concerns and convince them to participate, according to a study published this week by researchers at Georgetown's Center on Health Insurance Reforms.
For instance, regulators allowed insurers to raise rates based on the assumption that the funding for the Obamacare subsidies would end. Also, state officials worked with carriers to ensure their networks of doctors and hospitals were adequate enough to meet state standards. For instance, one regulator allowed an insurer to take the unusual step of naming a hospital in a bordering state as a primary site for care.
But many consumers will feel the difference. They may find it harder -- or impossible -- to find a plan that covers their doctors or the prescription drugs they take.
"When there's less competition, it's harder to get a health plan that meets your needs," said Chris Sloan, senior manager at Avalere Health, a consulting firm.
Jane Dingledine, 62, is in this situation. The Coldwater, Ohio, resident could only select policies from Medical Mutual of Ohio, which agreed to cover her county for 2018 after Anthem said earlier this year that it would pull out.
Related: Most Obamacare enrollees could pay less for policies next year
Dingledine will pay only $89 a month for a Medical Mutual bronze plan, rather than the $344 she was paying for her Anthem policy, thanks to more generous premium subsidies. But her deductible is $250 higher, her local doctors aren't in the network and the nearest hospital is nearly an hour drive away.
She'll likely continue to see her doctors, but pay out of pocket, said her husband, Mike, who is on Medicare but helps set up his wife's coverage. That's what she did this year since they also didn't participate in Anthem, which was her only choice for 2017.
"You're cornered," said Mike Dingledine, who has long been opposed to Obamacare. "This is your choice -- take it or leave it."
The lack of competition is one reason why premiums are on the rise. Rates for the benchmark silver plan are jumping 37%, on average, for 2018, though most enrollees will be shielded from the increase by premium subsidies.
Related: 5 changes for Obamacare open enrollment for 2018
The dearth of choices may contribute to fewer people signing up for Obamacare plans for 2018, Sloan said. This is especially if they have to switch insurers and don't like the providers and benefits offered by the new carrier or if they don't qualify for premium subsidies and have to pay much higher rates.
The dwindling number of insurers is one of the biggest concerns about Obamacare's long-term health. The actions state regulators took this year to entice insurer participation may not work in the future.
"There is strong consensus among state regulators and insurers in the [six states that were studied] that the solutions used to prevent bare counties in 2018, varied as they were, are temporary and unsustainable without long-term federal action," the researchers wrote.


More changes could be announced later Monday: The Wall Street Journal reports that Flannery will detail plans to focus on the company's three biggest business lines -- aviation, power and health care.
That means the conglomerate could be looking to exit its other businesses, including lighting and diesel trains.
2. More trouble for May: The British pound was 0.5% lower against the dollar after a turbulent weekend for Prime Minister Theresa May.
May, who leads an already fragile government, is under increased pressure after two ministers left her cabinet. She reportedly also faces a rebellion from other cabinet members over her plans for Brexit.
Another problem: The Sunday Times reported that as many as 40 members of parliament have agreed to sign a letter of no confidence in the prime minister.
The pound was trading just above $1.30, or 13% below the its position ahead of the Brexit referendum in June 2016.
3. Oil in focus: Oil ministers from major energy producers are meeting this week at the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference.
OPEC and its allies agreed large scale production cuts a year ago, in order to get rid of the world's oil glut and support prices. They have extended the agreement until March 2018.
The question now is whether the cuts will be extended even further.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were up.
European markets opened higher, while markets in Asia finishing the session mixed.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed 0.2% lower on Friday, pushing its loss for the week to 0.5%. The index had posted gains in each of the eight previous weeks.
The S&P 500 shed 0.1% and the Nasdaq closed flat.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Company news: Mattel (MAT) was up more than 20% in extended trading following reports that rival Hasbro (HAS) had offered to buy the company.
Shares in British defense contractor Ultra Electronics dropped as much as 23% after the company's CEO stepped down.
French energy firm EDF dropped 6% in Paris after cutting its profit forecast.
Tyson Foods (TSN) is set to release its earnings before the U.S. open, while Famous Dave's (DAVE) will follow after the close.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- GE hosts key meeting Tuesday -- Home Depot, TJX earnings, Japan and Germany report GDP  Wednesday -- Target, Cisco (CSCO), L Brands earnings; U.S. retail sales for October; U.K. unemployment data Thursday -- Best Buy, Walmart, Gap, Viacom (VIA) earnings  Friday -- Abercrombie & Fitch earnings


One strategy that plane makers employ to boost sales is using overseas manufacturing to gain market access with local airlines. Europe's Airbus, for example, opened final assembly lines for its A320 jets in China and the U.S. to produce planes specifically to attract airlines in both countries.
The UAE is home to two of the world's biggest carriers, Emirates and Etihad, as well as several smaller ones.
Related: China and Russia are coming for Boeing and Airbus
The MC-21, the first Russian-made airliner of its size since the fall of the Soviet Union, is backed at the highest levels of the Russian government. President Vladimir Putin has pushed for Rostec and state-owned United Aircraft Corporation (UAC) to increase sales of the plane to both Russian and foreign airlines.
Rostec said it held talks about the potential joint production of the plane with Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed al-Nahyan, the powerful crown prince of Abu Dhabi.

The UAE has been eager to expand its aerospace industry into manufacturing. Companies based in the country already produce some parts for Boeing and Airbus jets.
A Rostec spokesperson said it was too early to say what joint production would mean in practice. It could entail anything from assembly of completed MC-21 jetliners in the UAE to manufacturing components for jets that will be produced in Russia.
"Specific parameters will be determined during [the] negotiation process," the spokesperson said.
Russia is increasingly open to cross-border partnerships to expand its aerospace industry. UAC has teamed up with China's Comac to design and produce a new long range twin-aisle airliner, but that plane's not expected to be ready for at least another eight to 10 years.
Related: The world's new planes in 2017
The aircraft Rostec and UAC may build in the UAE would be based on the largest version, the MC-21-400, that seats up to 250 passengers and competes directly with the biggest single-aisle jets from Boeing and Airbus.
A smaller version, the MC-21-300, has been carrying out early flight trials since May.
Many MC-21 parts comes from Western suppliers: Its engines, for example, are made by Connecticut-based Pratt & Whitney. But final assembly of the aircraft is completed in the Siberian city of Irkutsk.
Russian aircraft company Sukhoi, which is also a unit of UAC, partnered for a time with Italy's biggest aerospace company to install interiors of its new Superjet regional airliner in Venice for European customers.


Mnuchin said that assessment is based on "hundreds if not thousands" of tests the Treasury has run on the bills.
Mnuchin's comments came after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell walked back his claim that "nobody in the middle class is going to get a tax increase" under the Senate's version of the reform plan.
On Friday, McConnell told the New York Times that he "misspoke."
McConnell to NYT: I 'misspoke' on tax increase for middle class in Senate plan
Mnuchin also defended the tax plan from critics, including Larry Summers, the Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton. Summers called Mnuchin's tax cut estimates "irresponsible."
Mnuchin on Sunday called those comments "unfortunate."
"There are lots and lots of economists that come out and support our claims," he said. "We've been completely transparent. Different models will show different things."
Mnuchin added that a middle-class tax hike is not what Trump wants. He said lawmakers will "fine tune" the plan before it heads to Trump for a signature.
Tapper also asked Mnuchin about Trump's claim that the tax reform bill will bring "the largest tax cuts in the history of this country."
"We've tried to find a way that this is true, but it's not," Tapper said, pointing to research that shows the tax break would rank, at most, as the 3rd largest in American history.
Mnuchin qualified the president's statement, saying, "This will be the largest change since President Reagan."
He also singled out the proposal to slice the corporate tax rate from 35% to 20%.
"If that's not the biggest tax cut to make our businesses competitive, what is?" Mnuchin said.


GE confirmed in a statement on Friday that "employee reductions," some of which have already begun, are part of a previously-announced plan to cut costs by $3 billion.
After GE reported awful results last month, Flannery said the dividend remains a "priority," but he didn't rule out a reduction.
The problem is GE isn't generating enough cash to cover dividend payouts promised to shareholders. It's a stunning development given GE's iconic status and a sprawling business that makes everything from jet engines and light bulbs to MRI machines.
GE is one of America's most widely-held stocks, making a decision to cut the dividend even tougher. Countless shareholders, including retirees, have come to rely on the quarterly dividend payments.
"Retail investors have stuck with GE through many, many years of underperformance simply because they've counted on that dividend," said John Inch, a Deutsche Bank analyst with a "sell" rating on GE.
"If you cut that dividend, all of a sudden that confidence is shaken," Inch said.
GE says it's been paying its dividend for more than a century, "proving its strength and reliability." The first dividend cut occurred in 1938 in the midst of the Great Depression.
The company also cut its dividend in 2009 during the Great Recession. But unlike those times, such moves are rare right now. Many companies are ramping up their dividends because the U.S. economy is healthy and the stock market is booming.
2. Movement on tax reform: The GOP tax plan is marching along.
Senate Republicans unveiled the contents of their tax reform bill on Thursday, a week after their House colleagues released their own legislation. The House legislation also cleared the Ways & Means Committee.
Compass Point Research, an investment and research firm, predicts that the House will consider and may pass the GOP tax plan next week.
It's no surprise that things are moving quickly. Republicans in the House and Senate have vowed to present President Trump with a plan before the end of the year.
For businesses, there are a few key differences between the House and the Senate's version of the bill, including when a corporate tax cut would take effect and how pass-through business income is taxed. The National Federation of Independent Business, which came out against the House's plan, said it was "very encouraged" by the Senate's revisions.
Of course, much work remains: The House and Senate bills' differences have to be reconciled and Republicans hold only a razor-thin lead in the Senate.
3. U.K. unemployment remains low: The U.K. Office for National Statistics will reveal its latest employment figures on Wednesday. Despite Brexit fears, unemployment in Britain is very low.
In the spring, British unemployment hit its lowest point in 42 years. Since then, it has moved even lower, holding steady at around 4.3% in recent months.
But low unemployment doesn't necessarily mean all is well in the U.K. According to the latest data, average weekly earnings fell by 0.4% without bonuses, when adjusting for inflation, compared to the same period last year. And at the start of the year, banks began planning an exit strategy from their London offices -- suggesting that the city's days as a financial hub may be numbered.
4. Retail's bright spots: Retailers will continue revealing their financial results next week.
On deck are some of the industry's strongest performers. Shares of Home Depot (HD), which is set to report on Tuesday, have spiked by more than 20% this year. Best Buy (BBY) and Walmart (WMT), both set to report on Wednesday, have each soared by more than 30% this year. Their success marks a bright spot in the dismal retail landscape.
Some struggling retailers are also set to report next week. Target (TGT), L Brands (LB), Gap (GPS), Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) and TJX (TJX) are more representative of the retail industry -- they have painted a much more pessimistic picture.
5. Will oil continue to rally? Oil prices have been rising for five weeks straight, and they recently hit a two-year high. A few events next week could determine whether that rally continues.
Oil ministers will meet at the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference on Monday through Thursday, and OPEC will release its next monthly oil report on Monday. On Tuesday, the International Energy Agency will reveal its World Energy Outlook. Taken together, these reports will offer clues into projections for both supply and demand for oil.
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- GE hosts key meeting
Tuesday -- Home Depot, TJX earnings
Wednesday -- Target, Cisco (CSCO), L Brands earnings; U.S. retail sales for October; U.K. unemployment
Thursday -- Best Buy, Walmart, Gap, Viacom (VIA) earnings
Friday -- Abercrombie & Fitch earnings


That's because the trio of super-carriers that dominate the region -- Emirates airline, Qatar Airways and Etihad Airways -- have run into struggles after years of rapid growth that could affect purchasing decisions.
Qatar Airways, which has more pending orders for Airbus A350s than any other airline, won't be making the trip at all because the U.A.E. cut diplomatic and transport links with Qatar.
Emirates, which took its 100th double-deck Airbus A380 airliner last week, is expected by some to purchase dozens more jumbo jets. But after slashing 3,000 positions to help its first half profits, there's no certainty.
Plus, the ability to order jetliners is significantly different from a carrier's ability to actually take delivery once they're built years from now. That will depend on the fortunes of a region that's seen a significant slowdown in traffic growth, according to Bernstein Research.
The region's airlines are "managing a slow-moving reckoning," said Richard Aboulafia, vice president of analysis at The Teal Group aerospace consultancy.
Companies like Boeing, Airbus, Embraer and Bombardier may use the opportunity to look beyond the Middle East to Indian carriers and those in north and east Africa that may produce orders.
Global effect
In years past jetliners like the A380 and Boeing 777X have been the prime focus of the show, but a smaller appetite from Middle East airlines means potentially big business for defense companies. This year "in the short term it's military, military, military," said Aboulafia, who expects drone and surveillance aircraft to feature heavily at the show.
The region is a crossroads for defense business. U.S., European, Russian and Chinese companies and governments compete to get their hardware into the region's various militaries.
"You can never have too many sources [of military hardware] because you never want to be cut off," he said. Egypt, for example, is buying Russian-made MiG-29s and French Rafale fighter jets after decades of U.S. aircraft purchases.
Russia's state-owned defense firm plans to bring its ultra-manueverable Sukhoi Su-35. An appearance by the U.S. Air Force's F-22 stealth fighter is also planned.
While much of the Dubai Air Show focuses on moving soldiers or passengers around the region - Dubai also wants to be a leader in future air taxis, and has signed up with Uber's Elevate program as one of its key test cities.
Despite those broader regional concerns, Dubai, a city-state where aviation accounts for 27% of its GDP and which boasts the busiest international airport in the world, has cemented itself on the world's stage.
Standing up Dubai with a strategy of "if you build it they will come...they've more or less passed that with flying colors," said Aboulafia.


A group of companies that make up the global supply chain for banknotes and coins came together last year to form the International Currency Association. Its membership, which costs $35,000 per year for larger companies, includes companies that make the paper for bills, the inks and holograms that are printed onto it, the machines for handling cash, and the machines for destroying it.
Its mission, its website says, is "to provide a powerful and cohesive voice to keep currency a preferred payment choice."
Crane Currency, the main supplier of paper for U.S. banknotes, joined in solidarity with more than two dozen companies from across the globe. "It's not really in our daily business DNA to go this route," said Tod Niedeck, Crane's corporate marketing director. "We would be a little irresponsible to not be part of ICA."
Cash production isn't in trouble, exactly. Despite the increasing use of digital payments, the value of currency held by the public has actually been rising as a percentage of gross domestic product in the U.S. and Europe since the 1980s -- and particularly quickly in the past decade.
According to a 2015 survey by the Federal Reserve, Americans had an average of $59 in cash at any given time, up from $54 three years earlier.
For that reason, the U.K.-based International Currency Association's director general Guillaume Lepecq said that they're operating from a position of strength — just keeping an eye on the competition.
"There's a whole industry of people who are wanting to capture part of the market share of cash, because they make a profitable business out of it," Lepecq said.
Companies like Visa (V) and MasterCard (MA), for example, have large public relations operations dedicated to putting out white papers casting cash as backward and digital payments as the future.
Why is cash still king?
The reasons for the enduring popularity of bills are not well understood, even by people who study the industry.
"If consumers are using alternative forms of payment, why is there still this growing demand for cash?" says Eugenie Foster, executive director of the International Association of Currency Affairs, which includes both central banks and currency producers.
Foster theorizes that the drive toward automation at banks may have created a greater need for cash, because more ATMs and self-storage cash vaults used by businesses and individuals mean more bills sitting in more locations.
Others have postulated that the public is storing more savings in cash following the great recession because of a lack of confidence in the banking system and the security of electronic deposits. In addition, low interest rates have also created little incentive to put cash in banks and tourists in particular tend to carry cash to avoid international credit card fees while traveling abroad.
But one explanation for cash's popularity is also a reason some say it should be made obsolete: Much of the paper money out there is at work in the underground economy.
Harvard economist Kenneth Rogoff published a book last year making the case that $100 bills are now largely used for tax evasion, money laundering and bribery.
"The demand in the legal economy is fading, but governments are continuing to print cash," Rogoff said.
For that reason, some governments have been pulling back. Sweden banned physical currency as a means of paying for public transit years ago. Last year, India abruptly canceled its two highest-denomination notes in an effort to combat corruption. Spain and France have imposed 1,000-euro limits on cash transactions in the name of fighting terrorism.
The ICA strongly objects to these moves, arguing that digital payments are just as likely to be used for illicit purposes.
"Evidence shows that the terrorists essentially used anonymous prepaid cards to move money around," Lepecq said. "So we think that's a totally false argument. We're not very happy with those restrictions."
Related: Americans see jobs aplenty. Good wages? Not so much
Through a new website, cashmatters.org, the association also makes the case for why governments should keep cash in circulation: It's useful to have when the power goes out, for example, like it has in Puerto Rico. Plus, the 7% of Americans who don't have bank accounts depend on cash to get by.
Meanwhile, the global cash industry is scrambling to come up with ways to make using currency cheaper and more seamless.
"If we're not efficient, then yes, the usage of cashless forms of payment become more attractive," said Sim Bielak, the chief marketing officer of Suzohapp. The Illinois-based company makes machines that recycle cash, check out grocery customers and run coin-operated laundries, among other things.
And why don't these companies just go into the business of digital payments themselves?
"The cashless hardware business is very commoditized," said Bielak. "It's a very difficult business to make money."


"There can be no distraction that alters the commitment to repair the power grid as quickly as possible," Rossello said in a statement.
The Whitefish contract is the largest to be awarded since recovery efforts began over a month ago. Several lawmakers on Capitol Hill are calling for reviews of how Whitefish, a small firm with only two employees at the time Hurricane Maria hit, was chosen over bigger, more established utilities by PREPA. On Monday, it was reported that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had opened a preliminary review of the contract, according to a source familiar with the matter.
Related: How Whitefish landed Puerto Rico's $300 million power contract
A number of concerns have also been raised, including whether there was any political influence that resulted in Whitefish winning the deal and if PREPA took the appropriate steps in awarding the deal.
PREPA's Ramos said the state-run utility would work toward canceling the contract and would appoint a trustee to oversee the hiring of any new contractors.
Whitefish has expressed disappointment over the latest step. "The decision will only delay what the people of Puerto Rico want and deserve," the company said in a statement.
Still, about 70% of the island is living without power and now there is even more uncertainty about when all the lights will go back on.
Here are some of the questions that remain:
1. Did PREPA do anything wrong by awarding the contract to Whitefish?
The jury is still out.
There are several ongoing reviews looking into how PREPA went about choosing the utility company over other potential candidates. So far, no wrongdoing has been discovered.
Government agencies usually will make a public request for help on a particular job. Often, they will receive multiple offers and the agency reviews and accepts the best, lowest cost bid.
Related: FBI opens inquiry into Whitefish's Puerto Rico contract
But Puerto Rico's governor told CNN last week that PREPA triggered an "emergency protocol" to start rebuilding its electrical grid on the island immediately after the hurricane hit. The governor did not elaborate on what that protocol entailed.
Both the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Emergency Management Agency have said they did not sign off on the Whitefish contract, according to spokespersons for both agencies.
On Tuesday, FEMA administrator Brock Long told members of a Senate panel the agency would never have signed off on the deal.
After the controversy surrounding the contract emerged, the governor instructed Puerto Rico's Office of Management and Budget to conduct an audit of the Whitefish deal.
The governor's office said it has since escalated the review by requesting a "detailed and in-depth investigation" of PREPA's emergency procurement process by Puerto Rico's comptroller.
Results of the audit were expected last Friday, but have yet to be released.
Without learning the full details of the audit, Rossello called upon PREPA to cancel the Whitefish deal over the weekend. The governor's office has made it clear the request in no way demonstrates any wrongdoing thus far.
2. Has Whitefish already stopped work on the island?
No, not yet. The embattled utility company is still pressing ahead with its work.
Whitefish spokesman Chris Chiames told CNN the firm's work won't stop immediately per the terms of its contract with PREPA.
PREPA's Ramos said earlier this week the contract requires 30 days notice before cancellation, and that the state-owned utility wanted Whitefish to "finish what they started."
Related: Relief groups hit major hurdles getting aid to Puerto Rico
So far, Whitefish said it has completed "significant work" on two major transmissions lines that crossed over mountains and it has done some critical work in some remote parts of Puerto Rico that were only accessible by helicopter and heavy equipment.
Its efforts, the company said, have helped restore power to hospitals, businesses and residents of Manati and soon enough 500,000 people in the city of San Juan.
Whitefish said it plans to continue fixing transmission lines into San Juan. It also plans to bring an additional 150 lineman to the island this week -- bringing the total to 500 workers.
"The original decision by PREPA to have Whitefish Energy come to the Puerto Rico only sped up the repairs, and if it were not for that action, crews would just now be getting to the island to begin the process of rebuilding the system and restoring power," according to a Whitefish statement Sunday.
3. What happens after Whitefish is gone?
With Whitefish on its way out, Puerto Rico's governor said he has turned to governors in New York and Florida for help in the recovery effort as part of the mutual aid network among public utilities.
On Sunday, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo posted on Twitter the state would deploy "additional utility crews and equipment to restore power in Puerto Rico."
New York is deploying additional utility crews and equipment to help restore power in Puerto Rico.
"There was no reason for this to take 36 days," Cuomo told CNN's Fredericka Whitfield on Sunday. "it's just frankly, because they didn't get the attention and I think we treat Puerto Ricans like second-class Americans."
Florida Governor Rick Scott on Monday said he would lead a delegation of Florida utility providers to Puerto Rico later this week.
4. What other steps can Puerto RIco take to get the power up and running?
On Tuesday, PREPA formally requested to tap the mutual aid network that provides help to other utilities during widespread power outages.
PREPA's Ramos sent a letter to the American Public Power Association and the Edison Electric Institute requesting  additional resources for the island.
The state-run utility could have requested aid through this network right after the hurricane hit. But Ramos said he didn't because the closest states to Puerto Rico were already dealing with their own rebuilding efforts after hurricanes Harvey and Irma. He said he believed they would not be able to respond quickly to the island's needs.
The bankrupt utility, which is struggling with nearly $9 billion in debt, also couldn't afford to cover the costs of utilizing the network either, he said.
Carlos Mercader, director of Puerto Rico Governor's office in Washington, told CNN utilizing the network would be a "different situation" than before since the governor himself is asking for help.
One option would be for PREPA to rehire Whitefish subcontractors so they may continue doing the work to restore power and meet the governor's goal to restore nearly a 100% of power by the end of the year.
Related: San Juan's mayor takes on small Montana firm over Puerto Rico power contract
Mercader said the priority now is to transition away from Whitefish, while obtaining more resources to help with restoring power on the island.
Rossello set a goal of having over 1,000 brigades in Puerto Rico by Nov. 8. So far, only 404 crews have arrived. Of those, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has only sent seven, according to Rossello.
Rossello said his announcement on Sunday was intended to reaffirm Puerto Rico's "commitment to transparency in the contracting process... and to achieve the highest degree of efficiency possible in the restoration of the power grid of our island, in the shortest amount of time possible."
--CNN's Rene Marsh and Greg Wallace contributed to this report.

While cereal is still king of the breakfast world, frozen foods are having a moment -- especially frozen sandwiches and pizzas.
The global frozen food industry as a whole is expected to bring in $360 billion by 2024, according to a new report by Grand View Research.
Healthy frozen offerings are doing particularly well, says Darren Seifer, a retail analyst at research firm NPD Group.
"Consumers have always demanded speed. They're also demanding more protein. That's been a huge driver of frozen breakfast sandwiches," Seifer adds.
Kellogg is capitalizing on that trend with its Morningstar Farms brand, which offers meat-free takes on classic breakfast staples such as the sausage, egg and cheese.
Related: Trix cereal is bringing back artificial flavors
This may all seem like great news for Kellogg's new CEO Steven Cahillane, who took over earlier this month. But there's cause for concern.
The company's breakfast division -- which still relies heavily on sugary staples such as Frosted Flakes and Pop-Tarts -- sunk 3% last quarter compared to the same time last year. Kellogg's stock is down nearly 16% overall this year.
Kellogg also suffered a PR blowup earlier this month after a consumer complained that the art on its Corn Pops cereal boxes was racist.
Still, Kellogg's breakfast division isn't exactly dried up. It makes up 22% of the company's $13 billion in annual sales, slightly less than its snack division, which makes Keebler, Cheez-Its and Pringles.
Related: Kellogg isn't giving up on sugary cereal just yet
Kellogg (K) is even rolling out a new breakfast cereal in November: Chocolate Frosted Flakes.
Kellogg hopes the chocolate flavor will make up for the fact that Kashi -- the black sheep of Kellogg's cereal offerings -- continues to slip. Kellogg has badly mismanaged the brand, overexpanding and failing to ward off an increasing number of competitors.
To also attract more health-conscious consumers, Kellogg is investing in the lucrative snack business.
In one of his first big moves as CEO, Cahillane announced plans to purchase America's fastest-growing nutrition bar company, RXBar.
But for now, investors are embracing what Americans have always known: There's nothing quite like a good breakfast sandwich.


Exxon also agreed to pay a $2.5 million civil penalty to the EPA.
"This settlement means cleaner air for communities across Texas and Louisiana, and reinforces the EPA's commitment to enforce the law and hold those who violate it accountable," EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said.
Exxon said in a statement that the agreement will "help improve flare efficiency at these chemical facilities, which are among the largest petrochemical complexes in the world."
One climate change group said the deal amounted to a "slap on the wrist."
"These mild fines are tiny compared to the colossal wealth of fossil fuel elites, and will only embolden Exxon," said Lindsay Meiman of environmental activist organization 350.org.
Exxon has been battling charges in recent months that it downplayed the threat of global warming.
In August, a Harvard study concluded Exxon "misled the public" on climate change for nearly four decades. Last month, San Francisco and Oakland filed lawsuits demanding that Exxon and top oil companies pay billions to cover damages from climate change.
Exxon (XOM) did not directly address climate change criticism, but the company said it "complies with environmental laws, regulations and permits."


California marijuana consumers are going to have to pay a combination of state and local taxes that vary by municipality. Growers and sellers have their own taxes, too.
Consumers will pay a sales tax ranging from 22.25% to 24.25%, which includes the state excise tax of 15%, and additional state and local sales taxes ranging from 7.25% to 9.25%.
Local businesses will have to pay a tax ranging from 1% to 20% of gross receipts, or $1 to $50 per square foot of marijuana plants, according to the Fitch report.
In addition, farmers will be taxed $9.25 per ounce for flower, and $2.75 per ounce for leaves.
The Fitch report says this combination of state and local taxes for consumers, retailers and growers could keep portions of California's cannabis industry off the grid, where it has flourished for some time.
"California's black markets for cannabis were well established long before its voters legalized cannabis in November 2016 and are expected to dominate post-legalization production," said the Fitch report.
Among the eight states where recreational marijuana is legal, only Washington has a higher tax rate at about 50%.
Colorado and Nevada both follow with rates of 36%. Oregon has a tax rate of 20% and Alaska has a rate of up to 20%.
Medical marijuana has been legal in California since 1996, but the retail markets for recreational marijuana are just now ramping up and are scheduled to begin on New Year's Day.
Retail: Corona beer company is investing in Canadian cannabis
Black market farmers already face considerable obstacles to becoming compliant with state law, even without the taxes.
Van Bustic, a specialist in the environmental impact of cannabis cultivation for Berkeley's College of Natural Resources, said that registering with the state and becoming compliant will cost about $100,000. He said that many Humboldt farmers are unlikely to shoulder that cost if they can continue to operate in the dark.
The Fitch report says the black market could prove to be a "formidable competitor" to legal weed, if taxes push prices significantly higher than illegal, tax-free pot.
Other analysts agree that high taxes could actually be a boon to the black market.
"If taxes increase the price of cannabis beyond a certain point, the legal market becomes less competitive than the illicit market and then consumers become less likely to make the transition from the illicit market to the legal market," said John Kagia, analyst for New Frontier Data, which tracks the cannabis industry.
The Fitch report says this dynamic has already prompted Colorado, Washington and Oregon to lower their "initially uncompetitive" tax rates.
"It's almost certain that all of the states with recreational marijuana still struggle with the black market for marijuana because of its prevalence before legalization," said Morgan Scarboro, a policy analyst for the Tax Foundation's Center for State Tax Policy.
She said that high tax rates "will prevent the minimization of the black market" and that state governments "need to be open to evaluating their marijuana tax structures."
Related: Retail weed is spreading to California, Massachusetts, Maine
Colorado, Washington and Oregon have tried various tax structures, with mixed results, according to Kagia.
Oregon started in 2015 with a weight-based sales tax of $35 per ounce but changed that to a percentage sales tax of 20%.
Colorado got rid of a 2.9% sales tax but rose its excise tax from 10% to 15%, effectively raising its tax rate.
Washington started out with a 25% tax rate on producers and another 25% on processors, in addition to a 25% sales tax. Officials changed that to a 37% flat sales tax for cannabis that's in addition to standard state and local sales taxes.
"The only state that we know of that has undertaken a radical tax transformation is Washington," said Kagia, but he added that Washington still has the highest cannabis sales tax in the country.
Of the eight states where recreational marijuana is legal, three, including California, haven't yet started retail markets.
Massachusetts is expected to have a tax rate of 24% when it starts up its retail market in July of 2018, according to the Fitch report.
Maine has not yet established its tax rate.


Consumer confidence, as measured by the Conference Board, climbed in October to 125.9 -- the best level of the recovery from the Great Recession. Confidence hasn't been this high since December 2000.
"Consumer confidence is going straight up along with the stock market," Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank, wrote in a report on Tuesday.
Spending intentions were a bit mixed, with one glaring exception: travel plans. The percentage of Americans plotting vacations spiked by more than 11 percentage points to 63.5%.
To put that in context, in April 2009 just one-third of consumers said they planned to take a vacation. That was during the Great Recession and the U.S. unemployment rate was sitting at nearly 9%.
Almost half of those surveyed this month said they plan to travel in the U.S, while another 14.5% said they would go abroad.
All this travel talk is terrific news for travel companies like Expedia (EXPE) and TripAdvisor (TRIP) as well as hotel chains and cruise operators. Other winners include airlines and car rental services: Just over one-quarter of Americans plan to fly, while almost one-third will drive.
Related: Is now really the time for massive tax cuts?
Of course, not all Americans feel good enough to travel right now.
Those making $25,000 to $34,999 have a confidence score of 105.9, which is down from September and roughly even with after the election. Compare that with the increasingly euphoric confidence levels of 160.9 for those with household income of $125,000 or more.
"The advancing tide is not lifting all the boats," Rupkey said, adding that it's a "tale of two Americas."
Millennials (under 35) also registered the lowest confidence since February and remain less upbeat than those 35-54.
The key for the economy is whether soaring consumer sentiment translates to actual spending this fall. Sometimes consumers say they feel good, but don't open their wallets more. For instance, consumer spending slowed during the third quarter despite strong confidence.
However, Andrew Hunter, U.S. economist at Capital Economics, predicted in a report that confident Americans are likely to accelerate their spending during the final three months of the year.
If anything, Hunter argued that consumer sentiment is "starting to look increasingly overdone."
While extremely high confidence may sound like a good thing, in the past it has signaled the economy and stock market had reached a peak.


Modi's government took advantage of the World Bank announcement to defend its policies.
"I remember in the very first year, the prime minister had said our target should be to take India into the [top] 50, I believe this is doable," Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said at a press conference Tuesday. "There's huge scope for us to now jump from this position of 100."
Sadanand Dhume, a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington D.C., said the World Bank's ranking tells only part of the story but the improvement in India's position was "undeniably positive news."
"This is the first time that India has climbed so dramatically in the ease of doing business rankings and it sends a message to international investors that the government is committed to slashing India's notorious red tape and rolling out the red carpet for them," Dhume said.
The World Bank also named India as one of the top 10 countries in reforming its business environment, recognizing its strengthened protections for minority investors and progress in digitization.
"Today's result is a very clear signal from India to the rest of the world, not only is the country open and ready for business, it's now competing as a preferred place to do business," said Annette Dixon, the World Bank's vice president, South Asia Region.
A slowing economy
But the Ease of Doing Business index presents only a partial snapshot of what's happening on the ground.
In the last 12 months, Modi's government carried out two huge reforms which political rivals have described as torpedoes: The first, a cash ban that replaced India's highest denomination notes; the second, a national tax system that replaced more than a dozen state and central taxes.
Following the changes, India's growth slowed to 5.7% in the first half of 2017, its weakest rate in three years. India's central bank has slashed its growth forecast for the current fiscal year to 6.7% from 7.3%.
And researchers estimate that the economy lost two million jobs between January and August this year.
A tale of two cities
The survey is conducted across major cities in 190 countries around the world. In most countries, it focuses on only one city per country. In larger countries, it looks at two.
In India's case, it covers Delhi, the capital, and Mumbai, the leading financial center. That leaves out vast swathes of the country of 1.3 billion people, and some major business locations such as Bangalore and Hyderabad.
Another criticism is that countries get credit for passing laws, even if they haven't been widely implemented yet.
A new law mandating speedier resolution of bankruptcy cases, for example, has "really not been tested in the courts," said Pratik Dattani, managing director at Economic Policy Group. "On paper this is exactly the right direction to travel."
Moving further ahead in the rankings will require changes in business culture, he said.
"Getting from 100 to 90 or 80 or 70, that's much, much harder."


So they are all even outperforming the red hot Nasdaq, which has gained 25% so far this year.
In fact, all five stocks are trading either at or very close to their all-time highs. Apple is now worth a staggering $870 billion. The stock has to go up just 15% more for Apple to top a trillion dollars in market value.
In fact, these five tech titans each sport market caps in excess of half a trillion dollars. Apple, Alphabet, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook are collectively worth nearly $3.3 trillion. That's up from a combined valuation of about $2.2 trillion just two years ago.
The stocks are surging even as legal executives from Facebook and Google as well as Twitter (TWTR) get set to testify in front of Congress about how Russia used ads, posts and videos on these sites to try and influence last year's presidential election.
Related: Facebook estimates 126 million Americans were served Russia-linked content
Wall Street has largely brushed aside concerns about Russia's social media moves and what that might mean for the future of Facebook and Google's YouTube. Both companies continue to dominate the online and mobile advertising world after all.
Investors don't seem too concerned about other company-specific issues facing some of the Fab Five of tech either.
Apple fans, for example, are focusing more on the apparently strong demand for the iPhone X and less on the reportedly lackluster sales for the iPhone 8 as well as general concerns that Apple is way too reliant on the iPhone for its sales and profits.
And Amazon investors continue to brush aside worries that it may be stretching itself too thin as it pushes deeper into brick and mortar retail with Whole Foods and physical Amazon stores and may be looking to do more in the world of health care too.
But if these five keep posting huge profits from their core businesses and big growth from emerging areas, such as the cloud for Amazon and Microsoft and virtual and augmented reality for Facebook, Google and Apple, then the sky may be the limit for them.


That framework called for fewer tax brackets for individuals, an expanded standard deduction and child tax credit, a repeal of the Alternative Minimum Tax and estate tax, and a repeal of most itemized deductions.
It also called on lawmakers to preserve tax breaks for mortgage interest, charitable contributions and retirement savings, although it didn't say those breaks couldn't be altered.
On the business side, the framework proposed lower tax rates on corporations and all other businesses, which are known as pass-throughs. It also proposed a low, one-time tax rate on existing overseas profits to entice companies to bring that money home.
Who gets helped, when, and at what cost
The fight over each detail will come down to a few central questions: Who's helped, who's hurt, and at what cost? The middle class or the rich? Businesses or workers? One industry versus another? Certain states over others?
Based on some of the fireworks so far, it will be interesting to see how the House bill handles:
Real estate tax breaks: Brady said this weekend that his bill would still let people claim a deduction for their property taxes. That was a concession to colleagues from high-tax states who wanted to keep the deduction for state and local taxes, which Republicans have proposed repealing in full.
But the opponents of repeal weren't entirely appeased. Brady told reporters on Monday that there could be further tweaks.
The real estate industry is also worried that the Republican tax framework reduces tax incentives for homeownership. For instance, doubling the standard deduction would drastically reduce the number of filers who itemize. That means the mortgage interest deduction would be taken by far fewer people.
A big player in the housing industry, the National Association of Home Builders, has already come out against the House bill, before it's even been released. The group is displeased that lawmakers haven't adopted its proposed homeownership credit to cover both mortgage interest and property taxes.
The 401(k) tax break: Another big player -- President Trump -- expressed displeasure last week at a provision House Republicans were said to be considering: lowering the cap on how much pretax money workers may contribute to a 401(k).
From CNN: GOP vow Mueller investigation won't derail tax reform
Brady suggested publicly the idea might still be on the table. And on Monday, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy seemed to indicate on Fox Business that House Republicans will consider "Rothifying" 401(k) contributions above a lower cap. That is, your contributions above the new cap would be made after-tax, as they are in a Roth IRA, but your gains and withdrawals would be tax-free. In other words, if lawmakers opt to "Rothify" 401(k)s, you would get no immediate tax break for saving money above the cap.
The corporate tax rate cut: The GOP framework calls for a permanent reduction in the corporate rate to 20% from 35%. But that would be expensive, reducing revenue to the government by up to $2 trillion in the first decade and up to $3 trillion in the second, according to Tax Policy Center estimates.
So it's not clear whether House Republicans might propose something higher than a 20% rate or propose a 20% rate but make it temporary.
The costs: The House and Senate budget resolution allows for a tax bill that reduces overall federal revenue by $1.5 trillion over 10 years. But the tax cuts Republicans want cost far more than that.
So they need to find plenty of so-called offsets to pay for them. They also hope to get a good "score" on how much their bill would help the economy, which can help offset the cost, too, at least on paper.
And they need to show that the bill primarily provides middle-class tax relief.
So legislators must make decisions within those parameters. But Brady has already said he won't release cost estimates of the tax bill, or an analysis of how it would affect filers at different income levels, until next week, when his committee meets to debate the bill.
And what's known as the dynamic score -- measuring the economic growth potential -- won't be provided until after the Ways and Means Committee approves the bill.
For legislators and the public, that's "like learning the price of your plane ticket after you arrive at the airport," Martin Sullivan, chief economist at Tax Analysts, said in a blog post.
Normally, Sullivan noted, "when committees mark up legislation ... everybody has a dog-eared, coffee-stained copy of the Joint Committee on Taxation's revenue estimates in front of them."
Since no one likes a vacuum, outside groups may put out estimates of their own, causing even more fur to fly as lawmakers rush to reshape a tax code that affects 100% of the economy.
--An earlier version of this story incorrectly said that cutting the corporate rate to 20% would cost the government up to $3 trillion in revenue in the first decade. That figure is for the second decade. CNN's Ashley Killough and Lauren Fox contributed to this report.


"It was a lot more resilient than expected," says Alberto Ramos, head of Latin America research at Goldman Sachs. "That doesn't mean the economy is out of the woods though."
On Tuesday, Mexico's statistics agency said the economy grew 1.7% between July and September at an annual rate. A devastating earthquake in September that killed over 300 people likely held back growth, economists say.
No doubt, other major challenges lie ahead for the Mexican economy, including a presidential election next July and the ongoing renegotiation of NAFTA, the three nation trade pact between Canada, the United States and Mexico. But its progress this year defied major threats from Washington.
During and after his campaign, Trump threatened to slap tariffs on products made in Mexico. About 80% of Mexican exports go the U.S., making trade a key ingredient to its economy.

Related: Mexico loses tuna trade battle to the Trump administration
Even today, Trump threatens to pull out of NAFTA. Exiting it would carry consequences for Mexico, Canada and the United States, but many experts say Mexico would get hit hardest.
Still, Mexico's economy is moving forward. The peso is up 7% against the dollar this year, though it lost some gains in recent weeks as NAFTA talks soured.
The stock market is also up 7% so far this year. The economy is on pace to grow about 2%, roughly on par with U.S. growth. Real wages are expected to pick up in the coming months as inflation cools down. Remittances, a key source of income for low-income Mexicans, are on pace for another all-time record.
The election may be Mexico's biggest concern. The front runner, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, is a populist candidate who promises to get tough on trade with Trump. That rhetoric has stoked some fears in the business community. A decline in oil production has also slowed down overall economic growth this year.
But so far, fears over the fate of Mexico's economy haven't become a reality.
"There may be problems down the road, but the initial doom and gloom was a bit overdone," says Neil Shearing, chief emerging markets economist at Capital Economics. "The economy didn't collapse in the way that perhaps others expected."


CEO Kevin Plank said in the earnings release that the biggest problem is lower demand for its shoes and athletic apparel in its home market of the United States.
The Baltimore-based company has been growing internationally, with sales surging in Europe, Latin America and Asia during the quarter.
Related: Under Armour's CEO had to ditch Trump
But those markets are still relatively tiny for Under Armour. Revenue in North America makes up more than three-quarters of its overall sales -- and those sales plunged 12% in the third quarter.
It's a stunning fall from grace for Under Armour, which not that long ago was gaining market share at the expense of Nike and Adidas.
The company signed Golden State Warriors star Steph Curry a few years ago, a move that seemed like a slam dunk success, since Curry has gone on to win multiple NBA MVP awards and two championships.
But several iterations of the Curry shoes have routinely been mocked on social media for not looking cool. Even Curry's teammate Kevin Durant, who endorses Nike (NKE), poked fun at Under Armour earlier this year.
Making matters worse, there have been reports of supply chain issues with the new Curry 4 line of sneakers. And Under Armour confirmed during its conference call with analysts Tuesday that it will delay some products to the fourth quarter.
Related: Air ball! Nobody's buying expensive sneakers
Under Armour also suffered from bad PR earlier this year after Plank agreed to join the White House's now defunct manufacturing council. Plank said in an interview with CNBC that "a pro-business president is something that is a real asset for the country."
Curry told The Mercury News that he agreed with Plank -- but only "if you remove the 'et' from asset." Other professional athletes have been vocal about their disagreements with Trump as well.
As such, Plank -- like many other CEOs -- has distanced himself from Trump lately.
After Trump was reluctant to criticize neo-Nazis at a white supremacist rally, he then bashed Curry for not wanting to visit the White House and attacked athletes who protested the national anthem. Under Armour has come to the defense of its star endorsers.
But that hasn't been enough to rejuvenate Under Armour's flagging sales or stock price.
Meanwhile, Adidas (ADDYY) has thrived in the past year while Under Armour and Nike have both struggled. Even Skechers (SKX) has enjoyed a resurgence lately.
So what can Under Armour do to get back on track? Neil Saunders, managing director of the research firm GlobalData Retail, wrote in a report that the company should continue to focus on expanding globally, which has been successful for Under Armour.
But Saunders added that the company has to do more to court women as consumers, as Nike, Adidas and yoga apparel king Lululemon (LULU) have successfully done.
"Under Armour is not so broken that it cannot be fixed. But the days of glory, when it would post double-digit uplifts in sales, are over. Now is the time to work out, slim down, and become more competitive," Saunders wrote.


Oil output in the region has dropped after OPEC and non-OPEC members agreed to cut supply to boost prices. The agreement runs through March 2018, and some countries have talked about extending it further.
The IMF based its projections on an average oil price of $50 a barrel. U.S. crude futures are currently trading at around $54 a barrel, and Brent crude prices are even higher at $60.
Related: Quest: It's the IMF vs. Donald Trump
Jihad Azour, director for the Middle East and Central Asia at the IMF, said regional governments should not view higher oil prices as a substitute for economic reforms.
"It's important from a policy standpoint to be on the conservative side and to make sure we are not dependent on the oil cycle," he told CNNMoney Emerging Markets editor John Defterios.
He urged the Gulf nations to push ahead with plans to diversify their economies.
"Oil is still an important factor to the macro-economics of situation in the GCC," Azour said. "But the good news is that those countries are progressively reducing the weight and the importance of oil in the function of the economy as well as the financing of the state."
Low oil prices have forced Gulf countries to rethink their economic strategies. Saudi Arabia, the biggest economy in the region, last year launched Vision 2030, a blueprint for what the economy should look like in the next decade.
Related: Saudi Arabia wants foreign help in its massive economic overhaul
The government has cut some subsidies, announced new taxes and lifted a controversial ban on women driving. It also tapped global bond markets three times in less than a year, borrowing billions to balance its books.
The Gulf countries, including the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, also plan to introduce sales taxes next year.
"The key reforms that are currently contemplated [such as] the value added tax and the continuous removal of subsidies are [going] in the right direction," said Azour. "Those are the right types of reforms that allow you to increase your fiscal flexibility with limited impact on economy."
The IMF expects Middle East oil exporting countries beyond the Gulf, including Iraq, Libya, Algeria and Iran, will grow at an average annual rate of just 2.8% over the next five years, half the rate achieved in 2016.


"This presents and represents a simple, clean solution to help us to act in the interests of home buyers in New Zealand," she said. Under the rules, the government will classify housing as "sensitive" and subject buyers to a residency test.
Related: Why did Trump backer Peter Thiel become a New Zealand citizen?
Property prices in the country -- a popular tourist destination known for its impressive scenery -- have surged in recent years, propelled by low interest rates, investment from overseas and zoning restrictions.
A study earlier this year by public policy firm Demographia ranked Auckland, New Zealand's biggest city, as the fourth most unaffordable housing market in the world.
House prices are up about 10% so far this year, according to central bank data. And home ownership rates are sliding. About 60% of New Zealanders own their own homes, down from roughly 75% in 1992.
Clear data on foreign investment in New Zealand's property market is hard to come by, but Land Information New Zealand suggests foreign buyers account for as little as 3% of total transactions. The biggest proportion of foreign buyers are registered in China.
Related: 10 most expensive cities in 2017
The new rules on foreign purchases won't apply to land, or to properties that haven't been built yet. They also don't apply to foreign residents living in the country or Australians.
Ahead of September's election, Labour Party leader Ardern campaigned on a platform of making housing more affordable.
However, some experts questioned whether such policies are effective.
"This is a very much global trend with governments looking at foreign buyers and what they can buy," said Sophie Chick, head of research at real estate firm Savills Australia.
Australia has tried to cool its own red-hot property market with measures including a similar ban on foreign investors buying existing properties.
"Despite that, we've seen strong price growth," Chick said.
She added that many foreign investors prefer to put their money into new properties that haven't been built yet, which aren't included under the planned rules in New Zealand.
Ardern said that she was seeking to introduce legislation for the new restrictions before the end of the year.


Now GE (GE) is planning to shrink itself further because of mounting financial troubles that have crushed the stock and led to fears that it will cut its coveted dividend for only the second time since the Great Depression.
GE recently revealed plans to get rid of businesses worth at least $20 billion in the next year or two. One unit that could be on the chopping block is its struggling railroad business, which GE has owned for more than a century.
Yet another round of downsizing shows just how desperately the company needs the cash.
"GE is in a cash crunch," said John Inch, a Deutsche Bank analyst who covers GE and has a "sell" rating on the stock. "They are not generating enough cash flow this year to pay the dividend. That's a problem."
Given the scale of GE's problems, some analysts are predicting that its new management team could be even more aggressive in trying to unload businesses.
"We would imagine something much bigger once the dust settles," Scott Davis, CEO and lead analyst at Melius Research, wrote in a recent report. He added that GE will likely sell anything that "isn't nailed down."
GE's workforce has also shrunk in recent years -- and analysts expect the company may announce layoffs soon. GE employed about 295,000 people at the end of last year. That's down from about 333,000 at the end of 2015.
Related: GE's nightmare just got worse
GE is scrambling to ease serious concern on Wall Street about the company and its beloved dividend. GE's stock has plunged 35% this year, making the iconic company the worst performer on the Dow by a long shot. (The next closest is Verizon (VZ), down 8%.)
Earlier this month, GE reported dreadful results that new CEO John Flannery called "completely unacceptable." Last week, GE stock tumbled nearly 13%, its worst week since January 2009. And that was during the financial crisis, a time when investors fled GE because they worried about its massive financial arm, known as GE Capital.
GE has since unwound most of GE Capital, selling off at least $150 billion of assets. That included GE Capital's real estate business, most of which was acquired by Blackstone (BX) and Wells Fargo (WFC).
Last year, GE also merged its oil and gas business with Baker Hughes (BHGE). The combined company is majority-owned by GE and trades separately on the New York Stock Exchange.
GE did make one recent takeover splash: In 2015, it completed the acquisition of Alstom's power and grid businesses. It was GE's biggest-ever industrial purchase.
Related: Could GE get booted from the Dow after 110 years?
Still, Flannery believes GE is too complex. While GE has a "number of strong franchises," Flannery said during a recent conference call that other businesses "drain investment and management resources without the prospect for a substantial reward."
Unlike companies that make simple products like clothing, GE's jet engines, locomotives and power plant systems require expensive engineering, factories, equipment and manpower to create. That makes it difficult to be nimble during downturns, such as the one facing GE's power business.
"When markets turn down, you can get caught," said Inch.
Another business getting hit hard is the railroad unit. GE is planning to get out of the railroad business through a potential sale or spinoff, The Wall Street Journal reported last week. GE could also unload part or all of its healthcare IT business, the paper reported.
GE declined to comment on "rumor or speculation."
It's too early to tell whether GE's plans to sell off assets will do enough to ease worries on Wall Street about the company's future.
"This is going to take a very long time to fix," Inch said. "They have a crisis of investor confidence."


2. Qualcomm gets quashed: Shares in Qualcomm (QCOM) were down about 7% premarket following reports that Apple (AAPL) is looking to stop using the company's components in its new iPhones and iPads.
Such are the perils faced by Apple suppliers. Earlier this year, shares in British firm Imagination Technologies (IGNMF) fell by as much as 72% in a single day after investors learned that Apple planned to stop licensing the firm's technology.
3. Big day for earnings: Wall Street will be hearing from Aetna (AET), Kellogg (K), Pfizer (PFE), MasterCard (MA) and Under Armour (UA) before the opening bell. Electronic Arts (EA), Sturm Ruger (RGR) and Papa John's (PZZA) will follow after the U.S. close.
International markets are digesting updates from firms including Airbus (EADSF), BP (BP), WPP (WPPGY), Ryanair (RYAAY), Samsung Electronics (SSNLF) and Sony (SNE).
Shares in BP (up 3.5%) and Ryanair (up nearly 6%) were the biggest movers of the bunch in Europe.
Samsung shares gained nearly 2% and hit a new record high after it reported earnings. The company, which is attempting to get back on track following a massive corruption scandal in South Korea, also reshuffled its management by choosing three new execs to lead key divisions.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
4. Economics: The monthly S&P Case-Shiller Home Price Index will be released at 9 a.m., giving investors insight into the state of the U.S. housing market.
The U.S. Conference Board is releasing its consumer confidence data for October at 10 a.m.
5. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were inching up. European markets were higher in early trading.
Asian markets weren't feeling the love, and most indexes ended the day with small losses.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 0.4% on Monday, the S&P 500 dipped 0.3% and the Nasdaq was little changed.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Tuesday -- Aetna (AET), Pfizer (PFE), MasterCard (MA), Electronic Arts (EA), Sturm Ruger (RGR) and Papa John's (PZZA) report earnings Wednesday -- Facebook (FB), Tesla (TSLA) report earnings; House releases tax reform bill Thursday -- Apple (AAPL), Starbucks (SBUX), Yum! Brands (YUM), Ralph Lauren (RL), CBS (CBS) earnings Friday -- October jobs report; iPhone X hits stores


It's because premium subsidies are soaring too, making many plans on the exchanges more affordable.
The Trump administration, however, is stressing how much premiums will rise, saying this is yet another sign that Obamacare is irreparably broken. Officials are downplaying the fact that the subsidies will cover most, if not all, of the increase for many consumers.
Related: Premiums for popular Obamacare plans to soar 37% for 2018
Obamacare advocates worry that consumers will be scared off by the news that premiums are skyrocketing for next year. They plan to highlight the fact that many people will be able to find lower-premium policies thanks to the subsidies.
Even the Trump administration found that Obamacare plans will be more affordable for many consumers next year. Some 80% of enrollees will be able to find a policy for $75 a month or less -- up from 71% this year and the highest share so far.
"This year, more people than any previous year have access to a plan for $75 or less," said Josh Peck, a former Obama administration official and co-founder of Get America Covered, which is promoting enrollment for 2018. "That's what we want everyone to know."
Here's why this is happening:
Many insurers jacked up the rates of their silver plans in part to make up for President Trump ending federal support for Obamacare's cost-sharing subsidies. These subsidies reduce deductibles and co-pays for lower-income enrollees.
Premiums for the benchmark silver Obamacare plan will soar 37%, on average, for 2018, according to federal data released Monday.
The premium subsidies are pegged to a benchmark silver plan in each market. So if that plan's rate rises, the value of the subsidy does too. More than eight in 10 Obamacare enrollees receive premium subsidies.
Insurers, however, did not hike the price of bronze or gold plans nearly as much. The rate of the lowest-cost bronze plan is rising 17%, on average, while the cheapest gold plan is going up 19%, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.
That means the more generous premium subsidies will cover more of the monthly cost of these plans, so consumers will pay less.
A 40-year-old earning $25,000 will pay 75% less, on average, for the cheapest bronze plan and 21% less for the lowest-cost gold plan, according to a new analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation. A 40-year-old earning $40,000 will see a 28% drop, on average, in the price of the cheapest bronze plan, and an 8% decrease in the least expensive gold plan's premium.
Related: Trump's quest to kill Obamacare hurts the middle class
Bronze plans have lower premiums, but their deductibles are higher -- nearly $5,900, on average, for an individual in 2018, according to a new report from Health Pocket, an online health insurance shopping tool. Meanwhile, gold plans have higher premiums, but their deductibles are only $1,320 on average for a single enrollee next year.
The cheapest gold plan will have lower premiums than the least-expensive silver plan in 459 counties next year once subsidies are factored in, Kaiser found. Silver plans will have an average deductible of just over $4,000 next year.
Many more consumers will be able to enroll in bronze plans and pay nothing each month. For instance, a 48-year-old consumer earning roughly $30,000 can find a zero-premium policy in nearly 1,050 counties next year, up from 132 counties in 2017, according to an analysis by Oliver Wyman consulting group.
Not everyone, however, will be so fortunate. Enrollees who don't qualify for premium subsidies -- those who earn more than $48,000 as an individual or $98,500 for a family of four in 2018 -- may be hit with the full premium hike. They may be better off buying bronze or gold plans or looking for individual coverage outside of the Obamacare exchanges.
Open enrollment begins Wednesday and runs through Dec. 15 in most states.


China is highly sensitive about any buildup of Western military forces in the region and worries that the U.S. missile system -- known as THAAD -- could be used to spy on it. South Korea and the U.S. say it's needed to defend against North Korean nuclear threats.
Related: China can squeeze its neighbors when it wants. Ask South Korea
China is South Korea's biggest trading partner, and investors are hoping Beijing's decision to move on from the THAAD dispute will boost business ties between the two countries.
Hyundai (HYMTF), whose China sales had taken a major hit from the THAAD spat, jumped 3.2% on Tuesday, while Lotte Shopping soared 7.1%. The Lotte conglomerate, whose land was used to house the THAAD batteries, has suffered a series of setbacks in China during the dispute.
Duty-free retailer Hotel Shilla, which targets Chinese tourists in Seoul, gained 2.2%.
Related: China, South Korea end year-long diplomatic feud over missile system
Regina Hahm, an analyst with Mirae Asset Daewoo Securities, said investors had been expecting an improvement in relations between China and South Korea after the two countries announced a foreign currency agreement two weeks ago. However, she cautioned that it will probably take until the first half of next year for Chinese tourist numbers to South Korea to start picking up again.
China is still unhappy about the deployment of THAAD in what it views as its backyard, but the statement from both countries said they would continue to discuss the matter via military channels.

The South Korean government said Tuesday's announcement was just the "first step" in getting relations with China back to normal.
The news comes just days before President Trump's trip to Asia. He's due to visit both South Korea and China, as well as Japan.
Stocks in South Korea have been on fire this year. The benchmark Kospi has soared 25% to a record high thanks to an improving global economy and blockbuster profits at Samsung Electronics (SSNLF), whose stock accounts for a large portion of the index.
-- Lauren Suk contributed to this report.


Powell, a Princeton graduate, was a lawyer in New York before he joined the investment bank Dillon Reed & Co. in 1984. He stayed there until he joined the Treasury Department in 1990. After he left Treasury, he became a partner in 1997 at The Carlyle Group (CG), the private equity and asset management giant. He left Carlyle in 2005.
Powell would not only be the first investment banker to head the Fed, but he'd also be the first individual who is not an economist to take the helm in more than 40 years.
Related: Trump leaning toward banker Jerome Powell to run Fed
Current Chair Janet Yellen was an economics professor before she was named a Fed governor. Ben Bernanke, her predecessor, had a similar career path. Alan Greenspan was the head of an economic consulting firm he founded, while Paul Volcker worked primarily as an economist at the Fed and the Treasury department. He did work at Chase Manhattan bank back in the 1960s, but that was when commercial banks like Chase were not allowed to do investment banking.
And thanks to his investment banking background, Powell will also be far wealthier than his recent predecessors.
Powell's assets are worth between $21 million and $61 million, according to financial disclosures which require officials to give a range in the value of their various holdings.
Yellen and her husband, Nobel-prize winning economist George Akerlof, have assets worth between $5 million and $13 million. Bernanke had assets worth between $1.1 million and $2.3 million, according to public financial disclosure forms.
An investment banker has never had the top job at the Fed, but Fed critics have often complained about the so-called "revolving door" between Wall Street firms and the Federal Reserve. Four of the Fed's current 12 regional bank presidents used to work at Goldman Sachs (GS), which has raised concerns that the Fed won't be tough enough in regulating big banks.
Related: Trump to announce Fed chair pick Thursday, says White House official
Powell has worked with Yellen on a daily basis for years, so it's doubtful there would be a major shift in monetary policy if he gets the top job. But he might part ways slightly with Yellen when it comes to the regulatory reforms put in place at the Fed after the financial crisis.
Powell largely supports Dodd-Frank, the sweeping set of reforms instituted after the financial crisis to make banks healthier. President Trump has at times threatened to get rid of parts or all of Dodd-Frank.
But he has also urged Congress to rewrite one provision of Dodd-Frank called the Volcker Rule, which is meant to prevent banks from making risky bets using taxpayer money. Powell argued in June that it creates an unnecessary burden on small community banks.
"He'd be a little less tough on banks than Yellen," says David Wessel, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. "But not nearly as easy on the banks as the Trump administration wants to be."


Spanish stocks have been volatile in recent weeks since a contested independence referendum in Catalonia plunged the country into its worst political crisis in decades. Now Spain's central government is imposing its will on the restive region.
Madrid suspended Catalonia's broad self-rule after the regional parliament unilaterally declared independence on Friday. Stocks fell as a result.
The state prosecutor said Monday that he is seeking charges of rebellion, sedition and misuse of public funds against Catalan leaders. Civil servants in Catalonia returned to work under the Spanish government's control.
Related: Spanish prosecutor seeks charges for deposed Catalan leaders
Two key pro-independence parties also said they would participate in regional elections that Madrid has scheduled for December 21.
Businesses have been caught in the dispute. Catalonia, Spain's most economically productive region, hosts 7,100 foreign companies, including Volkswagen, Nissan and Cisco. Its capital of Barcelona is a major tourist hub.
Analysts say it's not clear how much economic damage might be caused by Madrid's direct rule, but it could disrupt local government services.
Some executives aren't waiting to see what happens next, and have already moved their headquarters out of Catalonia. Those include major financial firms CaixaBank and Banco Sabadell, real estate company Colonial and energy supplier Gas Natural Fenosa.
Catalonia accounts for nearly a fifth of Spain's economy.


These are still the early stages for electric cars. And there might be too much hoopla -- and also a lot of competition from the likes of traditional rivals Ford (F) and Toyota (TM) as well as upstart Tesla (TSLA).
The Goldman analysts think that even though regulators would love to have fewer gas-guzzling cars on the road, the costs of owning an electric vehicle may be too high for many drivers unless there are more government subsidies and incentives for them.
"While pursuing battery electric vehicles early likely helps in the long-run for tightening emissions regulations, we continue to believe that high battery costs make these vehicles unappealing to the consumer," the Goldman analysts wrote in a report.
Related: GM unveils futuristic self-driving army truck
Goldman Sachs is pretty bearish on Tesla too though -- and that has turned out to be a bad call so far. The investment bank that many refer to as the Vampire Squid, downgraded Tesla to a "sell" in late February -- and Tesla's stock has gained 25% since then.
Still, the Goldman analysts also think GM is getting too much attention for its autonomous vehicles plans. Many investors seem excited by the notion that in the future there will be armies of self-driving cars available for ridesharing.
The Goldman analysts worry that "the market appears to have already rewarded GM for its self-driving car plans and also that "current industry ride-hailing models are generally unprofitable."
The bigger concern though? Prices for autonomous cars, especially ones made for ridesharing, could fall even further due to intense competition.
In addition to the threat from other big car companies, Uber is expected to be a big player in self-driving cars, as are the Alphabet (GOOGL)-owned Waymo as well as Apple (AAPL). The Goldman analysts even warned of a "deflationary environment" in the market.
The Goldman analysts also think GM will face more competition in the truck market from Ford as it revamps its F-series line, and that SUV and crossover prices may fall as the entire auto industry looks to produce more of these larger vehicles.
While price wars may be music to the ears of consumers, they rarely turn out well for investors.


He said he plans to develop a pot-infused, non-alcoholic drink for the Canadian market. He said it will have zero calories, won't cause hangovers, and is the kind of thing you'd have before going to a comedy club. "You may feel giddy," he said.
Constellation CEO Rob Sands, in a statement, called cannabis "an emerging market that is predicted to become a significant consumer category in the near future."
But Constellation stressed it has no plans to sell pot in the United States unless it is legal at all levels. Recreational marijuana is legal in eight states and Washington, D.C., and medical marijuana is legal in 29 states, but it's illegal in the eyes of the federal government.
Constellation has 76 brands, including Modelo and Pacifico beer, Svedka vodka, and Wild Irish Rose wine.

Related: Retail marijuana is spreading to California, Massachusetts, Maine
Canopy is publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol WEED. The company produces several brands of medical cannabis, including Tweed, Spectrum and Bedrocan. Canopy says that its Tweed Farms greenhouse is the largest marijuana greenhouse in the world.
Canopy spokesman Jordan Sinclair told CNNMoney that his company plans to sell recreational marijuana when it becomes legal in Canada "and in any federally legal market opportunities that emerge around the world."
Constellation did not return messages from CNNMoney.


"This data demonstrates just how rapidly Obamacare's exchanges are deteriorating with skyrocketing premiums year after year, more than half of Americans with no more than two insurers to choose from, and the taxpayer burden exploding," said Caitlin Oakley, press secretary for the Department of Health & Human Services.
The report covers the more than three dozen states that use the federal exchange, healthcare.gov.
Open enrollment begins Wednesday and runs through Dec. 15 -- about half the length of prior periods.
The steep rate hike means a 27-year-old will pay nearly $5,000 a year, on average, for the benchmark silver plan, upon which premium subsides are based. That's up from $2,600 when the Obamacare exchanges opened in 2014. This is before subsidies are factored in, however.
Premiums are skyrocketing for a second year in a row. Rates rose 24% this year in the states using healthcare.gov.
Related: Trump's quest to kill Obamacare hurts the middle class
The price of Obamacare plans has increased sharply over the past four years, partly because enrollees were much sicker and costlier than insurers expected. But the exchanges showed signs of stabilizing this year after the most recent price hike.
Premiums are spiking again in part because President Trump stopped reimbursing insurers for another key Obamacare subsidy, which they are still required to provide by law. These cost-sharing subsidies reduce deductibles and co-pays for lower income enrollees.
Insurers raised rates by as much as 38% just because the funding ended, though the amount varied widely by state, according to a recent analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation. Most states directed insurers to raise the silver plan prices since premium assistance is tied to that metal level and the cost-sharing subsidies are only available to those purchasing silver plans.
The big rate increase means premium subsidies will rise 45%, on average, to $6,660 a year. More than eight in 10 enrollees receive premium subsidies, which reduce their cost to less than 10% of their household income.
A 27-year-old making $25,000 a year could receive an annual subsidy of nearly $3,300. That would bring his or her premium down to $1,650 a year if he or she enrolls in the benchmark silver plan.
A family of four earning $60,000 a year could get an annual subsidy of $13,000, bringing their benchmark plan premiums down to just over $4,750.
These more generous subsidies will make bronze plans -- which have lower premiums, but higher deductibles -- more affordable for many enrollees. And the higher level of assistance means that gold plans will actually be cheaper than silver policies in some markets.
That's why it's particularly important for consumers to shop and compare plans this year.
Related: Trump kills key Obamacare subsidy payments: What it means
Also, consumers will have fewer choices on the exchanges.
Some 29% of enrollees will only have one insurer offering policies, up from 20% this year and 6% in 2016. Eight states will have only one insurer, up from five states this year.
Just over 130 insurers will be on the exchanges in 2018, down from more than 230 two years ago. Many large, publicly traded insurers, including Aetna (AET) and Humana (HUM), have exited Obamacare, while Anthem (ANTM) has greatly downsized.
Are you shopping for individual policies either on or off the Obamacare exchanges for 2018? Tell me about it. You could be featured in an upcoming CNNMoney story.


What happens next is unclear, but more volatility appears likely.
2. Mueller moves? Robert Mueller, who was appointed in May to lead the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, may deliver a political bombshell on Monday.
Sources briefed on the matter told CNN that a federal grand jury in Washington has approved the first charges in the investigation led by the former FBI director.
Plans were prepared for anyone charged to be taken into custody as soon as Monday, the sources said.
President Trump and his team deny any wrongdoing.
3. Fed tease: Trump has tweeted that he is preparing to name his pick to lead the U.S. Federal Reserve.
"People are anxiously awaiting my decision as to who the next head of the Fed will be," he said.
There has been speculation for weeks about whether Trump would renominate current Fed chair Janet Yellen to another four-year term. Two sources told CNN on Saturday that the president is likely to instead name Jerome Powell.
Powell, a Republican, has been a governor on the Fed's board since 2012 and was assigned to lead the bank's Wall Street oversight committee in April.
Trump could still change his mind, the sources said.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were lower.
European markets, with the notable exception of Spain's Ibex 35, were down in early trading.
Asian markets ended mixed.
5. Friday market recap: The Dow Jones industrial average gained 0.2% on Friday, while the S&P 500 added 0.8%. The Nasdaq jumped 2.2% on a banner day for tech earnings.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
6. Earnings and economics: Data on U.S. personal income and spending for the month of September will be published at 8:30 a.m. ET.
Mining giant Glencore had some positive news for investors as it recovers from a global commodities price crash. The company said it expects to earn $2.6 billion to $2.8 billion this year, up from its previous estimate of $2.4 billion to $2.7 billion.
Mondelez and Unisys (UIS) will publish quarterly earnings after the closing bell in New York.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
7. Coming this week:
Monday -- Mondelez (MDLZ) reports earnings Tuesday -- Aetna (AET), Kellogg (K), Pfizer (PFE), MasterCard (MA), Under Armour (UA) report earnings Wednesday -- Facebook (FB),n Tesla (TSLA) report earnings; House releases tax reform bill Thursday -- Apple (AAPL), Starbucks (SBUX), Yum! Brands (YUM), Ralph Lauren (RL), CBS (CBS) earnings Friday -- October jobs report; iPhone X hits stores


A Baltimore-based attorney is working with Kushner Companies on the matter, according to a person familiar with the attorney general's inquiry.
A spokesperson for the AG's office declined to comment, citing a policy of not confirming or denying investigations.
The inquiry does not mean charges will be filed.
This spring and summer, media reports exposed allegedly coercive tactics and inadequate maintenance in multifamily housing developments run by Westminster Management or related entities. An affiliate of Kushner Companies, Westminster manages about 17 properties in Maryland, including developments in Baltimore, Middle River and Essex, according to its website.
Kushner Companies has been under the microscope since President Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, entered the political scene — first as Trump's confidant during the 2016 campaign and now as a senior White House adviser.
A Kushner financial disclosure form shows income of $1.6 million from Westminster. A White House spokesman declined to comment.
Kushner, married to Trump's daughter Ivanka, stepped down as CEO of his family's namesake business in January and recused himself from certain policy issues since joining the White House. But those measures haven't fully shielded the company from allegations of conflicts of interest and criticism from political foes of the administration — as well as more scrutiny from the press.
In May, The New York Times and ProPublica detailed "poor upkeep" inside developments run by Westminster, including appliance failures, mold and mouse infestations. The report also documented unsavory debt collection tactics. In addition, The Baltimore Sun reported that Kushner-affiliated businesses were "the most aggressive in Maryland" in seeking civil arrests of tenants who owed the company money.
Kushner Companies defended its methods. Responding to the Sun, the company's chief financial officer said the firm "follows guidelines consistent with industry standards" and state law when it files legal action.
Westminster Management, "only takes legal action against a tenant when absolutely necessary," said Kushner Companies' CFO Jennifer McLean in a statement to the Sun.
Related: Jared Kushner's White House role complicates family business
In August, Democratic lawmakers cited the stories in a letter to Kushner Companies, requesting answers to questions on matters including alleged housing code violations and federal subsidies from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. They were seeking a response by September 8.
"If these reports are accurate, they raise very serious and troubling concerns about whether Kushner Companies and its subsidiaries are complying with HUD's housing quality standards to ensure the safety and health of their own tenants," wrote the lawmakers, who included Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland, the top Democrat on the House oversight committee.
In response, Kushner Companies issued a public statement reiterating that the company exercises its "legal rights under the relevant provisions of the Maryland law."
But Kushner Companies did not provide specific answers or produce documents, according to Cummings, who wrote a letter last week asking oversight committee chairman, Republican Trey Gowdy, for help.
In the letter to Gowdy, Cummings said his staff called Kushner Companies six times and were told "no information would be provided."
In a separate matter, Frosh and the attorney general of the District of Columbia are suing Trump, alleging that his business interests violate the Constitution. The attorneys general are asking a court to block Trump from accepting foreign money.


Hassett -- who floated the $4,000 figure in two reports put out earlier this month -- fired back. He accused Summers of lobbing personal attacks and insisted other reputable economists have backed up his analysis.
Here's a breakdown of the issue.
Hassett says lowering the U.S. corporate tax rate, which is among the highest in the world, will encourage U.S. companies to invest more of their money in their U.S. operations rather than investing it abroad.
As companies buy more machines and other technology for use domestically, productivity will rise. That, in turn, can boost wages, Hassett argues.
Reality check: Will Trump's tax plan really give you a $4,000 pay raise?
Summers, like many economists on both sides of the aisle, agree corporate tax reform will have "some positive impacts."
But Summers -- a Democrat who served as President Bill Clinton's Treasury Secretary and as an economic adviser for President Barack Obama -- says Trump's plan is poorly designed and could harm the middle class.
"The claims that this administration makes -- that the tax cut will pay for itself, that the tax cut will raise incomes [...] that the tax cut isn't skewed toward helping rich people -- those are fake facts, and I think they need to be called out," Summers said.
For one thing, he said, if and when companies do bring earnings back from overseas, it's not clear how they'll use that extra money.
"Maybe the corporations will just keep the money and pay it out in the form of higher dividends or doing more repurchases of shares," Summers said.
Related: Republican tax plan faces big hurdles ahead of 2018
Summers' own analysis suggests Trump's tax plan could boost income by around $1,300 per year -- not $4,000.
He also said Hassett's analysis of the tax plan "was egregiously selective in the use of evidence."
Hassett said it was Summers that used faulty math. He said a review of other countries around the globe found that when they cut corporate taxes, wages went up.
"They don't always do it, but they tend to go up," Hassett said.
He also pointed to an analysis by Boston University economist Larry Kotlikoff, which estimated the Trump tax framework as a whole might raise household incomes by $3,500.
--CNNMoney's Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report.


The news was first reported by Bloomberg.
Today, anyone who itemizes their deductions on their federal tax return may deduct their state and local property taxes, as well as their state and local income taxes or general sales taxes.
In their bid to pay for the trillions in tax cuts they want, as well as simplify the tax code, Republican leaders have proposed repealing most itemized deductions. The state and local tax deduction -- aka SALT -- is the biggest among them. Repealing it fully could bring in more than $1 trillion in revenue over a decade.
Brady's concession on property taxes may help some of the moderate-income people who benefit from the deduction today.
The majority of the SALT deductions claimed by those who make less than $50,000 come from property taxes, according to a report from the Government Finance Officers Association. By contrast more than 70% of the SALT deductions from those making more than $200,000 are due to income.
Related: Millions in middle class will feel it if GOP kills this tax break
But it's not clear from Brady's statement if there would be any limits on who may take the property tax deduction. For instance, if it's available only to people who itemize, then chances are many wouldn't take it. That's because his bill would nearly double the standard deduction. And that would drastically reduce the number of itemizers, since you only itemize if your deductions combined exceed your standard deduction.
Impossible to satisfy all demands
Brady's decision, just a few days before he's due to unveil the House tax reform bill, speaks volumes about the political and policy challenges ahead for lawmakers: how to meet the Republican goals, while garnering enough support to pass a bill.
A group lobbying to keep all of the state and local deduction intact was quick to call foul at Brady's concession, noting that his home state of Texas has no income tax and is heavily dependent on property taxes for revenue.
"[His] partial elimination plan for the state and local tax (SALT) deduction would insert the heavy hand of Washington into state and local finance decisions, dictate winners and losers among states, and unfairly penalize taxpayers in states that rely significantly on income taxes," Americans Against Double Taxation said in a statement.
Leonard Lance, a New Jersey Republican congressman who has been a lead negotiator in the SALT debate, called the announcement a "step in the right direction" but argued there's more work to be done.
"I will need to see legislative text to determine if this proposal is in the best interest of New Jersey," Lance said in a statement. "We already send more than enough money to Washington."
Related: Is now really the time for massive tax cuts?
Separately this weekend, the National Association of Home Builders made clear it wouldn't support the GOP tax plan as is because it doesn't do enough to support homeownership.
"This plan is particularly disappointing, given that the nation's home builders warned that the proposal would severely diminish the effectiveness of the mortgage interest deduction and presented alternative policies that would retain an effective housing tax incentive in the tax code," the NAHB said in a statement.
The group said it believed it had a deal with lawmakers to include a homeownership tax credit that could be taken by anyone -- even if they don't itemize. But "we were told by the House leadership that the credit will be removed from the bill."
But the House bill -- which is supposed to be released Wednesday -- is just the first word, not the last, on any tax legislation.
As the negotiations begin over tax reform, first in the House and then the Senate, there's no telling yet where things end up.
Brady said in his statement he hopes members of Congress will further examine the NAHB proposed credit "before tax reform heads to the president's desk."
— CNN's Kevin Bohn, Lauren Fox and Ashley Killough contributed to this report.


By comparison, Hurricane Katrina cost the country $30.9 billion in lost output, Zandi told CNNMoney.
"This was an unprecedented quarter when it comes to natural disasters," AT&T (T) CFO John Stephens said on an investor call Tuesday. The world's biggest telecom company blamed the hurricanes for a dip in video subscriptions this quarter. (AT&T is buying CNN parent Time Warner.)
Big losses for travel
Nearly every industry in the country has a major footprint in Texas and Florida, areas battered by Harvey and Irma. Many have locations in Puerto Rico as well. But cruise lines and airlines were hit particularly hard, Bank of America economists said in an October research note.
Hurricanes upended insurance companies too. The industry has posted $6.9 billion of losses so far, said John Butters, an analyst at FactSet. Travelers (TRV) alone reported it could suffer $700 million in losses from payout claims.
Related: The U.S. has been hit by two giant hurricanes. Here's the financial toll
Airline earnings were also weaker. United Airlines estimated $210 million in lost sales, while JetBlue (JBLU) said this week that the storms would cost it $90 million in revenue.
On Thursday, Expedia (EXPE) reported $20 million in pre-tax losses due to fewer hotel bookings, while Goodyear Tires (GT) said Friday that it lost $23 million in sales.
Widespread impact
The hits landed in unexpected places too: Budweiser and Bud Light sales were down at retail stores because of the storms, Anheuser-Busch InBev (BUD) reported, and Harley-Davidson (HOG) said the hurricanes cut motorcycle sales between 1.5% and 2%.
Storms somewhat slowed economic growth in the third quarter, since companies produced and sold fewer goods and services. The economy still grew at an impressive 3% from July through September, but it could have been even higher without the hurricanes.
"If not for the hurricanes, the GDP would have been 3.5%," said Zandi.
Related: Economy posts impressive growth despite hurricanes
The economic rebound is already underway from the disasters and the impact should be short-lived, economists agree.
"Most of the negative impact appears to be behind us," said Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics. "There's no reason to believe that it would be anything more than a short-term hit."
Zandi said lost activity from the hurricanes will be made up in the final months of 2017 and into next year.
"If people didn't buy cars or go on vacation because of the storms, they'll spend that money later," he said. "Factories will eventually produce most of the output that they didn't make because of the storms."
Auto sales rose 6.1% in September from the previous year, helped by GM's (GM) 12% spike and Ford's (F) 9% increase.
Related: Chipotle's profit ravaged by hurricanes, hack and high avocado prices
The home improvement and construction industries even got a lift from the hurricanes, as people started rebuilding damaged homes and replacing flooded cars.
Home Depot (HD) and Lowe's (LOW) reported upticks in September. United Rentals (URI), the largest construction rental equipment company in the country, cited hurricane recovery efforts this week to raise its outlook for the rest of the year.


"Expect them to push back as if this was a life-or-death struggle because for many, it is," Chris Krueger, managing director of the Cowen Washington Research Group, wrote in a recent report. "Welcome to the corporate hunger game."
The official path to modernize America's outdated tax system was created when the House narrowly (216-212) passed a budget this week that includes instructions to fast-track a tax reform bill that allows for $1.5 trillion worth of tax cuts over 10 years.
But it won't be an easy path. "The road ahead is bumpy and riddled with potholes," Isaac Boltansky, senior policy analyst at Compass Point Research & Trading, wrote in a recent report.
Of course, Wall Street will be watching the tax battle very closely because hopes for massive tax cuts have helped send the stock market to new heights in recent months. Investors could get nervous if it looks like those tax cuts will be scuttled by GOP infighting.
In any case, "expect some near-term volatility both in Washington and on Wall Street once the legislative text is released," Boltansky said.
2. Jobs report: The Labor Department is scheduled to release October's job numbers on Friday.
The U.S. lost 33,000 jobs in September -- the first monthly decline in employment in seven years -- thanks in large part to Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. But overall, America's job market is in good shape. Unemployment is at a 16-year low, and weekly jobless claims are consistently down.
The only problem is that wages aren't increasing by very much, making it difficult for consumers to keep pace with inflation. We'll see on Friday whether that continues to be the case.
3. Fed meets as Trump mulls new chair: The Federal Reserve meets this week, with a decision on interest rates set to be announced on Wednesday.
Don't expect too much: The Fed is not likely to raise rates this time. But Janet Yellen's term as Fed chair is coming to an end, and President Trump is expected to pick her successor -- or decide to stick with her -- next week. So even without a rate hike, there's a chance we could hear something interesting from Yellen.
4. Apple's fourth quarter results: Apple (AAPL) is set to announce its fourth-quarter earnings on Thursday. In August, Apple said it expects sales for the quarter to come in as high as $52 billion.
Since then, the company has announced and launched three new phones. The iPhone 8 and 8 Plus have been on sale for weeks, and customers were able start ordering the iPhone X online this week. The X will hit stores on Friday.
So far, sales of the 8 and 8 plus have reportedly been lackluster. According to the research firm Consumer Intelligence Research Partners, the 8 and 8 plus accounted for just 16% of total U.S. iPhone sales in the quarter ending on October 1. The iPhone 7 and 7 plus, for comparison's sake, made up 43% of sales in the same time last year.
5. Facebook earnings: Facebook (FB) heads to the earnings stage on Wednesday.
On Wall Street, at least, the social media giant has had a successful 2017. The company's stock has soared more than 50% this year. And though Facebook's growth has been slowing, the company is still expanding.
But the company has also had some very public faux pas, from CEO Mark Zuckerberg's virtual visit to Puerto Rico to revelations that the social media platform hosted Russia-linked ads. Investors might ask Facebook to explain itself.
6. Coming this week:
Monday -- Mondelēz (MDLZ) reports earnings
Tuesday -- Aetna (AET), Kellogg (K), Pfizer (PFE), MasterCard (MA), Under Armour (UA) report earnings
Wednesday -- Facebook, New York Times (NYT), Tesla (TSLA) report earnings; House releases tax reform bill
Thursday -- Apple, Starbucks (SBUX), Yum! Brands (YUM), Ralph Lauren (RL), CBS (CBS) earnings
Friday -- October jobs report; iPhone X hits stores


Trump has yet to make a formal decision, but the White House said he'd announce his choice next week. He could still change his mind, the sources said.
His apparent lean toward Powell is a major development. For weeks there has been speculation about whether Trump would renominate current Fed chair Janet Yellen to another four-year term.
Yellen was nominated by President Obama in 2013, and her current term expires in February 2018.
During his campaign, Trump accused Yellen of making policy decisions aimed at earning political points for Obama. But since Trump was inaugurated, he softened his tone and has even praised Yellen's decision making.
Yet, the pair stand at odds on several issues.
Trump has promised to start peeling back the financial regulations put in place after the financial crisis of 2008.
Yellen is generally not a fan of that idea. She argues they're key to the U.S.'s continued economic recovery, though she has suggested she'd be willing to take a second look at certain Dodd-Frank rules that apply to small banks.
Yellen could not be immediately reached for comment on Saturday.
Trump's pick for Fed chair is one of the most important decisions he'll make as president. The U.S. central bank leader is considered one of the most powerful posts in the world.
On Friday, sources told CNN that the list of candidates Trump was considering was down to about three. The names included Yellen, Powell, and Stanford economist John Taylor
Powell would be an unusual pick. Every Fed chair since 1979 has been an economist, but Powell's background is in investment banking.
Powell is largely supportive of Yellen's approach to slowing raising interest rates as the economy improves.
He's been backed by Mnuchin, who has spearheaded Trump's Fed chair search.


Ricardo Ramos, the CEO of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, recounted to CNN that he was actively looking for contractors for the repair effort. Whitefish was one of seven companies that was competing for the work.
Whitefish CEO Andy Techmanski reached out to Ramos to tell him about his small firm's "special skills": repairing infrastructure in rural, rugged regions, according to Whitefish spokesman Ken Luce.
But Irma ended up skirting by Puerto Rico, inflicting minimal damage. There was no need to immediately strike a deal.
'We took the call and we're here'
Less than two weeks later, it was a different story. Hurricane Maria was a devastating Category 5 storm, leaving millions on the U.S. island without power or communications. Techmanski reached out to Ramos again, offering to help -- this time, hoping to secure a contract, Whitefish spokesman Ken Luce told CNN.
Techmanski ended up having a conversation with Ramos.
"All I can say is, we took the call and we're here," Techmanski told CNN last week. "We called each other."
In an interview with HLN on Friday, Luce described Techmanski as an entrepreneur who jumped on a plane when no one else was "interested in doing business with the utility company because they were in bankruptcy."
Techmanski flew to Puerto Rico on Sept. 26 to meet with PREPA officials and to discuss how they could restore electricity to the crippled island.
Sitting in a dimly lit conference room, Techmanski and the PREPA team used light from their cell phones to begin drawing up plans for rebuilding Puerto Rico's destroyed electrical grids, according to Luce.
"They met at a conference table with no lights to go through the map and determine the best way to work in the mountains," he said.
Related: $300 million Puerto Rico power deal now under government review
The other contender: Power Secure wanted $25 million upfront to do the job.
But Techmanski wasn't asking PREPA for a down payment. Plus, the Whitefish CEO was agreeing to take care of the logistics -- lodging and food for the hundreds of journey linemen needed to restore power, according to Ramos.
After the hurricane hit, the state-owned utility could have requested aid through the American Public Power Association, a network that provides help to other utilities during widespread power outages.
But the closest states to Puerto Rico were already dealing with their own rebuilding efforts after hurricanes Harvey and Irma, Ramos told HLN on Thursday. And he believed they would not be able to respond quickly to the island's needs.
The bankrupt utility, which was wrestling with $9 billion in debt, also couldn't afford to cover the costs of utilizing the network either, he said.
Instead, Ramos chose Whitefish, inking the deal the same day Techmanski flew into Puerto Rico. Whitefish began working on the island less than a week later on Oct. 2.
With the contract signed, Techmanski realized he was going to need help getting resources and equipment to the island quickly. So he reached out to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, who also called Whitefish, Montana his hometown.
Zinke's office acknowledged they received an email from Techmanski, but said no one at the agency took any further action.
On Friday, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters that ZInke was asked directly by President Trump if he had any involvement in the deal -- and Zinke said he didn't.
"This is a contract that was determined by the local authorities in Puerto Rico, not something the federal government played a role in," Sanders said at the briefing.
A few hours later Zinke tweeted his own statement denouncing any ties to Whitefish winning the contract. Adding, all records "will prove no involvement."
"Only in elitist Washington, D.C., would being from a small town be considered a crime," Zinke said.
I had absolutely nothing to do with Whitefish Energy receiving a contract in Puerto Rico. I welcome all investigations into the allegations pic.twitter.com/JQgVFR7Fp6

Concerns are raised
Government agencies usually will make a public request for help on a particular job. Often they will receive multiple offers and the agency reviews and accepts the best, lowest cost bid.
Whitefish spokesman Chris Chiames told CNN: "In emergency kinds of situations, this isn't a typical [request for proposal] process."
Both the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the Federal Emergency Management Agency have made clear they did not sign off on the Whitefish contract and referred questions to PREPA, according to spokespersons for both agencies.
FEMA oversees billions of dollars in disaster relief work and multiple audits by the inspector general have shown a pattern of problems in how these funds have been used.
Ramos told CNN that FEMA didn't require prior approval of PREPA's contracts. But it does require a detailed audit of Puerto Rico's emergency spending.
A FEMA spokesperson told CNN Thursday that based on its initial review, the agency has "significant concerns" with how PREPA awarded the contract, including whether the contract prices are "reasonable."
Related: Questions swirl after small Montana firm lands Puerto Rico power contract
The hourly rate for a site supervisor is set at $332 per hour and $227.88 per hour for a "journey lineman" in the contract, according to a contract seen by CNN. The deal also specifies the estimated cost of nightly accommodation would be $332 per worker and nearly $80 per day for food.
On Friday, Whitefish's Luce told HLN that prices included in the contract were all negotiated with PREPA ahead of time. He explained that pricing included transportation for labor, the equipment and cost of paying for workers performing "very high risk jobs" that required "technical experienced" journey linemen.
"They are working off helicopters -- 50-, 60-foot ladders, dangling from wires," said Luce. "These are very dangerous high-risk jobs that these men and women are undertaking to restore power in Puerto Rico."
There's also a clause in the deal that bars PREPA, the FEMA administrator, the government of Puerto Rico and the Comptroller General of the U.S. from auditing the cost and profit elements of its labor rates.
Luce also told CNN on Friday that the clause is "standard contract language," but promised to work with lawmakers in answering questions.
"We've been transparent on everything we're doing on the island and we understand those questions," said Luce.
Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello told CNN that PREPA triggered an "emergency protocol" to start rebuilding the grid in Puerto Rico immediately after the hurricane hit.
"It was discussed with FEMA to make sure that it met with the standards and then of course that process went through," said Rossello.
'We have to move fast'
Already, Whitefish has scaled to just over 300 employees in Puerto Rico -- and it says 700 more are on the way. Such quick growth is typical among utility firms when they are awarded large contracts, the company said.
PREPA's Ramos says he has no regrets over the Whitefish contract, despite all the controversy over the deal.
"If we went back in time, I would do it all over again," Ramos told CNN.
Choosing Whitefish was cost effective, he said. The company had agreed to be paid in installments after the work was completed, inspected and approved by PREPA.
"We have a humanitarian crisis here and we have to move fast," said Ramos, adding Whitefish is "doing a great job."
Since the deal was announced, several government reviews have been called for to determine whether the appropriate process was followed by PREPA.
Related: San Juan's mayor takes on small Montana firm that won power contract
Both the Department of Homeland Security's inspector general and a separate House committee are reviewing the agreement. Another Senate committee has also asked the Government Accountability Office to investigate. That decision is pending.
On Friday, two top Democrats also asked the inspector general to examine FEMA and other agencies' role in awarding the contract and to look into whether it was an appropriate use of taxpayer dollars.
Even Rossello has asked Puerto Rico's Office of Management and Budget to audit the Whitefish contract to ensure it's in compliance with the appropriate laws.
Those results were expected to be released on Friday.
"If there is no wrongdoing, if it has been done correctly then we will push forward," Rossello told CNN. "If there is wrongdoing in this process or any process there will be hell to pay."
--HLN's Carol Costello and CNN's Julia Jones, Rene Marsh, Tristan Smith, Bill Weir, Patrick Gillespie, and Jeremy Diamond contributed to this report.


Trump says he wants to push through both tax reform, which would modernize the outdated tax code, and to provide tax cuts to individuals and businesses.
Given how healthy the economy is, some economists are mystified over Trump's urgent push for tax cuts that are likely to be paid for by adding to America's mountain of debt.
Related: Economy posts impressive growth despite hurricanes
"No other president in modern economic history has tried to do this," said Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG Union Bank. "It just seems completely unnecessary. With unemployment at 4.2%, why on earth would we try to stimulate the economy?"
Normally, presidents ask Congress for deficit-financed tax cuts when the economy is weak. That's what President Obama did in 2009 during the Great Recession, and President George W. Bush did the same after the 2001 downturn.
"This is kind of an odd time to get fiscal stimulus. It's not like we're in a recession, or coming out of one," said Gus Faucher, chief economist at PNC.
Here's the problem: There will be another recession, eventually. And spending heavily to slash the corporate tax rate to 20% from 35% today could leave Congress with fewer options to tackle the next downturn. The current economic expansion is already the second-longest ever.
Related: Will Trump's tax plan really give you a $4,000 pay raise?
The Tax Policy Center estimates that Trump's tax overhaul would slash federal revenue by $2.4 trillion over 10 years, and by $3.2 trillion over the second decade. And the national debt is already 77% of GDP, and slated to keep growing.
"The risk is we don't have the money for a rainy day. It's borderline irresponsible," said Rupkey.
It's true that the U.S. economy is not perfect. Businesses remain reluctant to spend, and Americans aren't getting the raises they deserve. Wage growth has been sluggish, although that improved in September.
It's also true that tax reform is an admirable goal, no matter how fast the economy is growing. Tax reform, which is aimed at making the sprawling and outdated system more efficient, is different and much less costly than tax cuts.
"Tax reform that is paid for is much better for the economy than a plan that adds to the debt," Maya MacGuineas, president of the nonpartisan Committee for Responsible Federal Budget, wrote recently.
Some experts believe that efforts to reform the tax code will fail once details of the bill are finally unveiled on November 1, leaving the GOP to push simple tax cuts instead.
"We continue to expect deficit-increasing tax cuts, not...deficit-neutral tax reform," Barclays economist Michael Gapen wrote in a recent report.
Given that the U.S. economy is "at full employment," Gapen believes that tax cuts will provide a "temporary boost" to GDP of just 0.5 percentage points. That would leave 2018 growth near 2.8%.
The White House was asked on Friday by reporters about the need for tax cuts given solid GDP growth.
Related: How Trump's tax plan could backfire on Wall Street
Kevin Hassett, chair of Trump's Council of Economic Advisers, argued that the U.S. economy has accelerated because businesses are excited about tax and regulatory reform.
Hassett also predicted that lowering the corporate tax rate and allowing businesses to immediately write off investments could increase GDP by 3% to 5%, as well as boost wages.
Without tax cuts and tax relief, the U.S. will be stuck with "depressed wage growth," the White House said in a statement on Friday.
Rupkey concedes that tax reform could boost wages, but he's skeptical that wage growth will accelerate by a meaningful amount.
Some economists fear that stimulus at this point in the economic cycle could be too much of a good thing.
"The worry is that by adding fuel to what's already, believe it or not, a pretty fiery economy in the U.S., you risk driving inflation and overheating growth," said Guy LeBas, chief fixed income strategist at Janney Capital.
Such an outcome could spur the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates so rapidly that it derails the stock market and burdens businesses and consumers with higher borrowing costs.
"Deficit-financed tax cuts are the wrong way to go at this point," said Faucher.
--CNNMoney's Jeanne Sahadi contributed to this report


At the end of trading on Thursday, Gates occupied the top spot in the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, with a net worth of $88 billion. Bezos had $83.5 billion, and his big day on Friday was more than enough to close the gap.
But Gates also got a boost as Microsoft (MSFT) stock rose 7%. Gates owned 103 million shares as of September, according to FactSet. Microsoft stock climbed about $6 a share, so Gates added almost $600 million to his personal wealth.
Bezos briefly dethroned Gates once before, on July 27, when his net worth topped $90 billion because of a temporary surge in Amazon stock.
Related: The city Amazon picks for HQ2 will never be the same
Amazon has been on a tear this year. It acquired Whole Foods and plans to establish a second headquarters somewhere in North America. More than 200 cities and regions have submitted bids to become the home for HQ2.
--CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed to this report.


In April, the WTO said Mexico had the right to impose tariffs on up to $163 million of U.S. exports, arguing that the U.S. labeling requirements for "dolphin safe" unfairly discriminated against Mexican tuna.
The WTO said $163 million was an amount equal to what Mexico had lost as a result of not having the U.S. label.
But in a separate proceeding this week, the WTO said that the U.S. labeling is now in compliance with its standards after a unit of the U.S. Commerce Department tweaked its tuna-labeling laws last year.
In other words, the ruling from Thursday means the U.S. labeling doesn't discriminate against Mexican tuna.
This week's ruling all but dismisses the retaliation decision in April, though it hasn't been officially thrown out. Mexico actually never decided to impose tariffs on U.S. exports.
Related: NAFTA Round 4 ends on a gloomy note
"I am pleased that WTO panels have finally agreed with the overwhelming evidence that U.S. dolphin-safe labeling requirements are accurate and fair," U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said in a statement.
Mexico's economy ministry said it would appeal the WTO's ruling this week.
The ruling comes at a critical time for trade relations between the U.S., Mexico and Canada. Leaders from all three countries are renegotiating NAFTA, the free trade pact.
Negotiators ended the latest round of talks last week with a gloomy tone, with Mexico and Canada openly criticizing U.S. proposals. Lighthizer fired back at the same press conference, lambasting Canada and Mexico for what he called an unwillingness to compromise.
President Trump routinely threatens to pull out of NAFTA, and he's blamed it for the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs lost to Mexico. NAFTA became law in 1994.
As for tuna, Mexican tuna exports to the United States have averaged about $15 million a year over the last five years, according to USTR. That makes up almost 3% of all tuna imports to the United States.


Related: 2017 just set the all-time record for store closings
Penney has lost $242 million in the first six months of this fiscal year. And while it did manage to post a narrow $1 million profit last year, that came after a string of five straight losing years in which it lost a total of $3.5 billion.
The chain also closed 127 stores during the second quarter, more than 10% of its locations.
Of course JCPenney is hardly the only brick-and-mortar retailer that's struggling. Store closing announcements have more than tripled this year, according to Fung Global Retail & Technology, a retail research firm. The total of 6,700 tops the previous record set in 2008, the first year of the Great Recession.


In exchange for bribes and kickbacks from Insys, doctors wrote large numbers of prescriptions for the patients, most of whom were not diagnosed with cancer, according to the U.S. attorney's office in Boston, which brought the case. The drug first debuted in 2012.
"In the midst of a nationwide opioid epidemic that has reached crisis proportions, Kapoor and his company stand accused of bribing doctors to overprescribe a potent opioid and committing fraud on insurance companies solely for profit," said Acting United States Attorney William D. Weinreb. "Today's arrest and charges reflect our ongoing efforts to attack the opioid crisis from all angles. We must hold the industry and its leadership accountable - just as we would the cartels or a street-level drug dealer."

The arrest and charges against Kapoor came the same day that President Donald Trump declared the opioid epidemic a national public health emergency.
Related: Missouri AG files suit against 3 opioid manufacturers
The law firm representing Kapoor did not respond to requests for comment late Thursday. Kapoor was released on a $1 million cash bail and with a GPS monitor to restrict his movements. He is due to enter a plea in court in Boston next month. A spokesman for Insys declined to comment early Friday.
Kapoor owns or controls 60% of the company's stock, worth more than $240 million based on Thursday's closing price. The stock fell 22% in trading Thursday before Nasdaq halted trading to request additional information from the company late in the day. Trading had not resumed by midday Friday.
Kapoor faces charges conspiracy to violate the federal anti-kickback laws as well as with RICO violations that are often used to bring charges against mobsters.


Related: Misery in Puerto Rico: No power, no job, 'enormous' lines
"We have this historic opportunity: Instead of going with incremental changes, we can go and push the envelope to really transform the infrastructure," Economic Secretary Manuel Laboy told CNNMoney on Thursday in New York. "That is the silver lining opportunity that we have."
The first sign of that type of sweeping rebuild came Wednesday, when Tesla CEO Elon Musk announced that a children's hospital in San Juan, the capital, is being powered by Tesla solar panels and power packs.
Musk wrote in an Instagram post that the project is the "first of many solar + battery Tesla projects going live in Puerto Rico."
Laboy, the economic secretary, said Tesla has "five to 10" projects in the works in Puerto Rico, including schools and community centers. Tesla (TSLA) declined to provide specifics.
AT&T (T) and a project owned by Google's parent company, Alphabet, teamed up to provide cell phone coverage to parts of the island cut off from communication. Project Loon won approval from the U.S. government to fly up to 30 giant balloons over Puerto Rico, beaming down LTE service. (AT&T is buyingTime Warner (TWX), the parent company of CNN.)
Puerto Rico is even pitching itself as a site for Amazon's second headquarters. Laboy declined to provide specifics but said he sent Amazon (AMZN) a lucrative package of incentives to consider.
Related: Puerto Rico power deal now under review
He sees the island's recovery as a selling point with Amazon, in addition to Puerto Rico's educated and bilingual workforce.
"The opportunity to transform the infrastructure ... for me, that is a very powerful message," Laboy said.
Of course, Puerto Rico has to get the lights back on before it can carry out big plans. And that hasn't been easy, nor without controversy.
The utility company, PREPA, found itself under fire after it gave a $300 million contract to an infrastructure repair company, Whitefish Energy. The company only has two official employees, though it's hired hundreds of subcontractors to help restore the power grid.
Investigations are under way into the the contract's procurement. Critics say the contract is bloated and didn't go through proper bidding.
Beyond the physical damage, Puerto Rico must overcome vast other challenges to rebuild an innovative infrastructure system.
Unemployment is high, and some the island's young, educated class has been leaving for the mainland United States for years. Some fear the hurricane's destruction could expedite the exodus. The island's government also filed for bankruptcy last spring.
But Laboy says those challenges shouldn't prevent Puerto Rico from thinking big.
"We need to be bold and we need to transform the system," he added. "That is going to be the key for the recovery, and the sustainable economic growth that we are aspiring to have in Puerto Rico."


Lawmakers in the regional capital of Barcelona had been threatening to break with Spain after a contested independence referendum on October 1 was marred by violence.
Related: Catalan lawmakers vote to split from Spain
The declaration drew an immediate response in Madrid, where the national Senate voted to to seize control of the autonomous region.
The Spanish government is now expected to remove Catalan President Carles Puigdemont from office, and impose direct rule from Madrid.
Spanish stocks and the euro both recovered some lost ground following the response from the central government.

Businesses have been caught in the middle of the dispute. Catalonia is Spain's most economically productive region, hosting 7,100 foreign companies including Volkswagen, Nissan and Cisco.
Analysts say it's not clear how much economic damage the imposition of home rule might cause, but it would like disrupt many of the local government services and processes on which businesses rely.
Related: These banks and businesses are leaving Catalonia
Some executives aren't waiting to see what happens next, and have proactively moved their headquarters out of Catalonia.
Companies that have relocated include major financial firms CaixaBank and Banco Sabadell, as well as real estate company Colonial and energy supplier Gas Natural Fenosa.
Catalonia accounts for nearly a fifth of Spain's economy.


All told, Exxon said Hurricane Harvey expenses and disruptions slashed its profits by about $160 million.
Exxon and the industry as a whole are still trying to get back on their feet following the oil price crash of the past few years. Cheap oil forced Exxon and its rivals to lay off workers and scrap expensive drilling projects.
Related: Oil giant Shell bets on electric cars
Yet oil companies have benefited in recent months from steadier prices and lower expenses. It also helps that Exxon pumped 2% more oil and gas than last year.
Another sign of improvement: For the fourth quarter in a row, Exxon generated enough money through its business and asset sales to cover the cost of its dividends and investments.
Chevron, the No. 2 U.S. oil company, is also on the upswing. Chevron (CVX) logged a 54% jump in third-quarter profits on Friday as oil and gas production increased.
"Cash flow is at a positive inflection point, with oil and gas production increasing and capital spending falling," John Watson's, who is stepping down as Chevron's CEO in February, said in a statement.
On top of efforts to rebound from the oil crash, the industry has grappled with trouble on the climate change front. A Harvard study published in August concluded that Exxon "misled the public" on climate change for nearly four decades. Last month, San Francisco and Oakland filed lawsuits demanding that Exxon, Chevron and other oil companies pay billions to cover climate change costs.


Related: Venezuela's children are dying
Making matters worse: More bills come due next week. On November 2, Venezuela owes $1.1 billion. It will have only a three-day grace period before a default occurs. Venezuela's bonds are owned by an array of investors, from Wall Street strategists to ordinary Americans with 401(k)s.
The government has slowly drained its savings to pay down debt. In 2011, its central bank had $30 billion. In 2015, $20 billion. This year: $10 billion. By comparison, Venezuela's neighbor Colombia has four times as much in reserves: $46 billion.
Leaders from across the Western Hemisphere met in Toronto on Thursday to condemn Venezuela's authoritarian regime, which has allowed the country's vast resources -- it has more crude oil than any other nation -- to go to waste.
"The government of Venezuela is choosing the path of dictatorship," Canada's Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland told her counterparts in Toronto. Its regime "must face consequences that go beyond harsh words and condemnations."
Related: Venezuela is blaming Trump for missed debt payments
Freeland didn't specify what consequences President Nicolas Maduro and his administration could face. She said she hopes Cuba, an ally of Venezuela's, will join the international condemnation of Maduro's power grab.
The Western leaders haven't collectively slapped sanctions on Venezuela, but its leaders say that option is on the table.
One of Maduro's biggest critics was also in Toronto: Former Attorney General Luisa Ortega, who fled the country after Maduro's newly installed legislature banished her from her post.
"In Venezuela it is impossible to raise our voices because people are persecuted and imprisoned," Ortega said Thursday at a separate event at the University of Toronto.
The so-called Lima Group -- named after its first meeting in Lima, Peru, in August -- consists of foreign ministers from Canada and several Latin American nations, including Brazil, Mexico, Colombia and Argentina.
That type of unity is rare in Latin America, a region averse to nations' meddling in each others' affairs after a string of coups and dictatorships in the 20th century, some backed by the CIA.
The United States, which didn't send a representative to Thursday's meeting, has slapped several rounds of sanctions on Maduro's government and its leaders.
Maduro's surrogates have blamed those sanctions for the country's widespread problems and its prolonged delays on debt payments.
Related: Venezuela President tells people to eat rabbits amid food shortages
Excuses aside, experts say Venezuela is likely to default on its debt. It's just anyone's guess when that exactly will happen. The government has come close to defaulting before, only to find cash at the last moment. What's different now is that its cash pile has dwindled significantly.
The consequences of a default would be dire, though the full domino effect may not take place immediately.
Foreign investors would have the right to seize Venezuela's only valuable asset -- oil -- outside the country. That would strangle the government's cash flow, severely restricting its ability to import food and other essentials. Maduro's grip on power would be loosened, experts say.
"A default -- that would trigger the fall of the government," says Edward Glossop, an economist who covers Latin America for Capital Economics, a research firm. "If they were to default ... we're going to get a very painful political transition."


But the attack in Las Vegas earlier this month, which left 58 people dead and almost 500 injured, got much of the attention on the conference call.
Wynn said his company has invested more in security since the shootings. He expects the rest of the industry is doing the same.
"We're sort of operating as a group. Some of us are talking to one another, like the Sands and MGM," he said.
Wynn said people "in every executive suite up and down The Strip and in Reno and everywhere else and in hotels around the country" are searching for ways to prevent another massacre.
"We've had programs of training our employees for two years -- room service, housekeeping, audio visual people that go to fix a TV or touch screen," Wynn said.
"They've all been trained for two years. They inspect the rooms. They look at the people. We profile everybody," he added.
Wynn said that the Las Vegas gunman, Stephen Paddock, had been a gambler at Wynn-owned casinos since 2006 but that there was nothing remarkable about him. He was a typical slots and video poker player who "didn't owe a dime in Las Vegas," Wynn said.
"He didn't meet the profile of a problem gambler or anything like that. He was a very controlled person," Wynn said.
Related: Las Vegas is America's tourism capital
Casino workers who knew Paddock "were stunned, mystified, that the person they knew could have been a person that tried to assassinate hundreds and thousands of people," Wynn said.
Other Las Vegas companies have also said business is getting back to normal.
Las Vegas Sands (LVS), which also operates in Macau, reported solid results and a healthy forecast. And Boyd Gaming (BYD), which owns several casinos in downtown Las Vegas, echoed Wynn's comments about strong tourism.
Boyd CEO Keith Smith said his company does not "anticipate any material impact" on visitors to Vegas in the near future.
Caesars Entertainment (CZR) and Mandalay owner MGM (MGM) wlll release their latest earnings in early November.


Growth in the third quarter "demonstrates that the hurricane ended up having little lasting impact on the economy," says Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics, a research firm.
In fact, the United States enjoyed back-to-back quarters of 3% growth for the first time in three years. Growth from April through June was 3.1%.
President Trump has promised to get it to 3% for an entire year. Economic growth has hung around 2% for years, partly because of slow wage growth and weak spending by businesses.
Related: The job market is strong. Here's the asterisk.
The economy has grown for eight straight years, one of the longest stretches in history. Unemployment is down to 4.2%, its lowest since 2001. The United States has added jobs in 83 of the past 84 months.
"It's still the slowest recovery by a long way," says Dan North, chief economist at Euler Hermes North America, an insurance firm. "But we don't see anything to suggest that we would get a recession in the next year."
North and other economists expected a bigger toll from the hurricanes. Ports, schools and businesses were temporarily closed, and some employees couldn't get to work even if their businesses stayed open.
Hurricane recovery efforts are expected to provide a boost to economic growth toward the end of the year.
Nearly all corners of the U.S. economy contributed to growth in the third quarter. Exports, imports and business spending on long-term projects were all up. Consumer spending, which makes up the majority of economic activity, rose a healthy 3.3%.
North expects the U.S. economy to stay on track unless an unexpected shock happens, "like an incident with North Korea."


Stockton will likely become the first city in the nation to test out a version of universal basic income, an economic system that would regularly provide all residents enough money to cover basic expenses, with no conditions or restrictions.
Stockton hopes to launch its program next year and enroll several hundred of the city's residents for at least a couple of years, depending on the availability of funding.
The concept of universal basic income — or UBI — has been around for decades. Martin Luther King advocated for it in 1967 to create a minimum standard of living. Up until recently, it has mostly been a subject of discussion among academics. But universal basic income has started to gain traction as poverty has grown and fears of automation killing jobs have mounted.
Large-scale trials began this year in Finland and Canada to test whether the program improves outcomes like health and employment.
Related: Mark Zuckerberg supports universal basic income. What is that?
In the U.S., the movement's epicenter is Silicon Valley, where inequality is stark and labor-saving technologies like self-driving cars seem just around the corner. Tech leaders, from Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg to Tesla's Elon Musk, have endorsed the idea as insurance against a jobless future.
Now, some of them are putting serious money behind it. YCombinator, the tech incubator known for minting high-profile startups, is hosting academics who'll research the idea using a control group and a random selection of approximately 3,000 participants in Oakland, California starting next year.
Meanwhile, a recently launched non-profit called the Economic Security Project has committed $1 million to the Stockton effort, with funding from donors that include Facebook co-founder Chris Hughes.
"There was not significant money in the space before" these groups got involved, says longtime advocate Jim Pugh, a robotics PhD who runs a tech and analytics firm that serves progressive causes. "It was definitely a significant uptick."
Rather than a research paper, Stockton is planning a media campaign featuring program participants talking about their experiences. "Alongside the data, we need stories," says Natalie Foster, a co-founder of the Economic Security Project.
Backers hope larger cities and states will eventually adopt universal basic income programs, much like they've passed higher minimum wages and paid family leave laws while federal action has stalled. The hope is that, pressure would build to take the program nationwide.
There are some wrinkles in this plan, however.
In its purest form, every American would receive a basic income, which some estimates peg at about $10,000 per year. In the aggregate, that would add trillions to the budget annually.
Policymakers could lighten the burden by scrapping the rest of the U.S.'s targeted anti-poverty programs, like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (known as food stamps) and Medicaid
Related: Global unemployment to hit 200 million as wages stagnate
That approach has attracted support from libertarians, who see a single-payment safety net as less bureaucratic and more market-friendly than the current alphabet soup of government programs. Conservative political scientist Charles Murray, known for his "bell curve" theory about the relationship between intelligence and income, is among UBI's leading proponents.
But many on the left see the idea as a Trojan horse for eliminating benefits that currently lift millions of people out of poverty.
"The risk is high that under any UBI that could conceivably gain traction politically, tens of millions of poor people would likely end up worse off," wrote Robert Greenstein, the president of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, in a blog post last month.
Left-leaning supporters insist that universal basic income should be an add-on to the existing safety net, not a replacement. But that assurance hasn't firmed up support across the aisle.
Joe Biden, former Obama Council of Economic Advisors chair Jason Furman, and Center for American Progress president Neera Tanden have all opposed the idea for another reason: They say giving people enough money to live on will drive them out of the workforce, and that having a job is essential for emotional health and social status.
Basic income proponents disagree.
"That seems to rest on a thin theory of how one develops a work ethic — that it takes either hunger or suffering or poverty or fear," says political scientist and Economic Security Project co-founder Dorian Warren. A recent review of decades of research on basic income-like programs in the U.S. and Canada found that, in most cases, participants reduce their work hours only slightly.
Within a couple of years, the Stockton experiment may shed more light on that question. Tubbs thinks that participants might use the extra income to take a break from work in order to advance their careers through education, or invest in their kids.
"My constituents in Stockton are incredibly resourceful, intelligent and hardworking," he says. "And oftentimes all they need is an opportunity."


CEO Yasuyuki Yoshinaga told reporters that the practice stretched back 30 years, but that the company didn't realize until recently that it was breaking government rules.
The issues at Subaru came to light after Nissan (NSANF) reported similar problems last month, prompting the Japanese government to request that other automakers inspect their production lines.
Subaru expects the planned recall to cost it more than ¥5 billion ($44 million).
Related: What's wrong with Japan Inc?
Yoshinaga didn't specify whether any countries outside Japan would be affected by the recall. Only about 15% of Subaru vehicles are sold in Japan. The U.S. is its biggest market.
Subaru shares fell as much as 3.3% in Tokyo on Friday after reports about the scandal appeared in the Japanese media. The stock closed down 2.6%.
The Subaru problems closely follow the crisis at Nissan.
Last week, Nissan said it would halt production of cars for the Japanese market after discovering that inspections were not carried out properly at several factories. It had already announced a recall of 1.2 million vehicles over the issue.
Related: Nissan halts production of cars sold in Japan
Bloomberg reported Friday that the practice of letting uncertified workers carry out inspections at Nissan could stretch back as far as 1979. The company declined to comment on the report, saying it was awaiting the result of an external investigation.
Nissan CEO Hiroto Saikawa said last week that one of the reasons it was difficult to fix the inspections problem was because it had become engrained and part of the company culture.
Subaru's admission adds to an ugly month for corporate Japan.
Earlier in October, Kobe Steel (KBSTY), a century-old industrial giant, admitted to faking quality data on aluminum and copper products shipped to big customers including Toyota (TM) and Boeing (BA).
Other recent scandals include Takata's deadly airbags, Mitsubishi Motors' fudged fuel-efficiency tests and Toshiba (TOSBF)'s damaging debacles over its accounting and its nuclear power business.


She turned to Insure Georgia, a program funded in large part by federal money to help consumers enroll in Obamacare. A trained navigator showed her how to compare policies on the website, look at drug formularies and examine differences in prices and provider networks.
Related: Here's what you'll pay for Obamacare in 2018
"I could have done it without her, maybe, but it would have taken me forever," Trawick said.
This fall, it will be different.
Open enrollment for ACA plans, which begins Nov. 1, has been shortened to 45 days. At the same time, funding for navigator programs and other support for consumers has been cut dramatically in Georgia — by 86% — and across the country.
The number of navigators for Insure Georgia, the nonprofit agency that has received the bulk of federal funding for enrollment efforts in past years, will drop to "about 20," from 42 last year, said Fred Ammons, chief executive officer.
Ammons said he is concerned that with all the past year's rhetoric among Republicans in Washington about repealing and replacing Obamacare, some people may not even understand that the program is still available.
That could be a problem in Georgia, which, after seeing increased enrollment in the first three years of the marketplaces, experienced a 16% drop in sign-ups for 2017 coverage. In some rural counties the decline was as much as 36%. Georgia ranks third in uninsured residents, behind only Texas and Florida.
'Isn't Obamacare Dead?'
ACA supporters are concerned that residents in the rural portions of Georgia — which make up about 17% of the population — could be most at risk. In recent decades, those rural areas have fallen behind other parts of the state in income, educational achievement and in access to health care.
With enrollment assistance resources so strapped, it will be hard to reach out to rural consumers.
"We had a booth at the PRIDE festival in Atlanta last Sunday, and someone said, 'Why are y'all even here? Isn't Obamacare dead?'" Ammons said. "And if they think that in Atlanta, you can only imagine what they think in south Georgia."
Related: Trump's quest to kill Obamacare hurts the middle class
Health economist William Custer, who teaches at Georgia State University in Atlanta, echoed those fears about increases in the number of uninsured in rural Georgia.
The effects of less insurance will be felt hard in those areas, he explained. Nearly half of the state's counties, most of them in rural areas, do not have an OB-GYN. Seven hospitals in rural Georgia have closed within the past four years. Several have closed their labor and delivery units.
If people in rural Georgia lose insurance rather than gain it, efforts made in recent years by state leaders to stanch financial bleeding at rural hospitals could be jeopardized, Custer said.
"This is really the big worry. The problem in Georgia is that we have very different geographics, very different demographics and very different health care. These changes this year really seem to be pushing us even more to two Georgias," Custer said.
'Let Obamacare Fail'
Much of the cutbacks and confusion, health care advocates said, follows President Trump's disparagement of the law. He campaigned on a promise to "repeal and replace the disaster that is Obamacare" and announced in July that he would "let Obamacare fail."
Even though Congress could not pass a replacement bill, the Trump administration's changes in timing and funding for enrollment will have an effect, the advocates charge.
"The most damaging has been the rhetoric and confusion," said Laura Colbert, executive director of Georgians for a Healthy Future, an advocacy group. "Overall, this could be a bellwether for future years."
Related: Trump administration is making it even harder to sign up for Obamacare
Ammons, who is from rural Georgia, said he lies awake at night wondering how to reach people who need health insurance.
"I don't know what I can do to help these uninsured people," he said, adding that "for a brief moment, I thought 'We can't even do this.'"
That was the night he learned, in an email, that Insure Georgia's funding had been cut from $2.3 million to $328,000.
Ammons said he realized that he would have to lay off full-time employees. He said he also figured out that he would have to cut back on navigators that Insure Georgia typically hired short-term for open enrollment.
Next, he cut every non-personnel line item he could, which meant terminating leases and closing offices. The group found donated space in Vidalia, in central Georgia, and in Brunswick, a port city near Savannah. But that leaves the southwestern portion of the state, an especially poor area of Georgia, without a nearby office.
Ammons said that other nonprofit groups have donated money that will allow Insure Georgia representatives to travel to 500 community enrollment events across the state. While Insure Georgia held more than 1,500 community events last year in all of Georgia's 159 counties, his goal is more modest this year.
"We want to at least be in every county with a Walmart," he said.
Kaiser Health News is a national health policy news service that is part of the nonpartisan Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.


Big Oil, which has been under pressure from low crude prices, has largely missed out on this year's market rally. ExxonMobil (XOM) shares have fallen by about 8% in 2017, while Chevron (CVX) has inched up by less than 1%.
A Harvard study published in August found that Exxon "misled the public" on climate change for nearly 40 years. The same month, a number of Exxon's refineries went offline because of Hurricane Harvey.
In September, San Francisco and Oakland filed lawsuits demanding that Exxon, Chevron and other companies pay billions to protect the coastal cities from rising sea levels. The following week, Chevron announced that its CEO would step down next year.
Other companies reporting results Friday morning include Goodyear Tire (GT) and Merck (MRK).
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Stock market movers: Shares in Amazon (AMZN) and Microsoft (MSFT) are shooting higher premarket after the firms reported better-than-expected profits.
Mattel (MAT), Baidu (BIDU) and Expedia (EXPE) shares are expected to slump.
Mattel (MAT) announced it's suspending its quarterly dividend in order to free up cash. Its global sales have dropped 13%.
Aetna (AET) shares spiked 12% late on Thursday after the Wall Street Journal reported that it's in talks to be purchased by CVS Health (CVS). Investors will be keeping an eye on any further developments. Both companies declined to comment.
4. Things fall apart: Swiss chemicals giant Clariant (CLZNY) and its U.S. rival Hunstman (HUN) have decided to abandon their $20 billion merger following a shareholder revolt.
The companies said in a joint statement that they would not join forces because of doubts that Clariant would get the backing of enough investors to push the deal through.
The deal's termination marks a major win for top Clariant shareholder White Tale Holdings -- a partnership between hedge funds Corvex and 40 North -- that had opposed the merger.
5. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were mixed.
European markets posted gains in early trading. Japan's Nikkei posted a 1.2% increase to lead most Asian markets higher.
The Dow Jones industrial average added 0.3% on Thursday, while S&P 500 gained 0.1% and the Nasdaq dipped 0.1%.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Friday -- ExxonMobil, Chevron and Merck earnings; GDP Q3 estimate released


The deal was undermined by White Tale Holdings, an activist investor who vocally opposed the merger and bought up Clariant shares in an effort to derail it.
White Tale, a partnership between hedge funds Corvex and 40 North, now claims to be the Swiss chemical giant's biggest shareholder.
Related: The battle for the future of Tide
"The proposed transaction has no strategic merit," White Tale wrote in a letter published last month. "It both significantly destroys existing Clariant shareholder value and prevents Clariant from pursuing multiple alternative and immediate opportunities to unlock value for its shareholders."
Its opposition to the deal is now being supported by other shareholders as well, Clariant and Huntsman (HUN) said.
Clariant announced on Friday that White Tale had increased its stake in the company to more than 20%. The investor's stake was at 15% last month when it launched its attack on the merger.


Spain's prime minister is promising direct rule over Catalonia and has declared its government to be in "systematic rebellion and disobedience." Rebellion is the same word used by Lincoln in 1863 to describe the 11 southern states that seceded from the U.S. over slavery.
The ensuing Civil War took the lives of hundreds of thousands of soldiers on both sides. It was a war Lincoln described as "one of the most terrible."
I don't want to stretch the analogy too far. What struck me at Lincoln's cottage was the language being used in the 19th Century conflict in America and today's dispute in Europe.
It is naïve to believe bloodshed over secession can't happen in the modern European Union world. There already has been violence during the recent referendum. At each twist and turn of this dispute, the rhetoric has become more heated and the anger levels have risen.
It is not beyond the realm of possibility for the Catalonia dispute to degenerate into fighting and loss of life. It may not be on the same scale of the American Civil War, but it could wind up destroying the bonds of the European Union.
Sign up for the weekly Quest newsletter in your inbox
Scandal-ridden Japan Inc. is in trouble
The results are in: Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe claimed victory in the latest snap election.
Despite the success of some of Abe's economic programs, Japan is still grappling with an aging population and massive debt. And major Japanese companies are anything but winners on the global stage.
The Kobe Steel false data scandal is just the latest hit to the country's once stellar corporate reputation.
Takata. Mitsubishi. Toshiba. Even Nissan has suspended production of cars for the Japanese market due to vehicle inspection issues.
-- Paul R. La Monica
Earnings are sizzling. But are stocks too hot?
Caterpillar. McDonald's. 3M. GM. These are just a few of the big brands generating even bigger profits. Even Twitter is talking about finally making money.
That earnings bonanza has lifted stocks to uncharted territory. But is Wall Street celebrating a bit too hard?
Some market pros worry stocks are too pricey. By most measures, S&P 500 stocks have rarely been as expensive as now. There's also the risk that the GOP tax overhaul or the Federal Reserve cause a rapid spike in rates that derails the rally in stocks.
-- Matt Egan
Silicon Valley's Russia problem keeps growing
To what extent did American tech companies give Russia a platform to disrupt the 2016 U.S. election?
It's a big question that's only getting bigger.
Twitter has yanked all advertising bought by Russia Today and Sputnik after determining that both news organizations meddled in the election on Russia's behalf. Earlier in the week, Twitter said it would start labeling all political ads.
Across the pond, the U.K. is asking Facebook for more info on Russian-linked ads related to the Brexit vote.
The kicker: It's not just Facebook, Twitter and Google that will have to answer for their policies. Internet services companies had a role to play, too.
-- Julia Horowitz
Canada, Mexico prepare for NAFTA's end
Mexico and Canada are developing backup plans in case President Trump decides to withdraw the United States from NAFTA, the three-nation trade agreement.
Mexican and Canadian officials met in Colombia with this week with counterparts from three Latin American nations. They're also both still in talks with former nations of TPP -- the trade deal Trump axed in January.
Mexico is also considering a trade deal with China.
After the latest round of NAFTA negotiations ended on a gloomy note, both Canadian and Mexican leaders are acknowledging that they must prepare for life without NAFTA.
-- Patrick Gillespie
Quick Takes
Trump's tax plan would help foreign investors, but maybe not U.S. middle class
At 'Davos in the Desert,' Saudis unveil $500 billion mega-city to span 3 nations
More U.S. stores have closed this year than during the 2008 financial meltdown
ECB taps the brakes on massive stimulus; Britain prepares for rare rate hike
Employers are shooting themselves in the foot by making it harder to hire
What's next
Health of U.S. economy: Is the U.S. still moving toward President Trump's goal of 3% growth? U.S. GDP for the third quarter publishes Friday. The hurricanes likely had some impact on spending and growth for the quarter.
Earnings, earnings, earnings: Lots of major brands report earnings Friday and next week. On Friday, energy giants Exxon and Chevron report. Next week is a full menu for Wall Street: Under Armour, Facebook, Apple and Starbucks report, along with a litany of other firms. So far, this earnings season is going very well.
Europe's comeback: The Eurozone reports its GDP on Monday. It could be the latest signs of a long-anticipated bounce back after years of economic stagnation in the region.
Who will be the next Fed Chair: President Trump is leaving everyone is suspense a little longer. A White House source told CNN that a decision is expected before Trump's big trip to Asia at the end of next week. But the person cautioned that there's "no guarantees."
Speaking of the Fed: Leaders of America's central bank meet Tuesday and Wednesday in Washington. They're not expected to raise rates, but a December rate hike is expected by Wall Street. The Bank of England's committee also meets to decide the path ahead for its monetary policy.
Trump tax reform: Republicans in the House of Representatives are expected to introduce a bill to overhaul the U.S. tax system for companies and individuals.
Mexico's GDP: The numbers will post next Tuesday.


Related: Hasbro hurt by Toys 'R' Us bankruptcy
Mattel offered a few reasons for its dismal report: Primarily, Toys 'R' Us' financial woes has made it hard for Mattel to perform.
It's no surprise. The retailer was once responsible for nearly 10% of Mattel's sales.
And Mattel's not the only one feeling the impact of the Toys 'R' Us bankruptcy. Hasbro (HAS) rattled investors when it warned this week that sales for the holiday fourth quarter could be lower than expected, citing Toys R Us as one reason. The news sent Hasbro stock tumbling by about 10%.
Related: Toys 'R' Us files for bankruptcy
But Hasbro has a lifeline in the form of its Star Wars, Marvel and Disney Princess toys, and it reported sales and profits for the third quarter that topped forecasts.
Mattel toys, on the other hand, have been performing poorly for the past few quarters.
This past quarter, its signature toys sold poorly again.
American Girl sales were down 30% worldwide compared to this time last year. Fisher Price sales fell by 15%, and Barbie sales were down by 6%.
The company said it wants to cut at least $650 million in costs over the next two years to help put it back on track.
-- CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed reporting to this story.


Both companies declined to comment on market "rumors."
If the merger is approved and goes through, it would reshape the health care industry. CVS Health controls a massive drugstore chain and pharmacy benefits management system, while Aetna is one of the nation's largest insurers.
Related: Here's what you'll pay for Obamacare in 2018
But mergers involving health insurance companies have run into roadblocks in the recent past. In 2015, Aetna and Humana announced a $34 billion merger, while Anthem agreed to acquire Cigna for $54 billion. Both deals were called off in February after they were targeted by the Justice Department over antitrust concerns and blocked by federal judges.


OGE helps evaluate whether appointees have resolved potential conflicts between their government roles and their financial holdings. Although OGE doesn't have authority to investigate, it can refer matters to inspectors general and the Department of Justice.
At issue is whether Ross should have disclosed $2 billion of assets Forbes said he transferred to a trust. The Democrats want to know when Ross moved the money and whether he controls the trust. Those details will help determine whether Ross possibly violated disclosure rules and conflict laws.
In a statement, the Commerce Department said, "It is unfortunate the inaccuracies in the Forbes story have created the confusion expressed in this letter. The secretary remains committed to the highest ethical standards, and continues to work closely with Commerce ethics officials in service of the department's mission."
Ross may have violated disclosure rules if he intentionally failed to disclose reportable assets or any income from them, said Virginia Canter, executive branch ethics counsel at Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics. (CREW, which policies potential ethics problems in government, is suing President Trump alleging his business interests violate the Constitution.)
Canter pointed out that OGE's financial disclosure requires appointees to list income received above $200 within the reporting period, which in this case includes all of 2015 through December 19, 2016. Even if Ross transferred the assets before the election, he needed to report any income from those assets in that time period if it exceeded $200.
"At the risk of stating the obvious, $2 billion is not a rounding error," Senator Blumenthal said.


There will be 'hell to pay'
The contract has raised a few eyebrows given that the firm is based in the same hometown as Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and it employed just two people at the time Hurricane Maria made landfall.
Such concerns prompted a separate House committee on Thursday to also open a review of the multimillion dollar contract.
Rep. Rob Bishop, chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources, wrote a letter to Richard Ramos, the head of the PREPA, requesting further information on the contract.
In addition, Sen. Maria Cantwell, a ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, has asked the Government Accountability Office to review the matter. A GAO spokesman said the agency has received the letter and is reviewing the request."
Related: Questions swirl after small Montana firm lands Puerto Rico power contract
A White House spokesman told CNN the decision to give the contract to Whitefish was made exclusively by PREPA. "The White House is not aware of any federal involvement in the selection," White House spokesman Raj Shah said.
In a letter to the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security, Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello requested that the government oversight agency complete its review of the Whitefish contract by October 30.
Rossello also noted that he recently asked Puerto Rico's Office of Management and Budget to audit the Whitefish contract in order to ensure it's in compliance with all of the appropriate laws. The results of that audit are due Friday, Rossello told CNN.
"If there is no wrongdoing, if it has been done correctly then we will push forward," Rossello told CNN. "If there is wrongdoing in this process or any process there will be hell to pay."
A Twitter battle ensues
Since the company announced the deal last week it has been swept up in controversy.
On Wednesday, a public feud erupted between Whitefish and San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz on Twitter. Whitefish later issued an apology to Yulin Cruz after criticizing her and threatening to pull workers from the city she represents.
In an earlier interview with Yahoo News, the mayor had called the multimillion dollar contract awarded to Whitefish "alarming" and pressed for the contract to be canceled immediately.
"The contract should be voided right away and a proper process which is clear, transparent, legal, moral and ethical should take place," Yulin Cruz said of the two-year old electrical utility in the interview Tuesday.
Related: San Juan's mayor takes on small Montana firm over Puerto Rico power contract
In response, Whitefish spokesman Chris Chiames posted a statement on Twitter calling Yulin Cruz's comments "misplaced."
"We find her comments to be very disappointing and demoralizing to the hundreds of people on our team that have left their homes and families and have come here to help the people of Puerto Rico," Whitefish tweeted Wednesday.
By the afternoon, the situation grew heated.
Yulin Cruz tweeted back: "If @WhitefishEnergy feels that asking for transparency is "misplaced", what are they afraid we will find."
"We've got 44 linemen rebuilding power lines in your city & 40 more men just arrived. Do you want us to send them back or keep working?," the utility company replied.
Related: Questions swirl after small Montana firm lands Puerto Rico contract
"Threats received by @WhitefishEnergy. The implication is if I do not "play nice" they will not do their job. Nasty!," the mayor tweeted back. She said Whitefish's response implied it would not treat San Juan with the "diligence it deserves."
Whitefish later said it is committed to restoring power in Puerto Rico and then apologized to the mayor.
"Mayor Cruz and everyone in Puerto Rico... we would like to apologize for our comments earlier today, which did not represent who we are and how important this work is to help Puerto Rico's recovery," the company posted on Twitter late Wednesday night.
Yulin Cruz does not have authority over PREPA and the contracts it issues. She has long been a critic of Rossello, who backed the Whitefish contract, and has criticized President Trump's handling of relief efforts on the island.
Hometown connections in question
PREPA's Ramos told reporters during a press conference last week the cash-strapped island chose Whitefish because it didn't require a big deposit upfront. The other contender, Power Security, wanted a $25 million down payment for the work, Ramos said.
"In that moment, we were not in a position to offer that collateral," said Ramos. "The other company did not ask for a guarantee of payment."
In an interview with CNN on Thursday, Ramos said he had no regrets about picking Whitefish out of the seven companies he spoke with about working on the recovery efforts.
"If we went back in time, I would do it all over again," Ramos said, adding the company is "doing a great job."
But some on Capitol Hill are concerned that Whitefish may have stood out for another reason.
The tiny utility company is based in Whitefish, Montana, which also happens to be Zinke's hometown.
Both Zinke and Whitefish CEO Andy Techmanski acknowledge knowing one another. Zinke's office described Whitefish as a "small town" with a population of roughly 6,000 people. One of the secretary's sons "joined a friend who worked a summer job at one their [Whitefish's] construction sites."
Related: FEMA just got another $6.7 billion to help with hurricane relief
Whitefish spokesman Ken Luce confirmed an Oct. 1 report by NBC Montana, which quoted Techmanski as saying he reached out to Zinke after winning the contract to help get resources to the island more quickly,
But Luce told CNN that the company did not make any requests to the administration before the contract was signed on Sept. 26.
"The secretary had absolutely nothing to do with Whitefish getting the contract," he said.
Techmanski, who has described the firm as specializing in "difficult and mountainous terrain projects," has downplayed any ties to the administration.
"All I can say is, we took the call and we're here," Techmanski told CNN Friday, referring to a call from director Ramos. "We called each other."
PREPA, which is $9 billion in debt, could have requested aid after Maria through the American Public Power Association, a network that provides help to other utilities during widespread power outages. That's what Texas and Florida did after Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
Ramos told CNN on Thursday that the closest states to Puerto Rico were already dealing with their own aftermath of earlier hurricanes and he believed they would not be able to respond quickly to the island's needs. The bankrupt utility also couldn't afford to cover the costs of utilizing the network either, he added.
Related: Misery in Puerto Rico: No power, no job, 'enormous lines'
Whitefish does have another tie to the administration.
HBC Investments, which was founded by a big Republican donor named Joe Colonnetta, backs the firm. Colonnetta and his wife donated more than $20,000 to Donald Trump's presidential campaign and more than $30,000 to the Republican National Committee last year alone, according to a filing from the Federal Election Commission.
A representative for Colonnetta was not immediately available to comment on the donations.
Luce said the investment firm learned of Whitefish last summer through an unnamed mutual acquaintance in the energy industry.
"Techmanski is the type of entrepreneur HBC likes -- a family guy with a good business plan," Luce said, noting that the Whitefish CEO had previously managed contracts of up to $250 million.
Additional reporting by Julia Jones, Martin Savidge and Paul Murphy.


"hey @KelloggsUS why is literally the only brown corn pop on the whole cereal box the janitor? This is teaching kids racism," tweeted Ahmed.
hey @KelloggsUS why is literally the only brown corn pop on the whole cereal box the janitor? this is teaching kids racism. pic.twitter.com/Nh7M7IFawW

Kellogg's reply came about five hours after Ahmed's original tweet that morning, presumably during breakfast. Ahmed replied that he appreciated the "rapid response."
Since then, many of his tweets have either been pitching his upcoming comic book "Abbott," which he describes as a supernatural crime thriller set in his home town of Detroit, or complaining about getting "hate retweeted" by racists.
Ahmed has published several science fiction novels, including "Throne of the Crescent Moon" in 2012, which was nominated for Hugo and Nebula Awards.
Kellogg's and Ahmed's publishers Penguin Random House and Boom! Studios did not immediately return messages from CNNMoney. Ahmed did not immediately respond to a message on Twitter.
Related: Dove 'missed the mark' with racially insensitive ad
A string of companies have come under scrutiny for racially insensitive advertising, like a Dove ad earlier this month which prompted the company to admit it "missed the mark."
But Cheerios received attention of a different kind when it featured a mixed race couple and child in a commercial in 2013, which won praise from some consumers, but backlash from racists.


Investors were dealt a fresh reminder of the market's addiction to ultra-low rates this week as the 10-year Treasury yield jumped to 2.44%, the highest since March. The closely watched Treasury rate, which moves opposite the price, is up dramatically from 2.27% on October 16.
The selloff in bonds has been driven in part by expectations for faster growth and concerns that President Trump's choice to lead the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates more aggressively than Janet Yellen would. Some also worry that Trump's proposed tax overhaul could overheat the economy.
The sudden move in rates led star bond investor Jeff Gundlach to warn on Twitter that "obituaries need to be written" for the 30-year bull market in bonds if the momentum doesn't reverse soon. "The moment of truth has arrived," the billionaire said.
Mike LaBella, portfolio manager at QS Investors, believes rates are still low enough to keep the party going in the stock market.
"But if rates climb at this accelerated pace, that could potentially hinder this recovery. Well above 3% or closer to 4% would definitely be alarming," LaBella said.
Related: How Trump's tax plan could backfire on Wall Street
Of course, it's way too early to say the great bull market in bonds is done. And steadily rising interest rates aren't a bad thing. If anything, investors alarmed by how long rates have remained extremely low would welcome a return to normalcy. As would those who own shares of banks, which have struggled to make money in the low-rate environment.
That's why Wall Street has largely applauded the Federal Reserve's efforts to gradually raise interest rates.
"The economy can absorb slowly rising interest rates," said Art Hogan, chief equity strategist at Wunderlich Securities. But he conceded that the recent spike is "not gradual" and has forced investors to "sit up and take notice."
It's no secret that ultra-low rates helped fuel the bull market in stocks. Bond returns are so low that investors are willing to accept more risk in stocks, even stocks that are very, very expensive by historical standards.
After getting accustomed to low rates for nearly a decade, investors may be caught off guard by a sudden spike in rates.
The Treasury Department's Office of Financial Research published a heat map this week identifying weaknesses in the U.S. financial system. Just one of the map's six categories flashed red, signaling high vulnerability: market risk. Within that category, the report indicated that the biggest risk is that the market is unprepared for higher rates.
Related: Caution: U.S. stocks have rarely been this expensive
Trump's effort to overhaul the tax system could push rates higher. If it gets through Congress, tax reform could spook the bond market by adding to the federal deficit or overstimulating a healthy economy.
And the bond market could sell off if the European Central Bank and the Fed unwind their emergency bond-buying programs more aggressively than investors have been anticipating.
Yet Guy LeBas, chief fixed income strategist at Janney Capital, thinks it's "silly" to predict the end of the bond bull market because Treasury rates remain very low, hovering just above their five-year average.
And bond bulls believe demand will stay high because the population of the world's major economies is getting older, and those people want safe, steady income.
"That's a trend that isn't ending anytime soon," LeBas said.
If that's true, rising rates may pose a risk to the stock market, but perhaps not an imminent one.


Related: NAACP warns black passengers about traveling with American Airlines
He repeated an earlier statement that he hoped to meet with leaders of the NAACP about its complaints.
"Organizations like the NAACP can help us. So we welcome the opportunity to work with them," he said. "Indeed, we are excited about it and enthusiastic to sit down and listen and learn together."
Parker's statement Thursday goes beyond his initial response Wednesday, in which he said he was disappointed with the advisory and vowed, "We do not and will not tolerate discrimination of any kind."
The civil rights group's statement earlier this week cited four examples of black passengers who were forced to give up their seats or were removed from flights.
The group said the incidents "suggest a corporate culture of racial insensitivity and possible racial bias," and advised travelers to exercise caution.
"Booking and boarding flights on American Airlines could subject them [to] disrespectful, discriminatory or unsafe conditions," the advisory said.
But Parker's statement Thursday was encouraging, said Hilary Shelton, the NAACP's Washington bureau director and senior vice president for advocacy and policy. He said it recognized the need to address problems.
"I'm delighted to see that American Airlines is at least saying the right things now," Shelton told CNNMoney. "Our hope is that they are able to follow through with something much more comprehensive."
The NAACP has called for boycotts of companies and places in the past, but this was only the second time it has issued a travel advisory, Shelton said.
Over the summer, it issued an advisory for travel to Missouri, citing several instances of discrimination as reason for black visitors to use "extreme caution."
The decision to issue a warning about American Airlines came after the NAACP fielded roughly two dozen complaints over the past two years, Shelton said.
The decision was also driven by higher-profile incidents. Civil rights activist Tamika Mallory said she was removed from a New York-bound flight after her seat was changed without her consent.
Shelton stressed that the American Airlines advisory was not a boycott. He likened it to a warning from the State Department when it deems a country dangerous to visit.
"They have to make a decision," he said of black fliers who are thinking of booking on American. "Is that the airline you want to get on? But they'll have the information, the experiences that have occurred, and hopefully very soon, how American Airlines is going to respond to this, so they can make that informed decision."
Shelton said the NAACP has received complaints about other airlines, but none as consistently as American.
"There is a pattern that has come up -- a pattern and a practice that is deeply concerning," he said.
He added that his office in Washington has received two dozen complaints about American since the advisory was posted, including some from employees who have raised concerns about their experiences inside the company.
-- CNNMoney's Rob McLean contributed to this report.


It's also a sign that A-B InBev's push to brand Budweiser beer as "America" on bottles and cans during what the company called its "American Summer" may have failed to catch on with suds-loving consumers.
A-B InBev said that market share for Budweiser and the lower calorie Bud Light fell in the U.S. during the quarter.
Beer snobs in the U.S. are increasingly choosing fancier and pricier craft brews over established brands like Bud.
AB-In Bev has recognized this and has been on a microbrew shopping spree over the past few years, scooping up popular brands like Goose Island, 10 Barrel Brewing and Blue Point.
The company also has a significant minority stake in Craft Brew Alliance (BREW), the publicly traded firm that owns the Kona, Redhook and Widmer Brothers brands of beer.
Related: Corona time! Beer owner's sales soar
But AB-In Bev's growth in the craft segment isn't enough to offset the declines in its top brands just yet.
Still, it wasn't all bad news for the company. A-B InBev said that other established brands, namely Michelob Ultra, Busch and Stella Artois, were growing in the U.S. and helping to pick up the slack for the weaker Bud and Bud Light sales.
Overall revenues were up globally in the quarter thanks to growth in China, South Korea, Brazil, Argentina and Chile. AB-In Bev is also cutting costs thanks to its more than $100 billion merger with SABMiller last year.
And even though BUD stock was down Thursday on the weak U.S. sales, the brewer's shares are still up 13% this year -- better than nearly all its rivals. Boston Beer (SAM), the owner of Sam Adams. is up just 5% while Molson Coors (TAP) is down 17%.
But the American-listed shares of Heineken (HEINY) are up nearly 30% in 2017 while Constellation Brands (STZ), which sells Corona in the U.S., is up almost 40%.


Many insurers hiked the price of their silver policies for 2018 to offset President Trump's elimination of the funding for Obamacare's cost-sharing subsidies. These payments, made directly to insurers, reduce deductibles and co-pays for lower-income enrollees.
Trump had threatened to eliminate the funding all year, finally doing so earlier this month. Those who earn too much to qualify for premium subsidies will be hit the hardest.
Related: Trump's quest to kill Obamacare hurts the middle class
But in a strange twist, those eligible for premium assistance could actually find themselves able to buy gold plans -- which have lower deductibles -- for less than or the same price as the silver policies. That's because they'll likely receive more generous subsidies, which will make the gold plans more affordable.
Here's why: Most state regulators directed insurers to compensate for the loss of the cost-sharing subsidy funding by hiking only the prices of their silver plans, knowing the premium subsidy would shield eligible enrollees from the increase.
"People will see much better deals in those states," said David Anderson, research associate at Duke's Margolis Center for Health Policy.
Gold plan premiums are rising by 16% on average, while the prices for bronze plans, which have lower rates but higher deductibles, are increasing by an average of 18%, according to Avalere.
Related: Actually, Trump is raising health insurance premiums
This makes it even more crucial for consumers to shop for 2018 coverage during open enrollment, which runs through Dec. 15. Those who don't may find themselves missing out on more affordable coverage or, even worse, stuck with much costlier plans or no coverage at all. Premium subsidies are based on the second lowest cost silver plan, but this benchmark policy can change year to year.
The window shopping tool is one of several features the Trump administration is keeping for the open enrollment season. However, it is making many other changes that critics say will sabotage Obamacare.
First, what's staying the same:
Call centers will be staffed: Roughly the same number of call center representatives will be available to answer enrollment questions. Last year, staffing peaked at 11,000 people, according to the administration. New this year will be a call-back feature so consumers can opt to get a return call, rather than wait on hold.
Waiting rooms could be deployed if needed: As in prior years, consumers may be put in virtual "waiting rooms" when healthcare.gov traffic is high. Users will see a message asking them to stay on the page, which will refresh when they can continue with enrollment.
And here's what's new:
A big change for auto re-enrollment: The Trump administration will once again automatically re-enroll consumers who don't actively select a plan by Dec. 15. However, unlike in prior years, participants won't be able to switch to another policy after that date. That's because open enrollment ends on Dec. 15, whereas it continued at least through the end of January in previous years.
This is a big deal because some policies will be far costlier next year. Consumers may get stuck if they don't shop around.
Enrolling outside of healthcare.gov: Consumers will now be able to enroll directly through certain third-party websites, rather than having to go to healthcare.gov to complete their applications.
Also, the federal exchange will make it easier for consumers to connect with agents and brokers for assistance with applications through a new "Help on Demand" service.
The Trump administration says this will provide Americans with more ways to enroll. Critics, however, worry that applicants may be steered to certain insurers' products and may not be told of less-expensive options.
The open enrollment features released Wednesday follow many other changes Trump officials are instituting that experts say will likely dampen sign-ups. These include cutting the enrollment period in half, cutting funding to non-profit groups that help consumers pick plans and slashing the advertising budget by 90% -- not to mention, Trump's repeated declarations that Obamacare is dead.
Related: Trump administration is making it even harder to sign up for Obamacare
The administration said Wednesday that it will target the uninsured, as well as young and healthy enrollees who plan to sign up again, in its marketing campaigns. It will use YouTube videos, social media, mobile and search advertising, emails, texts and autodial messages to reach out to consumers.
What the administration is not doing is television, radio and direct mail advertising. TV, in particular, is the most effective way to drive people to enroll, said Lori Lodes, a former Obama administration official who co-founded the Get America Covered campaign to try to boost enrollment.
Trump officials seem to be interested in making sure consumers get help while enrolling, Lodes said. However, the Trump administration isn't looking to boost the number of Americans signing up for Obamacare.
"They are only focused on the consumer experience, which is great, but they also need to be focused on making sure people get enrolled," she said.
The cuts to the advertising budget could reduce Obamacare enrollment by at least 1.1 million, estimates Joshua Peck, co-founder of the Get America Covered campaign and former chief marketing officer for healthcare.gov.


Customers weren't necessarily digging the move: sales at restaurants that were open at the same time last year fell more than 2% after the change. But it made good business sense, since Buffalo Wild Wings was able to find some important savings.
That's why the company says the boneless wings are here to stay, at least for now.
"The recent Tuesday promotion shift from traditional to boneless wings at company-owned restaurants will continue to improve cost of sales while traditional wing prices remain elevated," CEO Sally Smith said in a prepared statement on Tuesday.
Overall, the company's profit continued its downward slide. Earnings fell 20% from the same quarter in 2016, mostly because customers still have a strong taste for chicken wings with bones in them.
Investors were expecting that. Actually, Wall Street analysts' forecasts were far too pessimistic. The restaurant chain's profit smashed expectations. Investors also cheered Buffalo Wild Wings raising its financial outlook for the rest of the year.
Shares of Buffalo Wild Wings (BWLD) surged 18% on Wednesday.
Related: Chipotle's profit ravaged by hurricanes, hack and high avocado prices
Still, it has been a rocky year for the company. Its stock is down 23% this year due to slumping sales and profit and an activist investor campaign from a group that wanted to reshape the chain. Smith announced over the summer that she would step down after 21 years as CEO.
Like many other retailers and restaurants, Wild Wings weathered the impact from Hurricanes Harvey and Irma during the quarter. It was forced to close 71 restaurants because of the storms, costing the company nearly $3 million in sales.
One particularly good sign: Declining NFL ratings aren't hitting Wild Wings so far. The company said on an conference call with investors that it doesn't expect the viewership drop to hurt sales.


The Trump administration announced in September that it would end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, also called DACA.
The Obama-era policy allows young adults who arrived in the United States as children to apply to defer deportation and legally reside in the country for two years. After that, they could apply for renewal.
Others in the campaign announced Thursday include the American Hotel and Lodging Association, the National Retail Foundation and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
"If Congress fails to act, our economy could lose $215 billion from the national GDP and $24.6 billion in Social Security and Medicare tax contributions," the companies wrote in an ad published in Politico on Thursday. "They are part of why we will continue to have a global competitive advantage."
Related: DACA and Dreamers explained
DACA allows its roughly 690,000 recipients -- the Dreamers -- to obtain valid driver's licenses, enroll in college and legally secure jobs. They also pay income taxes.
The administration set a six-month deadline for Congress to preserve its protections before recipients start losing their status and face deportation.
Many of the companies and organizations that signed on to the new campaign have previously come out in support of DACA. Hundreds of business leaders signed a letter last month defending the program.
--CNNMoney's Seth Fiegerman and CNN's Tal Kopan contributed to this story.


However, the central bank also said the purchases would continue at that pace deep into 2018. The bank indicated the program would run at its reduced level until at least September -- but longer if needed.
The program -- a form of quantitative easing -- has helped support the economy by keeping borrowing costs low for households and businesses. That, in turn, has increased spending and helped spur economic growth.
Investors reacted to the bank's announcement by pushing the euro lower. Stock markets remained in positive territory.
"The announcement has been well signaled by the central bank ... with the aim of causing as little disturbance as possible for the markets," said Mihir Kapadia, CEO of financial services firm Sun Global Investments.
A range of quantitative easing programs were put into action after the global financial crisis.
The Federal Reserve purchased $4.5 trillion in investments over the years to support the U.S. economy. Central banks in the U.K. and Japan deployed similar measures of their own.
European economies have stabilized since the stimulus program was launched. The average annual growth rate in the eurozone hit 2.3% in the latest quarter, and formerly troubled Spain and Portugal are now growing at around 3%.
Related: Europeans really want to work at Google
Draghi said in a news conference that he was pleased by "unabated growth momentum" in Europe, but noted that it was the result of the central bank's "ample" support.
He said that continuing the bond-buying program -- without a definitive end date -- would help keep the economy on track.
The ECB boss has other issues to worry about: inflation remains below the central bank's 2% target at 1.5%.
Unemployment is also stubbornly high. The jobless rate in Greece is above 20% and Spanish unemployment sits just above 17%.


McDonald, who earns too much to qualify for the federal subsidies that would lower his premiums, could very well have to shell out even more for policies next year. Rates in Utah will soar an average of 39% for 2018, in part because carriers are looking to shield themselves from the uncertainty emanating from Washington D.C.
Like their peers in many states around the nation, Utah's insurers are steeply hiking rates for next year in part because they anticipated President Trump would stop funding a key set of Obamacare subsidies that help lower-income enrollees afford health care. Trump lived up to his vow earlier this month when he announced that he would end the cost-sharing payments.
Related: Actually, Trump is raising health insurance premiums
Whom will this move hurt the most?
The middle class, who aren't protected from the rate hikes like those of more modest means.
Nearly seven million people who buy individual policies don't qualify for premium subsidies. These include the roughly 1.6 million Obamacare enrollees who earn more than $47,500 as an individual or $97,200 as a family of four this year, and the 5.1 million who buy individual coverage outside of the Obamacare exchange.
These middle class folks will bear the full brunt of the premium increases, unlike the 8.7 million enrollees who receive federal assistance to keep their premiums to less than 10% of their annual income.
They were the Americans that Trump and congressional Republicans promised to help by repealing and replacing Obamacare.
Instead, they will be hit the hardest.
Related: Trump kills key Obamacare subsidy payments: What it means
After seeing her premiums rise 33% this year, Chicago resident Heather Tamburo is frustrated that her premiums will likely soar again. The stay-at-home mom and her husband, a self-employed photographer, are already paying $1,200 a month to cover themselves and their daughter.
The couple makes too much to qualify for subsidies and expect their rates to rise again for 2018. The average premium for the lowest-cost silver plan in Illinois will rise 35%, while the cheapest bronze plan will go up 20% on average. The Tamburos have already been told that Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois won't offer their same bronze plan next year.
"Next year, we'll have to switch to doctors we've never seen and to a plan we've never heard of and will have to pay more," said Tamburo, 53, who preferred the policy she had on the individual market prior to Obamacare because it had smaller annual rate increases.
For Laurie Ryan, the answer may be to leave the country.
Ryan and her husband, Randall, have bought insurance on the individual market since they started their music and voice over production studio in Austin, Texas, more than two decades ago. When the Obamacare exchanges first opened in 2014, their rates went down. But now they pay $816 a month, about $150 to $200 more than they did before Obamacare, for a plan with a $13,000 deductible. Her insurer, Sendero Health Plans, requested a premium hike of 26%, on average, for next year.
The ever-climbing cost of health insurance has pushed the Ryans to consider moving to Panama or Mexico. They've already done the research on the former -- they could get coverage for $5,000 a year in premiums, with a $5,000 deductible. They are visiting Mexico in December to talk to other Americans who have moved there.
"Spending $10,000 a year for health insurance that isn't that great ... we just can't sustain that until we qualify for Medicare," said Ryan, 52, noting they are in very good health.


Related: South Korea does a sudden U-turn on nuclear power
Investors are showing optimism about South Korean companies, too. The benchmark Kospi index has soared to record highs recently and is up more than 22% since the start of the year. That beats the Nasdaq and the Dow over the same period.
The South Korean index has been helped by heavyweight stock Samsung Electronics, which has shrugged off last year's Galaxy Note 7 debacle and the corruption conviction of its de facto leader to post a gain of more than 45% in 2017.
Trump and Kim's bellicose threats have weighed on markets from time to time this year, only for them to bounce back. Analysts say that brinkmanship over North Korea is nothing new for investors, who have seen repeated flare-ups on the Korean peninsula.
But the situation has had real consequences. The deployment of a U.S. missile defense system in South Korea angered China, the country's biggest trading partner, resulting in a sharp drop in Chinese tourists and difficulties for South Korean firms operating inside China.
Related: China can squeeze its neighbors when it wants. Ask South Korea
The boycott by Chinese tourists is hurting South Korea, but other industries like electronics are more than making up for it.
The country's economy expanded 1.4% in the third quarter, compared with the previous three months of the year. That comfortably beat economists' forecasts and was propelled by a 6.1% jump in exports.
The main problem looming over the economy is the high level of household debt, according to the Capital Economics analysts. But they expect a planned 16% increase in the minimum wage next year to prop up spending by consumers.


For instance, companies that already pay low corporate tax rates, like Pepsi (PEP), may not cash in as much as those that pay Uncle Sam a much higher rate, like Under Armour (UA). Companies pay different rates because of loopholes, tax reduction strategies and how much money they make overseas.
Much will depend on the details, most of which are still being hammered out in Congress and the White House. And there's no guarantee tax reform will happen at all.
But there's such intense interest in the negotiations that you can buy and sell a basket of stocks, the EventShares U.S. Tax Reform Fund (TAXR), that could win big if the GOP tax framework becomes reality.
"If a vote passes, we think it has a multi-year, even decade-long, impact," said Ben Phillips, a former Goldman Sachs exec who is now chief investment officer of EventShares.
Rather than simply holding low-tax stocks, this actively managed ETF includes nearly three dozen companies that Phillips believes could reap bigger rewards from tax reform than Wall Street realizes.
Related: How Trump's tax plan could backfire on Wall Street
Here are a handful of the stocks this ETF is betting will win if tax reform happens:
Ford: Trump's plan calls for slashing the corporate tax rate from 35% to 20%. That means Ford (F) could afford to sell its cars overseas at lower prices, undercutting competitors. Phillips pointed out that Ford makes more cars inside the United States than any other automaker.
Chipotle: The Mexican food chain is grappling with slower sales and rising expenses in the wake of its food safety problems. Chipotle (CMG) is also among the highest tax payers in the S&P 500, with an effective rate north of 40% in 2016, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices.
Denny's: It's another struggling fast food giant with a hefty tax bill. Phillips argues that Denny's (DENN) stock, which is flat this year, doesn't yet reflect the potential benefits of an overhaul.
CarMax: The GOP tax plan would allow companies to immediately write off, or expense, the cost of new investments. That would be critical for companies like CarMax (KMX), a used-car retailers, that spend a lot of money each year on things like opening new stores.
Southwest Airlines: Like other airlines, Southwest (LUV) spends billions each year to upgrade its fleet and buy new jets. Southwest pays a lot in taxes each year, too. Its effective tax rate was nearly 37% last year.
AK Steel: Phillips believes this company stands to benefit in two ways. Not only does AK Steel (AKS) have heavy capital spending that could be written off under the GOP plan, but its exports to Europe and Canada could grow faster thanks to a tax break.
Phillips 66: The fund has very few energy companies. One is Phillips 66 (PSX), which is known as Warren Buffett's favorite oil company because Berkshire Hathaway (BRKA) is its biggest shareholder. Tax cuts could make Phillips 66 and other oil refiners more competitive.
W.W. Grainger: It's been a terrible year for W.W. Grainger. (GWW) The distributor of repair and maintenance tools has lost 17% of its value. But W.W. Grainger could win big from corporate tax cuts. The company paid an effective tax rate of nearly 38% last year, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices.


Since the recession, wage growth has been stubbornly weak, an asterisk in the job market recovery. There was a glimmer of hope in September, when wages rose 2.9% from the year before, the strongest in eight years.
It's too early to know whether that was temporary, a statistical blip because of the hurricanes, or the beginning of long-repressed wage inflation.
Related: Romans' Numeral: Is it too late to buy stocks?
Another asterisk: Geography. Unemployment is still high in some places, like Alaska, New Mexico, and Washington, D.C.
And then there's this: A record 6 million jobs are open in the United States, and at the same time 6 million people are looking for work.
So why can't those unemployed people fill those jobs? Employers say they can't find workers who have the right training. It's been a problem for years.
Other factors that could be holding down wage growth are automation, which is eliminating some jobs, and competition from overseas.
But until wage growth improves, it's holding the economy back from an even stronger recovery.


Related: Big Mac attack! McDonald's is still red hot
The new name "sounds like a furniture store. Are you sure the food is edible?" asked LEON0221 on Weibo (WB), China's equivalent of Twitter (TWTR).
Another Weibo user, Magellandechuan, said the name made McDonald's sound like one of China's stuffy state-owned companies and was "not fitting for a foreign brand." Others complained it was "rustic" or backward.
Not everyone was unhappy, though. One user suggested objectors needed a lesson in McDonald's history, recommending they watch "The Founder," the Hollywood biopic about McDonald's Ray Kroc, to understand the significance of Golden Arches.
Related: What's in your fast-food meat?
In any case, McDonald's' fans in China shouldn't ditch their Big Macs and Chicken McNuggets just yet. A company spokeswoman in Shanghai told CNNMoney that the name change only applies to the chain's business registration and that restaurants' branding will stay the same.
The tweak to the business name comes after McDonald's U.S. parent firm earlier this year sold most of its business in China and Hong Kong to a Chinese consortium for more than $2 billion.

China isn't the only market where McDonald's uses the Golden Arches name. In the Philippines, the restaurant chain is registered as "Golden Arches Development Corporation."
It's common for big Western brands to pick a Chinese name in a bid to broaden their appeal with consumers in the country. Coca-Cola (CCE) is known as Ke kou ke le, which translates as "tasty and fun." Search engine Google (GOOG) goes by Gu ge, or "harvesting song."
Related: McDonald's vows to reboot Szechuan sauce for spurned 'Rick and Morty' fans
Selecting a Chinese name can also be a pitfall for companies. Online rentals platform Airbnb's choice, Aibiying, means "welcome each other with love." That sounds pleasant enough, but some Chinese people complain it sounds odd and is hard to pronounce.
McDonald's has been in China since 1990 and has about 2,500 outlets in the country. It plans to open another 2,000 over the next five years.


Google parent Alphabet (GOOGL), Amazon (AMZN), Baidu (BIDU), Columbia Sportswear (COLM), Expedia (EXPE), Gilead Sciences (GILD), Intel (INTC), Mattel (MAT), Microsoft (MSFT) and Wynn Resorts (WYNN) will release quarterly results after the close.
2. Stock market movers: Shares in Buffalo Wild Wings (BWLD) were moving dramatically higher ahead of the open after the company reported better-than-expected earnings.
Shares in the hospital management firm Universal Health Services (UHS) were 5% lower in premarket trade after the company's earnings missed expectations.
In Europe, Barclays (BCS) and Deutsche Bank (DB) were hit after the firms released disappointing results. Shares in the British bank were off by 5%, while its German rival shed 3%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
3. Eyes on the ECB: The European Central Bank is set to announce its latest monetary policy plans at 7:45 a.m. ET, which will be followed by a press conference by central bank chief Mario Draghi.
Investors expect Draghi to outline his plans for winding down the ECB's stimulus program.
The bank is currently buying €60 billion ($71 billion) worth of government bonds and other assets each month, an effort designed to help support economic growth across the region.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were little changed after a retreat from record levels on Wednesday.
European markets were mixed in early trading.
Most Asian markets ended the day with gains. South Korea's KOSPI was the region's biggest loser with a dip of 0.5%.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
5. Coming this week:
Thursday -- Tech giants including Alphabet (GOOG), Amazon (AMZN), Baidu.com (BIDU), Intel (INTC) and Microsoft (MSFT) report earnings. Friday -- ExxonMobil (XOM) and Chevron (CVX) report earnings; U.S. GDP Q3 estimate released


"There will be NO change to your 401(k). This has always been a great and popular middle class tax break that works, and it stays!" Trump tweeted.
But Kevin Brady, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, hasn't exactly echoed the president's adamant stance.
On Monday afternoon he told reporters that Trump's tweet doesn't change what his committee is planning to do. And on Wednesday morning, when asked whether the prospect of a 401(k) change is dead given the president's tweet, he didn't answer directly.
"We are continuing discussions with the president, all focused on saving more and saving sooner," Brady said at a Christian Science Monitor breakfast.
Today, you may contribute up to $18,000 to a traditional 401(k) if your employer offers one. That money is not taxed when you make the contribution. Instead it grows tax-deferred. But once you start taking funds out in retirement, your withdrawals are taxed as regular income.
Related: How do you pay for tax cuts? Republicans can't agree
There were reports over the weekend that tax writers were considering lowering the $18,000 cap to as low as $2,400. And the retirement plan industry has been further concerned that lawmakers would "Rothify" any contributions above the lower cap.
That is, your contributions would be made after-tax, as they are in a Roth IRA, but your gains and withdrawals would be tax-free. In other words, if lawmakers opt to "Rothify" 401(k)s, you would get no immediate tax break for saving money above the cap.
When it was pointed out to President Trump on Wednesday afternoon that Brady's comments suggest a change to the 401(k) still might be on the table, Trump said, "Well, maybe it is, and maybe we'll use it as negotiating. But trust me, that's one of the great things. You know, there are certain elements of deals you don't want to negotiate with. 401(k)s -- and Kevin knows it, and I think Kevin Brady is fantastic -- but he knows how important 401(k)s are."
Of course, none of this back and forth indicates what will happen in the end. Even if Brady proposes a change in his bill, there's no saying it will survive the negotiations that will ensue this fall.
-- CNN's Ashley Killough contributed to this report


Walgreens helped vault this year's tally to a new high when it said Wednesday that it plans to close about 600 locations.
Related: Toys 'R' Us files for bankruptcy
The drug store chain recently struck a deal to purchase 1,932 Rite Aid stores, and a Walgreens (WBA) spokesperson said most of the shuttered stores will be Rite Aid locations within close proximity to existing stores.
Other chains that have announced big batches of store closings this year include Kmart, Sears, JCPenney, Ann Taylor, Gap, Banana Republic, Gymboree, Teavana, Michael Kors, Bebe, Perfumania, The Limited, and Staples.
At the heart of retail's woes is the rise of both online shopping and fast fashion. As e-commerce giants have gobbled up market share from some brick-and-mortar brands, cheaper outlets like H&M and Forever 21 have also threatened clothing brands' business models.
Related: 200 Gap and Banana Republic stores closing
By and large, analysts expect this year's final total to be dismal. As many as 8,600 brick-and-mortar stores are expected to close this year, Credit Suisse said in an April research report.
If that projection is correct, that means America will lose more than 147 million square feet of retail space.
At least 300 retailers have filed for bankruptcy so far this year, according to figures released by BankruptcyData.com in June.
--CNNMoney's Chris Isidore contributed to this report.


Now GE faces a question that would have been inconceivable not long ago -- whether it should lose its blue-chip status after 110 uninterrupted years as a Dow component.
CNBC, Reuters and MarketWatch have all asked whether GE's days in the Dow could, or should, be numbered. (Marketwatch is owned by News Corp.'s (NWSA) Dow Jones, but the committee that selects Dow stocks is run by S&P Global (SPGI), the same company that picks the stocks for the S&P 500.)
GE was one of the first components when the Dow debuted in 1897. Back then, the average included just a dozen companies. GE was removed and added back several times. It returned to the Dow in 1907 and has been there ever since.
Related: GE's nightmare just got worse
Here's why GE could be in real danger of getting booted again.
Unlike the S&P 500 and most other major market barometers, the Dow is weighted by stock price, not market value. And even though GE isn't the smallest company in the average -- not even close -- it has the lowest stock price, about $21.40 a share.
The folks running the Dow like to have no more than a 10-to-1 ratio between the stock with the highest price and the stock with the lowest. Boeing (BA) trades at about $258 a share -- nearly 12 times the price of GE. Goldman Sachs (GS) and 3M (MMM) also trade at more than 10 times higher.
Still, the people who manage the Dow are reluctant to make big changes willy-nilly.
Technically, a new company was added to the Dow just this summer. And it's even named Dow. DowDuPont (DWDP) joined after Dow Chemical merged with DuPont, an existing Dow component.
But the last time the Dow made a real major move was more than two years ago, when Apple (AAPL) was added and AT&T (T) was removed. (AT&T is buying CNN parent company Time Warner (TWX).)
Related: What's wrong with GE? An American icon is in 'crisis'
The most recent change before that was in September 2013, when Alcoa (AA), Bank of America (BAC) and Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) were removed and replaced by Goldman Sachs, Nike (NKE) and Visa (V).
By way of comparison, stocks are added to and dropped from the S&P 500 much more often -- usually because a company has been bought or has become too small.
David Blitzer, managing director and chairman of the index committee for S&P Dow Jones Indices, had no comment about the speculation surrounding GE being removed from the Dow. GE was not immediately available for comment.
But it's worth noting that while GE's ever-shrinking stock price may not be bringing good things to life for investors, GE is not the smallest company in the Dow by market value.
GE has a market value of about $185 billion, higher than Merck (MRK), Disney (DIS), IBM (IBM), Nike and 10 other Dow components. The smallest Dow company -- insurance firm Travelers (TRV) -- is worth just $36 billion.
Related: GE vice chair Beth Comstock is stepping down
But GE's problems may remind people of other erstwhile titans of American commerce who were once in the Dow -- companies like Sears (SHLD), Eastman Kodak (KODK), the defunct Bethlehem Steel and Woolworth, which now is known as Foot Locker (FL).
So could GE really be kicked out of the Dow? It's possible. But don't bank on it just yet.
It's true that the Dow is not meant to be a representation of just the largest companies. If that were the case, Amazon (AMZN), Facebook (FB) and Google owner Alphabet (GOOGL) would be in.
And yes, GE is a shell of its former self. But what's left is a large industrial company with $125 billion in annual sales. So to paraphrase Mark Twain -- who was still alive when GE joined the Dow -- the rumors of its demise may be greatly exaggerated.


A digital version of the Wish Book is interactive and accessible to the public, but the glossy limited edition copy will only be available to Sears' "best customers," the company said.
Related: Sears is breaking up with Whirlpool after a century
The new Wish Book is also slimmer, coming in at 120 pages. Some of the book's earlier predecessors were hundreds of pages long.
Sears' catalogs helped define it as an American retail giant in the early 20th century, when buying mail order was in vogue.
But the rise of e-commerce has not been kind to Sears.
In the past ten years, it has closed nearly 60% of its U.S. stores. Sales have fallen sharply as the retailer cuts costs and sells assets, such as its Craftsman brand, to try to stay afloat. Its stock has fallen nearly 50% year to date.
Sears Canada, which spun off from Sears Holdings in 2012, recently filed for bankruptcy and announced it was closing all of its stores.
The department store has -- more ominously -- admitted to having existential concerns about its ability to survive in the modern retail landscape.
Sears said the 2017 Wish Book will feature a huge range of products. "From drains to drills to dresses...from tools to TVs to tablets, we've got your back," the company said.
Sears ended its 100 year relationship with Whirlpool (WHR) on Tuesday. The retailer did not immediately return request for comment on whether Whirlpool appliances would be featured in the catalog.


"It won't be a big shock," he told Fox Business on Wednesday.
Trump neither fully endorsed Yellen nor dismissed her chances of getting renominated.
He hinted that the stock market's rise to record highs -- one of his favorite talking points -- was partially due to the Fed's monetary policy under Yellen's watch. The Dow recently crossed 23,000 points for the first time in history. Trump also credited himself for the stock market's success.
Related: Trump keeps teasing imminent Fed Chair decision
"We're obviously doing very well together, you look at the markets," Trump told Fox Business, speaking of himself and Yellen.
But Trump admitted he wants to put his own stamp on the Fed and its leadership. After all, Yellen was nominated by President Obama in 2013.
"In one way I have to say, you like to make your own mark ... which is maybe one of things that she's got a little bit against her," Trump added.
Trump's comments on the nomination have changed day to day. In a separate interview with Fox, he hinted that Fed Governor Jerome Powell and Stanford economist John Taylor are frontrunners. Former Fed Governor Kevin Warsh is also a candidate.
At a meeting on Capitol Hill on Tuesday, Trump did a "show of hands" poll for the next Fed chair in a closed-door meeting with Republicans. Some lawmakers told CNN that Taylor was apparently the most liked in the casual vote, but no official tally was made.
Trump also asked Fox anchor Lou Dobbs in the interview on Wednesday who he would choose to be Fed Chair.
"I personally believe that Janet Yellen might be worth keeping," Dobbs replied.


The crown prince
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the driving force behind sweeping economic changes in Saudi Arabia, made a rare appearance at the conference, addressing a huge audience of investors on Tuesday.
The young crown prince had a message: We are open for business.
He also delivered a warning to ultraconservatives, vowing to to destroy "extremist ideologies" and return to "a more moderate Islam."
"We want to lead normal lives, lives where our religion and our traditions translate into tolerance, so that we coexist with the world and become part of the development of the world," he said.
Related: Saudi Arabia is investing billions in fun
It's a development that was welcomed by investors.
Colony Capital chief executive Tom Barrack, who lived in the kingdom in the 1970s, said that these reforms may succeed where others failed.
"His approach is definitively the right one," Barrack said of the crown prince.
"What you've seen here in the last few days is a real commitment of tolerance," he added. "We are going to create an environment for the West that will be transparent, secure, stable and understandable."
A new mega-city
The crown prince also unveiled NEOM, a $500 billion mega-city that will span three countries. The city will be powered entirely by regenerative energy, while also making use of automated driving technology and passenger drones. Wireless hi-speed internet will be free.
Should it become reality, the development could become a major driver of tourism, an industry that is key to the crown prince's ambitious Vision 2030 program. The goal is to diversify the country's revenue and reduce what he once called an "addiction" to oil.
It would also build stronger ties with neighbors Jordan and Egypt, whose territory would be included in the project.
One major caveat: Saudi has previously announced several economic cities that have failed to attract the right investment, with many office spaces reduced to empty caverns in the desert.
Massive investment
Much of the change in Saudi Arabia is being funded by the country's Public Investment Fund (PIF).
The sovereign fund has contributed $45 billion to Softbank's Vision Fund, which is the world's largest technology investor. PIF has also poured $20 billion into a Blackstone infrastructure fund.
Some fund managers and business titans attending the conference have privately expressed worries over the kingdom's ability to deliver on all of the projects built into Vision 2030.
But the pace of new initiatives has only accelerated. On Wednesday, PIF said it plans to increase its assets under management to $400 billion by 2020. It wants to create 20,000 direct jobs and 256,000 jobs in construction.
"I'm sure they need and should be looking at domestic investments as well," said Joshua Friedman, co-CEO of Canyon Partners, "As they interact with the most sophisticated investors globally ... I'm sure they'll bring that sophistication to bear on their own markets."
Related: The man leading Saudi Arabia's overhaul just got more powerful
The world's biggest IPO
One of the biggest remaining questions surrounds a partial sell-off of the kingdom's crown jewel, Saudi Aramco. Officials have said they expect the IPO to value the giant sate oil company at around $2 trillion. If the market agrees, selling just 5% would raise $100 billion.
The debut has been scheduled for 2018, but there are doubts over its realization. Aramco has disputed recent media reports suggesting uncertainty.
CEO Amin Nasser told CNNMoney in an interview that an IPO is on track for 2018, but he refused to define whether it will have an international listing.
"We looked at the different venues, which are New York, London, Hong Kong, Tokyo," he said. "We are taking time for the shareholders [the ruling family] to look at all the data ... and then the decision where to list ... will come in due course."
Economic regulation, foreign ownership laws, and strict Islamic laws have often deterred investors in the past.
This time, investors are listening.


This is the largest contract awarded to any company for relief efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria.
Related: Questions swirl after small Montana firm lands Puerto Rico contract
Whitefish only had two employees the day the hurricane hit. Already, the company has scaled up to 300 employees in Puerto Rico -- and it says 700 more are on the way. Such quick growth is typical among utility firms when they are awarded large contracts, the firm told CNN.
"It seems like what the Puerto Rican people are going to be paying for, or the American people are going to be paying for, is an intermediary that doesn't know what is at stake here and that really has to subcontract everything," Yulin Cruz said of Whitefish in the interview. "What we need is somebody that can get the job done and that has the expertise to get the job done."
In a statement Wednesday, Whitefish spokesman Chris Chiames said Yulin Cruz's comments were "misplaced."
"We are making progress and doing work when others are not even here," Whitefish's statement said. "We find her comments to be very disappointing and demoralizing to the hundreds of people on our team that have left their homes and families and have come here to help the people of Puerto Rico."
By Wednesday afternoon, the situation got heated on social media.
After Whitefish posted its statement on Twitter, Yulin Cruz tweeted: "If @WhitefishEnergy feels that asking for transparency is "misplaced", what are they afraid we will find."
"We've got 44 linemen rebuilding power lines in your city & 40 more men just arrived. Do you want us to send them back or keep working?," the utility company replied to the mayor on Twitter.
We've got 44 linemen rebuilding power lines in your city & 40 more men just arrived. Do you want us to send them back or keep working?
"Threats received by @WhitefishEnergy. The implication is if I do not "play nice" they will not do their job. Nasty!," the mayor tweeted back. She said Whitefish's response implied it would not treat San Juan with the "diligence it deserves."
Whitefish then tweeted that it did not want to leave the island without helping and it was committed to restoring power in Puerto Rico.
Related: Puerto Rico's cash crisis: 35% of banks still closed
Yulin Cruz has long been a critic of Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello, who backed the Whitefish contract. She has also criticized President Trump's handling of relief efforts on the island, repeatedly noting that U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico are facing a "life and death situation" since the hurricane made landfall.
She does not have authority over PREPA and the contracts it issues.
The Whitefish contract has also been raising a few eyebrows among Democrats. On Tuesday, both a House and a Senate committee called for reviews of the Whitefish contract.
PREPA's executive director, Ricardo Ramos, told reporters last week during a press conference the cash-strapped island chose Whitefish because it didn't require a big deposit upfront. The other unnamed contender wanted a $25 million down payment for the work, Ramos said.
"In that moment, we were not in a position to offer that collateral," said Ramos. "The other company did not ask for a guarantee of payment."
But some on Capitol Hill are concerned that Whitefish may have stood out for another reason.
The tiny utility company is based in Whitefish, Montana, which also happens to be the hometown of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke.
Both Zinke and Whitefish CEO Andy Techmanski acknowledge knowing one another. Zinke's office described Whitefish as a "small town" with a population of roughly 6,000 people. One of the secretary's sons "joined a friend who worked a summer job at one their [Whitefish's] construction sites."
Related: Who owns Puerto Rico's mountain of debt? You do
Whitefish spokesman Ken Luce confirmed an Oct. 1 report by NBC Montana, which quoted Techmanski as saying he reached out to Zinke after winning the contract to help get resources to the island more quickly,
But Luce told CNN that the company did not make any requests to the administration except for one after the contract was signed on Sept. 26.
"The secretary had absolutely nothing to do with Whitefish getting the contract," he said.
Techmanski, who has described the firm as specializing in "difficult and mountainous terrain projects," has downplayed any ties to the administration.
Related: Can Elon Musk fix Puerto Rico's broken power grid?
"All I can say is, we took the call and we're here," Techmanski told CNN Friday, referring to a call from director Ramos. "We called each other."
Still, PREPA, a state-owned utility, chose to hire Whitefish rather than initiate agreements with other utilities to help recover from the natural disaster more quickly.
The bankrupt utility, which is $9 billion in debt, could have requested aid after Maria through the American Public Power Association, a network that provides help to other utilities during widespread power outages. That's what Texas and Florida did after Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
--CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie contributed to this report.


But before anyone reworks their budget to make way for all that new cash, here are a few things to keep in mind:
Some economists have serious doubts
Most economists can agree that "well-designed tax changes can improve living standards over time," said Donald Marron, a former acting director of the Congressional Budget Office who now is director of economic policy initiatives at the Urban Institute.
But they part company on just how big the benefit to wages could be. In fact, it's among the most unresolved issues in economics today.
Jason Furman, who ran the Council of Economic Advisers under President Obama and is Hassett's immediate predecessor, characterized the claim that average working households might see $4,000 to $9,000 more in income every year as "wild" in a recent Wall Street Journal opinion piece.
Even an economist whose research Hassett cited in his study pushed back against the $4,000 claim as being far too high. "Cutting corporate taxes will help wages but exaggeration only serves to undercut the reasonableness of the core argument," Harvard finance professor Mihir Desai tweeted.
A lot of mainstream economists would agree. "If you just go by weight of opinion by people who think about this for a living, [the boost to income] will probably be much lower than $4,000," Marron said.
Some, however, aren't shocked by Hassett's estimate. Using a comprehensive model he developed with colleagues over several years, Boston University economics professor Laurence Kotlikoff estimated the entire tax reform framework negotiated by the White House and Republican leaders could potentially generate enough growth to boost average working household incomes by $3,500 a year.
Related: White House explains why it believes corporate tax cuts mean bigger paychecks
That said, Kotlikoff noted that there's always some uncertainty with any model. "I don't think what [Hassett] suggested is out of the range of possibility. Nor do I think zero is out of the range of possibility."
More income per household doesn't mean per paycheck
Hassett's report measures the potential wage gains by household. And his $4,000 estimate applies to both households that bring in the mean (or average) income in the country ($83,143 in 2016 per Census data) as well as the median income ($59,039).
Related: Cutting U.S. corporate taxes could mean a windfall for foreign investors
But that's not the same as saying every worker would see a $4,000 raise, since the Census Bureau reports that there is more than one earner on average in households at those income levels.
Other tax changes may undercut the potential benefits
The $4,000 estimate is based on the prospect of lowering the corporate rate to 20% and letting businesses fully and immediately write off many capital investments.
If lawmakers can't get the rate that low (e.g., because of deficit concerns), or if they make the rate cut temporary or in some other way inhibit the incentive to invest, that could curtail potential wage gains.
"If there were lots of other changes that we haven't modeled that worked in the other direction, then these numbers could change," Hassett noted in a press briefing.
A boost to income won't happen right away
In a briefing with reporters, Hassett allowed that "it's hard to come up with a model that jumps to $4,000 in the first year."
And he noted in his second report that estimates vary as to when wages might grow, with some models suggesting it could take three to five years, and others estimating it could take at least twice that long.
In fact, no one knows quite how long it might take for a corporate rate cut to start affecting wages.
Kotlikoff, for instance, estimates that average household income under the GOP tax reform framework might rise by $3,500 within six to eight years.
Updated: This article has been updated to incorporate information from a second paper by Kevin Hassett released on Friday.


Coke (KO) said that sales in North America were up 3% from a year ago. That may not sound like a great accomplishment but it's actually solid growth for a company of Coke's size. Plus, the U.S. beverage market is pretty saturated.
Coke also said that its market share was up and that's a testament to both Coke's sales gains and a drop reported by its key rival. Pepsi (PEP) said earlier this month that its soft drink sales in North America actually fell slightly.
Pepsi CFO Hugh Johnston told CNNMoney after its latest earnings report that the main reason for the slide was because the company focused more marketing efforts on newer, low-calorie products and less on core brands like Pepsi and Mountain Dew.
Interestingly, Coke said that sales volume for its Mountain Dew rival, Sprite, were up in the third quarter.
Related: Coca-Cola replaces Coke Zero with new sugarless drink
And another Coke competitor -- Dr Pepper Snapple (DPS) -- posted weak sales on Wednesday, blaming the impact of recent hurricanes and earthquakes in Mexico for the sluggish performance.
But Coke CEO James Quincey, who succeeded long-time chief executive Muhtar Kent earlier this year, said he was pleased with his company's results, particularly since they come while the company is "making substantial structural and cultural changes."
Along those lines, Coke is making a bigger push beyond its core cola drinks. Coke is now partnering on coffee drinks from Dunkin' Brands (DNKN) and McDonald's (MCD) that are sold in supermarkets -- a clear challenge to Starbucks (SBUX).
Coke also announced earlier this month that it was buying the popular Mexican-based maker of sparkling water, Topo Chico. That move led to a big drop in the stock of LaCroix owner National Beverage (FIZZ).
And National Beverage's CEO Nick Caporella put out a bizarre press release last week to defend the company's recent performance. The release concluded with this strange proclamation.
"If you have the opinion that I, Nick A. Caporella, am angrily exercised while extremely fortunate to be guiding FIZZ, your opinion is quite accurate!" National Beverage's iconic brands are the genuine essence . . . of America. "Patriotism" -- If Only We Could Bottle It! WE SPARKLE . . . AMERICA SMILES!"
Related: America loves fast food, soda and booze
Coke, of course, doesn't self-promote in such a fashion. It doesn't have to, given how iconic the company is in the U.S.
But Coke is also a global giant -- and its sales in emerging markets are gaining steam too. The company said Wednesday that another reason for its solid overall sales was due to a jump in revenue in China, India and South Korea.
Coke shares fell slightly Wednesday despite the better than expected results. But the stock is still up 11% this year and is outperforming Pepsi and Dr Pepper Snapple.


"This bold and innovative multilateral approach is needed because terrorism poses a threat to all of our nations," said Mnuchin. "It is critical that we come together to combat this."
The deal builds on a prior agreement reached during President Trump's visit to Riyadh in May. That pact created a center to coordinate the efforts of all seven countries to undermine the financing of terrorist groups.
The White House has prioritized using such economic tools to combat rogue regimes like North Korea and terrorist organizations, like ISIS. The administration has been working to tamp down on terror attacks by cutting off their access to an expansive network of fundraisers, recruiters and operators.
Mnuchin said ISIS has raised hundreds of millions of dollars through the theft of oil, kidnapping and extortion, and targeted sanctions by the U.S. have helped to reduce the flow of capital to the terrorist organization.
"We are focused on maximizing the use of our expansive economic authorities, intelligence, and other sources of financial information to target and interrupt the financing of those who execute and facilitate these deadly attacks and other destabilizing activities," said Mnuchin.
Related: Did China just break its promise not to buy North Korea coal?
The group of countries designated eight key ISIS and al Qaeda leaders operating in Yemen, including Abu Sulayman al-Adani, a top ISIS leader in Yemen and Khalid al-Marfadi, who has been in charge of the movements of ISIS fighters.
Some of the men designated have acted as arms dealers helping to smuggle weapons to secret locations and storage depots in the country, while another has acted as a military and chief financial officer for ISIS.
They also designated a supermarket and four of its stores, which are run by one of the ISIS weapons dealers on the U.S. list.
Speaking with reporters on a conference call, a senior administration official said the U.S. had proposed a lengthier list of individuals and entities supporting the terrorist groups in the country, but other countries asked for certain names to be removed for various reasons.
"It is absolutely the case we had additional targets we wanted to go after but some of the countries didn't want [to]," said the senior administration official.
Related: U.S. slaps sanctions on 8 North Korean banks
The senior administration official acknowledged that the enforcement of such sanctions by each country is voluntary, but noted there is "political will" by each of the countries to shut off the terror financing spigot.
"It is not a trivial matter," said the senior administration official. "We have shut down their ability to travel, to actually do that [kind of] fundraising."


The government, which announced its intervention on Tuesday, has repeatedly faced calls to shore up the banking system.
Analysts hailed the cash injection as a "significant" and "much needed" move that should help revive the country's flagging economy.
Investors agreed. Shares in State Bank of India, the country's largest lender, gained over 26% Wednesday on the Bombay Stock Exchange.
Punjab National Bank gained 46% and Bank of India advanced by 33%.
Related: India's airports will be at breaking point by 2022
Yet some analysts questioned whether the government bailout is big enough to fully repair the damage caused by bad loans.
Indian banks need a much larger infusion of $65 billion to comply with new international regulations that will come into force in 2019, according to Fitch Ratings. The fresh government funds should be enough to tide the state-run banks over for a couple of years, but analysts say more uncertainty awaits.
"I think they probably will need even larger-scale [infusions] beyond the next two years," said Shilan Shah, India economist at Capital Economics.
The current bailout also doesn't guarantee that public sector banks will be in a position to give their customers new loans, analysts say.
"The measures will not immediately spur new lending," Shailesh Kumar, an analyst at the Eurasia Group, wrote in a research note.
That's because private banks have largely filled the gap in lending left by public lenders. Other sources of uncertainty, including a disruptive national tax overhaul, continue to have a cooling effect on private investment, he said.
Related: India's economy in 'downward spiral.' What did Modi get wrong?
The government's continued involvement in the sector -- its 21 banks hold roughly two-thirds of industry assets -- could also be part of the problem.
"There has to be a willingness on the part of the government to actually sell off its stake," Shah said. "I don't think there's the will at the moment to reduce its stake to below 51% or 50% so that the private sector can become majority shareholders."


"Today's growth figures show that, despite the Brexit headwinds, U.K. growth is good enough to give the [central bank] the green light for a rate rise," said Ian Stewart, chief economist at Deloitte.
The central bank's key interest rate is currently set at a record low of 0.25%. It had been as high as 5.75% in mid-2007.
Britain's economy has been under pressure in the aftermath of last summer's Brexit referendum.
Unemployment has continued to fall, but a sharp drop in the value of the pound has hurt consumers by making imported goods more expensive. Wages have also been squeezed and the housing market has slowed.
Uncertainty about the terms of a divorce deal with the European Union has forced businesses to put investments on hold.
"The U.K. growth rate would probably be nearer 2.5% this year if it weren't for Brexit," said Kallum Pickering, a senior U.K. economist at Berenberg Bank.
Related: Time is now the key factor in Brexit talks
The new GDP data showed strength in the services sector, including computer programming and retail. However, there were signs of further decline in construction.
" These numbers do not change the big picture for the U.K.," said John Hawksworth, chief economist at PwC.
Related: The CNNMoney Brexit jobs tracker
The central bank is expected to raise interest rates by 0.25 percentage points next Thursday, part of a bid to control inflation. The move would benefit savers, who have for years seen paltry returns on their deposits.
But it would also make borrowing more expensive for consumers who are facing tighter household budgets.
"While any interest rate hikes would be limited and gradual, even small increases could cause problems for many consumers given high borrowing levels," said Howard Archer, an economic adviser to EY .


"The only silver lining is today's promotion of key officials that favor greater reform, which offers a modicum of hope that policy could shift in a more liberal direction in future," he added.
Chinese stocks were higher on Wednesday.
2. U.K. GDP: Britain's economy expanded by 0.4% in the three months ended September compared to the previous quarter.
That's better than economists expected, and a notch faster than the 0.3% rate posted in both the first and second quarters.
The pound gained 0.3% against the dollar following the release.
3. Ransomware attack: The U.S. government has issued a warning about a new ransomware attack that has spread through Russia and Ukraine and into other countries.
Cybersecurity experts said the ransomware -- which posed as an Adobe update before locking down computers and demanding money for people to get their files back -- targeted Russian media companies and Ukrainian transportation systems.
It has also been detected in countries including the U.S., Germany and Japan.
4. Market overview: U.S. stock futures were lower.
European markets opened mostly higher, following the upward trend set in Asia.
The Dow Jones industrial average added 0.7% on Tuesday to close at yet another record high.
The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq gained 0.2%.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Earnings and economics: Scores of companies are reporting their quarterly results on Wednesday.
Alaska Air (ALK), Anthem (ANTM), Boeing (BA), Brinks (BCO), Coca-Cola (KO), Dr Pepper Snapple (DPS), GrubHub (GRUB), Lear (LEA), NASDAQ (NDAQ), Nielsen (NLSN), Norfolk Southern (NSC), Sirius XM Radio (SIRI), trivago (TRVG), Visa (V), Walgreens Boot Alliance (WBA) and Wyndham Worldwide (WYN) will report before the open.
AFLAC (AFL), Ethan Allen (ETH), Fidelity National (FNF), Las Vegas Sands (LVS), Nutrisystem (NTRI) and O'Reilly Auto (ORLY) will follow after the close.
The U.S. Census Bureau plans to release its September report on new home sales at 10 a.m. ET.
The weekly U.S. crude inventories report will follow at 10:30 a.m.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
6. Coming this week:
Wednesday -- Coca-Cola, Walgreens, Boeing and Visa earnings; ECNY luncheon with Wilbur Ross Thursday -- Mattel, Twitter, Alphabet, Microsoft, Intel, Comcast, Ford, Southwest, American Airlines, Hershey, Xerox and Amazon earnings, ECB interest rate decision Friday -- ExxonMobil, Chevron and Merck earnings; GDP Q3 estimates


It said the incidents "suggest a corporate culture of racial insensitivity and possible racial bias" and advised travelers to exercise caution.
"Booking and boarding flights on American Airlines could subject them [to] disrespectful, discriminatory or unsafe conditions," the advisory said.
Related: Get ready for a more militant NAACP
American Airlines (AAL) CEO Doug Parker said in a memo to staff that the company was "disappointed" to hear about the NAACP warning.
"We fly over borders, walls and stereotypes to connect people from different races, religions, nationalities, economic backgrounds and sexual orientations," Parker wrote in the memo, which the company released to reporters. "We do not and will not tolerate discrimination of any kind."
He said the airline has reached out to the NAACP to meet with them. NAACP President Derrick Johnson had called for a meeting with the airline's leadership.
Related: NAACP issues its first statewide travel advisory, for Missouri
The NAACP warning referenced four examples, including one involving a black woman who was removed from a New York-bound flight after she complained that her seat was changed without her consent.
Though the woman was not identified by the NAACP, she spoke to CNNMoney about the incident.
That woman, Tamika Mallory, said she had gotten into a heated exchange earlier this month with a gate attendant at the Miami airport who she described as "very disrespectful" and "very dismissive." Mallory said she told the attendant that she would file a report about the incident.
Mallory, a civil rights activist and the co-chair of the Women's March on Washington, said the pilot of the aircraft, a white man, witnessed the end of the encounter and pulled her aside.
"The first words to come out the pilot's mouth to me are, 'Respect is a two-way street,'" she said, adding that he asked her whether she could behave herself on the flight.
Mallory said she told him there would be no issue and boarded the plane. She said she sat quietly for 10 minutes before being asked to get up and leave.
As she left, Mallory said, she saw the pilot again.
"He looks at me and points and says, 'Yeah, her. Off.'"
Mallory said she told an NAACP board member about the incident and tweeted details from her encounter with the pilot.
Only reason this pilot got involved was to assert his white male power over who he thought was just some uppity black girl. That's it.

Since then, she said many people have told her their own stories about similar incidents.
"Some of them are actually friends of mine," Mallory said. She added they "have felt that there is a level of aggression in terms of how people, particularly black women, are being handled on these flights."
The NAACP listed the four examples but it did not provide the names of the passengers or say when the events are alleged to have taken place.
In one other case, the NAACP said a black woman and her baby were removed from a flight from Atlanta to New York after she asked for their stroller to be retrieved from checked baggage before she left the plane.
Another allegation described an incident involving a black woman who had booked first-class tickets for herself and a white companion. At the ticket counter, the black woman was moved to coach, while her traveling partner was allowed to stay in first class, the NAACP said.
And on a different occasion, on a flight from Washington, D.C., to Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina, a black man was forced to give up his seat after he "responded to disrespectful and discriminatory comments directed toward him by two unruly white passengers," according to the NAACP.
American Airlines did not comment on the specific allegations.
Mallory said a meeting with American "is being worked on." She added that she hopes the company can be a potential leader in addressing these issues.
"I think that the company has continuously put out statements about their commitment to diversity, and their commitment to treating all of their passengers the same," she said.
"And I think that a statement is good. But if your personnel is not carrying out that vision, then there's a problem. And there has to be accountability mechanisms in place to ensure that if we see a pattern, that we've got to address it."
The NAACP is asking people who have concerns about their travel with American or other airlines to report their experiences to the organization.
Johnson said the NAACP's "growing list of incidents ... involves behavior that cannot be dismissed as normal or random."
In August, the organization issued a travel advisory for Missouri, citing several discriminatory incidents in the state as reasons for individual visitors to travel with "extreme caution."
It said at the time that the Missouri advisory was the first ever issued by the organization, at the state or national level.


"They shake the credibility of Japan's manufacturing, which is valued for its high quality and safety," Transportation Minister Keiichi Ishii told reporters Friday after the latest revelations from Kobe Steel (KBSTY) and Nissan (NSANF).
Other recent scandals include Takata's deadly airbags, Mitsubishi Motors' fudged fuel-efficiency tests and Toshiba (TOSBF)'s damaging debacles over its accounting and its nuclear power business.
'A sad reflection'
The problems suggest poor oversight by senior managers at Japanese businesses, experts say. That contrasts starkly with Japan Inc's reputation for quality that's widely credited with driving its success since the 1970s.
"Clearly, it is a sad reflection on aspects of the quality culture of Japan," said Professor Thomas Clarke, director of the Center for Corporate Governance at University of Technology Sydney's Business School.
Clarke attributes the failings in large part to the loyalty required from managers wishing to make their way up Japan's corporate ladder.
Related: Europe to planemakers: Stop buying Kobe Steel products
Long-term service at a company is rewarded with higher pay and tax benefits. That makes workers "reluctant to blow the whistle for fear of losing their job or being demoted," said Marcel Thielient, a Japan expert at research firm Capital Economics.
That appears to be what happened at Kobe Steel, where employees fabricated data on the strength and durability on copper and aluminum products going back at least a decade.
Cutting corners
Some experts say Japanese firms are too willing to sacrifice standards in order to grow market share and profits. That's a particular challenge in their domestic economy, which has struggled for decades with sputtering growth and falling prices.
"Corners can get cut and negative news is buried in the vain hope it might go away," said Professor Jeffrey Kingston, director of Asian Studies at Temple University Japan.
Related: How things got ugly for some of Japan's biggest brands
Japanese manufacturers are facing more competitive pressure than ever before. Aggressive rivals have emerged from China, South Korea and Taiwan -- neighboring economies that once lagged Japan but are now export powerhouses for high-end products like electronics and autos.
"Globalization of supply chains has put pressure on suppliers to do more for less," Kingston said. That's left some Japanese companies struggling to compete.
Last year, electronics giant Sharp was bought by Taiwan's Foxconn, a humbling comedown for one of Japan's most well-known brands. Foxconn also bid for Toshiba's microchip unit this year.

Anything for a quiet life
Japan knows it has a problem. In the past couple of years, the stock exchange has been prodding companies to improve oversight by bringing in external board members. But the cascade of scandals hasn't stopped.
A recent study by academics at the Tokyo Institute for Technology tried to get to the root of the problem.
The researchers looked into the so-called "quiet life hypothesis." They argue that Japanese managers often avoid making tough decisions like investing in new areas or cutting costs -- in other words, anything that's goes to make their life more difficult.
Related: Japan's economy faces huge challenges
The study also pointed to another issue. Japanese companies in similar industries often have unspoken agreements not to compete, which they seal by buying stock in one another. This naturally makes managers at these firms more complacent, the researchers found.
If Japanese companies are unable to shake off these problems soon, the country is set to suffer further.
"Japan will lose out as other Asian economies, including China, progressively raise their standards of quality and reliability," Clarke warned.
-- Yoko Wakatsuki contributed to this report.


This trend means that otherwise qualified workers are missing out on good jobs. It also costs companies more in salaries and comes as America has 6.1 million job openings -- a number that's near a record high.
"By raising the bar academically, employers are often hurting their own economics and slamming the door on the opportunity to give a good-paying job to an increasing number of Americans," says Fuller.
Related: This is the biggest mystery in the U.S. economy
Businesses routinely say they are having trouble finding skilled or available workers, according to surveys conducted by the Federal Reserve. The manufacturing sector in particular has reported severe labor shortages.
But factory bosses have raised the bar for job applicants. For example, 67% of the job postings in 2015 for supervisors of production workers required a college degree. But only 16% of the existing supervisors actually had a college education.
Fuller argues that this trend is a key undercurrent in the broader debate about wage inequality. Workers without college degrees increasingly have fewer job options even though they may have the skills for a better-paying gig.
Related: Job training saved her life
In total, the bar has been raised on 6.2 million jobs that didn't previously require a college degree, according to the study, which was done in partnership with consulting giant Accenture, Grads of Life -- a nonprofit that connects employers to Opportunity Youth -- and Burning Glass Technologies, a Boston-based data firm.
Researchers focused on "middle skill" jobs -- those that require more than a high diploma but less than a 4-year college degree.
They found that employers increasingly demanded a college degree because the job skills for a particular position rapidly changed and companies preferred to not pay for job training.
But hiring college grads for jobs that non-college grads can do carries a litany of hidden costs, according to the study.
For one, the majority of employers paid as much as 30% more to hire an applicant with a college education instead of an applicant without a 4-year degree. Companies also suffered from high turnover rates and long periods of time with unfilled jobs.
Related: Holiday hiring is getting more difficult for retailers
And people searching for work -- particularly supervisors, clerks, inspectors and secretaries -- have suffered too. The majority of the 600 businesses surveyed admitted that demanding a 4-year degree excludes some applicants.
Some firms create online job application sites that automatically weed out applications without a college degree.
"Even workers who have relevant experience are excluded," said Fuller, who examined 26 million job postings, in the study.
Fuller recommends companies partner with local community colleges or job training centers to better prepare young workers or give middle-aged workers new, relevant skills.
He also suggested in the report that employers remove automatic filters in their online job applications and use a more customized vetting process that includes people who have not graduated from college.


The deal surpassed a six-month contract worth $240 million to Fluor Corp. from the Army Corps of Engineers to help bring power back to the island and a $35.1 million contract to Weston Solutions to provide two generators for temporary power to the city of San Juan.
The arrangement has raised a few eyebrows among Democrats given that Whitefish only had two employees the day Hurricane Maria hit. Already, Whitefish has scaled up to 300 employees in Puerto Rico -- and it says 700 more are on the way. Such quick growth is typical among utility firms when they are awarded large contracts.
On Tuesday, both a House and a Senate committee called for a review into the Whitefish contract.
Related: San Juan's mayor takes on small Montana firm over power contract
"Today I am calling on the Government Accountability Office to investigate the circumstances surrounding the multi-million dollar contract awarded to Whitefish Energy -- a brand new company with two employees," said Democratic Senator Maria Cantwell, the ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, on Tuesday.
"The size and unknown details of this contract raises numerous questions," said Parish Braden, a spokesman for the House Committee on Natural Resources, which is also reviewing Whitefish's role in Puerto Rico.
Others have questioned why PREPA did not choose a larger, more established utility.
"Congress needs to understand why the Whitefish contract was awarded and whether other, more cost-effective options were available," said Democratic Rep. Raúl Grijalva from Arizona, in a statement Tuesday.
PREPA's executive director, Ricardo Ramos, told reporters last week during a press conference the cash-strapped island chose Whitefish because it didn't require a big deposit upfront. The other unnamed contender wanted a $25 million down payment for the work, Ramos said.
"In that moment, we were not in a position to offer that collateral," said Ramos. "The other company did not ask for a guarantee of payment."
But some on Capitol Hill are concerned that Whitefish may have stood out for another reason.
The tiny utility company is based in Whitefish, Montana, which also happens to be the hometown of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke.
Both Zinke and Whitefish CEO Andy Techmanski acknowledge knowing one another. Zinke's office described Whitefish as a "small town" with a population of roughly 6,000 people. One of the secretary's sons "joined a friend who worked a summer job at one their [Whitefish's] construction sites."
Related: Relief group hits major hurdles getting aid to Puerto Rico
Whitefish spokesman Ken Luce confirmed an Oct. 1 report by NBC Montana, which quoted Techmanski as saying he reached out to Zinke after winning the contract to help get resources to the island more quickly,
But Luce told CNN that the company did not make any requests to the administration except for one after the contract was signed on Sept. 26.
"The secretary had absolutely nothing to do with Whitefish getting the contract," he said.
Zinke's office acknowledged they received an email from Techmanski, but said no one at the agency took any further action. On Tuesday, the spokeswoman for the Department of Interior told CNN Zinke played no role in securing the work for Whitefish in Puerto Rico.
Techmanski, who has described the firm as specializing in "difficult and mountainous terrain projects," has downplayed any ties to the administration.
"All I can say is, we took the call and we're here," Techmanski told CNN Friday, referring to a call from director Ramos. "We called each other."
Still, PREPA, a state-owned utility, chose to hire Whitefish rather than initiate agreements with other utilities to help recover from the natural disaster more quickly.
The bankrupt utility, which is $9 billion in debt, could have requested aid after Maria through the American Public Power Association, a network that provides help to other utilities during widespread power outages. That's what Texas and Florida did after Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
Related: Workers are dangling from helicopters to fix Puerto Rico's power lines
A PREPA representative did not respond to an email from CNN asking why the utility didn't activate the mutual-aid network.
On Monday, Rep. Nydia Velázquez -- a New York Democrat -- sent a letter to the head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency raising questions on the handling of such contracts to restore power and water to the crippled island.
"Due to the island's current state of affairs, there is a legitimate and unquestionable need to expedite the process of restoring power and water for the residents in Puerto Rico," Velázquez wrote in the letter. "However, such an accelerated procurement process should not be without sufficient safeguards and proper oversight mechanisms."


Though Chipotle found some cost savings in preparing lettuce and peppers in its restaurants, some of those cost reductions were offset by higher avocado and beef prices.
Its new queso dip, which Chipotle hoped would bring disgruntled customers back, has received largely negative reviews -- on social media, customers found Chipotle's version of queso to be a "crime against cheese." Chipotle said it's early days (it launched nationwide in September), but early queso signs are only somewhat positive for sales.
Adding to the disappointment, Chipotle (CMG) said it would open 15 fewer stores than the company planned this quarter. To lure in new customers, Chipotle said it is considering changing the design of its restaurants.
Investors weren't having it. Shares dipped by more than 15% on Wednesday.
Related: Chipotle's recovery hopes melt with 'gritty' queso
It's been a rocky few months for the fast food retailer.
The hack, acknowledged by the company on April 25, allowed cyber thieves to steal credit card information from customers at several locations across major U.S. cities.
Related: Chipotle stock drops 6% on new illness report
Plus, two recent incidents -- the closure of a location where rodents were sighted and a norovirus outbreak in a different restaurant -- spooked investors who remember Chipotle's 2015 troubles with E. Coli.
And it's not like other fast food sellers are struggling. Shares of McDonald's, already one of the hottest stocks in the Dow this year, rose on Tuesday after the fast food giant impressed Wall Street with total revenue that topped forecasts.


The Craftsman products will appear in Lowe's stores starting in late 2018, the companies announced. It's not the first time another retailer has sold Craftsman products. Nearly 10% of sales went through other chains, as of January, including Ace Hardware. But this is a major step away from Sears being the primary outlet for Craftsman sales.
Related: Sears sells Craftsman brand to Stanley Black & Decker
The competition from Lowe's will only add to the growing difficulty Sears will have attracting customers into its shrinking number of stores. This summer it announced it would start selling its Kenmore-branded appliances on Amazon (AMZN). And it also disclosed this week that it will no longer sell Whirlpool (WHR) appliances sold under the Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid and Jenn-Air brands.
Part of the delay in getting Craftsman tools into Lowe's is the fact that Stanley Black & Decker is shifting Craftsman production back from overseas plants to U.S. facilities. It has announced plans for a new U.S. factory to build Craftsman products at a location yet to be announced.
Related: How Sears changed America
"Craftsman is still an incredibly strong brand, albeit one that is largely manufactured overseas and basically situated within one major retailer," said Stanley Black & Decker CEO James Loree back in January when the sale was announced. "We believe this is an excellent opportunity to invest in, re-Americanize and revitalize this legendary brand, ramp-up product innovation and broaden its distribution."
At the time, Loree said it makes sense to produce the product closer to U.S. markets.
"We already manufacture many products cost effectively in this country and, in some cases, we've been able to bring manufacturing back to the U.S. at a lower cost than producing overseas," he said in January. And while he didn't mention President Trump by name, he did say that given the possibility of border taxes in the future, "the reality is that it's going to be advisable to have more manufacturing in the U.S."


Goldman Sachs crunched the numbers on virtually every way to value stocks and found that S&P 500 stocks have rarely been as expensive as now.
The most popular way to value the stock market is based on projected earnings over the next year. By that measure, known as forward price-to-earnings, the S&P 500 is trading at a lofty multiple of 18.5. That's miles ahead of the long-term average of 12.8.
More telling, over the last four decades, stocks have been more expensive only 11% of the time, Goldman Sachs analysts said in a recent report.

Related: Meet the market bears predicting stock market doom
Digging deeper, the report found that the median stock in the S&P 500 has a forward price-to-earnings ratio of 18.7. That's higher than 98% of the time.
A variety of other measures confirm that the stock market is trading in truly rarefied territory, Goldman found. For example, the median S&P 500 stock has never been more expensive based on enterprise value to sales. Enterprise value is roughly what a company would be worth if it were acquired.
Ditto for another another measure based on how fast profits are growing. And other metrics cited by Goldman are either at all-time highs or very close.
In other words, there have been few times in history where the stock market looked this expensive. By some measures, it never has.
"Objectively, the stock market is overvalued. That's a fact," said Peter Boockvar, chief market analyst at The Lindsey Group.
There's only one measure Goldman Sachs listed that makes the market look a bit inexpensive: a gauge of a company's financial strength called free cash flow yield. The S&P 500 is trading at about average levels by that measure.
But Goldman notes that metric has been kept low because companies aren't spending a lot on factories and equipment.
Related: Stocks soar. Why? Corporate America is still great
Of course, there are plenty of reasons why the market is on fire. The U.S. economy looks solid, with unemployment at just 4.2%. Virtually all major economies around the world are finally growing at the same time. Inflation is unusually low, allowing the Federal Reserve to keep interest rates very low, for now at least.
And Wall Street is getting excited about the tax overhaul proposed by President Trump and Republican leaders in Congress.
"The speed the market is moving with is surprising. But the fundamentals support higher stock prices," said Terry Sandven, chief equity strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management.
Given that bond prices are also very expensive, Sandven said investors have few good alternatives to stocks. Consider that one-third of the S&P 500 pays a higher dividend rate than the 10-year Treasury yield of 2.4%.
Market bulls argue that expensive valuations might not matter right now.
Sandven said that while valuation metrics would "suggest caution," history shows that "stocks can be over or undervalued for long periods."
Even market bears acknowledge that valuations don't matter, until they do.
"Valuations are never a timing mechanism. Markets were expensive in 1996," said Boockvar, referring to the period before the dot-com bubble popped.
Related: Trump is too obsessed with Wall Street
Even though valuations are poor timing tools, they can help give investors a sense of how much money they can expect to make in the long run. (Think: Buy low, sell high.)
"Elevated valuations suggest low long-term returns," Goldman Sachs wrote.
Sandven agrees, saying investors should expect annual stock returns in the mid-single-digit range. That would be disappointing compared with the double-digit gains of recent years. The S&P 500 is already up 15% this year.
In other words, if you're jumping into the stock market, don't bank on these incredible returns to continue.


That comment comes days after the renegotiation of NAFTA -- the pact between the United States, Canada and Mexico -- took a sharp turn south last week. Talks are expected to continue into 2018.
Trump administration officials introduced two major proposals -- one about auto manufacturing and a sunset clause for NAFTA -- that were swiftly rebuked by Mexican and Canadian negotiators.
There has been no progress on those divisive issues and President Trump routinely threatens to pull out of NAFTA.
Related: Canada's Freeland on NAFTA: 'It's easy to take us for granted.'
Canada is now talking tough.
"Canada is kind of like the girl next door. It's easy to take us for granted," Chrystia Freeland, Canada's minister of foreign affairs, told CNN on Sunday. "These [NAFTA] negotiations are really important not just for Canadians, but for Americans."
Still, it's important to note that Canada sent Francois-Philippe Champagne, its minister of international trade, to Colombia this week -- not Freeland. Champagne's office denied that the talks in Colombia were a warning shot directly at Trump.
But the meeting in Colombia is a little odd. Canada already has free trade agreements with Mexico, Chile, Peru and Colombia. Those four nations make up the Pacific Alliance, a group that promotes free trade in Latin America.
Related: If Trump kills NAFTA, farmers, bars and factories lose jobs
Nonetheless, experts say now is as good a time as ever for Canada to talk up the benefits of free trade with other nations considering what's going on with NAFTA.
"Having seen the talks sour in the latest stage of negotiations, we've now seen a reaction from Canada about talking up the importance of free trade, integration, globalism," says Neil Shearing, chief emerging markets economist at Capital Economics.
But Shearing added "there's a growing sense that this may not happen" and that "the U.S. might end up walking away" from NAFTA.
For its part, Mexico is looking elsewhere too. It's renegotiating a free trade agreement with the European Union, shoring up trade ties with Argentina and Brazil, and warming up to the idea of a deal with China.
Related: Mexico and Canada slam U.S. proposals for NAFTA
Talk aside, it will be difficult for either Mexico or Canada to shift its trade away from the United States. About 80% of Mexico's exports go north of the border, and the United States is Canada's top trading partner. Supply chains run across North America.
Business between Canada and Latin America is quite small too. For example, Canada and Colombia traded about $1 billion in goods in the year ending in June, according to Panjiva, a global trade research firm.
Trade between the U.S. and Canada last year totaled $627 billion.
Some doubt Trump would even care if Canada were trying to fire back at his threat to pull out of NAFTA.
"I can't see President Trump giving two hoots what Canada is up to in South America," says Chris Rogers, a research analyst at Panjiva.


The drop in total revenues was mostly due to McDonald's plan to sell more company-owned stores to franchises. It's a strategy that hits revenue in the short-term but should lead to a more lucrative stream of royalty payments down the road.
And it seems the market was more impressed by the solid jump in same-store sales at Mickey D's, which measure how well locations open at least a year are doing. They jumped 6% globally and 4.1% in the U.S. Both figures were better than expected.
So you can forgive investors if they are humming the long-running Justin Timberlake "I'm lovin' it" jingle. Ba da ba ba ba! McDonald's stock is now up 36% this year and more than 70% since Steve Easterbrook was named CEO in late January 2015.
Since he took over, the company has also embraced technology, with new kiosks and mobile payments helping to streamline the ordering process. McDonald's also launched a delivery partnership with ridesharing giant Uber through its UberEats service.
It's all part of a strategy to make McDonald's into, as Easterbrook calls it, a "modern and progressive burger company."
Easterbrook has revamped the company's menu too. Under his watch, McDonald's has launched fancier signature sandwiches like the hipster delight kale and Sriracha sauce burger and more premium coffee beverages.
Related: McDonald's vows to reboot Szechuan Sauce for spurned 'Rick and Morty' fans
But McDonald's has doubled down on cheaper fare lately as well, with a $1 soda promotion and McPick 2 menu -- that offers 2 items for $5 -- helping to fuel the most recent sales growth in the U.S. The company announced on the earnings call that the chain also plans to offer $2 and $3 value menus.
So McDonald's has remained an affordable place to get a quick, inexpensive Happy Meal but it's also been enticing more consumers who might otherwise prefer fast casual fare from Chipotle (CMG) and Panera or upscale burgers from Shake Shack (SHAK).
And McDonald's isn't the only fast food company that's thriving. Shares of Burger King and Popeyes owner Restaurant Brands (QSR) are up more than 40% this year, while KFC and Taco Bell parent Yum! Brands (YUM) has gained nearly 20%.
At the same time, Chipotle continues to struggle after an E. coli outbreak in 2015 damaged its once stellar reputation. Shake Shack's stock has cooled off too after a splashy initial public offering more than two years ago.


Amazon did not respond to a request for comment. The company says bids have come from 54 states, provinces, districts and territories in North America.
Related: Cities woo Amazon as home for second headquarters
Atlanta did not make details of its bid public. But Mayor Kasim Reed told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution last week that it will be "the most aggressive economic attraction package that the state of Georgia has ever put forward." Reed didn't immediately respond to a request for comment from CNNMoney.
Cities are trying hard to woo Amazon (AMZN). Tucson, Arizona, sent a giant cactus to CEO Jeff Bezos, and the Atlanta suburb of Stonecrest offered to de-annex land and rename it Amazon, Georgia. New York City lit up the Empire State Building in Amazon orange.


The Dow is now up more than 18% this year, while the Nasdaq has gained more than 22.5%. And CNNMoney's Fear & Greed Index, a measure of seven indicators of market sentiment, is showing signs of Extreme Greed as stocks skyrocket.
The solid results also come on the heels of healthy earnings from big banks JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Citigroup (C) and Bank of America (BAC) earlier this month.
Related: IBM gets a boost from low taxes and cloud computing
And in the world of tech and telecom, IBM (IBM), Adobe (ADBE) and T-Mobile (TMUS) all wowed Wall Street with their latest financials.
What's this all mean? Despite some stinker quarterly earnings reports so far -- most notably from GE (GESLX), Whirlpool (WHR) and Hasbro (HAS) -- most American companies are still doing quite well. The bad results are the exceptions, not the rule.
Consumers are continuing to spend on new cars and phones and take out loans for mortgages. And the solid earnings aren't just an American story.
Even though there are some concerns about how inward Washington has turned under President Trump, the healthy gains in sales from China reported by Caterpillar and GM are reminding investors that America can thrive thanks to globalism.
And investors are once again starting to show signs of optimism about the Trump domestic agenda, namely the prospects for tax reform and fewer regulations on banks and health care companies.
The Federal Reserve may keep the party going as well.
Trump is expected to soon name a Fed chair, and the candidate getting the most attention -- Fed governor Jerome Powell -- would likely continue the Fed's path of gradual rate hikes set into place by current Fed chair Janet Yellen.


Rubio complained about the experience to Stephanie Korey, her friend and former co-worker at Warby Parker. They saw an untapped market, and set to work creating an affordable, durable hard-shell suitcase with wheels and a built-in battery pack for charging electronics.
Their luggage ranges from $225 for a small carry-on to $295 for a large suitcase. Away is also a lifestyle brand that includes a magazine.
Related: Robinhood co-founders want everyone in the stock market
Korey and Rubio, who both have consumer marketing experience from stints at companies like Warby Parker and Casper, bring different strengths to the company. But they know their roles.
Korey, the CEO, has an MBA and is more logic-minded. Rubio, whose title is creative director, manages branding and design.
When they teamed up, they planned their company structure on Post-It notes. The pair laid out notes with all the different functions and departments that their company would need. They divided up the tasks and found they each had an equal amount.
The two also share an entrepreneurial spirit.
Rubio's first business experience came from a lemonade stand, where she made her mark as something of a corporate raider.
"The kid down the street opened a lemonade stand about a week later, and I remember going to my dad and asking him for $20 so I could buy him out," Rubio said, calling it her first merger and acquisition. "I bought him out and made him work for me."
Korey had an enterprising business of her own: She set up shop in her parents' supply closet and sold them things they'd already bought.
"My first business from a gross margin perspective was quite ingenious," she said. "I sold them their own light bulbs and their own paper clips that they had already paid for, so it was great -- 100% gross margin."
Related: Bumble founder created the app after experiencing online harassment
The two plan to debut additional products for travelers soon -- a priority for Rubio, who is constantly on the road.
"My relationship with travel is probably my least complicated relationship. I just love it and it loves me back," she said. "This is so sad, but lately I've been feeling most at home on a plane with no Wi-Fi."
Rubio said going through airport security, putting her stuff in bins and boarding is the biggest constant in her life right now.
But she credits her frequent travel with making her a better entrepreneur by forcing her to adapt to change and push beyond what's comfortable. She said her experiences have also helped her create a company that makes travel easier for others.
"Our customers just really feel like this luggage kind of enables and empowers them to have better trips," she said.


Unicredit said it "promptly removed the two columns in the table" when the error was discovered. But the information had already been e-mailed to investors and analysts.
The bank's board was then called in to review the full results, which were published before the Milan stock market opened on Tuesday.
Related: Italy gets Google to pay $335 million in tax arrears
Esther Castro, an analyst at Banco Sabadell, was one of those who received the email. She said investors would have been surprised by the early release, but not too angry with the bank.
"It is very rare," she said. "We all work in this industry, with a lot of stress, many things happen every minute ... so we perfectly understand that a mistake is a mistake. It is not the end of the world."
She said the results were fairly positive and showed the bank had made good progress in reducing costs.
"At the end of the day, this is what the investors want to hear," she added. Shares were trading 1.6% higher on Tuesday.
Related: Italy is pouring billions into its troubled banks
Unicredit is not the first company to suffer the embarrassment of a premature earnings release.
Google published its quarterly earnings a few hours early in 2012. That release was peppered by placeholder language like "PENDING LARRY QUOTE."
In 2015, Twitter's (TWTR) results came out earlier than expected after someone on leaked them -- on Twitter.
Microsoft (MSFT) also had its earnings leaked early in 2011.
In 2010, a reporter correctly guessed the address of the website on which Disney (DIS) results were going to be published.


"We try to work only with the dreamers," the young crown prince told investors gathered in Riyadh. "This place is not for conventional people or companies."
Plans call for the city to be powered entirely by regenerative energy, while also making use of automated driving technology and passenger drones. Wireless hi-speed internet will be free.
"All services and processes in NEOM will be 100% fully automated, with the goal of becoming the most efficient destination in the world," the Saudi Arabia Public Investment Fund said in a statement.
Related: Saudi crown prince promises 'a more moderate Islam'
The city, which will be independent of the kingdom's "existing governmental framework," will be built across 26,500 square kilometers (10,231 square miles) near the Red Sea. According to the fund's statement, its land mass "will extend across the Egyptian and Jordanian borders."
"NEOM will be constructed from the ground-up, on greenfield sites, allowing it a unique opportunity to be distinguished from all other places that have been developed and constructed over hundreds of years," the fund said in a statement.
The project will be backed by $500 billion from the Saudi government and its investment fund, as well as local and international investors.
It has caught the attention of foreign investors including SoftBank (SFTBF) founder Masayoshi Son and Blackstone CEO Stephen Schwarzman, who joined the crown price on a panel dedicated to the project.
Related: Women driving could rev up Saudi economy
"NEOM is a fantastic opportunity," Son said on Tuesday. "In the beginning, I didn't understand. But when I visited the location, I said 'Wow.' "
Son said his Softbank Vision Fund, which counts Saudi Arabia as its biggest investor, would put money toward the new project.
The crown prince said there no set timeline for the development.
"This is a challenge," he said. "We know this takes time ... we are under pressure to deliver something new and to give innovative ideas."
Saudi Arabia has made a string of big announcements recently that are aimed at diversifying its economy away from oil.
The country said in September that it would pump almost $3 billion into its entertainment industry.
Related: Saudi Arabia is investing billions in fun
In August, it launched a tourism project that consists of 100 miles of sandy coastline and a lagoon with 50 islands. The project even caught the eye of billionaire Richard Branson.
A year and a half into the efforts, officials have made progress on some parts of the broader plan -- known as Vision 2030 -- but also flip-flopped on others.
The government has cut some subsidies, announced new taxes and lifted a controversial ban on women driving. It also tapped global bond markets three times in less than a year, borrowing billions to balance its books.


The Upton Machine Company, which became Whirlpool, sold its first order of washers to Sears, Roebuck & Company in 1916.
In a memo to employees, Sears said the breakup was because of a dispute over product pricing.
"Whirlpool has sought to use its dominant position in the marketplace to make demands that would have prohibited us from offering Whirlpool products to our members at a reasonable price," said the memo, which was provided to CNNMoney.
Whirlpool issued a statement saying that it will no longer supply Sears with its branded products, without giving a reason.
Related: Sears to sell Kenmore appliances on Amazon
Sears Holdings (SHLD), which includes the Sears and Kmart chains, warned in March that it had "substantial doubt" about its ability to stay in business. It has been steadily closing stores in an effort to stem years of losses.
It has also fueded publicly with some suppliers, who have been reluctant to sell their inventory to Sears because they worry Sears won't be able to pay them.
Appliances are a big part of Sears' business. Its wide variety of brands is one advantage it still has to attract customers. For years, it was the only retailer selling Kenmore products, and ads bragged that Sears was the only place where customers could shop for all the major appliance brands.
Related: How Sears changed America
Earlier this year, Sears announced it would start selling Kenmore-branded products on Amazon, the first time it allowed them to be sold anywhere outside of a Sears store. Though the deal could lift sales of Kenmore products, it could further diminish Sears' ability to bring in customers.
The breakup is also bad news for Whirlpool, which on Monday reported disappointing earnings and trimmed its profit outlook for this year.
Whirlpool attributed the poor earnings to higher costs for raw materials. It did not mention splitting up with Sears. In its statement the company said that Sears accounted for only 3% of its sales worldwide, and that most of those sales are the Kenmore-branded appliances that it will continue to make.
Whirlpool (WHR) shares were down 10% in early trading Tuesday.
Sears shares fell 3%, though most of that drop happened after a separate announcement that rival Lowe's will start selling Craftsman branded tools, which had been a Sears brand.


The chain has been struggling to win back customers following E. coli and norovirus outbreaks, as well as a recent rodent sighting in one of its restaurants in Dallas.
2. Stock streak ends: The Dow Jones industrial average snapped its impressive six-day run of records on Monday. The index closed 0.2% lower.
The S&P 500 shed 0.4% and the Nasdaq declined 0.6%.
3. Trump and the Fed: President Trump says he will announce his choice for Federal Reserve chair "very soon." Trump must decide whether to stick with current Fed boss Janet Yellen, or put his own stamp on the central bank. Stanford University economist John Taylor and Fed Governor Jerome Powell are both in the running.
4. U.K. treasury chief questioned: U.K. Chancellor Philip Hammond is set to be questioned in parliament at 6:30 a.m. ET.
Brexit and the country's upcoming budget are bound to be on the agenda.
Britain and the European Union have made little progress in Brexit negotiations, and businesses are getting nervous.
5. Global markets overview: U.S. stock futures were pointing higher.
European markets opened mixed, following a trend set in Asia.
Japan's Nikkei hit another record high as investors cheered Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's election victory.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
6. Stock market movers: Whirlpool Corp (WHR) was down sharply in extended trading after the company cut its earnings guidance.
7. Company news: 3M (MMM), Caterpillar (CAT), Eli Lilly (LLY), Fiat Chrysler (FCAU), General Motors (GM), Infosys (INFY), JetBlue Airways (JBLU), Lockheed Martin (LMT), Sherwin-Williams (SHW) and TD Ameritrade (AMTD) plan to release earnings before the open.
AT&T (T), Express Scripts (ESRX), iRobot (IRBT), Regal Entertainment (RGC) and Texas Instruments (TXN) will follow after the close.
Unicredit (UNCFF), Italy's biggest bank by assets, was forced to release its preliminary earnings two weeks ahead of schedule after some of the data leaked early. The bank's stock was trading 0.4% lower in Milan.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
8. Coming this week:
Tuesday -- AT&T, GM, Chipotle, Lockheed Martin, Caterpillar and McDonald's earnings  Wednesday -- Coca-Cola, Walgreens, Boeing and Visa earnings; ECNY luncheon with Wilbur Ross Thursday -- Mattel, Twitter, Alphabet, Microsoft, Intel, Comcast, Ford, Southwest, American Airlines, Hershey, Xerox and Amazon earnings Friday -- ExxonMobil, Chevron and Merck earnings; GDP Q3 estimates


Related: Judge rejects Martin Shkreli's request to release his bail
Since the financial crisis eight years ago, the world's largest banks have paid billions in fines to settle charges of various misdeeds. But very few individual bankers have been held responsible for their roles in those illegal schemes.
An HSBC spokesman had no comment when asked about the conviction.


The organization, which is currently in the process of obtaining non-profit status, then distributes the supplies. That way, it avoids the government inspections at the port and "all the bureaucracy that has become a bottleneck," Seda said.
Nevertheless, the ad hoc group's capacity to bring relief is limited; it has stopped collecting donations until it finds a way to transport the next load.
Seda's group is one of dozens of organizations that are running into enormous logistical hurdles while trying to help Puerto Rico.
Disaster management experts say that the citizen response has been extraordinary, as Puerto Rico's diaspora of nearly 5.4 million watch in frustration while relief workers struggle to move supplies like food, water and medicine to those in need throughout the island.
Related: Doctors in Puerto Rico: 'Reality here is post-apocalyptic'
Transporting goods from church basements and high school auditoriums to an island more than 1,000 miles off the U.S. coastline, with already crumbling infrastructure and little to no cell service, has proven to be a major challenge.
Puerto Rican leaders say they haven't gotten enough help from the federal and state governments, which have assets like planes and personnel that could be used to deliver aid. Transportation companies have made in-kind donations and big names like Broadway star Lin-Manuel Miranda have funded charter flights. But the need is far from satisfied.
Meanwhile, volunteers say, the slow speed of road clearing and power restoration have made it more difficult to reach remote communities. There are currently 13,600 active duty and National Guard troops on the island, but many say that's not enough.
"It shouldn't be up to the handful of Puerto Rican millionaires in this country to be the U.S. Air Force and FEMA," said Ohio state Rep. Dan Ramos, who represents the heavily Puerto Rican town of Lorain.
Organizers of the New York Puerto Rican Day Parade received semi trucks full of food, water and clothing from other parade organizations in places like Hartford and Cleveland. But they sat in warehouses, until leaders could arrange transportation.
"It has been a yeoman's task to figure this out," said Lorraine Cortes Vasquez, who chairs the New York parade's board of directors. Finally, she said, the National Guard took their first shipment, and JetBlue took some of their supplies as well.
Experts typically recommend that people who want to help during disasters send money, which can then be used to buy and transport supplies from points closer to people who need them. But once goods have been collected, nobody wants to waste them.
Miami nightlife impresario Michael Capponi runs the Global Empowerment Mission, which started after the 2010 earthquake in Haiti. After Maria, the group coordinated some 50 flights chartered by celebrities like Will Smith and reality TV personality Bethenny Frankel. They've procured a 100,000 square foot warehouse to store and sort 15 million pounds of donations, some of which had to be retrieved from small-scale drives all over the country.
Related: Misery in Puerto Rico: No power, no job, 'enormous' lines
Capponi acknowledged that it would be "100 percent more efficient" to raise money than collect physical goods. Later on, money can also be used to buy goods in the disaster zone, which puts money back into the local economy.
"The problem is," Capponi said, "we can't let all that stuff sit in the U.S." So, he continues to send trucks to pick it up.
Still, some groups are bypassing the messy process of taking physical donations entirely.
PRxPR, a group formed by Puerto Rican business leaders, has raised $530,000 to date. It has been parceling out small grants to individuals and organizations on the island for urgent priorities like generators and water filters, if they can be found in stores. But distributing those goods to the people who need them remains difficult.
"You get a private cargo plane landing in the Aguadilla airport, and when that plane lands, is that there's not enough personnel to help unload the plane," said PRxPR co-founder Carmen Baez of the groups flying aid in. "There's not enough personnel to guard the merchandise, to load the trucks, to drive the trucks to where they're needed."
This was a particular problem at the Port of San Juan, where pallets of aid sat uncollected for days, in large part because drivers couldn't make the journey to pick up supplies.
Puerto Rican groups with local ties had an easier time. Puerto Rican Agenda, a 22-year-old community organization in Chicago, flew aid into Puerto Rico using two planes donated by United. Omar Torres-Kortright, a member of the group, says local politicians like San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz helped make sure transportation was available at the airport and paperwork didn't hold anything up.
Related: Caribbean tourism faces long road to recovery
"As long as our shipments are directed to municipal leaders like her, we do cut through the red tape," said Torres-Kortright. "The mayor of San Juan goes directly to the airport with her trucks, says 'That's my plane, it's my stuff,' and distributes it."
The groups that have mobilized in the wake of Maria know their efforts won't be enough — so they're pushing for policy measures, like forgiveness of the island's enormous debt, and an exemption from the Jones Act, which only permits shipping to the island from other U.S. ports to be carried out by U.S. vessels.
Javier Ferrer, who runs Houston's Puerto Rican and Cuban Festival, says that a Norwegian company offered to send a ship from New Orleans to San Juan with 53 containers of aid a few days after the storm. But by the time the White House announced a 10-day break in enforcement of the Jones Act, it would have been too late to get the ship loaded and out to the island.
"That law needs to be lifted -- not temporarily, but permanently," Ferrer said.
The Hispanic Federation, which has raised more than $14 million for Puerto Rico and is still chartering planes to send aid, is ramping up calls for a more robust effort from Washington.
"It's been tremendously frustrating, to say the least, to see the lack of adequate response from our federal government," said Hispanic Federation president Jose Calderon. "There's only so much that the diaspora can do."


Many expected the Canadian plane maker to find ways to operate should the crippling tariff be imposed. Few expected Airbus (EADSF) to swoop in so decisively.
Related: Boeing v. Bombardier: Tariff is now 300%
The aerospace business is typically marked by incremental moves, but the European and Canadian alliance may significantly alter an industry that has world leaders acting as champions and sales representatives. Both the Canadian and U.K. prime ministers have encouraged the U.S. to drop its challenge to Bombardier, threatening future Boeing deals in both countries.
Since news broke last Monday about the Bombardier-Airbus partnership, many in Boeing (BA) have expressed confusion about the benefit to its rival. Others are downright dismissive about whether the deal will survive at all. But in either case, Boeing is trying to figure out what the biggest change in the jetliner business in 30 years means for its future.
Related: This plane may vastly improve flying in the U.S., if it doesn't first start a trade war
"This looks like a questionable deal between two heavily state-subsidized competitors to skirt the recent findings of the U.S. government." Phil Musser, Boeing's Vice President of Communications said in a statement last Monday.
On Wednesday, Boeing's Chief Executive will likely weigh in on the deal when the company releases its third quarter earnings.
But Boeing's leadership was betting on China taking over the C Series, not Airbus, according to two people familiar with the company's thinking. Indeed, talks between Bombardier and China preceded the Airbus announcement, according to one senior industry official close to the deal.
"Monday probably was not as predictable as some would've thought," said Congressman Rick Larsen, who represents more than 20,000 Boeing employees in his Seattle-area district.
Related: How Boeing got on Trump's good side
As the news of the partnership between arch rivals Airbus and Bombardier spread, the leadership of Boeing's commercial airplane unit were sitting down to dinner, mingling with executives from Australian airline Qantas, which was taking delivery of its first 787-9 Dreamliner.
Darling of the Dow, Boeing has been fueled by booming sales of jets like the Dreamliner, delighting Wall Street with copious amounts of cash. And the tight political bond it has formed with the Trump White House had preliminarily delivered major victories, such as the recommended tariffs on the Canadian planes.
Boeing won the crushing tariffs on the C Series by alleging the planes were sold to Delta Air Lines (DAL) for "absurdly low prices."
The tariff rulings are expected to be finalized or rejected in February 2018, when the International Trade Commission will determine if Boeing was harmed by Bombardier. The Canadian plane maker has denied its deal with Delta harmed Boeing in any way.
Related: Delta has no intention of paying 300% Bombardier tariff
Those tariffs, and the threat of a quadrupling of the jet's price tag to U.S. airlines - a veritable death blow - forced Bombardier into the arms of its biggest rival. Airbus now plans to expand its Alabama factory to build C Series jets.
"That's a direct consequence of the tariff discussion," said the senior leader close to the deal. "If you try to kill someone, don't miss."
Airbus has secured the future for its single-aisle jets in a move that literally costs it nothing up front. The deal is expected to close in the second half of 2018.
"I have no doubt that our partnership with Bombardier will boost sales and the value of this programme tremendously," Airbus Chief Executive Officer Tom Enders said when the partnership was announced.
The China factor
With the deal, Airbus also snatched the C Series from their future rival, the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, or Comac. Bombardier and Comac were once partners. Though the union later fell apart, the flirtation was enough to concern both Boeing and Airbus.
China has always lurked in the background both as a future competitor and the largest single marketplace for jetliners.
The Airbus-Bombardier deal is also an acknowledgment that Europe and Canada can't fight the Communist nation's ambitions separately, especially as their respective trade ties with the U.S. and the U.K. are increasingly strained by Trump and Brexit.
Related: China and Russia are coming for Boeing and Airbus
But even China knows that its Western competitors cannot be humbled without a seasoned partner of its own. China and Russia have teamed up to build long-range twin-aisle jets for the world's airlines. And that union is aimed squarely at Boeing and Airbus.
For its part, Boeing is counting on the Commerce Department's tariffs sticking, no matter the outcome of the partnership between Airbus and Bombardier.
Related: Will Airbus and Bombardier's partnership push Boeing closer to Brazil?
"Any duties finally levied against the C Series...will have to be paid on any imported C-Series airplane or part, or it will be not permitted into the country," said J. Michael Luttig, Boeing's General Counsel. In Boeing's view the C Series doesn't get a pass just because they're assembled in Alabama.
As the week drew to a close, Boeing was still trying to figure out where it goes from here.
A senior industry executive predicted another similar shakeup: A Boeing alliance with Brazil's Embraer.
By "the rules of the game theory" in a duopoly, the executive said of the Nobel Prize-winning research that helps predict corporate behavior. "You mirror the movements of your opponent."


But chief financial officer Deborah Thomas warned that sales would be up only 4% to 7% from a year ago in the fourth quarter because of the Toys 'R' Us turmoil and weakness in some international markets. Wall Street was expecting growth of 11.5%.
The bankruptcy of Toys 'R' Us is yet another sign of the rise of Amazon (AMZN) as well, as more consumers opt to buy their holiday toys on their smartphones instead of fighting crowds at the mall on Black Friday and throughout December.
Hasbro's bad news hit rival Mattel too. Mattel's (MAT) shares fell 4% Monday.
Even the mighty Lego has been hurting lately. The maker of interlocking toy bricks posted a surprise drop in sales last month and reported layoffs too.
Shares of smaller toy companies Jakks Pacific (JAKK) and Canada's Spin Master, which makes the popular Hatchimals line of toys, were lower as well. Jakks Pacific said last month it expected a loss this year due to the Toys 'R' Us bankruptcy.
Hasbro's stock fell last month after the Toys 'R' Us filing, but the poor Hasbro outlook Monday still took Wall Street by surprise.
Related: Hasbro and Mattel hit by Toys 'R' Us bankruptcy
The company has been doing well this year, thanks to hit toys tied to Disney franchises such as Star Wars as well as its own popular brands such as the Monopoly board game, Nerf, My Little Pony and Transformers.
And Hasbro's stock is still up more than 15% this year, despite Monday's plunge.
Mattel, on the other hand, has continued to struggle. It recently lost the rights to the lucrative Disney Princess line of toys to Hasbro and sales of its iconic doll Barbie have slumped.
The company brought in a new CEO earlier this year from Google, Margo Georgiadis, in order to focus more on high-tech toys.
But Mattel has continued to slide. Shares are now down nearly 45% this year and are trading at multi-year lows.
So for now, it looks like toy stocks are a worse gift for investors than a lump of coal in your stocking or under the Christmas tree.


Peanuts can cause anaphylactic shock, a life-threatening reaction, in people who are allergic to them, particularly children. Viaskin is an electrostatic patch that works by administering the allergen directly on the skin, according to the company.
AR101 is also designed to work like a vaccine, with patients taking the drug at a doctor's office every two weeks over a 20-week period to overcome their allergies to peanuts.
Dr. Charles Duncan, a research analyst at investment bank PiperJaffray, said in a published report last week that Aimmune is undervalued, based on his confidence in AR101. Results for late-stage testing regarding that drug are expected to be released in the first quarter of 2018.
Meanwhile, DBV Technologies, which is based in the Parisian suburb of Montrouge, said it's still working to develop the drug and submit it to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for potential approval.
Viaskin Peanut "shows significant therapeutic promise in the peanut-allergic population, where there is a high unmet medical need and no approved treatments," Dr. Pierre-Henri Benhamou, CEO of DBV Technologies, said in a statement.
Market Sectors: See latest news & which stock market segments are performing best
The FDA will most likely require another late-stage clinical trial for Viaskin Peanut, according to Dr. Liana Moussatos, an analyst for WebBush. She said that Aimmune's drug is right behind it, in terms of testing, and the two drugs would be direct competitors if they both end up on the market.
David Schilansky, chief operating officer for DBV Technologies, told CNNMoney that the clinical trail results for Viaskin Peanut are still strong, having only barely missed the endpoint, and his company plans to submit those results to the FDA.
"We feel that we have a robust set of data," he said. "We intend to go and discuss with the FDA about the way forward."
DBV is also working on Viaskin products for milk and egg allergies.


Target will ramp up its digital options in another way: Next month, the company is introducing a mobile wallet function for REDcard holders, who can pay for store purchases by scanning their phones.
Related: Target is hiring more than 100,000 holiday workers
As it gears up for the holidays, Target (TGT) is competing with rivals Walmart (WMT) and Amazon (AMZN).
Last month, Target said it would hire more than 100,000 temporary workers, a sharp increase over last year. Amazon said this month that it would hire 120,000 temporary workers, while Walmart said instead that it would give existing employees more hours.
--CNNMoney's Chris Isidore contributed to this story.


In other words, any quirky item you would think of buying on Etsy because it's not super commercial is now on Amazon too.
"Every item on Amazon Handmade has a story behind it -- and after hearing from customers and artisans, we are thrilled to make gift shopping an experience they will look forward to," said Amazon Handmade head of marketing Katie Harnetiaux in a statement.
It's worth noting though that Amazon has had a Handmade site since October 2015. And Etsy's stock plunged two years ago as well when Amazon first introduced it.
What appears to be new here is the gift aspect of Amazon's handmade site -- conveniently just in time for the holidays.
Will the new online store hurt Etsy? The company was not immediately available for comment. But for what it's worth, Etsy's stock is having a solid year, up nearly 35%.
Still, shares of Etsy are currently trading only slightly above their initial offering price of $16 a share from 2015. The company is profitable but analysts are forecasting little in the way of earnings growth for 2018 and a slowdown in sales growth too.
Related: Are prescription drugs the next target for Amazon?
Amazon, on the other hand, has been busy disrupting the world of commerce, media and other aspects of retail and technology.
The stock is up more than 30% this year and is not far from an all-time high. Amazon is worth $470 billion. And Bezos is now the second-richest person on the planet according to Forbes -- worth nearly $82 billion, trailing only Microsoft (MSFT) co-founder Bill Gates.
And Amazon has created a furor throughout North America lately with its plans to build a new second headquarters to go along with its current home in Seattle.
Cities have been bidding for the Amazon "HQ2" in a fashion reminiscent of what used to be done to try and get the rights to host the Olympics.
Even New York City, home to Etsy -- which is based in Brooklyn -- has submitted a plan to be the home of Amazon's HQ2.
Amazon will report its latest quarterly results after the closing bell on Thursday and Wall Street will be very interested to see how the company's new brick and mortar stores are doing, which includes the recent acquisition of organic grocer Whole Foods.
There have also been rumors that Amazon may be looking to start selling prescription medications online, news that sent shares of drugstore chains Walgreen (WBA) and CVS (CVS) lower as well as pharmacy benefits manager Express Scripts (ESRX).
And there has also been chatter that Amazon may want to start its own delivery service. Those reports caused the stocks of FedEx (FDX) and UPS (UPS) to fall. But Amazon told CNNMoney it's not looking to change its relationship with those companies right now.
Nonetheless, it seems that there are few consumer-related industries out there that are immune to potential threats from Amazon.


The country's reform plan, spearheaded by its ambitious young crown prince, includes increasing foreign investment and selling a stake in its giant state oil company.
A year and a half into the efforts, officials have made progress on some parts of the plan -- known as Vision 2030 -- but also flip-flopped on others.
The government has cut some subsidies, announced new taxes and lifted a controversial ban on women driving. It also tapped global bond markets three times in less than a year, borrowing billions to balance its books.
The crash in world oil prices in 2014 and 2015 had left a huge hole in the kingdom's budget. It reported deficits of $100 billion in 2015 and $71 billion last year.
Related: Women driving could rev up Saudi economy
The man behind the push to modernize the conservative kingdom, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, is expected to give a rare public speech on Tuesday.
"There's no doubt that [he] understands the challenge," said Robin Niblett, director of think tank Chatham House. "You need the energy of a new generation" to confront "a social structure that is reliant upon government handouts, low tax, non-work," he added.
Some targets already slipping
But Saudi Arabia has backpedaled on a number of targets.
In April, it rolled back wage and benefit cuts imposed on top ministers and other public workers. It's also revising part of the broader strategy that sets specific targets for government bodies to meet by 2020.
The Saudi government gave few details about the changes and didn't state whether new targets would be introduced.
"I don't care particularly if some of the targets and the time lines slip. They were always ambitious," Niblett said.
Questions over $100 billion IPO
One of the most high-profile parts of the plan -- the planned IPO of the biggest oil company in the world, Saudi Aramco -- is drawing a lot of the attention.
Saudi officials have said they expect the IPO to value Aramco at around $2 trillion. If the market agrees, selling just 5% would raise $100 billion -- four times as much as  Alibaba (BABA)'s IPO in 2014, which is the largest to date.
Aramco has disputed recent media reports suggesting uncertainty over its mammoth stock market listing and where it might happen. It insisted earlier this month that its IPO plan is still "on track" for next year.
FT report on Saudi Aramco IPO is entirely speculative. All listing venues under review for optimal decision,IPO process is on track for 2018

The money the government aims to raise from the listing are seen as crucial for funding its broader plans to revamp the national economy, which include measures like increasing the role of women and the development of an entertainment industry.
Saudi Arabia wants to increase the participation rate of women in its workforce from 22% to 30% by 2030.
Related: Saudi Arabia is investing billions in fun
There have been some high-profile examples of progress: three top jobs in finance, including the head of the stock exchange, were recently filled by women. But at 33%, the unemployment rate for women is far higher than the national average of about 13%.

Painful transition
Pushing through major changes is tough in an economy that's already struggling.
The International Monetary Fund estimates that Saudi economic growth will be "close to zero" this year. But it also warned the government shouldn't wait too long to tackle key reforms.
"Without growth support coming in, it's difficult to progress," said Monica Malek, chief economist at Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank.
Saudi officials insist their country is prepared for the challenges.
"No pain, no gain is very much at play here," Energy Minister Khalid Al Falih told CNNMoney in May. "The Saudi population is ready for the long haul."
-- John Defterios contributed to this report.


Of course, being his own boss helped make that possible. For many parents, working from home is not an option. But Branson, it seems, is encouraging other companies to allow their employees this flexibility.
Between 2005 and 2015, the number of workers who telecommuted increased 115%, according to a report from Global Workplace Analytics and FlexJobs. That translates to 3.9 million workers, or almost 3% of the total U.S. workforce, who worked from home at least half the time in 2015.
New technologies have made it easier for people to work remotely.
Branson adds that having as much flexibility as possible where you work can also make all the difference for working parents.
Related: Gretchen Carlons speaks: 'The floodgates have opened'
"I lived in a houseboat when my kids were young," he recalls. "I was building Virgin. They were fooling around. I changed a nappy and I'd be on the phone. So I suspect I'll see more of my kids and family than almost any father."
Branson details numerous experiences with his children throughout his nearly 50-year career in his new book, cheekily titled Finding My Virginity.
Now a grandfather of four, Branson notes "the most important, in the end in life, is your family and friends." And that, according to Branson, means you pick up the phone when your child calls from college with her test scores -- even if you are on a panel presenting in front of thousands of people in California.
"I knew how excited she would be with her results, and so I was definitely going to take the phone call. But she also managed to have 10,000 people clap for her as well," Branson recalls with a smile.
Branson says his children have not only inherited his appetite for travel, but also his appetite for risk. In October 2008, Branson and his kids set out to break the world record for the fastest crossing of the Atlantic Ocean in a sailboat.
"None of us realized quite how dangerous the trip was," Branson writes in his book. A hurricane had formed behind them. Seeing the worried look on his children's faces, Branson and the team abandoned the mission and headed for Bermuda instead.
None of this sits well with his wife of 40 years, Joan. Before Branson takes off for another death-defying feat, Joan often tells him: "If you die, it's your fault and I won't be coming to your funeral," he recalls.
Related: Oath CEO Tim Armstrong: I want women to fill 50% of leadership positions
"She makes me sign a bit of paper every time saying, the island is hers if I don't come back," Branson jokes. (Necker Island, that is. Branson's private Island in the British Virgin Islands.) "She's no fool."
Branson has not lost his appetite for adventure -- nor have his two children. His only condition, is that he insists on tagging along with them on any of their extreme adventures. "Poor Joan now has to watch all three of us heading off on big adventures," he says.
One very personal adventure he plans to share with Holly and Sam will be a trip to space on Virgin Galactic's VSS Unity. "They may not come on the very first flight, but maybe they definitely will be coming very soon," he says.
As for when that may be?
For the first time since the deadly 2014 crash of Virgin Galactic's SpaceShipTwo during a test flight, Branson is putting a timeframe on when he expects the first of the company's official flights to reach space: 16 weeks. "Maybe six months from now, I should be in space," Branson estimates. "And then, by the end of next year, hopefully, we'll have our license to start taking people up."
The National Transportation Safety Board ruled pilot error was responsible for the 2014 crash.
"Paying customers will start flying in VSS Unity when commercial service kicks off at Spaceport America in New Mexico," a representative for Virgin told CNNMoney.
Branson has been developing Virgin Galactic for the last 10 years. Reaching space would mark the apex of his Virgin empire.
"I think that almost every single Virgin company is culminating in Virgin Galactic, and it will hopefully, it'll be the one Virgin company that I think everybody who works with Virgin will be most proud of," he tells Harlow.


Of the estimated $200 billion a year in corporate tax savings from that rate cut, about 35% (or $70 billion) would go to individuals and businesses from outside the United States, according to Rosenthal.
"In the short run, a surprisingly large portion of this relief would end up in the pockets of foreign investors," he writes.
Rosenthal says the approximately $70 billion going to foreign investors would be three times greater than the annual benefit that middle-income households would enjoy from the entire Trump tax reform framework, as estimated in a preliminary analysis by the Tax Policy Center.
Related: Ryan says House GOP will propose new top tax rate for rich
White House chief economist Kevin Hassett has dismissed the Tax Policy Center findings. He argues it's too early to make such estimates because tax writers in Congress haven't filled in many details of the Republican reform plan.
Who really benefits when corporate taxes are cut? No consensus
As the tax reform debate progresses, the question of who really benefits the most will be central: The middle class or the rich? Businesses or workers?
The answer will revolve in part around one of the most unresolved issues in economics: Who bears the greatest burden of corporate taxes, and therefore who stands to gain the most when those taxes are cut?
Economists once believed that shareholders bear all the burden of corporate taxes. But now that American companies compete globally, most experts agree workers share some of the burden. That's because it's easier now for companies to shift jobs overseas and pay American workers less.
There is no consensus over just how much of the corporate tax burden workers bear. The estimates range from 20% to 70% and up.
The Trump administration contends that workers bear a lot of the burden, so will benefit a lot when rates are cut. Hassett estimates that cutting the corporate rate to 20% could mean a jump in average household income of between $4,000 and $9,000 a year, although many outside economists say that estimate is based on a very select reading of the evidence and literature.
Rosenthal assumes, like many experts, that shareholders will enjoy most if not all of the benefits of a corporate rate cut during the first several years.
He told CNNMoney he objects to a windfall for foreigners in part because, as proposed, a big corporate rate cut will cause deficits to grow, forcing the government to borrow more.
"We plan to deficit-finance this large relief for foreign investors," Rosenthal said. "But future generations of U.S. taxpayers would eventually repay the shortfall through new taxes or spending cuts."


The reforms, coupled with major action by the country's central bank, have helped push down the value of the yen.
The Nikkei and yen often move in opposite directions because the index is heavy on exporters that benefit from a cheaper currency.
2. Chaos in Catalonia: The euro dropped against most major currencies as Catalonia spiraled deeper into political crisis. Spain's benchmark stock index opened 0.7% lower.
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy announced on Saturday that he plans to dissolve the Catalan parliament and remove the region's elected leaders.
Catalan leaders insist they will reject any attempt by Madrid to impose direct rule.
3. Europe's populist threat: Billionaire tycoon Andrej Babis won a general election in the Czech Republic by a significant margin on Saturday.
His success is the latest example of electoral gains by populist forces opposed to further European Union integration. Populists have also performed well in recent German and Austrian elections.
The blue chip PX index in Prague opened 0.4% lower and the Czech koruna was down against most major currencies.
4. Global market overview: U.S. stock futures were flat.
European markets opened mostly down, while Asian stocks ended the session mixed.
The Dow Jones industrial average rallied 2% last week and closed at a new record on Friday.
The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq also ended the week at all-time highs.
Before the Bell newsletter: Key market news. In your inbox. Subscribe now!
5. Stock market movers: General Electric (GE) shares were lower premarket after it reported earnings last week that revealed its troubles are deeper than investors initially thought.
6. Earnings and economics: Halliburton (HAL), Hasbro (HAS), Kimberly-Clark (KMB) and Philips (PHG) will release earnings before the open, while Knoll (KNL), Logitech Intl SA (LOGI) and Whirlpool (WHR) will follow after the close.
Download CNN MoneyStream for up-to-the-minute market data and news
7. Coming this week:
Monday -- Hasbro  Tuesday -- AT&T, GM, Chipotle, Lockheed Martin, Caterpillar and McDonald's earnings  Wednesday -- Coca-Cola, Walgreens, Boeing and Visa earnings; ECNY luncheon with Wilbur Ross Thursday -- Mattel, Twitter, Alphabet, Microsoft, Intel, Comcast, Ford, Southwest, American Airlines, Hershey, Xerox and Amazon earnings; ECB rate decision Friday -- ExxonMobil, Chevron and Merck earnings; U.S. Q3 GDP


President Donald Trump has repeatedly threatened to tear up the agreement, calling it the "worst trade deal" ever signed. He has blamed the pact for benefiting Mexico and Canada at the expense of American jobs and has vowed to eliminate the trade deficit with Mexico.
Related: If Trump kills NAFTA, farmers, bars and factories lose jobs
Freeland wants to remind Americans that when it comes to trading goods with Canada, it's the U.S. that has the deficit -- $12.1 billion for 2016, to be exact. (Note: if you look at both goods and services, the U.S. had a $12.5 billion trade surplus last year.)
But Canada doesn't take that as a sign that there's something wrong with the countries' partnership.
"It is certainly the case that this U.S. administration has a strong view about trade deficits as a sign that a trading relationship is fundamentally not working," she said. "Canada doesn't necessarily take that view."
Negotiations to revamp NAFTA were extended into 2018 after talks hit roadblocks on several key issues, including an American proposal to rewrite how companies resolve disputes. Canada and Mexico both reject the Trump administration's suggestion that NAFTA should include a sunset clause that would force all three countries to renew the agreement in five years.
Related: Trump's NAFTA agenda has 'poison pill proposals,' says U.S. Chamber of Commerce
As the fourth round of negotiations wound down last week, U.S. trade representative Robert Lighthizer publicly complained about the "resistance" of his counterparts to accept some of the U.S. proposals to amend the 1994 trade agreement.
Freeland and Mexico Economy Secretary Ildefonso Guajardo have said they are willing to modernize the agreement but will not agree to any clauses that will hurt their respective countries or collaboration among the three nations.
About 14 million American jobs depend on trade with Mexico and Canada, according to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a business organization that opposes Trump's trade agenda.
The next round of talks will be in Mexico City starting November 17.
--CNNMoney's Patrick Gillespie contributed to this report.


Amazon (AMZN) is so hot right now that major cities in the U.S. and Canada are falling over themselves just to get the e-commerce giant to build its second headquarters there. Like city officials, investors are in awe of Amazon's ability to disrupt entire industries.
Mere rumors of Amazon moving into new businesses send shudders through Wall Street. Just look at the selloff in pharmacy stocks sparked by talk of Amazon taking on prescription drugs. Ditto for shipping. That's on top of the pain inflicted on grocery chains by Amazon's shocking Whole Foods takeover.
Amazon's success has left expectations very high. The online retail giant is trading at a very lofty 139 times projected earnings. That makes Amazon vastly more expensive than tech darlings like Apple (AAPL) and Facebook (FB). It's even pricier than Netflix (NFLX).
Boeing (BA) has flown to even greater heights than Amazon this year, soaring 67% to the top of the Dow. It's benefiting from a boom in defense stocks caused by President Trump's push to boost military spending and because of concerns about North Korea. Boeing is also enjoying solid orders for its new 737 MAX and 787 Dreamliner commercial jets.
Caterpillar (CAT) is digging out of a big hole caused by the commodities crash. The machinery maker's stock has more than doubled since early 2016 thanks to stabilizing oil and metals prices as well as accelerating global growth. Deep cost cuts, including layoffs, by new CEO Jim Umpleby have also stabilized the business.
McDonald's (MCD) is another Dow comeback story. Wall Street has devoured McDonald's stock since Steve Easterbrook took over, promising to turn it into a "modern and progressive burger company." The image change and menu additions like the Signature Crafted sandwich line have successfully lured customers back to the burger chain.
Visa (V) continues to cash in on the shift away from paper currency towards electronic payments. Visa card usage has grown substantially in recent quarters, including overseas. It also helps that Visa is the network used by popular rewards credit cards like the Chase Sapphire Reserve card.
2. GDP estimate: The Bureau of Economic Analysis will release an advance estimate of third-quarter GDP gains on Friday. Last quarter -- the first full quarter under President Trump -- the economy grew by 3.1%. That squares with the administration's goal of 3% growth, a lower target than the 4% Trump promised on the campaign trail.
Overall, the U.S. economy has been doing well. Last quarter's gains marked the fastest quarterly growth in two years, and the September jobs report revealed that average hourly wages have gone up by 2.9% over the past 12 months. Unemployment hit a more than 16-year low of 4.2%, and this month the stock market surged past 23,000 for the first time. More good news could come on Friday.
3. ExxonMobil and Chevron report earnings: The country's two biggest oil companies are both revealing their third-quarter earnings on Friday.
While many companies have soared on Wall Street this year, Big Oil has been struggling. Exxon (XOM) shares have fallen by more than 8% in 2017, and Chevron (CVX) has inched up by less than 1% over the course of the year.
It's been a rocky few months for the pair. A Harvard study published in August found that Exxon "misled the public" on climate change for nearly 40 years. And that month, a number of Exxon's refineries -- including its Baytown refinery, the second largest in the country -- went offline because of Harvey.
In September, San Francisco and Oakland filed lawsuits demanding that Exxon, Chevron and other companies pay billions to protect the coastal cities from rising sea levels. The following week, Chevron announced that the company's CEO will step down next year.
We'll see if they address the tumult on Friday.
4. Earnings, earnings, earnings:
Major companies across several sectors are reporting earnings next week. Toy rivals Hasbro (HAS) and Mattel (MAT) are reporting on Monday and Thursday, respectively. Tech giants Twitter (TWTR), Alphabet (GOOG), Microsoft (MSFT) and Intel (INTC) are all reporting on Thursday.
The communications industry is well represented by  AT&T (T), reporting Tuesday, and Comcast (CCV), reporting Thursday. In the autos sphere, GM (GM) reports its earnings on Tuesday and Ford (F) is on Thursday. Airlines are also reporting: Southwest (LUV)'s earnings are out Thursday, as are American Airline (AAL)'s.
Hungry for more? Hershey (HSY)'s results come in Thursday, Coca-Cola (CCE)'s on Wednesday and Chipotle (CMG)'s on Tuesday.
Plus, there's Walgreens (WBA) on Wednesday, Xerox (XRX) on Thursday and Merck (MKGAF) on Friday. Phew.
5. Coming this week:
Monday -- Hasbro
Tuesday -- AT&T, GM, Chipotle, Lockheed Martin, Caterpillar and McDonald's earnings
Wednesday -- Coca-Cola, Walgreens, Boeing and Visa earnings; ECNY luncheon with Wilbur Ross
Thursday -- Mattel, Twitter, Alphabet, Microsoft, Intel, Comcast, Ford, Southwest, American Airlines, Hershey, Xerox and Amazon earnings
Friday -- ExxonMobil, Chevron and Merck earnings; GDP Q3 estimates

