
A Starbucks customer in Walnut Creek, California, engaged in a racially charged exchange with two Korean customers on Sunday in a video that has gone viral. The video on Facebook showed the woman seemingly irate that the Korean customers were speaking in their native tongue. 
Sean Lee, a business student at University of California at Berkeley, was tutoring a community college student, Annie, when the woman allegedly interrupted them for speaking Korean. Two Starbucks baristas defended the Korean speakers and appeared to politely ask the woman to exit. The woman, whose identity remains unidentified, refused to leave. Her refusal resulted in a call to the local police department, who then escorted her out. 
At one point in the video, a voice can be heard telling the woman, "This is not the first time that you've bothered other customers."
"I was tutoring an international Korean student today at a Starbucks in Walnut Creek. As she was heading to get her coffee, this lady screamed at her, 'don't you dare say that again,'" Lee said Sunday on Facebook. "She was berating my student for talking in Korean, and proceeded to demand that all immigrants speak English. We eventually called the cops and she was kicked out of the store.
"It's all too easy to forget that racism and anti-immigrant sentiments are a real thing in this country, even in the Bay Area that so often touts 'diversity,'" Lee added. 

Part of the incident wasn't caught on video, but Annie pulled out her phone to record the remainder of the exchange. The footage shows the woman repeatedly demanding for the Starbucks workers to silence the Korean speakers, but the employees are depicted defending Annie and Lee.
"I hate it," the woman said to a Starbucks barista, who responded with "I'm sorry, but they're allowed to speak their language."
"You know what? President Obama said that everyone in America should speak English," the woman, who was seated with her laptop, said before covering her face with a binder after realizing she was being filmed. "I don't want to hear the language. You can sit and be quiet, fine, but I don't want to hear your language. I don't want to hear it."
"I'm asking you to leave and if you don't want to leave, I'm calling the police. That's up to you," a Starbucks barista said.
The woman responded, saying: "That's fine."
The pair continued to speak Korean from the time the recording concluded until the police arrived at the scene. Lee claimed that the woman was angered even more by their actions.
"As the video shows, our partners [employees] take great pride in making sure our stores are welcoming environments, where our customers enjoy a culture of warmth, belonging and everyone is welcome," a spokesperson for Starbucks said in a statement to The Daily Meal. "We want everyone who visits our stores to enjoy their visit."
The video has generated more than 795,000 views after appearing on Facebook. It has also received more than 1,400 likes and 290 shares.  
A woman was escorted out of a Starbucks after telling Korean customers to stop speaking in their native tongue, pictured December 10, 2017.  Photo: Facebook


With the price of a bitcoin reaching record highs of more than $10,000, more and more ordinary people consider investing in the cryptocurrency. The recent price surge, however, comes with tremendous risks. Investors should be prepared for the possibility that they could lose their entire investment.
Bitcoin was launched in 2008 by an anonymous author under the name of Satoshi Nakamoto as a means of transacting among participants without the need for intermediaries. Since the beginning of this year, the price of bitcoin has increased by 1300% as more and more consumers flock to it hoping to profit off its increasing popularity and the associated increase in value.
Cryptocurrencies are not currencies at all. As the Financial Times explains, bitcoin is a string of computer codes which means that new bitcoins can be created – up to an agreed limit – by computers that gain the right to do so by solving complex puzzles. Transactions are recorded in a database called a blockchain.
Bitcoin, like other assets like gold, doesn’t yield income. You have to sell it to realize any value. And, like gold and other currencies, it can be transferred peer-to-peer.
Part of the nervousness about bitcoin is that, along with other cryptocurrencies, it challenges the traditional role of banks and central banks. In the classical world, banks act as intermediaries by providing loans out of the deposits they took and from funding from the central bank. The central bank uses the rate at which it provides this funding as a lever to ensure price stability. The introduction of cryptocurrencies threatens this model because banks are no longer necessary to intermediate funds and there is no central bank to ensure that prices are stable.
The more immediate fears about bitcoin center on the recent dramatic rise in its value. There’s nervousness in the market that a flash crash might be imminent after the cryptocurrency tumble by more than $1,300 in minutes on the bitcoin exchange Bitfinex. It did recover to levels above $10,800.
The flash crash echoes long-standing warnings that the bitcoin party is set to end in tears. Most recently Jamie Dimon, CEO of JPMorgan, one of the world’s largest investment banks declared that he would fire any employee trading bitcoin for being stupid.
In a highly unusual alliance, his words were echoed by economics Nobel Laureate Joseph Stiglitz, who has gone even further arguing that bitcoin ought to be outlawed.
All of these are clear warning signs that the professionals do not trust the lofty promises of crypto enthusiasts.
There is no doubt that Bitcoin – and in particular blockchain, the technology behind it – has the potential to revolutionize the financial services industry.
A blockchain functions as a transparent and incorruptible digital ledger of economic transactions, recorded in chronological order, that operates on a peer-to-peer network.
Fundamentally, the technology allows the exchange of value to occur in an environment of peers with conflicting interests without the need for trusted intermediaries. That, in effect, wipes out the need for banks or financial services companies which fulfill this role.
The use of the technology is not limited to financial transactions. Virtually anything of value can be traded on a blockchain.
But no matter how useful the underlying blockchain technology is, or how widely it can be applied, there are real and substantial risks involved in bitcoin.
The first, and most significant risk is that compared to any currency, share, or gold, bitcoin is extremely volatile. The volatility of bitcoin to US dollar is almost six times the volatility of the Rand to US dollar. While this is great in good times, it is potentially devastating for investors in bad times.
When professional investors decide on which assets to hold, they look at both the return and the volatility of the asset. Only investors with a healthy appetite for risk are willing to invest in risky, volatile assets. Usually these are finance professionals, for example in large investment banks or hedge funds.
Investors with a lower risk appetite, such as asset managers or pension funds, prefer assets with a somewhat lower return, but which are less volatile.
The rule of thumb is that the sophistication of an investor increases with the volatility of the asset she invests in. But with bitcoin this rule of thumb doesn’t hold true. More and more private investors have been flocking to bitcoin ‘exchanges’ that have sprung up all over the internet and that are aggressively advertised on social media.
There is a huge risk that bitcoin is already overvalued.
The practical use cases for bitcoin are limited. It doesn’t enable enough transactions to take place per second to be used as a replacement for a modern payment system. And it doesn’t offer any functionality other than pseudonymous transactions – transactions where the true identity of the counterparties is hidden.
Bitcoin is favoured by pyramid schemes, including the infamous MMM pyramid scheme in Nigeria. In a recent article, the Financial Times called bitcoin itself a pyramid scheme, much to the dismay of crypto enthusiasts. (A pyramid scheme is usually an illegal operation in which participants pay to join and profit mainly from payments made by subsequent participants. If no new people come in, it collapses.)
The third, and possibly biggest risk is regulatory. In September 2017, the Chinese government outlawed bitcoin exchanges in mainland China, sending the price of bitcoin tumbling.
Despite the claim that bitcoin is a “global currency”, the reality is that 58% of all bitcoin mining happens in China. If at any point the Chinese government should decide to make Bitcoin mining illegal the price is likely to plunge into oblivion.
Other countries have also voiced concern. The Russian Central Bank recently issued a warning to investors on the risks of investing in cryptocurrencies, citing concerns about a bubble. This suggests that there might be a concerted crackdown.
Cryptocurrencies are banned in India as their use is a violation of foreign exchange rules. The Australian Reserve Bank has taken a different approach. It monitors the cryptocurrency market in a bid to understand the underlying technology.
The South African Reserve Bank has expressed its openness to blockchain technologies. But it has also highlighted potential risks to consumers.
There are real risks that many consumers investing in cryptocurrency don’t fully understand. Advertisements promise that bitcoin can make you rich fast. And social media is alive with stories about friends of neighbors or distant cousins who have made a lot of money through bitcoin.
Without a doubt, these cases are real, and those who invested early can reap large benefits. But this is true in every bubble – from the dotcom bubble to the tulip mania. It’s also true in every pyramid scheme.
As always, investors should be extremely wary of any scheme that promises quick returns.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.

Logo Photo: The Conversation


When malicious software takes over computers around the world, encrypts their data and demands a ransom to decode the information, regular activities of governments, companies and hospitals slam to a halt. Sometimes security researchers release a fix that allows computer owners to decrypt their machines without paying, but many people are forced to pony up to free their data.
In 2016, the FBI estimated that the ransomware industry took in US$1 billion – and that’s only the cases officials know about. All that money isn’t paid in cash. Before digital currencies existed, extortionists asked victims to send money by more formal transfer companies like Western Union or make deposits to bank accounts. Those were easily traced. Today, ransomware attacks demand payment in bitcoin and its ilk, systems praised by supporters for their transaction speed and protection of users’ anonymity.
In researching cybercrime and cybersecurity for more than a decade, I have found that obtaining cybercrime proceeds is often the biggest challenge that cybercriminals face. In this regard, diffusion of cryptocurrencies is a major development that enables cybercriminals to achieve their goals. In fact, the escalation of ransomware attacks and the increasing prominence of cryptocurrencies may be connected. Some companies have invested in bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies specifically so they can pay extortionists if it ever becomes necessary. That helps contribute to the rapid growth in use and value of e-currencies. And as digital currencies become more common, ransomware attackers will have an easier time hiding their illicit transactions among the growing crowd of legitimate transfers.
The extortionists behind most ransomware attacks demand payments in bitcoin, the most popular cryptocurrency. The WannaCry attackers demanded between $300 and $600 per computer; the Petya ransomware wanted $300 in bitcoins before providing a code that would let victims decrypt their data. Not many people actually pay, though: WannaCry victims paid only about $241,000 in bitcoins to the extortionists. If everyone infected had paid, the criminals would have received at least $60 million. It translated to a payout rate of 0.4 percent. Even fewer paid the Petya perpetrators: They got just 66 payments, totaling barely over 4 bitcoins, or about $18,200.
Other attacks are more successful: In June, a ransomware attack hit more than 150 servers owned by South Korean web hosting firm Nayana. More than 3,400 of the company’s customers were affected – mostly small businesses running their websites on Nayana’s equipment. Nayana itself stepped up, taking loans to cover a payment of more than $1 million in bitcoins to the attackers, saying it had to save its clients’ sites.
The attackers don’t always need to make much money to be effective. Many cybersecurity researchers believe that Petya attacks were carried out with political motives rather than for financial gains. But ransomware has a much higher payout rate than other common cybercrimes. One study found that for every 12.5 million spam emails sent promoting a fake online pharmacy, the scammers got only one response. That’s a success rate of about 0.000008 percent. They make a lot of money – up to $3.5 million a year – only by sending out enormous numbers of messages.
One reason cybercrime success rates are low is that victims don’t trust the extortionists to actually unlock their data once they get paid. In 2016, about a quarter of the organizations that paid ransoms were not able to recover their data.
The WannaCry attackers were particularly bad: Their system was labor-intensive, requiring the criminals to manually connect payments with encrypted files before letting victims decode them. In fact, a flaw in the WannaCry attack software made it almost impossible to decrypt a paying victim’s data.
More sophisticated methods do exist, including those that incorporate what are called “smart contracts,” another aspect of some cryptocurrency systems that runs a particular program as part of completing a transaction. In those ransomware attacks, making payment automatically releases the information a victim needs to decrypt and recover hijacked files.
The fear of ransomware is growing. In mid-2016, a study found that one-third of British firms had bought bitcoins just in case they needed to pay off ransomware attackers. More than 35 percent of large firms, those with more than 2,000 employees, reported being willing to pay as much as $65,000 to unlock critical files. Even Cornell University was reported to be stockpiling bitcoins in case of a future ransomware attack.
At the same time, bitcoin and other similar systems are becoming much more popular. In 2016, the total value of all cryptocurrencies was 0.025 percent of the world’s GDP. By August 2017, that number had increased more than eight-fold, to 0.21 percent of global GDP – about $162 billion. The World Economic Forum projects cryptocurrencies will hold 10 percent of global GDP by 2027.
These cycles are self-reinforcing: The more transactions there are involving cryptocurrencies, the harder it will be to trace where the money is going. As a result, cybercriminals will use cryptocurrencies more often – forcing their victims (and even potential targets) to invest in cryptocurrencies, too.
Nir Kshetri, Professor of Management, University of North Carolina – Greensboro.
This article was originally published in  The Conversation. Read the  original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Celebrity chef Mario Batali was expected to part ways with his businesses after being accused of sexual harassment and misconduct. Four women came forward and accused the television host of inappropriate touching in a report released Monday by Eater.
Batali, 57, is co-owner of Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group, a culinary empire that owns 26 restaurants, both in America and abroad. The famed chef has a net worth estimated between $25 and $30 million, according to Yahoo. Eater estimated in 2012 that his Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group was worth roughly $250 million. Batali himself has published 13 cookbooks and owns his own line of cookware while co-hosting ABC’s "The Chew."
The chef addressed the allegations in a statement released to Eater.
"I apologize to the people I have mistreated and hurt," he told Eater. "Although the identities of most of the individuals mentioned in these stories have not been revealed to me, much of the behavior described does, in fact, match up with ways I have acted. That behavior was wrong and there are no excuses. I take full responsibility and am deeply sorry for any pain, humiliation or discomfort I have caused to my peers, employees, customers, friends and family."
Sometimes it really feels like #snacktime!! Making a snack is a great way to get your creative culinary juices flowing! I make all my #batalisnacks with one secret ingredient and whatever else I have on hand. Always experiment! What would you make with #pears? @idyllfarmschevre
A post shared by Mario Batali (@mariobatali) on Dec 6, 2017 at 12:54pm PST
Amid the allegations, Batali was expected to take a  hiatus from "The Chew," which he has hosted since 2011. According to reports, his company has also opened an investigation into the incidents in question. However, he remains an owner of his individual restaurants. Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group said in a statement to Eater that it has had sexual harassment training and policies in place for over 10 years.
"We take these allegations very seriously. We pride ourselves on being a workplace for our employees where they can grow and deliver great service with equal opportunity and free from any discrimination. We have strong policies and practices in place that address sexual harassment. We train employees in these policies and we enforce them, up to and including termination," the statement read. "Mr. Batali and we have agreed that he will step away from the company’s operations, including the restaurants, and has already done so."
Mario Batali was a sous chef at the Four Seasons Biltmore Photo: Getty Images


Chef and businessman Mario Batali announced he was stepping away from his restaurant business and ABC show following allegations of sexual misconduct uncovered in a report by Eater New York. Batali, 57, is married to Susi Cahn. The two live in New York City and have two sons together.
Cahn and Batali were married in 1994. Cahn’s parents were the co-founders of the Coach handbag company in New York City. Cahn’s parents sold the company in 1985 to work on a farm they owned in  Gallatinville, New York, called Coach Farm. There they made goat cheese and other cheese products. Batali and Cahn met while she worked for her parents, according to the New Yorker. She helped them sell cheese and grow vegetables and met Batali while he worked at the Italian restaurant Rocco.
A 2002 New Yorker profile of Battali described his wife this way:
“Cahn, who is so many things that Batali isn’t—petite, dark-haired, East Coast, Jewish to his lapsed Catholic, early-to-bed to his out-until-early, reserved and deliberate to his outgoing and impulsive—illustrates the kind of person Batali probably gets on with best,” the profile read.
Cahn attended the University of Michigan — and the two own a second home in Michigan. 
Batali’s accusers claim that he groped them inappropriately and that the behavior has taken place over the span of 20 years. The four women who accused him of sexual misconduct chose to remain anonymous.
Batali did not deny the allegations in a statement he provided to Eater New York.
“I apologize to the people I have mistreated and hurt. Although the identities of most of the individuals mentioned in these stories have not been revealed to me, much of the behavior described does, in fact, match up with ways I have acted. That behavior was wrong and there are no excuses. I take full responsibility and am deeply sorry for any pain, humiliation or discomfort I have caused to my peers, employees, customers, friends and family,” said Batali in a statement.
Batali said he would step away from his businesses for an unspecified amount of time.
“I have work to do to try to regain the trust of those I have hurt and disappointed. For this reason, I am going to step away from day-to-day operations of my businesses. We built these restaurants so that our guests could have fun and indulge, but I took that too far in my own behavior. I won’t make that mistake again. I want any place I am associated with to feel comfortable and safe for the people who work or dine there,” continued Batali’s statement.
Batali owns several restaurants in addition to founding the Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group— a restaurant management and services company.
The first formal complaint filed against Batali came in October of this year, according to the company, when an employee reported Batali for inappropriate behavior.
Mario Batali and Susi Cahn attend 'God's Pocket' screening at IFC Center on May 4, 2014 in New York City. Batali is stepping away from his businesses after allegations of sexual misconduct.  Photo: Astrid Stawiarz/GETTY


The news that bitcoin had broken the $10,000 barrier reflects the way that mainstream investors have been flocking to cryptocurrencies over the past year. But amid the excitement, regulators are fretting about criminals who are increasingly using cryptocurrencies to escape detection from law enforcement.
Why is digital currency so appealing to miscreants? Cryptocurrencies are a recent phenomenon and – as with all new technology – it takes time for regulators to catch up. Bitcoin was the first to gain an international reputation as a digital currency that could be used to settle transactions after it was anonymously created in early 2009.
Cryptocurrencies are decentralised, meaning that they are issued without a central administering authority. They are cryptography-based, distributed open source and function on a peer-to-peer basis.
Significantly, the underlying protocols on which most cryptocurrencies are based do not require or provide user identification and verification. Also the historical transaction records generated on the blockchain (the technology behind bitcoin, which serves as a public ledger of all cryptocurrency transactions) are not necessarily associated with an individual’s identity.

Cryptocurrencies are also – by definition – convertible virtual currencies, as they can be exchanged for fiat money such as pounds, dollars and euros and this facilitates their use for settling commercial transactions.
Bitcoin is now an acceptable form of payment in exchange for goods and services by household names such as Microsoft, Expedia and Subway. At the same time, blockchain technology is being adopted by more businesses.
Private transactions enabled by the use of bitcoin are key to understanding the growth of cryptocurrencies among consumers. However, this advantage is keeping regulators and law enforcers awake at night.
The infamous Silk Road case drives this point home. Bitcoin was used to purchase drugs through the dark web – transactions that weren’t spotted by the authorities.
But hard-to-track criminal activity isn’t the only threat from the use of cryptocurrencies – there’s also the possibility of their use to finance terrorism, given that the formal banking sector is now adept at spotting suspicious movement and mobilisation of monies through the banking system
The fact that they can be converted into pounds, dollars and euros does make regulation of cryptocurrency more feasible. It can be done at the point of their conversion through virtual currency exchanges – which, as financial institutions, can be regulated.
International financial regulation and a growing number of national measures across the globe, such as “Know Your Customer” (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML) directed at financial institutions, have been strengthened. And, when implemented effectively, it’s now easier to track down individuals engaging in illegal transactions.
But the global nature of this payment mechanism is the biggest challenge.
Payments can be easily affected cross-border because conversion of the likes of bitcoin through currency exchanges can be transacted in different parts of the world – including in jurisdictions with lax financial regulatory regimes and weak KYC/AML measures. This means that, while jurisdictions with stronger regulatory powers may clamp down on criminal activities, such efforts can be easily wiped out because perpetrators are likely to migrate to countries with lax regimes.
Nonetheless, positive steps are being taken to regulate financial technology (fintech) products such as cryptocurrencies. Emerging challenges within this sector has led to the arrival of regtech – which, among other things, is regulatory technology adopted to address fintech risk issues.
Regtech covers artificial intelligence, big data and machine learning – technology that enables detailed data analysis on platforms such as blockchain. Again, regtech is only likely to be adopted effectively in jurisdictions with advanced regulatory regimes, so the extent of its effectiveness in policing the global cryptocurrency phenomenon appears limited.
Another challenge is the investigation and prosecution of illegal activities perpetrated with payments using cryptocurrencies, with semi-anonymity of the blockchain making it difficult to monitor transactions and identify suspicious behaviour, such as  drug sales. Law enforcement agencies find it incredibly difficult to trace illicit proceeds that are laundered using cryptocurrencies and – once again – are scuppered by different legal systems around the world.
Different jurisdictions have their own approaches to regulating cyber-related transactions, which makes international cooperation deeply challenging. In some countries, such as North Korea and China, regulation of web-based transactions is significant for national security policy. Legal mechanisms are in place to allow extensive government intrusion into the sender and recipient details of every single transmission.
Other countries, such as the US and the UK, cautiously approach online regulation to balance security concerns against constitutionally protected freedoms and to preserve privacy and data protection laws.
It means that a worldwide effort is needed to regulate this global payment mechanism. Governments, financial regulators, financial intelligence units and law enforcement agencies must all agree to a unified approach in tackling cryptocurrencies. Without this, effective regulation of bitcoin and similar currencies is unattainable.
A starting point could be instituting minimum regulation, such as currently exists in some international financial standards including the Basle Committee’s Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision and the IOSCO principles of securities regulation.
Countries across the world are encouraged to implement these provisions, which indicates that they embrace investor-friendly policies. A similar standard applied to cryptocurrencies would be a sensible way forward, given the patchwork approach to regulating cyber-related transactions around the globe.
Iwa Salami, Senior Lecturer in Financial Law and Regulation, University of East London.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Spirit Airlines allegedly kicked out a Houston woman from a plane during a flight Saturday for breastfeeding her son despite warnings from flight attendants against doing so. Mei Rui, who was traveling to New York from Houston with her elderly parents and 2-year-old son, detailed her ordeal in a Facebook post Sunday. 
"If this happened to your family, what would you do? This would NEVER happen to my family, I assure you! (Chuckle)” she wrote. “He is (buckled) in his seatbelt. What else do you want me to do?"
"I am terribly sorry for the trouble and inconvenience this has caused to all other passengers on the plane. We tried everything I could to stop my poor baby from crying and disturbing the other passengers, but he was jolted awake a 5th time because of the 3 hour delay that resulted in unboarding/reboardjng, lots of loud announcements. He completely lost it, but crying is not a criminal offense, especially since if you let me do my job as his mother, nobody on the airplane would have even noticed his presence! (As another passenger said, he was completely quiet for the first 2 hours of the delay)," she wrote.
Mei was traveling to New York to take part in a recording for a clinical study dealing with cancer.
Mei shared a video she recorded inside the plane before being evicted, showing her son in his seat and screaming. She said she started breastfeeding her baby before the doors were closed, but the flight attendants instructed her to stop.
"I said as soon as the plane's door closes, I will put him in his seat," Mei said. Later another flight attendant came to get the family off the plane even though the baby was in his seat.
"He was making very loud noises, but that's not criminal," Mei said, adding the crew had made up their minds to get them off the plane. 
"It was humiliating to be chased off a plane in front of hundreds of people," Mei went on to say. "We had never been through anything close to this."
In a statement to CBS-affiliated television station KHOU 11, Spirit Airlines said: "Our records indicate a passenger was removed from Flight 712 after refusing to comply with crew instructions several times during taxi to runway and safety briefing. To protect the safety of our guests and crew, FAA regulations and airline policies require all passengers to stay seated and buckled during takeoff and landing. We apologize for any inconvenience to our guests. As a courtesy, we’ve issued a full refund to the passenger in question."
International Business Times has reached out to the airline for further comments.


In the last year, the price of Bitcoin has increased from less than US$800 to more than US$12,000. This huge spike in value has many asking if it is a bubble or if the high price today is here to stay.
Finance defines a bubble as a situation where the price of an asset diverges systematically from its fundamentals. Investment mogul Jack Bogle says there is nothing to support Bitcoin, and the head of JP MorganChase, Jamie Dimon has called it a fraud “worse than tulip bulbs”.
Like any asset, Bitcoin has some fundamental value, even if only a hope value, or a value arising from scarcity. So there are reasons to hold it. But our research does show that it is experiencing a bubble right now.
Together with Shaen Corbet at Dublin City University, we took as the fundamentals of Bitcoin elements of the technology that underpins it (and other cryptocurrencies). We looked at measures, which represent the key theoretical and computational components of how cyrptocurrencies are priced.
New Bitcoin is created by a process of mining units called blocks. Bitcoin is built on blockchain technology – a digital ledger of transactions – which enables the currency to be traded independently from any central banking system, without risk of fake or duplicate Bitcoins being used. Instead of having a bank verify pending transactions (a “block”), miners check them and, if approved, the block is cryptographically added to the ever-expanding ledger.
So the first measure we examined relates to mining difficulty. It calculates how difficult it is to find a new block relative to the past. As per the Bitcoin Protocol, the number of Bitcoin is capped at 21m (there are currently 16.7m in circulation). This means that as more people mine for Bitcoin and more blocks are created, each block is, all things being equal, worth less than the previous block.
The second measure we looked at relates to the “hash rate”. This is the speed at which a computer operates when mining. To successfully mine Bitcoin, you must come up with a 64-digit hexadecimal number (called a “hash”), which is less than or equal to the target hash. The faster you can do this, the better chance you have of finding the next block and receiving payment.
The third measurement was “block size”. This relates to how large the chain is at any given time, with larger chains taking longer to mine than shorter ones.
And lastly we looked at the volume of transactions conducted. Any asset, in particular any currency, which is more widely used will be more valuable than one which is used less frequently.
In our study, we examined data from Bitcoin’s early days – from July 2010 to November 2017. The price of one Bitcoin did not rise above US$1 until April 16, 2011, then to US$10 on June 3, 2011 and US$100 on April 2, 2013. Since then the price rise has clearly been exceptional.
We then applied an accepted method that is used to detect and date stamp bubbles after they burst. In essence, this involves identifying the existence of an explosive component in a series. As the series, here the price of bitcoin, “explodes”, it runs the risk, like any explosion, of flying apart.
A possibly counter-intuitive result of this approach is that if a fundamental driver and the price of an asset both show an explosive component, we might not conclude a bubble is present. A bubble is when something deviates from its fundamental value. If the fundamental value is itself growing explosively then the price would also.
Think of dividends on a stock. If, somehow, these were to grow at an explosive rate we might expect to see the price do the same. While unsustainable, this is not technically a bubble. To overcome this, we then date stamp a bubble as being present when the price shows an explosive component and the underlying fundamentals do not.
Here are the results of the analysis:
The Bitcoin Bubbles. Photo: Authors own calculations
The orange lines denote when the price is showing explosive behaviour. We also see a period where the hash rate was growing explosively – the blue columns in late 2013 and early 2014. This is also an indication of a price bubble, which went on to burst.
So there are clear points where bubbles are visible – including now. The price of Bitcoin at present shows explosive behaviour in the absence of anything similar in its fundamentals. We see the price moving upwards in a manner that is not related to the technical underpinnings. It is a clear bubble.
A weakness of these tests and indeed all bubble identification tests is that they take place after the bubble has burst. Even this test, which can be redone as swiftly as new data arrives, is such. Bubbles by their nature grow in a compound manner – so even a day or two delay in addressing the situation can make a bubble significantly worse.
What is not yet available is an accurate advanced warning bubble indicator. In its absence, this approach may be the best. Unfortunately, we cannot use this approach to determine the extent of the bubble. There is no well-accepted model that suggests a “fair” value for Bitcoin. But whatever that level is, it is almost certain that, at present, it is well below where we are now.
Larisa Yarovaya, Lecturer in Accounting and Finance at Anglia Ruskin University, and Brian Lucey, Professor of International Finance and Commodities at Trinity College Dublin.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Bitcoin is in decline. Not its price, which has increased 900% this yearand (at the time of writing) stands at over US$12,000 per unit, but its actual use as a currency. And this makes its rapid appreciation all the more puzzling.
A few years ago, enthusiasts triumphantly shared announcements from businesses that had started accepting Bitcoin. Over the last couple of years, such announcements have become scarce. Instead, businesses that once accepted the currency have begun to drop it.
The BBC contacted ten businesses in London that once advertised accepting Bitcoin. Four no longer accepted it, and two that did said they hardly ever received payments in Bitcoin. The same is even true online. The Wall Street Journal, citing a report by Morgan Stanley, recently reported that Bitcoin is now accepted by just three of the top 500 global online merchants, down from five last year.
If growing adoption as a currency can’t justify Bitcoin’s rapid appreciation, what can? Many enthusiasts have started to promote the idea of Bitcoin as a store of value. In economics, this is usually defined along the lines of “an item that people can use to transfer purchasing power from the present to the future”. In simple terms, it’s somewhere safe to invest your wealth that won’t lose its worth over time.
Apples can be used to barter services from a neighbour while they’re still fresh, but their purchasing power will disappear as they rot. The purchasing power can be retained into the future by exchanging the apples for money, gold, government bonds or some other store of value.
Some items have attributes that make them better stores of value than others, whether we are talking about physical items or digital objects. Gold is a good store of value because it’s durable. Electronic bond certificates are also durable as long as banks’ systems don’t fail, and have the added benefit of being easier to secure than physical valuables. Money, both physical currency and digital bank money, has the advantage of being very liquid, so it’s easy to convert into a purchase when needed.
Bitcoin does share many of these attributes of a good store of value. It also offers potentially high levels of financial privacy, somewhat similarly to the offshore banking system. This is an important attribute of a store of value for some people, although it also creates a lack of accountability and the potential for tax evasion.
But the most important attribute of a store of value is that it’s valuable. Gold is valuable because it has many industrial and decorative uses. Its price can fluctuate because of speculation on financial markets, but it can never fall to zero. There will always be someone willing to accept gold because it’s a useful commodity.
Similarly, US government bonds are ultimately valuable because they entitle the owner to a relatively secure flow of interest payments. Dollars and euros are valuable because they are widely accepted as a means of payment, and will continue to be so in the foreseeable future. In contrast, the future acceptability of the Venezuelan bolivar is in doubt, so people are desperately trying to exchange it to better stores of value.
Is Bitcoin valuable? It has no industrial or decorative uses, and it doesn’t entitle the holder to receive interest. It was intended to be valuable as a currency that is accepted the world over, but that doesn’t seem to be happening. The only major value that Bitcoin has now is its exchange value. Many people are willing to pay a lot of money today to get hold of some Bitcoin.
But what they are getting for their money is simply the hope that another buyer down the line will pay even more money for the coins. Once the music stops, there is no fundamental value to prevent the coins’ price from falling close to zero, save for their tenuous position as the currency of choice in the online drug trade and grey-area gambling.
The idea that Bitcoin is valuable because it’s a store of value is upside down. In reality, something becomes a store of value because it’s valuable. In the 1990s, people started to trade Beanie Babies on eBay. Prices of these limited-edition plush toys rose to thousands of dollars, and by 1997 they made up 6.6% of the entire site’s transaction volume.
Some people invested their life savings into Beanie Babies, fully expecting their value to be preserved and more. But eventually people came to their senses and the market bombed. Beanie Babies are useful as toys and collectables, but that doesn’t justify thousand-dollar valuations.
My advice to individuals and institutions tempted by the headlines is to keep their savings away from Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies and “initial coin offerings” (ICOs). I know serious blockchain developers won’t mind me saying this, because they see speculative bubbles and bursts as a distraction. For Bitcoin to truly function as a store of value, it first has to gain acceptance as a currency.
Vili Lehdonvirta, Associate Professor and Senior Research Fellow, Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Democratic Sens. Elizabeth Warren (MA) and Sherrod Brown (OH) on Friday slammed President Donald Trump’s top financial regulator Mick Mulvaney after evidence surfaced that as a Congressman he raked in campaign contributions from payday lenders just days before he pressured government officials to back off predatory lending regulations.
Warren — a potential 2020 Democratic presidential candidate — suggested the $55,000 worth of campaign donations from payday lenders was a reward from the financial industry to Mulvaney for defending their interests. Brown said Mulvaney, who is now the acting director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has a clear conflict of interest that disqualifies him from permanently serving in that role. The two lawmakers serve on the powerful Senate Banking Committee that oversees the CFPB.
The statements from the two senior banking committee lawmakers were prompted by a  Friday morning IBT report that published 268 pages of correspondence between then-Congressman Mulvaney and the agency he now runs. The documents show Mulvaney twice wrote or signed letters pressuring financial regulators to help payday lenders. One of the letters, which was signed by Mulvaney and 11 House colleagues on Sept. 29, 2016, came after Mulvaney had received $18,400 in campaign donations from payday lenders and their trade associations over the previous three weeks.
In November, Trump appointed Mulvaney acting director of the CFPB, despite objections by Democrats who argued the law creating the CFPB mandated the agency’s deputy director, Leandra English, be automatically promoted to acting director in the event the position became vacant. English has since  challenged Mulvaney’s appointment in court.
“Mr. Mulvaney spent his years in Congress trying to gut consumer protections and undermine the CFPB — and he racked up big donations from payday lenders and banks for his efforts,” Warren told IBT in an emailed statement. “His illegal appointment to lead the consumer agency is a slap in the face for working families who’ve been cheated.”
The revelations about Mulvaney’s letters followed an earlier IBT report documenting how Mulvaney’s former top aide is now lobbying for Santander, a megabank that, until Mulvaney took over, had faced a potential CFPB enforcement action.
Brown, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee, said that taken together, he believes Mulvaney needs to be removed.
“Mick Mulvaney has sided with the payday industry over and over, and called the CFPB a ‘sick, sad joke’ before he was put in charge of it,” Brown said in a statement. “His conflicts of interest with Santander, payday lenders, and other bad actors, as well as his full time job at OMB [Office of Management and Budget] should disqualify him as acting CFPB Director, even if he had been lawfully appointed. The White House needs to swiftly nominate a CFPB Director who will close payday industry loopholes and protect consumers.”
A spokesman for the CFPB did not address the senators’ concerns directly.
“We look forward to working with Senator Warren, Senator Brown and their 533 elected colleagues in Congress to find the most efficient, effective, and accountable ways to serve all American consumers,” John Czwartacki, a senior advisor at the CFPB, told IBT in an email.
The statements from the two potential 2020 presidential candidates follow a  letter sent by 44 members of the Senate Democratic Caucus to President Trump on Monday. The letter, which was signed by Warren and Brown, urged the president to “nominate a CFPB Director who will bring to the job both bipartisan support and a track record of being tough on big banks and other financial firms that rip off consumers.” The letter did not mention Mulvaney by name.
Mulvaney has raised campaign funds from other a variety of financial institutions he is now in charge of regulating. In addition to payday lenders, the Dodd-Frank act gave the CFPB supervisory authority over  “nonbank mortgage originators and servicers, payday lenders, and private student lenders of all sizes,” as well as “banks, thrifts and credit unions with assets over $10 billion,” according to the Bureau website.
The CFPB maintains a list of those institutions with assets over $10 billion on its website. An IBT review of their campaign donations showed they gave Mulvaney $164,850 over the course of his congressional career, with most of that money coming after Mulvaney joined the House Financial Services Committee in  December 2012. Mulvaney has also received at least $60,000 from trade groups representing banks subject to CFPB authority. In total, Mulvaney has raised $4.6 million from donors over the course of his congressional career,  according to the Center for Responsive Politics, and $567,000 of it came from donors in the commercial, banking, credit and securities/investment industries. 


The foundation of billionaire industrialist Charles Koch is ramping up its ideological higher education donations, smashing last year’s record amount given to colleges and universities. The foundation, along with smaller contributions from two other Koch family foundations, gave over $51 million to higher education institutions in 2016, according to  tax records analyzed by International Business Times. Koch donations typically come in the form of multi-year gifts, which support free-market centers, courses, professorships, graduate scholarships and lecture series, all with the aim of producing bright, young conservatives to recruit into their political network and like-minded professors to create scholarship that dovetails with the Kochs’ ideology and business interests.
Koch and his brother David are well known for running a giant oil, chemical and materials conglomerate, Koch Industries, and for leading a vast, conservative political network that rivals either of the two major political parties in size and funding. Lesser known, but crucial to their long-term strategy to bend America toward their small-government ideology, is their considerable funding of higher education.
The political activities of the Koch brothers have led to increased scrutiny into the family’s university grants in recent years, and students and faculty at several academic institutions have protested proposed donation agreements. In many cases, despite the opposition, universities and their economics departments, eager for an influx of cash, approve the agreements and begin taking yearly installments of hundreds of thousands — and sometimes millions — of dollars.
Controversial Centers See First Gift Installments
Several new free-market centers received their first installments from the Charles Koch Foundation (CKF) in 2016, including the controversial Center for the Study of Free Enterprise at Western Carolina University (WCU). The foundation made a  $1.8 million commitment in September 2016, and the first payment was made before the end of the year; Western Carolina took in $411,000 from CKF in 2016, according to the foundation’s most recent tax form. CKF had been funding the WCU College of Business since 2009, with annual amounts ranging from $12,000 to $16,000, but the new agreement marks a huge increase in support.
In October 2015, the WCU Faculty Senate released a  statement on the proposed center explaining its concerns including “potential constraints on academic freedom” and “reputational costs” that could result from association with Koch. In the past, CKF has engineered its university gifts to maximize its control over the use of its funding, most notably at  Florida State University, where it originally had influence over hiring decisions and the curriculum. The WCU Faculty Senate voted 21-3 against approving the center, with four abstaining.
Nevertheless, the WCU Board of Trustees  voted unanimously in favor of the free-enterprise center. In January 2016, a Smoky Mountain News  investigation found that Ed Lopez, the professor who proposed the center and would be its director, sent a detailed  letter to CKF that revealed his desire to recruit fellow conservative economics professors and to create a “pipeline of students” through the free-enterprise center. Faculty were concerned that the center would function as a de facto advocacy organization for the conservative economic philosophies of the billionaire brothers.
Lopez, a BB&T Distinguished Professor of Capitalism, earned his economics Master’s and PhD, as well as a postdoctoral fellowship, from George Mason University — by far the biggest recipient of money from Koch family foundations — and he has lectured at two CKF events. Lopez is also on the executive committee of the  Association of Private Enterprise Education, which hosts annual meetings of Koch-backed academics, CKF representatives and wealthy donors.
The University of Kentucky also received the first in a series of big payments from CKF in 2016, this time for a new John H. Schnatter Institute for the Study of Free Enterprise in the college of business, funded with $6 million from the family foundation of Papa John’s CEO Schnatter and $4 million from CKF. In October 2016, the university’s board of trustees  officially approved the donations and the formation of the institute days after the faculty’s University Senate  voted against endorsing the terms of the gift agreement. Faculty were especially concerned about the stipulation that the Koch and Schnatter foundations would review the program annually and could revoke their yearly installments with 30 days notice if they didn’t like the results. Such an arrangement, which is typical of CKF agreements, would incentivize a program to shape its output to please donors in order to keep the funds flowing, possibly risking academic freedom.
Ernest Yanarella, professor and chair of political science at UK, said the 30-day notice is “one of the many  strings attached to the [agreement] that give the Koch and Schnatter foundations control over the institute and its programs and direction.” The agreement “closes off investigation of the negative facets of capitalism,” he said.
In 2016, the university received $473,000 from CKF to begin the five-year Koch/Schnatter deal, up from the $28,000 it received from CKF in 2015 and $120,000 in 2014. The money will allow UK’s Gatton College of Business and Economics to hire new tenured and tenure-track faculty, research associates and administrative staff, and to fund Ph.D. fellowships.
Like Lopez at WCU, the Schnatter Institute’s founding director,  John Garen, holds a BB&T-funded professorship of capitalism. Garen was a visiting scholar at GMU’s Koch-funded Mercatus Center in 2010 and is on the board of scholars of the Bluegrass Institute for Public Policy Solutions, which has  received funding from CKF and from other nonprofits to which Koch family foundations contribute. Also like Lopez, Garen sits on the executive committee of the Association of Private Enterprise Education.
The dean of the College of Business, David Blackwell, who pushed for the center, is now one of  two final candidates to become university provost, something students and faculty planned to protest outside a hearing Friday.
Faculty opposition to Koch donations has recently welled up at other campuses including  Wake Forest University,  Syracuse University and the  University of Utah.
“Student and faculty  resistance to the Koch network's academic programs is growing rapidly, while administrators continue to bulldoze faculty governance, mistaking money with strings attached for support of their institutional missions,” said Ralph Wilson, senior researcher at the activist group  UnKoch My Campus.
Many Schools Get Six- And Seven-Figure Gifts
More than 240 colleges and universities, almost all in the U.S., got donations from Koch family foundations in 2016, up from 218 the previous year.
George Mason University, as usual, took in the most money at more than $19.3 million. This total includes one installment of a total  $10 million donation to  rename the law school after the late, conservative Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia and fund new law professors, and $5.9 million went to GMU’s Institute for Humane Studies. $85,000 to IHS came from the Charles Koch Institute, a nonprofit that gives out gifts to institutions and provides  work grants, student internships and  journalism fellowships with its web of  conservative partners. The other Koch family nonprofit, the Frank and Mary Koch Foundation, gave several five-figure gifts to schools based in Kansas, where Charles Koch resides and where Koch Industries is headquartered.
The Arlington, Virginia campus of George Mason University houses the law school, Mercatus Center and the Institute for Humane Studies, all funded in part by Koch family foundations. Photo: Ron Cogswell/Flickr
Five other schools received over $1 million from the Koch foundations last year: Texas Tech University ($3.4 million), Catholic University of America ($2.2 million), Utah State University ($2 million), Purdue University ($1.1 million) and Florida State University ($1 million). Fifty-seven U.S. colleges and universities received $100,000 or more from Koch foundations in 2016. See a table showing all university donations from Koch foundations here.
Vast Increase In Funding
The $51.3 million towards higher education in 2016, a more than 50 percent increase from the the previous record,  $33 million, in 2015. One year before that, the Koch foundations donated $24.8 million to colleges and universities, so, two years later, Koch higher ed contributions have more than doubled.
The academic gifts follow a general trend of CKF ramping up its overall donations. In 2016, the foundation gave $77 million in total, a 75 percent increase from the previous year. In 2017, CKF  expects to dole out around $120 million.
In addition to higher ed donations, CKF funds many of the conservative think tanks and advocacy groups that make up the Koch political network, as well as conservative publications. In 2016, CKF gave nearly $2.6 million to the libertarian Cato Institute, which Charles Koch co-founded; close to $950,000 to the foundation of the right-wing news outlet The Daily Caller; $612,000 to the Texas Public Policy Foundation; roughly $550,000 to the conservative bill mill the American Legislative Exchange Council; and $207,000 to the Heritage Foundation, among other institutions.
‘A Radically Different Social Philosophy’
In her most recent book,  Dark Money, New Yorker staff writer Jane Mayer describes a 1976 New York City conference that Charles Koch organized for wealthy libertarians to plot a strategy to take over American politics. In order to broaden their radical conservative movement, Charles Koch advocated a focus on “attracting youth” because “this is the group that is open to a radically different social philosophy.” Koch’s political lieutenant at the time, former John Birch Society member George Pearson, said at the gathering that traditional university gifts would not be sufficient, but funding private institutes on campuses would make it easier for donors to exert more control over hiring decisions and the ideological bent of these centers.
The “Structure of Social Change,” a plan devised by Koch and one of his closest lifelong associates, Richard Fink, begins with funding higher education. Next, academic output — or “intellectual raw materials” — moves on to right-wing think tanks funded by Koch and his network, which repackage the scholarship into more relatable policy proposals. Koch-funded political advocacy groups then rally people around these policies and pressure lawmakers to adopt them.
The strategy appears to be working. Not only are libertarian-minded academics raising their profiles with the help of Koch grants and providing “raw materials” for conservative think tanks to convert into policy proposals but some are rising directly into the halls of government. IBT recently identified a host of  Koch-backed academics who have secured posts within the Donald Trump administration this year.
Meanwhile, business is booming for the wealthy brothers.  Charles and  David Koch are currently worth a combined $99.2 billion.


Consumer Financial Protection Bureau chief Mick Mulvaney repeatedly pressed the agency to back off lending regulations as financial industry donors were bankrolling his congressional bids, according to government documents obtained by International Business Times. Some of the letters signed by Mulvaney that pressured the agency came within weeks of him raking in campaign contributions from payday lending industry donors who were urging the CFPB to stand down.
In response to an IBT open records request, the CFPB released 268 pages of correspondence between the agency and Mulvaney during the Republican’s six years in Congress representing South Carolina —which is  home to one of the largest payday lenders in America. President Donald Trump recently  appointed Mulvaney to run the CFPB, which Mulvaney had previously criticized.
IBT has published the full trove of Mulvaney’s congressional correspondence with the CFPB and made the documents word-searchable. Click here to see the documents.
During his congressional campaigns, Mulvaney vacuumed in more than $567,000 from donors in the commercial banking, credit and securities/investment industries, according to  data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics. That includes more than $55,000 from donors in the payday and title loan industry, according to  data from the National Institute on Money in State Politics.
“Severely Restrict Access To Credit”
The letters reviewed by IBT show that much of Mulvaney’s criticism of the CFPB revolved around the agency’s attempts to regulate the payday lending industry, which provides short term, high-interest loans.
One such CFPB effort came in June 2016, when the agency proposed a  rule that it said would require payday and title lenders to “reasonably determine that the consumer has the ability to repay the loan.” The CFPB also said that for certain loans “with an annual percentage rate greater than 36 percent,” lenders would be barred from withdrawing “payment from a consumer’s account after two consecutive payment attempts have failed.”
Three months after the agency proposed the rule, Mulvaney and eleven other lawmakers wrote a letter to the agency asserting that the rule “has the potential to severely restrict access to credit that millions of Americans rely on” and arguing that “in an effort to keep unscrupulous actors out or the industry the CFPB will simultaneously be harming the very consumers it is trying to protect.”
In the three weeks leading up to the letter, Mulvaney received $18,500 in campaign contributions from payday lenders’ political action committees and executives — including  $4,000 from Advance America’s PAC,  $2,700 from the Advance America’s CEO J.P. O’Shaughnessy,  $2,700 from  LoanMax owner Rod Aycox and  $2,000 from the  Amscot CEO Ian MacKechnie.
Just days after Mulvaney and his cosigners sent their letter to the CFPB, O’Shaughnessy and MacKechnie echoed the lawmakers criticism in their  own  letters that they sent to the agency.
“You Will Override And Invalidate State Laws”
Mulvaney in 2016 also co-authored a separate letter to the CFPB with fellow Republican Rep. Randy Neugebauer. The missive complained that the agency’s proposal for federal regulations of payday lenders were stricter than many states’ laws. Defending states that were “declining to enact an authorizing law to govern the industry,” the lawmakers slammed the agency for creating a federal minimum.
“By setting a federal legal floor, you will override and invalidate state laws that are less restrictive than your federal legal floor,” they wrote.
In another 2016  letter spearheaded by Mulvaney, he and his fellow South Carolina Republican lawmakers criticized CFPB efforts to regulate payday lenders, saying it “will preempt existing laws in our state and will ultimately result in our constituents being forced to tum to risky, unregulated forms of credit.”
In August 2013, Mulvaney also signed a  letter with other lawmakers pushing the CFPB to create an “advisory board made up of non-bank lenders, including payday lenders.” Less than two months after the letter was sent to the CFPB, Mulvaney received $17,500 from donors in the payday and title lending industry — including  $5,000 from the lobbying group for the payday lending industry.
“A Significantly Higher Compliance Burden”
Mulvaney’s criticism of the CFPB was not limited to its regulations of payday lenders;  it also extended to the agency’s oversight of mortgages.
In 2014, the CFPB proposed a  rule to require more financial institutions to report more data about the home loans they issue. “This information has helped to promote access to fair credit in the housing market,” wrote the agency in justifying the new reporting requirements.
The next year, Mulvaney added his name to a  letter criticizing the move.
“The final rule requires covered banks and credit unions to collect 48 unique data fields on each mortgage loan they make,” he and other Republican lawmakers wrote. “This is more than double the number of data fields covered lenders are currently required to collect and goes well beyond the number of fields required by Section 1094 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which triggered the new rulemaking. This large number of data fields represents a significantly higher compliance burden.”
Friday afternoon, Democratic Sens. Elizabeth Warren (MA) and Sherrod Brown (OH), members of the Senate Banking Committee which oversees the CFPB, criticized Mulvaney for conflicts of interests.


The new tax bill, passed by the Senate early Saturday, is not just about taxes. It has significant consequences for the American health care system – especially for the most vulnerable of our citizens.
If the proposed tax bill comes to fruition, it will reduce the affordability of health care for many Americans. Without access to care, our sickest and most vulnerable – especially the the poor and elderly – will suffer an increasing chance of poorer health outcomes.
What’s more, the bill’s long-term outcomes will be bad for our economy, resulting in lost productivity, lost wages and increased health care costs. If Americans become less healthy and have less access to health care, then everyone loses.
This bill puts much of the health system reforms under the Obama administration in jeopardy. For example, the Senate tax plan includes a repeal of an important part of the Affordable Care Act, the individual mandate. This provision requires that most Americans buy health insurance, or pay a penalty.
Many health care experts see the mandate as the only way to bring healthy people into the insurance marketplaces. Gutting the mandate would result in 13 million more uninsured Americans over the next 10 years.
Additionally, the Senate bill is expected to trigger a US$25 billion annual cut to Medicare, including cuts to cancer care for older Americans covered by Medicare. The House plan also eliminates medical expense deductions, implying that catastrophic expenses will not be as deductible under the new tax proposal.
Many economists believe that the American population has a right to be healthy and productive. This has major implications for the income generated for society. A healthier population has a greater investment in human capital and is more productive in the workforce, yielding greater output and income.
By the same token, a less healthy workforce will work less and be less valuable in the labor market. Health care costs will also increase due to uncompensated care, as more of the population cannot afford basic health care services to prevent disease – let alone chronic or critical care.
Lack of access to care also lowers the productivity of lower income citizens. If health insurance is less affordable and available, then those already at risk for illness will become even more vulnerable. This segment of the population will be likelier to fall ill and lose work time.
Is the right to health only relevant for those with influence or affluence in the U.S.? If so, then we all will pay for the poorer health of our society in the long term. Hospitals and other providers will pass along bad debt and costs associated with charity care for uninsured people. Insurance companies will charge higher premiums to cover the expenses they incur for treating patients who skip preventive care and instead go to the doctor only when they are sick.
As the most vulnerable Americans rack up increasing medical expenses and decline in productivity due to sickness, everyone in the U.S. will have to pay the price.
Diane Dewar, University at Albany, State University of New York.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Pfizer Inc. has announced the launch of a "generic Viagra," which will come at half the price of the current erectile dysfunction drug available in the market.
Come Dec. 11, the cheaper version of the drug will be available for $32.50 per pill in the U.S. as compared to the existing $65 price tag.
The price reduction is being seen as the first step by Pfizer Inc. to stay competitively relevant once its patent-protected monopoly to sell the drug comes to an end, Fortune reported.
Though the pharmaceutical giant's patent protecting Viagra from generic competition ends only in 2020, it has signed a settlement with Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, which allows the latter to sell its competitive product from Dec. 11, 2017, paying Pfizer a royalty for a license to produce its generic version.
Jim Sage, the president of U.S. brands for Pfizer Essential Health, said: “We believe the story for Viagra isn't done. It's just going to be a new chapter.”
Erik Gordon, a pharmaceutical analyst at the University of Michigan’s business school, said the move is "unprecedented."
“This is the most comprehensive pricing and marketing response I’ve seen to a generic. It’s unprecedented.”
“Patients are paying fortunes. When generic Viagra comes out, they will be very happy,” Dr. Nachum Katlowitz, a urologist at New York's Staten Island University Hospital said.
However, the company has plans for discount programs for customers who prefer to stick to the original product.  
According to reports, Pfizer will also offer two new discount programs for its customers starting January next year. The company will launch Pfizer Direct — an online home delivery program targeting uninsured men, and for those who are insured, Pfizer will give a month’s prescription — typically 10 pills — depending on the type of plan they choose.
Dr. Matthias Hofer, a urologist at the Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago, said that his patients who currently use Viagra would prefer using the same instead of going for a cheaper version, especially if the company is willing to offer good deals and discounts.
“They will be ecstatic if they can save money and get the brand product from Pfizer,” Hofer said.
Meanwhile, Teva Pharmaceuticals can officially start selling their version of generic Viagra next week based on the patent litigation settlement with Pfizer. According to the settlement terms, Teva would be allowed to launch a generic version of Viagra in the U.S. on or before Dec. 11. However, Teva has not yet revealed the estimated pricing for its product which could be seen as a potential competitor to the cheaper version of Pfizer's Viagra.
 


Lawmakers on the congressional committee that will finalize the Republican tax bill will likely be hearing from their former employees, if they haven’t already. Former staffers of six of the nine U.S. representatives appointed to the committee have lobbied the House on tax issues this year, according to federal records reviewed by International Business Times — and some of them represent corporations and industries that could benefit significantly from the bill.
House Speaker Paul Ryan has named  nine Republicans to the House-Senate conference committee that will iron out the details of the bill before it goes back to both chambers for another vote.  Three of the nine come from California and Illinois, whose populations could face tax increases because the federal legislation reduces the deductibility of state and local taxes.
The prospect of sweeping tax reform has generated a lobbying blitz in Washington. More than  6,200 lobbyists tried to influence members of Congress on tax issues this year, according to a report by Public Citizen. That K Street army descended on Capitol Hill as the public was left largely in the dark: There were no public hearings on the Senate version of the bill — which in any case was changed at the last minute by Texas Sen. John Cornyn’s lengthy amendment late on Friday night.
At least 12 former staffers of GOP conference members have lobbied the House on tax policy in 2017, according to federal lobbying records. As structured right now, the tax bill appears to be a jackpot for the commercial real estate industry, big tech companies, private aviation management firms and fossil fuel giants. Those four interests hired lobbyists who served as aides to the lawmakers who will iron out the final legislation. They are:
Real Estate
Rep.  Diane Black (TN-6), chair of the House Budget Committee, has two former staffers lobbying the House on tax issues. One is  Annie Palisi, Black’s former chief of staff and 2010  campaign manager who joined Heather Podesta’s Invariant LLC in December 2016. Palisi lobbied the House on tax matters on behalf of the  National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. The New York Times reported Tuesday that tax loopholes may make the real estate industry — which enriched President Donald Trump and his son-in-law and close adviser Jared Kushner — the biggest winner in both the House and Senate tax bills.
Real estate investment trusts (REITs) are companies that own, finance and operate real estate. Investors can buy in to bundles of real estate assets, including buildings and mortgages, put together by REITs. These trusts don’t pay corporate taxes but pass their income along to shareholders, who pay income tax on their share. Both tax bills allow investors in REITs and other pass-through entities to pay a much lower tax rate on these earnings than is required for regular income. In addition, those who borrow money to invest in a REIT will be able to deduct the interest they pay on those loans at the top individual tax rate.
The REIT provisions in the tax bill are “going to create giant new tax shelters,” Steven Rosenthal of the Tax Policy Center  told the Times. The Trump Organization and Kushner Companies have major deals with REITs.
Big Tech
Cornerstone Government Affairs VP  Chris Sarley left the office of Rep.  John Shimkus (IL-15) this April after nine years there, mostly as policy director. He immediately began  lobbying the House on “comprehensive tax reform” for Microsoft in the second quarter of 2017 and continued to do so during the  third quarter.
Microsoft, along with other big tech companies,  stands to gain from the House tax bill’s one-time reduction in the tax rate on repatriated funds. The company as  $128 billion held by foreign subsidiaries, and it could bring that money back to the U.S. at a rate of 12 percent for cash and 5 percent for non-cash returns. Among tech companies, only Apple will be able to gain more from this provision.
Private Jets
Natasha Hammond, Ryan’s assistant for policy from October to November of 2015 who now works at Squire Patton Boggs,  lobbied the House in the third quarter on federal excise tax issues on behalf of private jet management company NetJets. Ryan is not on the conference committee but is a  co-sponsor of the House’s tax bill.
The Senate’s tax bill clarifies a gray area around taxes on jets: whether or not such companies, which manage and rent out owners’ private jets, should pay  a 7.5 percent excise tax on its management fees to owners, who would likely see their fees increase as a result. The House bill does not address this, but companies such as NetJets surely want the final bill to include this clarification, which officially exempts companies from this tax. As of now, the tax is on hold, but the Internal Revenue Service could change sides on the issue and begin imposing it.
Ohio-based NetJets has sued the IRS over this issue three times, winning verdicts in  2011 and 2017, and Democratic Sen. Sherrod Brown and Republican Sen. Rob Portman co-sponsored  a bill with language similar to that in the current Senate tax bill.
Fossil Energy Companies
Energy companies are lobbying on various aspects of the bill including master limited partnerships (MLPs),  financial vehicles typically owned by a parent company or its subsidiaries that exempt energy investments from corporate taxes. (REITs avoid taxes in a similar way.) A provision in the Senate bill added by Sen. Cornyn also reduces the income taxes on profits that individual investors earn from MLPs.
Many oil and gas companies that operate MLPs are based in Texas — represented by the primary sponsor of the House tax bill, Rep.  Kevin Brady (TX-8), who is chair of the conference committee and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. Aindriu Colgan, Brady’s legislative director from 2014 to 2016 and his legislative assistant before that, represented Houston-based Phillips 66 as he lobbied the House this year. The company  reported hiring Colgan’s firm, The Ferguson Group, to lobby on tax reform issues including MLPs and the border adjustment tax. Phillips 66 backs  Phillip 66 Partners, an MLP oil and gas pipeline operator.
Texas-based MLPs  give generously to lawmakers from their state who will likely legislate in their interest. Brady was the  second-highest recipient of 2016 campaign cash from Dallas-based Energy Transfer Equity, an MLP that operates another MLP, Energy Transfer Partners.
NextEra Energy, which also controls an  MLP, has lobbied members of the conference committee but did not mention MLPs specifically in these reports.
Health Care
Health care policy has also been a source of debate on the tax bill. The Senate version repeals the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that everyone obtain health insurance — known as the “individual mandate” — which experts say would gut the historic 2010 policy. Another issue of interest to health care companies is  a small excise tax on the wholesale price of medical devices imposed by the Affordable Care Act, something the medical device industry opposes.
Katie Allen, a former senior legislative assistant to Black, represented trade group America’s Health Insurance Plans (AHIP) on a host of tax issues during the third quarter of 2017, including the  individual mandate. On Nov. 14, AHIP and medical and hospital groups sent a  letter to House and Senate leaders, urging them not to repeal the individual mandate, saying, “Eliminating the individual mandate by itself likely will result in a significant increase in premiums, which would in turn substantially increase the number of uninsured Americans.” The House bill left the mandate intact, but the Senate bill eliminated it.
Lori Harju, who  left her post as Brady’s senior adviser on the House Ways and Means Committee in December 2016, was back in the House offices weeks later, in the first quarter of 2017, representing medical device company  Baxter Healthcare Corporation on device tax, corporate tax rates and other tax-related issues.
More Industries Hire Former House Staffers
Harju, also Brady’s former deputy legislative director for five years, represented the Credit Union National Association on the preservation of credit union tax status, an “untouchable tax break” that credit unions were able to keep. This year, the Credit Union National Association’s political action committee has donated  $9,000 to Brady’s campaign, and the  securities and investment industry is his most generous industry, according to data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics.
As a lobbyist and vice president with the Alpine Group,  Barry Brown, Brady’s legislative director from 1997 to 2000, represented Nike on issues including the corporate tax rate and the tax on repatriation of foreign earnings, and the U.S. Tire Manufacturers Association on import taxes.
In addition to former aide Sarley, two other former Shimkus staffers have lobbied the House on tax policy in 2017.  Greta Joynes, who worked for Shimkus for nearly 14 years, left her post in March for a job with Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck and was  lobbying Shimkus in the second quarter on real estate-related tax reform on behalf of the American Tower Corporation.  Maureen Tracy, who was a legislative staffer and then director for Shimkus from 2002 to 2007, is now senior director for government affairs at Illinois-based Verex Imaging Corporation. She’s lobbied her former boss during  all  three  quarters of this year.
Two former staffers of Rep.  Greg Walden (OR-2) have lobbied the House on tax issues this year.  Blair Larkins, an assistant to Walden from 2005 to 2010 who is now director of legislative affairs at the Bockorny Group,  lobbied the House on behalf of the conservative business advocacy group the Job Creators Network. Former Walden legislative assistant  Daniel Fernandez, also of the Bockorny Group and formerly a VP at the American Bankers Association,  lobbied the House on tax reform for Majestic Steel USA. Another former staffer,  Lauren Flynn of K&L Gates LLP,  registered in October to lobby Congress for the Coalition for Energy Efficient Jobs and Investment on tax issues.
Reps.  Peter Roskam (IL-6) and Rob Bishop (UT-1) also have former staffers lobbying the House on tax issues for the University of Illinois and Vista Outdoor, respectively. Another of Ryan’s former staffers has also been visiting congressional offices to talk tax reform. His former House floor director  Ann Bradbury, now VP at The Duberstein Group, lobbied the House for several companies including  Amgen,  Dow Chemical and  Duke Energy Business Services.


Boeing has lost an order from Canada for 18 Super Hornet fighter jets, a deal that was worth up to $6.4 billion. The Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF) will likely purchase 28-30 used fighter planes from the Australian military, according to reports Tuesday.
The Canadian government announced in 2016 it would purchase 18 planes from Boeing. The new F/A-18 fighter jets would have been a temporary measure for Canada, to allow the country to meet its commitments to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD). RCAF currently operates an ageing fleet of CF-18 fighters, which is due for replacement sometime in the next decade.
The U.S. plane manufacturer filed a complaint against its Canadian rival Bombardier in April 2016, accusing it of using Canadian government subsidies to win a Delta Air Lines contract for 75 aircraft. Boeing alleged that Bombardier was selling the planes at “absurdly low” prices, and the Department of Commerce imposed a preliminary 300 percent import duty on Bombardier’s CS 100 planes. The Canadian company says Boeing, which did not offer any of its own aircraft to Delta, could not have been harmed by its actions, which it maintains were in line with international rules.
A formation of U.S. Navy F-18E Super Hornets flies over northern Iraq, Sept. 23, 2014. Photo: Reuters/Shawn Nickel/U.S. Air Force/Handout
The final ruling in the case is expected next year, but the relationship between Boeing and Canada has nosedived since. In August 2017, Canadian officials travelled to Australia to inspect the F/A-18 aircraft the country is planning to buy instead. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said at the time the country would not engage in business with Boeing till such time its dispute with Bombardier continued, a sentiment he repeated to President Donald Trump in October.
Since the Australian fighter jets are almost as old as the current Canadian fleet, RCAF will reportedly need to buy some additional planes to use them for spare parts. That could explain why 28-30 of the older planes would be bought instead of 18 new ones. An official announcement is expected in the coming days.
In September, Boeing International president Marc Allen, talking to the Globe and Mail, invoked Boeing’s $4 billion worth of annual business and 17,000 jobs in Canada, and said: “If Canada kicks Boeing out, I think that will be deeply unfortunate for us both. It would be a deeply unfortunate outcome. It has to be a two-way street, there has to be this mutually beneficial relationship for it to be one that grows, one that both sides are happy and excited about.”
But the company’s thinly-veiled threat may be futile, especially in a larger political climate where Canada and Mexico are frustrated by Trump’s attempts to renegotiate long-standing trade deals.
At a conference in Boston in November, Bombardier CEO Alain Bellemare said: “Boeing is underestimating what they are tackling. It's not just the company but countries. Unfortunately, I think they're taking advantage of a [political] context that’s favorable to them.”
Shares of Boeing fell 0.86 percent during Tuesday trade on the New York Stock Exchange.


There is a particular mood you might find yourself in one evening. You will be tired from a long day at work and starving, but unwilling to put too much thought into your dinner. Pizza sounds good, but not expensive, fancy pizza. Pizza Hut delivery will be your savior, but if you are committing to eating unhealthily, you might as well go all the way. Thanks to a new Pizza Hut initiative being tested in Phoenix soon, you can kill two birds with one stone.
CNN reports Pizza Hut will begin testing beer and wine deliveries alongside pizza orders in “certain cities,” with Phoenix being the initial guinea pig. When you order a greasy Pizza Hut pie, you will be able to order six packs of Anheuser-Busch beers for $10.99 apiece. That encompasses beers like Budweiser and Shock Top, with this test also including Arizona craft beer Kilt Lifter. For reference, $11 is roughly as much as a cheap six pack costs in New York City.
Phoenix residents will also be able to get wine included in their Pizza Hut order in January, but the details are more murky on that front. CNN was not able to get confirmation on which wines will be available and whether they will be sold in full bottles or smaller servings. If you feel like drinking with your pizza but want to be a little more fancy, this option will be available. Pizza Hut did not specify which other cities would get this service, or when.
As CNN points out, Pizza Hut would be the first pizza chain of that caliber to offer booze as a delivery option, as Papa John’s and Domino’s only offer family-friendly beverages on their delivery menus. Of course, individual stores will need to acquire liquor licenses, but a Pizza Hut representative told CNN plenty of locations already have one, so that should not be too big a hurdle in the process.
Delivery drivers will also need to be 21 or older, which may give an edge to older job applicants if this plan evolves to other cities or even becomes standard practice at Pizza Hut. Lastly, you will need to show ID upon delivery, so rowdy teens cannot order a bunch of beer and expect to get it with no trouble. Drivers will card you at your door.
This is part of a larger trend of huge restaurant chains attempting to drive up profits by appealing to adult vices. Taco Bell (which operates under the same parent company as Pizza Hut)  has plans to open a bunch of “Cantina” locations over the next few years that serve alcohol, with the idea being that plenty of customers are already drunk when they get to Taco Bell, so the restaurant should give them more of what they want. Jack in the Box also made waves a few years ago with the late-night-only  “Munchies Menu,” a wink-and-nod acknowledgement that people will eat too much fast food after smoking too much weed.


The controversial Keystone pipeline spilled more than  200,000 gallons of oil in South Dakota last month, prompting new pressure to slow pipeline development in the United States. Only weeks later, Republican lawmakers slipped a provision into a massive tax bill that could instead give the pipeline operator, TransCanada, a huge new tax cut.
The company is one of a handful of energy giants that set up  master limited partnerships (MLPs) -- financial vehicles often used to shield energy investments from taxes. The investors in those vehicles — who are often the  parent company or its subsidiaries — could receive a huge boost thanks to an eleventh-hour amendment added to the GOP tax bill by Texas Sen. John Cornyn. MLPs themselves are already exempted from corporate taxes, but Cornyn’s last-minute provision would cut income taxes on the money earned by the MLP partners.
The tax changes stand to enrich fossil fuel behemoths and their partners — many of whom recently delivered big campaign donations to Donald Trump and to groups backing Republican Party lawmakers.
“These MLP financial vehicles already operate at a tremendous tax advantage over other publicly-traded businesses, because they are the only public companies that are allowed to escape paying corporate income tax,”  Edward Kleinbard wrote in The Hill Monday. Kleinbard is a University of Southern California law professor who served as the chief of staff for Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation. “But that existing subsidy was insufficient for Sen. Cornyn, and now existing investors in such vehicles have been awarded a further windfall by becoming eligible for the new discounted pass-through tax rates sold as tax relief for Main Street business.”
Invented in the early 1980s, MLPs used tradable partnerships to shield businesses from corporate taxes, while simultaneously providing access to capital markets. Income passes through the MLP to partners, who then pay personal income taxes on the money they made. Worried about lost corporate tax revenue, Congress limited the MLP structure to certain industries as part of tax reform in 1986, including real estate, finance and energy. Today, oil and gas pipelines are commonly associated with MLPs.
“Most people think of MLPs as energy pipeline companies with an advantageous tax structure, which is an extreme simplification, but not untrue,”  Alerian, an MLP research firm, explains on its website.
The energy industry, and specifically oil and gas interests, have benefited most from the structure. According to  recent estimates by investment management giant Vanguard, the energy industry accounts for more than $400 billion in MLPs -- roughly 85 percent of MLPs’ total value. Eighty percent of that $400 billion is represented by “midstream” oil and gas interests — typically pipeline transport companies.
Over the last year, amid rising concern about climate change, the political battle over pipelines has intensified across the United States. Following the Keystone spill in South Dakota in November, the pipeline’s operator TransCanada won a key regulatory ruling in Nebraska — but now confronts the  prospect of litigation. Likewise, Energy Transfer Partners’ Dakota Access Pipeline is now dealing with a court-ordered  environmental review, pipeline projects in  Florida,  New Jersey,  Virginia and  Michigan also face mounting protests, and local resistance forced the cancellation of a  planned pipeline through New England.
Despite that opposition, Congressional Republicans pushed various initiatives to boost the pipeline industry in recent years. In  2015, for instance, top Republicans tried to pass a bill to speed pipeline approvals — as they accepted campaign cash from one firm that stood to benefit from the legislation. A few months ago, House lawmakers once again passed  legislation to expedite pipeline approvals.
The new tax bill — which has been defined by partisan battles over property taxes, mortgage interest deductions and corporate tax rates — had not been viewed as a central part of the larger pipeline policy debate. However, Republicans included provisions that would open up Alaska’s Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling and also inserted the MLP language that would largely benefit fossil fuel firms.
The House version of the bill capped taxes on “pass-through” income (the money “passing through” partnerships like MLPs) at 25 percent — far less than the top marginal tax rate (39.6 percent) that partners would typically pay on income. The Senate bill keeps the top rate for pass-through income, but Cornyn’s amendment inserts a 23 percent deduction on “qualifying” pass-through income, which includes income from energy sector MLPs.
“It’s definitely a personal tax rate wrapped in a corporate provision, because for partners it is a personal tax advantage,” Ryan Alexander, president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, told IBT.
A buried section of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline , July 21, 2002 in Fairbanks, Alaska. The 800 mile pipeline carries crude oil from Prudhoe Bay to the ice free port of Valdez, Alaska.  Photo: Barry Williams/Getty Images
Pipeline giants and their trade associations lobbied lawmakers on tax issues in the lead up to the votes on tax reform.
For example, the Master Limited Partnership Association, the trade group representing MLPs, spent $390,000 on lobbying in the first three quarters of 2017. Energy Transfer Partners, operators of the Dakota Access Pipeline, spent $750,000 and recently  hired a former top Treasury official to lobby on tax issues. Enterprise Products Partners, the MLP with the largest market capitalization, spent $240,000 lobbying on “partnership and individual tax issues involving Publicly Traded Partnerships” and “final qualifying income regulations.”
Some of the biggest master limited partnerships — whose investors could benefit from the changes — are linked to several of the Republican Party’s biggest donors, according to data compiled by the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics. That includes:
 —Energy Transfer Partners: CEO Kelcy Warren delivered more than  $1.5 million to conservative super PACs in the 2016 election, and was a top contributor to President Trump’s  campaign. The company’s employees and political action committees have given more than $1 million to GOP lawmakers and party groups since 2016. The company operates more than  71,000 miles of pipelines.
 —Western Refining: CEO Paul Foster in May gave  $1 million to the Congressional Leadership Fund, whose  website describes it as “exclusively dedicated to protecting and strengthening the Republican Majority in the House of Representatives.” Foster also gave more than $367,000 to the National Republican Senatorial Committee in 2016. Western Refining and its master limited partnerships were  recently acquired by Andeavor.
 —TransCanada:  Donors from the Keystone operator gave more than $204,000 to Republican lawmakers in the election preceding the tax change for MLPs. By contrast, the company contributed a total of just $22,025 to all federal lawmakers between 2008 and 2014.
 —Dominion: The company and its political action committees have given more than  $1 million to Republican congressional candidates since 2016. Dominion oversees an  MLP, and its mid-Atlantic pipeline project has  sparked opposition.
Many of the fossil fuel firms operating MLPs are based in Texas and have supported Texas Republican lawmakers such as Cornyn and Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady.  Donors from Valero and Energy Transfer were among Cornyn’s top donors in 2016. That year, Brady was Congress’s second biggest recipient of donations from  Energy Transfer.
“The MLP rules have helped these companies avoid corporate-level taxation for decades,” Doug Koplow, founder of Earth Track, an organization that tracks energy subsidies, told International Business Times. “Under the tax bill the tax burden on the partners of the MLPs is going to be reduced as well.”


 A group of lawyers sued the state of California Tuesday because of the number of students the state's public schools failed to teach reading.
The advocacy law firm Public Counsel is representing students and teachers from poor performing schools in the suit. The firm said the state hasn’t taken any steps in addressing the number of students in California who are illiterate.
“When it comes to literacy and the delivery of basic education, California is dragging down the nation,” said Public Counsel lawyer Mark Rosenbaum to the Associated Press.
California lags behind the rest of the U.S. in reading for the fourth and eighth grades, according to the Los Angeles Times.
In 2015 statewide tests showed that less than half of students from third grade to fifth could read at a proficient level.
The state superintendent and state board of education president asked for a report on how to improve literacy in the state five years ago, and the suit contends that none of the suggestions in the report have been implemented.
Plaintiffs for the suit include teachers and students from three schools that are amongst California’s lowest-performing institutions.
The schools were La Salle Avenue Elementary School in Los Angeles; Children of Promise Preparatory Academy, an Inglewood, California charter school and Van Buren Elementary School, in Stockton, California. The suit said that the problem cuts across charter and traditional schools. 
The lawsuit said that only 8 of 179 students tested at La Salle Elementary last year met literacy standards.
David Moch, a former teacher at La Salle told the Los Angeles Times that he would have to use kindergarten teaching tools on kids as old as fifth graders. He is one of the plaintiffs.
“We need citizens that can read. We need citizens that can vote,”  said Moch. “Once you get behind, if there's no intervention, there's no catching up. The level of the work is getting more intense and multiplied at every level.”


Things have changed since then-presidential candidate Donald Trump tweeted that the Koch brothers “cannot influence Trump!” in July 2015. Or in November of that year when he tweeted that Charles Koch was “looking for a new puppet” after Scott Walker’s and Jeb Bush’s campaigns failed. Or in February 2016, when Trump repeated his puppet claims in the context of Marco Rubio.
From choosing Koch favorite Mike Pence as his running mate in mid-2016 to filling his administration with Koch associates, Trump appears to have fully embraced the agenda of billionaire industrialist brothers Charles and David Koch, who run a private oil, chemical and manufacturing conglomerate, with the help of many of their allies by his side.
While the Kochs and their network continue to urge Congress to make big tax cuts, slash regulations, repeal Obamacare and crack down on unions, academics from Koch-funded college and university programs have, under Trump, earned posts in the budget office’s regulatory department, the Department of Labor, the EPA, and the renewable energy office in the Department of Energy, among other agencies, while others are special assistants advising the president on health care policy or energy issues.
A  new report from the progressive consumer advocate Public Citizen identifies 44 Trump administration officials who have close ties to the Koch brothers and their network of political groups. Many come from Koch Industries, Koch-funded political organizations and independent think tanks financed by the Kochs like the Cato Institute and the Texas Public Policy Foundation. Still others, including additional officials identified by International Business Times, are academics who have either taught or studied at heavily Koch-backed programs at the public George Mason University (GMU) in Virginia.
Since the 1970s, the Kochs have considered higher education the foundation of their “Structure of Social Change,” an effort to convert Americans to libertarianism and push through steep tax cuts and deregulation. Richard Fink, the Kochs’ close lifelong associate, said that higher education can provide the “intellectual raw materials” that think tanks can then repackage into policy ideas. Then, finally, advocacy groups can turn these ideas into distinct proposals that the public can understand and then rally those people to push for policy change.
Decades later, Koch family foundations, especially the Charles Koch Foundation, have given hundreds of millions of dollars to colleges and universities to further their libertarian ideology. “The [Koch] network is fully integrated, so it’s not just work at the universities with the students, but it’s also building state-based capabilities and election capabilities and integrating this talent pipeline,” Kevin Gentry, then vice president of the Charles Koch Foundation,  told a crowd of wealthy Koch network donors at a private 2014 gathering.
No academic institution has enjoyed more donations from the Koch family than GMU, where the Koch brothers have founded and funded multiple free-market centers with the hope of indoctrinating many young minds and raising the profile of libertarian professors. Some of these minds are now working the Trump administration, and still more occupy other roles in the conservative political ranks of Washington, D.C.
“When you see a Mercatus scholar working in the White House, [Charles] Koch’s interests are being directly represented,” Samantha Parsons, a campaign strategist with activist group UnKoch My Campus, which researches and organizes around the Kochs’ higher education donations, told IBT. “Trump’s appointments demonstrate the Koch network’s highly effective manipulation of universities to achieve policy outcomes, even under an administration they claim no allegiance to.”
Koch-sponsored Academics In The Trump Administration
On Oct. 26, Trump  announced that  William Beach ,  vice president of policy research at the Mercatus Center, would begin a four-year term as the commissioner of labor statistics at the Department of Labor. From 1991 to 1995, Beach was president of the Institute for Humane Studies, another free-market think tank at GMU that the Kochs have  heavily funded for decades.
At Mercatus, Beach published papers claiming that  deregulation fuels economic growth, and earlier, as a fellow and head of data analysis at the conservative and partially Koch-funded Heritage Foundation, Beach co-authored a 2011 report on how to “  fix the debt and cut spending ” by slashing Medicare, Social Security and K-12 education funds while cutting taxes. In 1998, Beach  argued in favor of private investment retirement accounts instead of social security for union workers and instead. Previously chief economist for the Republicans in the Senate Budget Committee, Beach will oversee the  Bureau of Labor Statistics, an “independent statistical agency” within the Labor Department that “[measures] labor market activity, working conditions, and price changes in the economy.”
John Graham, the dean of the School of Public and Environmental Affairs at Indiana University, was recently named to the EPA’s  Science Advisory Board. At Indiana, he has supported  funding from the Charles Koch Foundation and recently had a  doctoral student who earned both Mercatus and IHS fellowships. Earlier in his career, Graham founded the Harvard Center for Risk Analysis, which received funding from the Charles Koch Foundation along with other fossil fuel interests and tobacco companies. Graham collaborated with numerous  Mercatus scholars on a regulation “hit list” while he was  Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA) at the Office of Management and Budget under George W. Bush.
When Bush nominated Graham for OIRA, the nominee faced a deluge of opposition. Fifty-three academics signed  a letter in 2001 opposing his nomination, writing that “Professor Graham has shown his willingness to over-ride health, safety, environmental, civil rights, and other social goals in applying crude cost-benefit tools...Graham's work has, overall, demonstrated a remarkable congruency with the interests of regulated industries.”
Neomi Rao was named “  regulatory czar,” the administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs within the Office of Management and Budget in July, where she is helping the Trump administration with its deregulatory agenda. At GMU, Rao was a law professor and the founder of the law school’s Center for the Study of the Administrative State, which is benefiting from the recent $10 million Charles Koch Foundation donation, according to the March 2016  grant agreement. “It’s going to be a game-changing donation and gift for the George Mason law school,” she  told the Washington Post at the time.
Rao will scrutinize regulations the Trump administration proposes while being responsible for implementing Trump’s executive orders directing agencies to repeal two regulations for each significant one they issue, which Rao  called “‘an important step’ in broadly reducing regulatory burden.” Rao has argued that independent government agencies like the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which issues regulations and enforces existing ones, should answer to the president.
A “deep critic of congressional overdelegation,” according to the Wall Street Journal,
Rao issued a  directive in September with the goal of a “net reduction in total incremental regulatory costs” in fiscal 2018. Also that month, Rao  halted the requirement for certain private employers to report data on pay and work hours of various races, genders and ethnic groups to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Women’s advocate Nita Chaudhary called the move “a thinly-veiled attempt to give corporations license to discriminate against their employees.”
Brian Blase was  named a special assistant to the president on health care policy in February by National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn. He comes from the Mercatus Center, where he was a  senior research fellow focusing on health care policy. In 2013, Blase earned his PhD in economics from GMU. His  Mercatus paper supporting the repeal and replacement of the Affordable Care Act encourages cutting Medicaid by providing fixed grant amounts to the states and killing state and federal mandates on having health insurance.
As of May,  Daniel Simmons, an opponent of renewable energy, has been the controversial Acting Assistant Secretary in the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy in the Energy Department. Most recently, Simmons was vice president of policy at the Koch-funded Institute for Energy Research but before that, he was a research fellow at Mercatus.
In a 2013 Heartland Institute podcast, Simmons  said, “The most simple of all points is that no matter what the renewable guys say, what they will admit is that their type of power — the wind and solar — is more expensive and will increase the price of electricity...And in an economy that is struggling, it is critical that we do everything we can to keep prices low.”
Here are more Koch higher education alumni now in the White House administration.
If OMB Director Mick Mulvaney doesn’t last at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, first in line for the job is  GMU law professor and  Mercatus senior research fellow  Todd Zywicki , whose research the Treasury  recently cited in its effort to discredit a CFPB rule on forced arbitration. Todd Zywicki sits on the  board of the Institute for Humane Studies, according to its website.
Other ex-Mercatus scholars hold powerful roles in Washington as well.  Keith Hall, a former Mercatus research fellow, has been director of the Congressional Budget Office since 2015. The Mercatus Center comes up increasingly more often in congressional deliberations, appearing in the congressional record or committee reports  43 times in the 2015-16 session and already  23 times this year.
The Arlington, Virginia campus of George Mason University houses the law school, Mercatus Center and the Institute for Humane Studies, all funded in part by Koch family foundations. Photo: Ron Cogswell/Flickr
‘Koch U’
Since 2005, Koch foundations have lavished GMU with  over $100 million in donations, including a recent  $10 million donation, along with $20 million from an undisclosed donor, to rename the law school after the late conservative Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. Fink, the man who helped Charles Koch devise his social change plan, brought his free-market program from Rutgers University to GMU in 1980, and it began to receive funding from Koch family foundations. Charles Koch is a  Mercatus board member, as is Fink and Bryan Hooks, president of the Charles Koch Foundation and the Charles Koch Institute. Koch also sits on  the board of the Institute for Humane Studies, and as of 2015, he was chairman. Two Charles Koch Foundation leaders are also directors, and Fink was until recently on the board.
The Kochs’ extensive sponsorship of GMU has led journalist Dave Levinthal to call the school “  Koch U ” in a review of the family’s 2013 higher education donations. But the Kochs’ higher education donations are by no means limited to GMU; in 2015, Koch foundations combined to dole out  $33 million to hundreds of colleges and universities.
Filling The Void
In the Public Citizen  report, author Alan Zibel writes that Trump has betrayed the populist promises of his campaign. “In an administration that lacks a clear policy agenda or expertise, Koch aides have been happy to fill the void with specific ideas to enrich corporate interests and harm the public as a whole.”
Both chambers of Congress have passed their versions of the GOP tax cut plan, something for which the Koch political network has extensively lobbied and campaigned in recent months. Nonpartisan analysis points toward  a massive windfall for the country’s richest families and for corporations while in fact raising taxes on the lowest earners. In order to pay for these major cuts at the top of the income ladder, Republicans in the House took away numerous tax deductions, including one on student loans, and added a tax on tuition waivers and on university endowments, which education leaders say will make higher education — especially graduate school —  even more expensive.
Universities are already cash-strapped, and tuition is already exorbitant, leading to a mounting student debt crisis. With even less of a financial support system for aspiring students and university programs, educational institutions will have even more reason to rely on their rich donors to stay afloat.


At a halfway house in southeast Pennsylvania last May, a former prison inmate on his way to reentering society died of a heroin and fentanyl overdose, the eighth person to die of a drug overdose there since the start of 2016, and the fifth in the first five months of 2017 alone, the Reading Eagle found in a November report that documented egregious mismanagement.
“Nobody’s going to get any kind of help in there,” Dawn Zdanowicz, who was released from the facility in November, told International Business Times. Her roomate was among those eight to fatally overdose. “If you’re going to run a dual diagnosis center, you have to have the training that goes with that.”
What took place there was a microcosm of not only the nation’s opioid crisis, but shifts within the criminal justice system that are pushing private prison companies toward business opportunities in the market for halfway houses, which treat many of the nation's addicts on their way out of prison.
The Pennsylvania facility, known as the Alcohol & Drug Addiction Parole and Probation Treatment center, or simply ADAPPT, was acquired in April by politically-connected GEO Group Inc., better known for its private prison management. The previous manager, now a GEO subsidiary, is Community Education Centers, a private contractor known for its halfway houses. (GEO declined to comment on Zdanowicz’s criticism of ADAPPT.)
The April CEC acquisition followed GEO’s 2010 purchase of Cornell Companies, another private prison and rehabilitation firm that owns facilities focued on drug treatment and counseling. In 2011, GEO purchased BI Inc., a maker of electronic monitoring equipment and operator of non-residential day-reporting centers, which test newly released inmates for drug use and, in some cases, treat or offer counseling for substance abuse problems. GEO’s buys have helped the private prison giant build up its new health care and rehabilitation brand, GEO Care, and have increasingly put it in a position to treat the victims of the nation’s opioid epidemic, which affects a disproportionate number of prison inmates.
Activists call for more treatment, less jail time, for drug addicts. New York City, Aug. 10, 2017. Photo: Drew Angerer/Getty Images
GEO’s Growing Post-Prison ‘Continuum’
In addition to the acquisitions, over the past couple of years, GEO Group has boosted spending on its “GEO Continuum of Care,” a division that’s overseen by GEO Care, and that handles criminal reentry, “offender rehabilitation programs” and “evidence-based treatment.” Along with “faith-based services,” “cognitive behavioral treatment programs” and academic and job training programs, the Continuum of Care division includes substance abuse treatment, education and counseling, according to its website. GEO spent $5 million launching the Continuum of Care division in 2015, according to an  annual report from that year. Last year, investment in the division doubled to $10 million, according to GEO’s 2016  annual report. Both BI and CEC — along with Cornell’s behavioral health and youth and family services division, Abraxas, which includes substance abuse treatment centers — were integrated into the GEO Care brand.
GEO has been active on the federal lobbying front since at least 2002. In the second quarter of 2015, the firm began lobbying Congress on “the promotion of the benefits in the use of public-private partnerships for the delivery of secure residential care, community reentry and supervision [and] offender rehabilitation,” federal lobbying forms show. It has continued to promote such partnerships.
In the first and second quarters of this year, GEO lobbied Congress for the first time on “public-private partnerships in… the provision of evidence-based rehabilitation, both in-custody and post-release, through the ‘GEO Continuum of Care.’” Prior to 2015, GEO’s lobbying activity mainly concerned immigration enforcement policy. Pablo Paez, GEO Group’s vice president of corporate relations, declined to answer questions from IBT about its lobbying efforts.
When questioned about the company’s move toward drug addiction treatment for inmates as part of the expansion of this division and its parent brand, Paez said that outside of the GEO Care subsidiary, the company is “not focused on acquiring or developing drug treatment centers.” But for America’s prisoners, a disproportionate number of whom have substance abuse problems, GEO’s facilities, with its “GEO Care” brand and “Continuum of Care” division, are serving the essentially same purpose.  
Indeed, GEO is not buying up voluntary-admission sober centers, but has been aggressively acquiring halfway houses, or residential reentry centers, which are the more structured of the two, and are generally managed by the government or for-profit and nonprofit contractors. The firm’s main competitor, CoreCivic, formerly known as Corrections Corporation of America, has been active in this business as well.
GEO’s latest quarterly SEC  filing states that the company offers “counseling, education and/or treatment to inmates with alcohol and drug abuse problems at most of the domestic facilities we manage.” An IBT review of the nearly 200 facilities listed on GEO’s  locations webpage found that at least 125 offered substance abuse programming, while 27 focused predominantly on such programming. Among GEO’s 54 residential reentry centers, 42 offered such programming, and 21 focused predominantly on substance abuse.
Those estimates are conservative, as many of the listings have little information, often nothing but an address, a phone number and a fax number. For a majority of the locations, there is minimal information about them online. An employee at one location refused to describe its treatment offerings to a reporter. Paez also declined to respond to questions about how many GEO facilities offered common prescription substance abuse treatments, such as Suboxone or methadone, and how many were primarily focused on drug addiction programming.
Of GEO Group’s 600-plus  job openings as of Nov. 30, 93 posts, or roughly one in seven, advertised drug and alcohol or substance abuse counselors, outpatient substance abuse managers, “therapeutic counselor[s],” therapists, substance abuse supervisors, substance abuse specialists, social workers and case managers dealing with addicts and drug and alcohol or substance abuse counselor assistants, among other similar posts.
The company’s acquisition of CEC — a reentry program giant with deep ties to the administration of former New Jersey Governor Chris Christie and a reputation for facilities rife with drug use, as documented by a multi-part New York Times  investigation in 2012 and 2013 — “makes so much sense,” said Kathy O’Leary, of the activist coalition New Jersey Prison Divest. Large companies that manage reentry and rehab, she said, “try to do economies of scale, but it’s a more intimate experience than that.”
“If you look at these programs that are successful, these faith-based nonprofits, they really have a more individualized approach,” said O’Leary. Pointing to the Times’ series, she said the privatized reentry centers “have created environments where drugs are more available than they are on the streets.”
CEC did not comment on the allegations laid out in a June 2012 Times  story on the Albert M. “Bo” Robinson Assessment and Treatment Center in Trenton, now listed among GEO’s locations, that described sexual assault accusations, violence, “lax security” and “rampant” drug use.
“You see horror stories with private centers, but you see horror stories with government centers as well,” said Len Gilroy, director of government reform at the libertarian Reason Foundation. He said the use of performance-based contracts, in which the contracting companies don’t get paid unless they do a high-quality job, are keeping such problems at bay. “Government contracting always has to have proper due diligence… Governments are learning how to do this better and better.”
Still, like New Jersey Prison Divest’s O’Leary, Donald Cohen, executive director of In the Public Interest, a policy research center focused on privatization, argued that the existence of obligation to shareholders was a problematic element regardless.
“They’re only making money if they’re controlling people,” he said. “The incentive is to control as much as possible and spend as little as possible.”
President Donald Trump declared the opioid crisis a "national public health emergency" Oct. 26,2017. Photo: Alex Wong/GettyImages
Providing ‘GEO Care’ For Those Who Need It Most
Many  have  advocated for the treatment of drug addiction within U.S. prisons as a means of stemming the crisis. According to a June  report from the Bureau of Justice Statistics, 58 percent of state prisoners and 63 percent of sentenced jail inmates fit the definition of drug-dependent or substance abusers, compared to 5 percent of the general population. Roughly a quarter of those state prisoners and sentenced jail inmates reported having used heroin or opiates, and between one in five and one in eight said they’d used the substances regularly, the bureau found. (The numbers varied depending on the year during which they were surveyed, but tended to be larger in more recent years.)
An earlier  study, from the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse, described 85 percent of inmates as “substance-involved” and two-thirds of them as meeting the 4th-edition Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of  Mental Disorders’ criteria for addiction.
Once they’re no longer behind bars, inmates with histories of drug abuse are at greater risk of relapse; according to a 2016 Surgeon General  report, which estimated that “half of the United States prison population has an active substance use disorder,” about 15 percent of former prisoners’ deaths between 1999 and 2009 “were related to opioids.” Their tolerance for the drugs fell during incarceration, the report noted, rendering them more susceptible to overdose upon relapse.
And in rural areas ravaged by the epidemic, treatment can be scarce. Because of this, several women in  Martinsburg, Virginia, started a volunteer organization with the sole purpose of driving addicts to the nearest detox or rehab facility, often several hours away.
“We know, when a lot of them come out of prison or jails, they need help with treatment and reentry,” Tina Stride, who helped found and is one of several women running the Hope Dealers Project in Martinsburg, told IBT. She added that, because of the lack of available treatment centers in her community, if a for-profit prison company is offering that service to inmates on their way to release, so be it, as long as the company is properly evaluated. “We know there’s a scarcity of these [rehab] facilities — the scarcity is huge… This is why we even came to be: because we were tired of our town dying.”
The night before Stride and several other women running the Hope Dealer Project spoke with IBT by phone, Stride said, there were 11 overdoses in their small city in the West Virginia panhandle.
Beverly Sharp, who has worked in various managerial, training and human resources positions within the Bureau of Prisons over three decades, said the staggering demand for treatment between incarceration and full release is putting the whole justice system at risk. Sharp, who is working to form a reentry nonprofit in West Virginia, said she welcomed any viable option for prisoner addicts seeking a return to normal life, including the private one.
“When you’re returning people to the same people and places they were around before they were incarcerated,” they’re in obvious danger of not only renewed criminal behavior, but relapse, she said. “If we don’t change how we’re doing things… eventually, we’re going to have more people in society that are ex-offenders than those that aren’t.”
But given the track record of for-profit prisons, including a February University of Wisconsin-Madison study that found private prisons to be more expensive because they keep inmates behind bars for longer and don’t reduce recidivism, many critics are uncomfortable with the idea of such companies handling inmates’ addiction treatment.
“When you have private companies taking control, they say ‘cheaper, better, faster,’” said Cohen, of In the Public Interest. “There’s money that’s being taken from that system — executive salaries, shareholder returns, lobbying expenditures, campaign expenditures, maybe. That money should be in the system.”
While America may need more facilities for drug abuse treatment, especially post-incarceration, Cohen said, “we don’t need more private ones.”
Others, meanwhile, see privatization as one more efficient way to satisfy widespread and growing demand for treatment for those who need it most — individuals stuck in the criminal justice system. Sharp said she’d visited a GEO facility that had impressed her, and that the federal government was “not doing a good job.” Gilroy, of the Reason Foundation, for his part, pointed out that the use of private contracts was nothing new for the U.S. government.
“Historically, we have not and I don’t think we should have a problem with putting companies to work in service of the public,” said Gilroy. “If they’re making a profit, well, fantastic.”
Adapting To An Evolving Market
Recovering drug attics and prisoners gradually working to reenter society weren’t always a major focus for private prisons, which housed  62 percent of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detention beds in 2016 and  close to a fifth of federal inmates in 2014.
But while the number of “holds” by ICE of undocumented immigrants in the U.S., a population fueling growth in the use of private prisons, ticked up to  nearly 14,000 in the first few months of Donald Trump’s presidency, that figure is roughly half ICE’s 2011 peak, according to the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC), a Syracuse University data organization. Federal criminal prosecutions have taken a dip as well under the new administration, falling 12 percent from a year earlier and 31 percent compared to five years earlier, TRAC  found.
ICE detainees are seen at the Adelanto immigration detention center, which is run by the Geo Group Inc., in Adelanto, California, April 13, 2017. Photo: Reuters
The general prison population has also declined in the past couple of years, with that of private prisons falling especially steeply — by 8 percent, compared to a 5 percent drop in the number of inmates overall — according to an April  report from the Pew Research Center.
Dealing a blow to firms like GEO — and, to a lesser extent, its rival CoreCivic — that have turned toward halfway houses, however, the Bureau of Prisons cut contracts with at least 16 of its 180 contracted reentry centers this year, Reuters reported in October, noting that four in five inmates reside in such centers on their way to societal reintegration. But under Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the flow of inmates with substance abuse issues into prisons and out to society by way of halfway houses, especially private ones, is bound to increase.
Last week, Sessions  pledged $12 million to local law enforcement as part of his Justice Department’s effort to reverse the “deadly tide” of addiction and overdose deaths. In announcing the move, he cited his mandate to “prevent new addictions from starting” and “go after” those who “exploit the vulnerable and profit off addiction.”

In May, Sessions issued a memorandum rescinding the previous administration’s policy of urging prosecutors to avoid mandatory minimum sentences for drug offenders. Less than two weeks after his February confirmation, he’d already  canceled the Barack Obama administration’s rollback of private contracting for prisons.
The move reaffirmed the commitment of GEO’s most valuable customer: the federal government. Between 2007 and 2016, the portion of GEO’s tens of millions — and, in more recent years, billions — of dollars in revenues derived from “various agencies of the U.S. Federal Government” grew from just over a quarter to nearly half, according to some of its  most  recent  annual  filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Although Sessions’ decision surely provided GEO with some windfall from the federal government for prison contracts, the shift toward private contracts for residential reentry centers started during the previous administration. In a Nov. 30, 2016  memorandum to the acting director of the Bureau of Prisons, then-Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates wrote that despite “serious reservations” about privatization of U.S. prisons, the federal government “lacks the capacity to own and operate its own” residential reentry centers, because the bureau had relied on a mix of for-profit and non-profit providers to do so since the early 1980s.
“Instead, we must direct our efforts in the short term towards ensuring that the private market for federal halfway houses operates efficiently, transparently and fairly, with a focus on both the public’s safety and the needs of those leaving prison,” Yates wrote. She noted that the centers were required by the agency “to recruit and retain skilled staff members, including employment-placement specialists, case managers, and substance abuse treatment specialists, and to provide extensive training to [reentry center] employees.”
The federal government could’ve managed its own halfway houses or more frequently contracted with nonprofits — if such things were fiscally viable, said Sharp, the former Bureau of Prisons manager.
“With nonprofits, there’s just no funding,” she said, pointing out that Trump’s late October  declaration of the opioid crisis as a “Nationwide Public Health Emergency”  fell short of his pledge to declare a “national emergency,” which, unlike the former category, would quickly free up federal funds. Private sector actors, she added, are often better equipped to cut costs than the federal government. “When you have places like GEO opening the centers, they have to follow the same rules and regulations, but they don’t always have as much red tape to go through.”
But that’s exactly what worries opponents of for-profit prisons and halfway houses. Either way, the situation is dire, as Stride, of the Hope Dealer Project, told IBT.
“We just need help, but I don’t want someone just coming in and using them as pawns to make a profit,” she said of former inmates struggling with addiction. “We pray that they are good. We don’t want to be picky.”


Suburban Express, a shuttle bus company that picks up students from the Chicago area and takes them to the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign campus, is under fire for an advertisement targeting the school system's Chinese students and passengers.
The University of Illinois’ Office of the Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs deemed the company’s weekend email ad “racist and bigoted” and Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan opened a civil rights investigation into the transportation company’s practices and services after Suburban Express offered what many saw as a sarcastic and offensive “apology” for the ad. One alderman even bluntly responding, "This is not an apology."
One of the shuttle bus company's weekend apologies. Suburban Express: Photo: Screenshot: Suburban Express   
Suburban Express’ ad listed 11 reasons why students should choose the shuttle during holiday season travels, with one of them declaring, “Passengers like you. You won’t feel like you’re in China when you’re on our buses.”
The bus company makes several stops in Greater Chicago area suburbs and takes them to six university campuses in the Midwest, including U of I’s Urbana-Champaign campus. The Saturday morning email was immediately met with criticism, which prompted the bus company to offer an apology of sorts -- followed by a second statement that piled on even more criticism.
In a follow-up email entitled, “Apology,” the second message referencing the University of Illinois’ international student population was ridiculed as potentially more offensive than the initial ad itself.
“We made a remark based on the fact that our competitor mostly handles Chinese international students,” the second email read, NBC Chicago first reported. “The remark is being interpreted as a slap in the face of all non-caucasians for some reason, and that it [sic] not how it was intended.”
“We must concede that we disagree with the way the University of Illinois is being run. U of I is a state school that is funded by taxpayers and is built on land granted by the people of the State of Illinois. As such, we believe that the mission of the University of Illinois should be providing high-quality, affordable education to the citizens of Illinois,” the message on the company website continued.
Suburban Express’ website had previously been criticized for a “Page of Shame,” a now-deleted tab showing the names, addresses and contact information for so-called “bad customers” of the bus service.
University of Illinois school system administrators issued a statement in response, saying the bus company has “a long history of taking advantage of students, staff and faculty…[the email] once again demonstrated the company’s disregard and disdain towards the values of inclusivity that define our university.”
“The message specifically insulted members of our Chinese, Asian and Asian American communities who are a vital and valued part of every aspect of both the University of Illinois and our local cities. These types of racist and bigoted statements attacking any members of our community deserve nothing but condemnation from all of us,” reads the statement from the school’s Office of the Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs.
Administrators said that despite the “offensive, bigoted, insulting” opinions from Suburban Express, they “cannot prevent a private company from operating in our community.”
According to NBC News and the Chicago Tribune, around 11,000 of the school’s 45,000 current Fall 2017 students are international, with about 6,000 of the total undergraduate and graduate student population hailing from China.
Ald. Ameya Pawar (47th), chairman of the City Council’s Asian-American Caucus and an influential alderman, weighed in on the controversy, saying he wants the Aviation Committee to hold hearings on the incident to potentially evict Suburban Express from O'Hare International Airport.
“O’Hare is one of the busiest airports on the planet. It is the gateway to Chicago. Sort of the welcome mat. Do we want companies like Suburban Express serving that gateway — a company that blatantly makes racist and xenophobic statements?” Pawar told the Chicago Sun-Times.
But the bus company has continued to dig a hole , even referring back to a 2013 incident involving a subcontracted bus company employee and a “non-English speaking customer, the Champaign News Gazette reported. The statement additionally blamed the company’s bad publicity within the university network on a “student agitator" looking to drive international students' business away.
“We agreed that the comment was inappropriate and we promptly apologized,” the company added. “Nevertheless, a student agitator made it his full-time job to tell the world that Suburban Express is racist based on the comment which we agreed was inappropriate, and for which we apologized.”
“In any event, we did not intend to offend half the planet,” the bus company’s message concluded.


House Speaker Paul Ryan is reportedly planning to name lawmakers for the committee that will shape the final tax bill, and his expected picks include top Republicans from some states that could be hit particularly hard by the bill. If they end up on the panel, they could face pressure from constituents to change the legislation. 
The Hill reported Monday afternoon that Ryan is expected to pick GOP Reps. Kevin Brady (TX), Devin Nunes (CA), Peter Roskam (IL), Diane Black (TN), Kristi Noem (SD), Rob Bishop (UT), Don Young (AK), Greg Walden (OR) and John Shimkus (IL). Last month, all of them voted for the House version of the tax bill — but the legislation now moves to a conference committee that will be under intense scrutiny.
Three of the nine — Nunes, Roskam and Shimkus — come from California and Illinois, which are among the states that could see the biggest share of their populations face a tax increase. That’s because their tax systems rely on income taxes, which could lose their federal tax deductibility under the congressional bill.
Illinois' income tax rate recently moved up to  16th in the nation. California has the highest personal income tax rates in the country, and taxpayers there filed $40 billion worth of federal deductions, according to the  Sacramento Bee. 
In addition, California could get hit hard by changes to the mortgage interest deduction: Capital and Main reports that the House-passed version of the bill creates a $500,000 cap on the amount of mortgage interest that can be deducted — a “revision would disproportionately hit residents of states with high real estate values, like California, where finding a home under $500,000 in most urban markets is very difficult.”
A Center on Budget and Policy Priorities analysis released before the Senate vote found that 17 percent of Illinois residents and 23 percent of California residents could see their taxes increase under the Republican tax plan, depending on how the final bill is reconciled.
Pressure on the California Republicans could be the most intense: The Los Angeles Times notes that California GOP House members represent some of the key districts Democrats are targeting in the 2018 election. The newspaper noted that in Nunes' district, 30 percent of all tax filers utilized existing deductions for state and local taxes. 


This report is being co-published with MapLight.
Since Donald Trump won the presidency, concerns about whether Russia played a hidden role in the 2016 election have simmered, and lawmakers have warned about the prospect of stealth foreign influence over American politics. But data compiled by International Business Times and MapLight show that foreign influence is hardly confined to the shadows. It’s a big, open, bipartisan business, with foreign government lobbyists delivering millions of dollars of campaign cash to elected officials in Washington.
In all, during the last election, those lobbyists gave more than $4.5 million to federal lawmakers and candidates. Foreign lobbyists and their firms’ political action committees were also responsible for packaging a total of $5.9 million in donations for candidates and party committees, through an influence-enhancing tactic known as “bundling.”
Because the donations come from foreign governments’ U.S.-based lobbyists, they effectively circumvent American laws designed to bar direct foreign donations. Under federal law, foreign nationals are  prohibited from donating to any federal, state, or local campaigns, or political parties. But foreign governments frequently hire U.S. citizens to represent their interests, and those people face no such contribution ban.
“I worry about foreign influence on our political system,” Larry Noble, general counsel at the nonpartisan Campaign Legal Center, told IBT/MapLight. “One of the things that recent events are highlighting is the porous nature of a lot of our laws and a lack of enforcement.”
Noble, a former Federal Election Commission lawyer, said that donations by foreign lobbyists don’t often come from the lobbying firms or their PACs, but from individual members of the firm.
“When that happens, how do you know whether any of that money is being directed by lobbyists of the foreign national, or if it's coming out of money they got from the foreign national for that purpose? There are lots of ways for people to get illegal money to campaigns,” Noble said. “It’s not an easy thing to prove.”
Top foreign lobbying firms have been ensnared by special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into alleged Russian influence on American elections. For instance: Mercury Public Affairs, a bipartisan lobbying firm, has been  subpoenaed about its work with one-time Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort on behalf of a Ukrainian political party allied with Russian president Vladimir Putin. Democratic lobbyist Tony Podesta — who is the brother of Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta — resigned from his lobbying firm after Mueller’s indictment of Manafort  alluded to the firm’s work for the same Ukrainian interests. Lobbying records show Podesta’s firm was also hired to represent Sberbank, Russia’s largest bank.
The Podesta Group secured a $120,000-per-quarter contract to represent 7-year-old South Sudan, where the United Nations says 80 percent of the people earn less than $1 per day. Soldiers of the Sudan People Liberation Army (SPLA), October 16, 2016. Photo: ALBERT GONZALEZ FARRAN/AFP/GettyImages
Podesta — whose firm represented at least a dozen foreign clients during the 2016 cycle — was a major fundraiser for Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, the top 2016 recipient of money from foreign government lobbyists. Podesta said in an email that he has never been instructed by a foreign lobbying client to make donations to a U.S. campaign, and that he saw no ethical problem with foreign agents making political contributions.
Other top recipients include lawmakers in positions to shape foreign policy issues, including arms deals, tariffs and international tax policy. They include Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer, D-N.Y.; Sen.  Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., who serves on an appropriations subcommittee that oversees the State Department; Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., who  chairs a Senate foreign relations subcommittee; and House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis.

The data compiled by IBT/MapLight represents campaign contributions from all donors registered under the Justice Department’s Foreign Registration Act (FARA). The figures, though, may represent only a portion of the total cash, since an  unknown number of foreign agents never bother to register.
A Lucrative Business
Though there are potential criminal penalties for violating the registration law, the department possesses  limited enforcement measures. The Justice Department’s inspector general  found last year that 62 percent of foreign lobbyists fail to register on time, and reported that the agency “lacks a comprehensive FARA enforcement strategy.” The Manafort case spotlighted the registration gap: Among the federal charges against him was one for failing to disclose his work for the Ukrainian government.
Passed by Congress in 1938, FARA  imposes registration requirements on “foreign principals,” which are defined as a foreign government or political party, any foreign national, and any “ partnership, association, corporation, organization, or other combination of persons organized under the laws of or having its principal place of business in a foreign country.”
Financed by the vast riches of dictators, multinational corporations and government treasuries, the business of representing foreign interests is a particularly lucrative subset of the Washington influence-peddling industry. FARA filings reviewed by IBT/MapLight show that an all-star cast of political power brokers has gone from serving the U.S. government to lobbying for foreign ones. They include 1996 Republican presidential candidate and former Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan.; former House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo.; former Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss.; and former Mississippi Republican Gov. Haley Barbour — as well as an army of former Capitol Hill staffers from both parties.
Tax havens like Bermuda have hired lobbyists to shape U.S. tax policy.  Photo: Drew Angerer/Getty Images
Clients range from political parties, like the Democratic Party of Albania, to corporations, such as Azerbaijan's state-owned oil company and a Polish government-sponsored consortium of defense contractors.
Contracts reviewed by IBT/MapLight show that politically connected lobbyists can make huge sums from foreign government clients — no matter how small, repressive, or impoverished the countries may be. Consider:
Saudi and Turkish Influence
Few foreign governments wield as much influence in Washington as Saudi Arabia. The Gulf monarchy employed about 20 lobbying firms during 2016 cycle. Employees of four of those firms — the Podesta Group, BGR Government Affairs, Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, and the Glover Park Group — gave more than $580,000 to federal candidates.
Saudi lobbyists  have  worked to maintain U.S. logistical  support for the kingdom’s war in Yemen, which has caused thousands of civilian deaths and  famine. Brownstein, for instance, recently circulated  talking points about Saudi Arabia's “humanitarian efforts in Yemen.”
While an increasing number of senators have criticized the Saudi offensive in Yemen — and  have called for the U.S. to stop arming the Saudi military — the Pentagon has continued to supply weapons to the kingdom.
Lobbyists for the Saudis have questioned Iran’s compliance with the nuclear pact it brokered with the Obama administration, a deal that Trump recently  moved to scrap. Schumer, the Senate minority leader, received at least $21,400 in donations linked to lobbying firms representing the Saudis from 2015-16, and was  one of four Democratic votes against the 2015 deal.
The Turkish government has engaged four firms that were among 2016’s top foreign lobbyist donors: Capitol Counsel, Mercury, Glover Park Group, and the Daschle Group. The firms made at least $285,000 in political donations during the 2016 elections. Turkey’s lobbying efforts have revolved around Fethullah Gulen, a U.S.-based cleric blamed by the government for a failed coup attempt last summer against its president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
Mueller  has been investigating allegations that include Turkey’s hiring of Gen. Michael Flynn, Trump’s former national security adviser, as part of a plot to kidnap Gulen and return him to Turkey. Flynn may have violated the law by failing to register under FARA or disclose his client’s link to Turkey, according to the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. He  pleaded guilty last week to lying to the FBI about his conversations with Russia’s ambassador to the U.S. Other lobbyists hired by Turkey  have  sought to persuade state politicians in Texas and Michigan to investigate a network of charter schools affiliated with Gulen.
Ashleigh McEvoy and Laura Curlin provided research for this report. Josh Keefe contributed reporting.
Click   here to download the data.
Methodology: Contributions data consists of contributions to federal candidate campaign committees from Jan. 1, 2015, to Dec. 31, 2016, based on data from the FEC as of July 31, 2017. Contributions were matched with short-form registration records for active or recently terminated (since Jan.1, 2015) lobbyists from the U.S. Department of Justice as of July 14, 2017, by lobbyist name. Identifying contributions by contributor name may not capture all relevant contributions and may include false positives. Contribution bundling data is based on FEC filings as of Oct. 31, 2017.


With all the ventures Elon Musk has, the fact that he also needs money to run them is commonsense. His newest enterprise, a tunneling and infrastructure business, is called the Boring Company, and as of now, the only business it has (that is, a source of actual revenue) is selling hats.
This is no joke. Musk announced in October that the company was starting the sale of the hats, at $20 a piece (including shipping and taxes). And on Sunday, the billionaire entrepreneur announced on Twitter that the sale of the hats was being capped at a total of 50,000 pieces, and also that the company had already sold most of them.

The math behind the numbers is easy, as was pointed out by some of his Twitter followers.

However, as of Nov. 21, only just over 15,000 or so hats had been sold, so maybe there was a sudden spurt in sales in the last 10 days that would explain how the company is “almost” at the 50,000-mark already.

Musk clearly has a sense of humor, but maybe there is some truth to his reply to someone who asked if this was how the company was being funded.

But then, Musk also posted another tweet, with a clip from the 1987 parody film “Spaceballs,” calling it a documentary which taught him about the power of merchandise.

Still, Musk is selling the hats, and in his own way, promoting them too. He even let on that he could be the delivery man (unlikely).


Like everything else with the Boring Company, the prized autograph of the delivery man will be boring too. Musk also gave some other details about this special delivery.


And responding to another Twitter user who questioned his obsession with the hats, Musk had self-deprecating answers ready.


If you want to buy a Boring Company hat, you can order one from this page.
But the company is looking at actual business too. Musk announced Nov. 29 it would bid to build an express service that connects downtown Chicago with the O’Hare International Airport.


If someone asked you to picture a philanthropist, chances are a billionaire like Bill Gates or John D. Rockefeller Sr. would come to mind. But not all philanthropists are billionaires, or even millionaires for that matter. People who make modest gifts of time or money can make a big difference in their communities.
We are professors who teach and do research about philanthropy, the practice of expressing generosity by giving away money and in some cases time. We see our job as motivating and preparing college and graduate students to become future leaders of nonprofit organizations or donors with good ideas about how to make a difference – starting right now.
One approach, known as “experiential philanthropy,” teaches about charitable giving through hands-on experiences. Students get real money, typically about US$10,000 per class, to give away to local nonprofits. One of us (David) has determined that these courses are being taught on more than 80 different campuses.
Northern Kentucky University pioneered this approach in 1999. Since then, students there have collectively awarded more than $1.5 million to local charities as part of their coursework.
A wealthy donor, Geoffrey P. Raynor, is building on that model through the Philanthropy Lab. So far, this national initiative has spread to more than 20 universities, including many attended by the nation’s richest students, such as Princeton and the University of Chicago.
These courses are for all students, however. Undergraduates majoring in everything from chemistry to philosophy and business to history enroll. While some of them are or want to become rich, others do not come from wealth or aspire to become upper-class. All of them sign up because they want to learn how to use their money and time to make change on the issues they care most about.
Giving away money – particularly when it’s not yours – can be fun. But does it actually teach students anything about philanthropy or how to become philanthropists?
To find out, one of us (Lindsey) led a study published in Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly that surveyed more than 600 Northern Kentucky University students who had taken an experiential philanthropy course there from 2009 to 2013.
The research team found that students were more interested in donating to and volunteering at local nonprofits after taking the course. They were also more likely to know more about issues affecting their community and what nonprofits were doing about them.
Our findings suggest that by studying – and actually engaging in – philanthropy, students learn more about what philanthropy is, why they should do it and how they can make a difference.
While the logic behind these programs may be clear, the question of where the money students give away comes from is not because it’s not something covered in a traditional university budget.
So far, foundations like the Learning by Giving Foundation, founded by philanthropist Doris Buffett – Warren Buffett’s sister – and the Once Upon a Time Foundation, funded by the same person as the Philanthropy Lab, are a leading source of financial support.

The federal government has also pitched in to support a program called Pay it Forward, which engages college students in hands-on philanthropy, grant-making and volunteer service. However, Congress abolished that funding in 2011. Its courses are being taught today only in Ohio, where local foundations foot the bill, at campuses like Denison University, The Ohio State University-Newark, Central Ohio Technical College and the University of Cincinnati.
Cutting these programs means that young people will be less likely to be able to take philanthropy courses in college. This is troubling, because one of us (Jodi) found that after having opportunities to be actively engaged in giving with a group of peers, young people can better understand philanthropy’s impact.
That’s because after learning through these hands-on philanthropic experiences, students often want to donate their own money to nonprofits.
Many other kinds of courses about philanthropy and nonprofits are taught at U.S. and foreign universities. But experiential philanthropy is different because students gain practical knowledge and skills. Whether a class gives away $200 or $2,000, they become equipped for future leadership in the charitable world.
Education is, to a degree, about investing in the potential of students. And philanthropic education gets students to think about their responsibilities to invest in the communities in which they live. It helps them see the power they have to make a difference.
Jodi Benenson, University of Nebraska Omaha; David Campbell, Binghamton University, State University of New York, and Lindsey McDougle, Rutgers University Newark.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


In early November, a self-driving shuttle and a delivery truck collided in Las Vegas. The event, in which no one was injured and no property was seriously damaged, attracted media and public attention in part because one of the vehicles was driving itself – and because that shuttle had been operating for only less than an hour before the crash.
It’s not the first collision involving a self-driving vehicle. Other crashes have involved Ubers in Arizona, a Tesla in “autopilot” mode in Florida and several others in California. But in nearly every case, it was human error, not the self-driving car, that caused the problem.
In Las Vegas, the self-driving shuttle noticed a truck up ahead was backing up, and stopped and waited for it to get out of the shuttle’s way. But the human truck driver didn’t see the shuttle, and kept backing up. As the truck got closer, the shuttle didn’t move – forward or back – so the truck grazed the shuttle’s front bumper.
As a researcher working on autonomous systems for the past decade, I find that this event raises a number of questions: Why didn’t the shuttle honk, or back up to avoid the approaching truck? Was stopping and not moving the safest procedure? If self-driving cars are to make the roads safer, the bigger question is: What should these vehicles do to reduce mishaps? In my lab, we are developing self-driving cars and shuttles. We’d like to solve the underlying safety challenge: Even when autonomous vehicles are doing everything they’re supposed to, the drivers of nearby cars and trucks are still flawed, error-prone humans.
There are two main causes for crashes involving autonomous vehicles. The first source of problems is when the sensors don’t detect what’s happening around the vehicle. Each sensor has its quirks: GPS works only with a clear view of the sky; cameras work with enough light; lidar can’t work in fog; and radar is not particularly accurate. There may not be another sensor with different capabilities to take over. It’s not clear what the ideal set of sensors is for an autonomous vehicle – and, with both cost and computing power as limiting factors, the solution can’t be just adding more and more.
The second major problem happens when the vehicle encounters a situation that the people who wrote its software didn’t plan for – like having a truck driver not see the shuttle and back up into it. Just like human drivers, self-driving systems have to make hundreds of decisions every second, adjusting for new information coming in from the environment. When a self-driving car experiences something it’s not programmed to handle, it typically stops or pulls over to the roadside and waits for the situation to change. The shuttle in Las Vegas was presumably waiting for the truck to get out of the way before proceeding – but the truck kept getting closer. The shuttle may not have been programmed to honk or back up in situations like that – or may not have had room to back up.
The challenge for designers and programmers is combining the information from all the sensors to create an accurate representation – a computerized model – of the space around the vehicle. Then the software can interpret the representation to help the vehicle navigate and interact with whatever might be happening nearby. If the system’s perception isn’t good enough, the vehicle can’t make a good decision. The main cause of the fatal Tesla crash was that the car’s sensors couldn’t tell the difference between the bright sky and a large white truck crossing in front of the car.
If autonomous vehicles are to fulfill humans’ expectations of reducing crashes, it won’t be enough for them to drive safely. They must also be the ultimate defensive driver, ready to react when others nearby drive unsafely. An Uber crash in Tempe, Arizona, in March 2017 is an example of this.
According to media reports, in that incident, a person in a Honda CRVwas driving on a major road near the center of Tempe. She wanted to turn left, across three lanes of oncoming traffic. She could see two of the three lanes were clogged with traffic and not moving. She could not see the farthest lane from her, in which an Uber was driving autonomously at 38 mph in a 40 mph zone. The Honda driver made the left turn and hit the Uber car as it entered the intersection.
A human driver in the Uber car approaching an intersection might have expected cars to be turning across its lane. A person might have noticed she couldn’t see if that was happening and slowed down, perhaps avoiding the crash entirely. An autonomous car that’s safer than humans would have done the same – but the Uber wasn’t programmed to.
That Tempe crash and the more recent Las Vegas one are both examples of a vehicle not understanding the situation enough to determine the correct action. The vehicles were following the rules they’d been given, but they were not making sure their decisions were the safest ones. This is primarily because of the way most autonomous vehicles are tested.
The basic standard, of course, is whether self-driving cars can follow the rules of the road, obeying traffic lights and signs, knowing local laws about signaling lane changes, and otherwise behaving like a law-abiding driver. But that’s only the beginning.
Before autonomous vehicles can really hit the road, they need to be programmed with instructions about how to behave when other vehicles do something out of the ordinary. Testers need to consider other vehicles as adversaries, and develop plans for extreme situations. For instance, what should a car do if a truck is driving in the wrong direction? At the moment, self-driving cars might try to change lanes, but could end up stopping dead and waiting for the situation to improve. Of course, no human driver would do this: A person would take evasive action, even if it meant breaking a rule of the road, like switching lanes without signaling, driving onto the shoulder or even speeding up to avoid a crash.
Self-driving cars must be taught to understand not only what the surroundings are but the context: A car approaching from the front is not a danger if it’s in the other lane, but if it’s in the car’s own lane circumstances are entirely different. Car designers should test vehicles based on how well they perform difficult tasks, like parking in a crowded lot or changing lanes in a work zone. This may sound a lot like giving a human a driving test – and that’s exactly what it should be, if self-driving cars and people are to coexist safely on the roads.
Srikanth Saripalli is Associate Professor in Mechanical Engineering, Texas A&M University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Though the controversial Republican tax bill has been slammed as a giveaway to the wealthy, it currently includes some provisions to close loopholes that help corporations shift money to offshore tax havens. Those provisions, however, may not survive the final legislative wrangling. Justice Department documents reviewed by International Business Times show that lobbyists for the tax havens Bermuda and the Cayman Islands are pressing lawmakers to restore the loopholes that, critics say, enrich offshore insurance companies and American hedge fund moguls.
Bermuda’s lobbying firm, theGroup, last week distributed  talking points on Capitol Hill proposing language to preserve a lucrative Bermuda tax loophole, arguing that the shifts of money to reinsurers in Bermuda “do not represent a permanent move of capital offshore and should not be treated in the same manner” as other companies shifting money overseas. The lobbyists also promoted  a letter from the trade organization Risk and Insurance Management Society to Republican Sen. Tim Scott, which argues that the congressional proposals could “serve to limit U.S. insurance capacity and drive up the cost of insurance.”
At issue are Bermuda-based companies which ostensibly provide insurance to insurers. The current tax code allows U.S.-based insurance companies to shift money to  offshore reinsurers, which can allow them to defer or avoid paying taxes on later investment gains. In recent years, the reinsurance maneuver has been  used by  hedge fund managers to effectively avoid income taxes on the investment fees they earn. Both  Democratic lawmakers and  conservative groups have decried the practice; a  2014 Joint Committee on Taxation  report said “the establishment of offshore businesses that reinsure risks and that invest in U.S. hedge funds has been characterized as creating the potential for tax avoidance.”
Lobbyists for Bermuda are pressing lawmakers to discard provisions in the new tax bill that could close a loophole. Long Bay Beach, Somerset, Bermuda Photo: DON EMMERT/AFP/Getty Images
To generally address the shift of corporate gains offshore, Republican House and Senate lawmakers included provisions in their tax bill that tax the payments made by U.S. based companies to foreign affiliates — and because the new provisions do not exempt reinsurance, they could could shut down the Bermuda loophole. The lobbyists for Bermuda's government are now trying to make sure that any new tax law preserves the existing preferences for offshore reinsurance companies. 
The Senate passed its version of the tax cut bill -- with the new levies on payments to offshore entites -- late Friday and the legislation now moves to a conference committee where its details will be worked out. Lobbyists from theGroup donated more than $90,000 to federal lawmakers during the last election, according to data compiled by the campaign finance watchdog group MapLight. That included $12,000 to Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and $5,000 to Republican Sen. Bill Cassidy, who is on the Senate’s tax-writing committee.
Bermuda hired theGroup on November 2nd -- just as the Paradise Papers scandal was breaking -- for $20,000 per month for a three-month contract focused on lobbying the U.S. Government and the U.S. financial services industry, according to records reviewed by IBT. The lobbyists assigned to Bermuda are Darrel Thompson, a former staffer for former Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and chief of staff for Barack Obama’s Senate campaign, and Art Collins, a former insurance regulator and legislative director for the Florida Department of Insurance.
At the same time Bermuda has worked to shape the tax legislation, federal records show the Cayman Islands hired the powerful law firm Baker Botts to influence lawmakers on the general issue of offshore tax policy. Cayman will be paying the firm $12,500 per month starting in 2018, but is currently paying the firm $950-per-hour to prepare messaging and policy documents.
In a  letter of talking points sent to members of Congress, Baker Botts wrote: “Members of Congress often call Cayman a tax haven. Cayman is actually a tax neutral financial services center with stable political and judicial institutions and prominent professional services firms.”
On the topic of minimum taxes, the letter stated: “Imposing a current minimum tax on top of U.S. taxes will merely make U.S. goods more expensive worldwide, and thus less competitive in international markets.”


You’re sitting at home minding your own business when you get a call from your credit card’s fraud detection unit asking if you’ve just made a purchase at a department store in your city. It wasn’t you who bought expensive electronics using your credit card – in fact, it’s been in your pocket all afternoon. So how did the bank know to flag this single purchase as most likely fraudulent?
Credit card companies have a vested interest in identifying financial transactions that are illegitimate and criminal in nature. The stakes are high. According to the Federal Reserve Payments Study, Americans used credit cards to pay for 26.2 billion purchases in 2012. The estimated loss due to unauthorized transactions that year was US$6.1 billion. The federal Fair Credit Billing Act limits the maximum liability of a credit card owner to $50 for unauthorized transactions, leaving credit card companies on the hook for the balance. Obviously fraudulent payments can have a big effect on the companies’ bottom lines. The industry requires any vendors that process credit cards to go through security audits every year. But that doesn’t stop all fraud.
In the banking industry, measuring risk is critical. The overall goal is to figure out what’s fraudulent and what’s not as quickly as possible, before too much financial damage has been done. So how does it all work? And who’s winning in the arms race between the thieves and the financial institutions?
From the consumer perspective, fraud detection can seem magical. The process appears instantaneous, with no human beings in sight. This apparently seamless and instant action involves a number of sophisticated technologies in areas ranging from finance and economics to law to information sciences.
Of course, there are some relatively straightforward and simple detection mechanisms that don’t require advanced reasoning. For example, one good indicator of fraud can be an inability to provide the correct zip code affiliated with a credit card when it’s used at an unusual location. But fraudsters are adept at bypassing this kind of routine check – after all, finding out a victim’s zip code could be as simple as doing a Google search.
Traditionally, detecting fraud relied on data analysis techniques that required significant human involvement. An algorithm would flag suspicious cases to be closely reviewed ultimately by human investigators who may even have called the affected cardholders to ask if they’d actually made the charges. Nowadays the companies are dealing with a constant deluge of so many transactions that they need to rely on big data analytics for help. Emerging technologies such as machine learning and cloud computing are stepping up the detection game.
Simply put, machine learning refers to self-improving algorithms, which are predefined processes conforming to specific rules, performed by a computer. A computer starts with a model and then trains it through trial and error. It can then make predictions such as the risks associated with a financial transaction.
A machine learning algorithm for fraud detection needs to be trained first by being fed the normal transaction data of lots and lots of cardholders. Transaction sequences are an example of this kind of training data. A person may typically pump gas one time a week, go grocery shopping every two weeks and so on. The algorithm learns that this is a normal transaction sequence.
After this fine-tuning process, credit card transactions are run through the algorithm, ideally in real time. It then produces a probability number indicating the possibility of a transaction being fraudulent (for instance, 97%). If the fraud detection system is configured to block any transactions whose score is above, say, 95%, this assessment could immediately trigger a card rejection at the point of sale.
The algorithm considers many factors to qualify a transaction as fraudulent: trustworthiness of the vendor, a cardholder’s purchasing behavior including time and location, IP addresses, etc. The more data points there are, the more accurate the decision becomes.
This process makes just-in-time or real-time fraud detection possible. No person can evaluate thousands of data points simultaneously and make a decision in a split second.
Here’s a typical scenario. When you go to a cashier to check out at the grocery store, you swipe your card. Transaction details such as time stamp, amount, merchant identifier and membership tenure go to the card issuer. These data are fed to the algorithm that’s learned your purchasing patterns. Does this particular transaction fit your behavioral profile, consisting of many historic purchasing scenarios and data points?
The algorithm knows right away if your card is being used at the restaurant you go to every Saturday morning – or at a gas station two time zones away at an odd time such as 3:00 a.m. It also checks if your transaction sequence is out of the ordinary. If the card is suddenly used for cash-advance services twice on the same day when the historic data show no such use, this behavior is going to up the fraud probability score. If the transaction’s fraud score is above a certain threshold, often after a quick human review, the algorithm will communicate with the point-of-sale system and ask it to reject the transaction. Online purchases go through the same process.
In this type of system, heavy human interventions are becoming a thing of the past. In fact, they could actually be in the way since the reaction time will be much longer if a human being is too heavily involved in the fraud-detection cycle. However, people can still play a role – either when validating a fraud or following up with a rejected transaction. When a card is being denied for multiple transactions, a person can call the cardholder before canceling the card permanently.
The sheer number of financial transactions to process is overwhelming, truly, in the realm of big data. But machine learning thrives on mountains of data – more information actually increases the accuracy of the algorithm, helping to eliminate false positives. These can be triggered by suspicious transactions that are really legitimate (for instance, a card used at an unexpected location). Too many alerts are as bad as none at all.
It takes a lot of computing power to churn through this volume of data. For instance, PayPal processes more than 1.1 petabytes of data for 169 million customer accounts at any given moment. This abundance of data – one petabyte, for instance, is more than 200,000 DVDs’ worth – has a positive influence on the algorithms’ machine learning, but can also be a burden on an organization’s computing infrastructure.
Enter cloud computing. Off-site computing resources can play an important role here. Cloud computing is scalable and not limited by the company’s own computing power.
Fraud detection is an arms race between good guys and bad guys. At the moment, the good guys seem to be gaining ground, with emerging innovations in IT technologies such as chip and pin technologies, combined with encryption capabilities, machine learning, big data and, of course, cloud computing.
Fraudsters will surely continue trying to outwit the good guys and challenge the limits of the fraud detection system. Drastic changes in the payment paradigms themselves are another hurdle. Your phone is now capable of storing credit card information and can be used to make payments wirelessly – introducing new vulnerabilities. Luckily, the current generation of fraud detection technology is largely neutral to the payment system technologies.
Editor's note: This article was originally published Nov. 25, 2015.
Jungwoo Ryoo is Associate Professor of Information Sciences and Technology at Altoona campus, Pennsylvania State University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


The tax package pending in Congress includes a provision that would leave churches and other nonprofits, which by law must be nonpartisan, suddenly free to engage in political speech.
This measure, currently only in the House version of the bill, could potentially change charitable life as we know it.
As an accounting professor who teaches nonprofit taxation, I believe that this significant change deserves vigorous public debate and is too big to bury in tax legislation.
Tax law currently bars religious and secular charities alike from engaging in political activity, which the government defines as attempting to influence legislation or intervening in a campaign on behalf of (or in opposition to) specific candidates.
Nonprofits caught breaking this law may pay back taxes or lose their tax-exempt status.
Known as the Johnson Amendment, this provision dates back to 1954, when then-Senator Lyndon B. Johnson led the effort to get this restriction on the books. More nonprofits say they welcome this as a form of protection from political pressure than object to it as a restriction on their rights.
President Donald Trump vowed as a candidate to repeal the Johnson Amendment to give church leaders the ability to speak about politicswithout penalty. But repealing a law takes an act of Congress and power he lacks.
As a step in that direction, he issued an executive order directing the IRS not to enforce it for religious institutions.
The tax bill’s proposed change would actually repeal the Johnson Amendment, and it would apply to all charitable organizations, including churches and other houses of worship like mosques and synagogues. It came as an unwelcome surprise to most charities, which have been openly rejecting it.
“Charitable nonprofits don’t want to be dragged into the toxic political wasteland,” said Tim Delaney, who leads the National Council of Nonprofits.
If the House language becomes law, political speech by these groups would technically need to meet two requirements. First, charities would be able to make political statements in the ordinary course of business – that is, doing whatever it is they do. For example, a prominent pastor could endorse political candidates during a sermon that’s broadcast or livestreamed.
Second, making such statements must cost no more than an “incremental de minimis amount” – regulatory language that basically translates into “not much.”
In other words, calls to vote for a particular candidate could be printed in flyers as long as those missives were mainly about something else. And nonprofits could endorse candidates on their websites as long as the details do not dominate that digital space. Politicking would be allowed on the sidelines and if it does not consume a large share of a group’s budget.
Where exactly the government would draw a line isn’t clear yet. Most likely, churches wouldn’t be free to mail their congregants straightforward calls to “vote for Jennifer Doe on November 7.” But they might be able to include that language in their monthly newsletters or on a web page about a church supper.
Why lift current restrictions on political speech by charities? The Alliance Defending Freedom, a conservative Christian legal group, argues that the Johnson Amendment unconstitutionally restricts free speech by not allowing nonprofits to speak on big issues that matter to the public.
However, there’s no clear evidence that this is a valid concern. Plenty of pastors already speak out often on policy issues, such as abortion, immigration and income inequality. Some even endorse candidates running for office, according to a 2016 Pew study.
In fact, religious leaders have been reportedly speaking out more because of increasingly lax IRS enforcement of nonprofit political activity starting years before Trump signed his executive order.
The Johnson Amendment entangles church and state by requiring the IRS to determine whether speech by 501(c)(3) nonprofits – the kind to which Americans who itemize their returns can make tax-deductible donations – is political or merely issue advocacy.
For example, religious leaders currently can speak about abortion as long as they do not endorse candidates based on their views regarding the procedure. If the proposed tax code amendment becomes law, they would be free to do just that.
Delaney and other nonprofit leaders – including religious ones – say that they would prefer to see partisan politics kept out of charities, churches and foundations. This arrangement, they argue, currently shields them from political pressure from donors, board members or politicians.
There is also a risk that some charities would superficially serve an educational purpose while actually engaging in political activity, according to Roger Colinvaux, a Catholic University law professor who previously served as a lawyer for the Joint Committee on Taxation, a congressional committee with members from both the House and Senate whose staff analyzes tax proposals.
Without restrictions on political speech by churches and secular charities, many experts predict that taxpayers seeking to make political contributions would shift such nondeductible donations from politicians, parties and political organizations to nonpartisan charities.
This would mean potentially billions of dollars in political donations could be written off. And like the tax cuts themselves, this change would come with a price tag.
The House bill would lift this restriction for five years beginning in the 2019 tax year, reducing revenue by approximately US$1.5 billion, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation.
What’s more, contributions to nonprofits for political purposes could be anonymous. While the names of donors who contribute to political campaigns must be disclosed, charitable donations don’t have to revealed.
In other words, donors could make their contributions to nonprofits contingent upon endorsements for candidates without anyone knowing about it if this provision becomes part of the tax code.
More than 4,200 religious leaders signed an interfaith petition to keep the Johnson Amendment intact.
At the same time, 5,500 charitable organizations have objected to the proposed revision by signing a letter to that effect.
And a national poll by the Independent Sector, an organization representing charities, foundations and corporations seeking to advance the common good, found that 72 percent of respondents wanted to keep the Johnson Amendment on the books.
The only people who have called for this change are evangelical Christian pastors.
Given the pending tax package’s potential to make sweeping changes, the question of whether it makes sense to loosen restrictions on political speech by charitable organizations is getting less attention than it should.
Most Americans do not know what is in this legislation, which Trump wants to sign into law before Christmas on a rushed timetable. If he gets his wish, chances are strong that the debate will follow passage rather than precede it.
A huge shift like this deserves a real and open debate, not the kind of behind-the-scenes deal-making that apparently went on before House Republicans folded this nonprofit provision into its tax bill.
Susan Anderson is Professor of Accounting at Elon University.
This article was originally published in  The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


How many times have you tuned into your local NPR station and instead of the regularly scheduled program you’ve heard “If we get 20 donations by the end of this hour, a generous donor will give us $500 in matching funds”? How much of your mail and email, especially in December, bears messages like “If you give today, a generous donor will match your donation dollar-for-dollar”?
I am an economist who studies nonprofit fundraising, and these pitches made me want to find out whether matching funds, a common tool, really make people more likely to give.
Donations, including matching ones, are extremely important to nonprofits. NPR, for example, gets almost  40 percent of its funding from listeners, 20 percent from corporations and only 5 percent from the government.
Research on this topic has raised questions about this common fundraising tool’s effectiveness. Some studies have found that matching funds increase the likelihood someone will donate any amount, while others have not detected that benefit.
To determine one way that matching funds might work, I teamed up with fellow researcher Mike Schreck of the Analysis Group, an economic consulting firm. We looked into whether making people feel importantby having them unlock matching funds for the nonprofits they support would increase the number of donations.
To understand what we mean by “feel important,” consider what happens when NPR stations say “We need 20 donors by the end of the hour to get $500 in matching funds.” If you could know for sure that 19 people would answer that call, you could believe in your power to personally activate the match.
However, if you could be certain that only 18 people will call in, then even if you make a donation the goal of 20 won’t be met. And if you were certain that at least 20 other people will call in, you would realize that you could be the 21st donor or the 22nd. In those cases your gift would still count, but you wouldn’t be helping to make a match.
We reasoned that by tinkering with different thresholds and changing the number of donors needed to unlock matching funds, we could change how important potential donors would feel.
To give that a shot, we first partnered with an educational charity that requested anonymity.
The nonprofit mailed five different types of letters asking prospects for donations. Everyone on its mailing list randomly received one of the five letters. They included a traditional dollar-for-dollar match letter – meaning that if donors gave US$10, the charity would automatically receive $20 – and a control-group letter that simply told people about the group’s mission and asked for a donation.
We also created three letters telling recipients they had been randomly assigned to a group of 10 people. One promised that if at least one of the 10 donated, the charity would get an extra $50 in matching funds. Another said that if at least two of them made a gift, the nonprofit would receive that $50. The third letter pledged those $50 in matching funds if at least three recipients donated.
Everything we told potential donors was true. There was indeed a generous person who promised to make those matches if the various thresholds were met, along with dollar-for-dollar matches if that’s what a donor’s letter told them would happen across the board.
Eight weeks later, we measured and compared the donation rates for the five kinds of letters.
A nonprofit mailed five kinds of letters asking for donations. The control group one didn't mention any match. Another promised a straight dollar-for-dollar match. The rest said recipients were assigned to a group of 10 people and that unlocking matching funds required one, two or three of the 10 to give.
Only 1.59 percent of the prospective donors who got the control-group letter with no match made donations, the lowest rate. The second-lowest donation rate was for those who got a letter requiring one person in 10 to activate matching funds, at 2 percent, followed by a 2.34 percent rate for the people promised an unconditional dollar-for-dollar match. The donation rate among prospective donors told that gifts from two in 10 would do the trick was about the same, at 2.35 percent.
For the people told matching funds would require three donors, the donation rate stood much higher: 3.68 pecent. That surprised us because we thought the higher goal would discourage donations. Instead, potential donors seemed to be reacting to our raising the bar by themselves rising to the greater challenge. It’s possible that as the goal rose, people felt more needed and so were more likely to give.
Response rates in the low single digits may sound underwhelming. But donation rates for this kind of campaign typically run only 2 percent and even averages of 0.5 percent or less can be worth it for fundraisers.
To further test whether making people feel more likely to activate matching funds makes them more apt to give to a charity, we did another study, this time working with people in person. We asked them to decide whether to donate and to tell us how important they thought their gifts would be in terms of activating the matching funds.
We summarize the results from both the mailing and the other study in a paper that is forthcoming in Games and Economic Behavior.
As with the mailings, we found that the more instrumental a person thought their gift was in terms of activating matching funds, the more likely they were to donate.
What should nonprofits learn from our research? Not all pitches about matching funds are equal. The ones that make potential donors feel that their gift is a key part of what it will take to unlock that extra money work best.
Laura Gee is Assistant Professor of Economics at Tufts University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Do you wish you had more money?
Most people do. And even though people work hard to earn their money, many give some of it away, often to help strangers. In fact, 55.5 percent of American households say that they give to charity.
As experts on giving-related topics in our respective disciplines of psychology and economics, we wanted to understand why people choose to spend their money on other people, rather than themselves – that is, what’s behind the urge to donate.
We are not the first to try to figure this out. The Dutch scholars Rene Bekkers and Pamala Wiepking published a paper six years ago that drew from 500 other papers on this topic to identify the key factors that drive giving.
What they found is that for more than 85 percent of charitable donations, people gave because someone asked them to. Yet that doesn’t solve the question of how donors who are approached by many causes choose which ones they will support.
Most people give to causes that affirm important values, including compassion for those in need. Donors are also more likely to give when they think that their donation will make a difference. But donors don’t give only from the heart, Bekkers and Wiepking found. They also consider the costs and benefits of giving, and the benefits to themselves such as feeling good or looking good to others.
But there are very few ways to measure what motivates people to give to charity (or not). While asking thousands of donors why they give for our research, we have rarely encountered anyone who confessed to giving simply because someone asked them to.
Instead, they describe internal triggers. People often say things like they feel bad for people who do not have homes or it makes them feel good to help others.
That’s why we believe it’s best to simply ask donors why they give.
In a study detailed in an article soon to be published in Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly, we recruited 819 Americans who reported that they had given to charity in the past. They filled out a detailed online survey that included 54 statements about many different reasons that people give such as “I donate because I feel compassion toward people in need.” We drew from previous research to develop these statements, which participants rated according to how strongly they agreed with them.
Based on the patterns we observed in these initial responses, we whittled the 54 down to 18 statements in six categories that measured the most common reasons for giving (or not). This is how we came up with our motives to donate scale, which highlights five key motivations for charitable giving and one common barrier.
From most important to least they were: altruism, trust, social, (financial) constraints, egoism and taxes. Because “ATSCET” is hard to remember, we chose the handy acronym TASTE for Charity.
Trust: People are more likely to give to nonprofits that they trust will use their donated money to make a difference.
Altruism: Donors tell us again and again that they find it important to help others in need. This reinforces earlier findings by other scholars like Gil Clary, Mark Snyder and their colleagues that find that the most important reason for volunteering is altruistic concern for others.
Social: Many donors say that they give because their donations matter to someone they know and care about. For example, many married couples often make charitable donation decisions together. People who know someone who has a disease or who has died from one may make a donation to charity that promotes research for that disease. Or people may invite friends to a fundraiser for one of their favorite charities or just directly ask for a contribution – something that millions of Girl Scouts do when they ring their neighbors’ doorbells with their cookie forms in hand.
Taxes: The tax breaks many people get in exchange for their gifts to charity are another motivating factor for giving.
Egoism: Egoism is when people give in order to receive some personal benefit, such as feeling good or looking good to others. Our respondents also cited this motivation.
Financial constraints: In addition to those five motivating factors, we found one reason why people balk at giving to charity: They feel like they can’t afford it.
Based on an online survey, donors rank altruism as their top reason for giving to charity and are more likely to cite it as a factor than reasons that benefit themselves like an urge to get a tax break. Financial constraints was the only common barrier to giving that donors mentioned.
So far, we know that people seem to be more motivated by how they can help others when they give, rather than what they can get back.
But we are not yet sure if we would find this same pattern in larger-scale studies. Our participants did not reflect U.S. demographics in terms of gender, age and race or ethnicity. The number of women who took part outnumbered the men, for example, which might have made donors look more altruistic than they would have with gender parity.
So, at this point we don’t know what motivates Americans from all different backgrounds to give. We aim to learn more about that in future studies.
Also, we are multicultural scientists: One of us is a citizen of Canada and Germany while also being a U.S. green card holder, and the other was born in India and is both a U.S. and Canadian citizen. Given our own global perspectives, we don’t expect motivations to be the same across cultures and we can’t help but wonder what drives giving across cultures.
We would like to explore those differences too.
You can take the motives to donate survey yourself to see how your motives compare to people in our studies, by visiting our website at tinyurl.com/motives2donate.
Sara Konrath is Assistant Professor of Philanthropic Studies, Indiana University-Purdue at University Indianapolis.
Femida Handy is Professor of Social Policy at the School of Social Policy and Practice at University of Pennsylvania.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Update: The amendment discussed in the story below did not make it into the final version of the tax reform bill the Senate passed at 2 a.m. Saturday morning by a vote of 51-49. The amendment, which would have created new benefits for large private equity and hedge funds, was one of a series of last minute changes made to the nearly 500-page bill Friday evening, changes that included handwritten additions and substractions. 
Republican Sen. John Cornyn of Texas introduced changes to the tax bill on Friday that would have created a 23 percent deduction for income from pass through partnerships (PTPs), a type of business structure often used by large, publicly traded hedge funds and private equity groups. But the final legislation passed Saturday morning limited the deduction to oil and gas PTPs. So while the Senate tax bill does contain new benefits for oil and gas companies, many of which are headquartered in Cornyn's home state of Texas, private equity groups like Stephen Schwarzman's Blackstone will not be able to take the deduction. 
Original Story:
Just weeks before the election last year, billionaire Stephen Schwarzman gave $2.57 million to the Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC that supports Republican Senate candidates. Now he’s poised to see a huge return on that investment.
The Senate seemed ready to pass the largest overhaul of the nation’s tax code in a generation Friday, in spite of the fact many senators still seemed unclear what was in the bill. Lawmakers have been tacking on last minute amendments, and as a leading tax policy expert pointed out on Twitter, one of those amendments would be a huge boon for hedge funds and private equity managers — including  Schwarzman.
University of San Diego tax professor Victor Fleischer first brought public attention to the carried interest tax loophole. The loophole benefits hedge fund and private equity managers, who are compensated through management fees, usually 2 percent of the money they manage, and a cut, traditionally 20 percent, of the profits they generate. The carried interest loophole allows those managers to claim the latter part of their compensation as long term capital gains, which are taxed at 20 percent, instead of income, which is taxed at 39.6 percent. Then-candidate Donald Trump decried the use of carried interest last year, claiming hedge fund managers used the loophole to get “away with murder.” On Friday, Fleischer, who  joined the Senate Finance Committee’s Democratic staff last year, highlighted  Senate amendment 1715, which was introduced by Sen. John Cornyn, R-TX.   


According to Fleischer, not only does the tax bill allow private equity and hedge fund managers to keep their 20 percent tax rate on the profits they generate, this new amendment allows them to claim a 23 percent deduction on management fees — the part of their earnings that is currently taxed according to their income bracket.
Sen. Ron Johnson said Friday Senate Republicans had agreed to raise the deduction for pass-through businesses from 17.4 percent to 23 percent. The Cornyn amendment would make income from  pass through partnerships, a type of business structure used by publicly traded private equity firms like Blackstone, eligible for that deduction.  
One of the beneficiaries of the new provision would be Schwarzman, chairman and CEO of The Blackstone Group, the  largest private equity firm in the world. Schwarzman chaired Trump’s Strategic and Policy Forum, an advisory group of business leaders that disbanded after Trump’s comments following the now infamous August hate rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
In October 2016, Schwarzman made two donations totaling more than $2.5 million to the Senate Leadership Fund, which is led by the former chief of staff to Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-KY. The Fund spent millions on ads opposing Democratic candidates in tight races in the final days of last year's election. That spending spree included $2.2 million in ad buys opposing former Wisconsin Senator Russ Feingold, who lost to Sen. Ron Johnson by less than four percentage points, in the race's final 10 days.  
It also includes $750,000 worth of ads opposing Missouri Democratic Senate candidate Jason Kander, who eventually lost to Republican Roy Blount by less than three points, and $800,000 worth of ad buys opposing Pennsylvania Senate hopeful Kathy McGinty, who would lose her race to Sen. Pat Toomey by 1.5 percent of the vote. All of that spending was in the final ten days of election cycle, and all three of the victors in those races have said they are voting for the Republican tax bill, which is expected to pass by a narrow margin.
 


When the Trump administration proposed to repeal “net neutrality” rules, the initiative moved telecommunications companies one step closer to their goal of scrapping regulations that prevent them from preferencing internet content they like, and slowing down content they don’t. The initiative has drawn widespread condemnation, but it was not the only step in the industry’s battle to deregulate the internet: an imminent ruling in an obscure court case could end up leaving no federal or state agency with any right to police telecom companies’ treatment of millions of customers.   
Without regulatory protections, consumer advocates warn, internet service providers like Comcast and Verizon could speed up, slow down, or block whichever content they choose for whatever reasons they choose — whether to charge money for fast lanes or to prevent users from accessing content critical of their political agenda. Despite those concerns, the Trump administration issued a headline-grabbing net neutrality proposal in April, led by FCC Chairman Ajit Pai, that would preempt states from regulating internet traffic, and officially terminate the Federal Communications Commission’s jurisdiction over internet service providers.
That move would return jurisdiction to the Federal Trade Commission, which has been seen as a weaker regulator because it cannot preemptively set rules but only take action after abuse harming consumers has occurred. Some conservative groups have nonetheless insisted that the FTC would be a robust watchdog, but an AT&T case moving forward in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the  Ninth Circuit threatens to concurrently eliminate even the FTC’s comparatively weak right to regulate the internet.
Taken together, if the FCC does not delay its vote until the court rules, the net neutrality initiative and court ruling could end up creating a complete regulatory vacuum. 
“It would become a total unregulated zone, really and truly,” said Harold Feld of the watchdog group Public Knowledge. “Because your only options for consumer protection are the FCC, the FTC or the states.”
After the FTC brought an enforcement action against AT&T, the communications giant argued that the FTC does not have jurisdiction over the matter because a different segment of AT&T’s business is also regulated by the FCC. That argument was, in effect, a new reading of the “common carrier” exception and the case (FTC vs AT&T Mobility) found its way to the Ninth Circuit, which sided with AT&T and undercut the FTC’s regulatory authority.
Demonstrations in favor of net neutrality, as FCC Chairman Ajit Pai spoke at the American Enterprise Institute in D.C., May 5, 2017 Photo: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
There is no built-in mechanism in the FCC’s net neutrality proposal to delay its implementation if the court undermines the FTC. The FCC did not respond to International Business Times questions about whether it would delay a vote on the proposal until the court rules, and whether consumers or telecommunications companies would be harmed by delaying the vote until after the Ninth Circuit’s decision has been resolved.
“What we have argued is that it would be wise to wait and see how the Ninth Circuit decision comes out,” said Feld. “Even if odds are good the FTC will win and AT&T will lose, the consequences of getting it wrong are catastrophic. If Ajit Pai really believes that the consumer protection afforded by the FTC is enough, then he should wait and delay the vote to make sure that the FTC’s regulatory authority is intact.”
The FCC is aware of the danger posed by the Ninth Circuit, as it is specifically mentioned in the  draft net neutrality order circulated last week. However, the draft order dismisses the concern out of hand, stating simply: “we find objections based on FTC vs AT&T Mobility insufficient to warrant a different outcome.”
Meanwhile, as evidence of the impending regulatory vacuum, telecom giants have already begun citing the FCC’s preemption of state-level net neutrality rules in their legal arguments in state courts. Charter  attempted to use the draft FCC order as legal ammunition in a lawsuit over deceptive advertising of slow internet speeds in New York.
In theory, FTC's regulatory authority could be salvaged through complex legal proceedings that involve the FCC forcing corporations to separate their common carrier and information services components into different subsidiaries. However, FCC officials have made it clear that they have neither the desire nor the capacity to pursue that avenue.
“AT&T’s argument that the FCC has the legal authority to require structural separation in order to facilitate FTC regulatory authority is baseless,” wrote Nicholas Degani, FCC’s acting general counsel, in  a letter to the Ninth Circuit in October. “It would be unprecedented for the FCC to require separation simply to close a gap between FCC and FTC regulatory authority.”
Speaking more broadly about the prospect of FTC regulation of the Internet, FTC Commissioner Terrell McSweeny wrote  on Twitter: “As I've said many times, the FTC doesn't have resources, expertise, or authority to ensure the Internet remains open.”
But if the FCC’s repeal of net neutrality rules goes through, the FTC may be all that internet users have to rely on to protect the open internet. And if the Ninth Circuit’s ruling stands, they may not even have that.
“The idea that the FTC will come to the rescue if Net Neutrality is destroyed at the FCC is a bad joke,” said Craig Aaron, president and CEO of Free Press. “The heads of the Trump FCC and FTC are defanging their own agencies, watchdogs which had just started to show some bite during the last years of the Obama administration. And that's exactly how AT&T wants them: toothless, tied up and with their tails between their legs.”


A day after a federal court in California ordered cryptocurrency broker Coinbase to turn over information of more than 14,000 of its customers to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the White House said it was looking into possible regulation of bitcoin, the de facto market leader among digital currencies.
In the daily press briefing Thursday, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said, in response to a question about President Donald Trump’s views on bitcoin: “I know this is something that is being monitored by our team here. In terms of specific briefings and announcements on it, I don't have anything that I can share with you right now but would be happy to follow back up with you.”
When asked to clarify what sort of monitoring the team was doing, Sanders said: “Tom Bossert, with the homeland security team, an advisor to the president, has brought this up in a meeting earlier this week. I know it's something that he's keeping an eye on. And we'll keep you posted when we have anything further on it.”
While cryptocurrencies are generally gaining in popularity, partly due to the lack of regulation, bitcoin specifically is way ahead of the rest of the pack. Its value has grown by over 20 times in the last 2 years, and it crossed the $11,000-mark briefly during trade Wednesday (before falling a whopping 20 percent real quick). This massive increase in its value had prompted the questions during Thursday’s White House press briefing.
Cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin, litecoin and XRP have seen unprecedented growth in 2017, despite remaining extremely volatile. Photo: Dan Kitwood/Getty
There is also the matter of tax avoidance. In the Coinbase case, the company claims to have close to 6 million users and calls itself the biggest cryptocurrency brokerage in the world, but IRS data show less than 1,000 people in the country reported cryptocurrency transactions between the years 2013 and 2015. This is despite the fact it is mandatory to report bitcoin and other cryptocurrency transactions on your tax form.
There is also the possible use of cryptocurrencies for illegal purposes, something which has happened in the past, infamously in the case of Silk Road, a platform on the dark web to buy drugs.But for law-abiding investors in cryptocurrency, any regulation may diminish the value of their holdings.
“We believe that the greatest threat is regulation. Several governments across the world have clamped down on exchanges, some halting trading altogether. Others have gone on to outright ban the use of Bitcoin. Sudden government actions in major Bitcoin trading hubs stand to disrupt the market, with the potential to severely affect the utility of bitcoin — and accordingly, the value,” Shidan Gouran, president of Global Blockchain Technologies Corp, told the Street.
Bankers and economists, the sort of people governments are likely to consult on matters of financial regulation, aren’t particularly enthused about cryptocurrencies either. In September, JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon called bitcoin a fraud, and even went so far as to say he would fire anyone from his company for trading in the cryptocurrency. And Nobel Prize winning economist Joseph Stiglitz called for it to be outlawed entirely during an interview Wednesday.


Charles Koch wants to end government subsidies for the farmers who brought you Thanksgiving. He doesn’t seem to have a problem with government handouts for his own company.
A billionaire industrialist, conservative mega-donor, libertarian and free market apostle, Koch is both the head of Koch Industries, the  second largest private company in the U.S., and the founder of his eponymous non-profit, the Charles Koch Institute. On Tuesday, the Institute shared a story on Facebook from leading libertarian magazine and news site Reason (funded in part by money from Koch and his brother David), decrying government subsidies for agricultural products that ended up on Thanksgiving dinner tables across the country.

“For us taxpayers, the rolls, long-grain rice, stuffing and creamed corn on our plates, as well as the cotton tablecloths we're dining on, cost us before we even went to the store,” wrote the piece’s author, Veronique de Rugy.
Criticism of farm subsidies is hardly limited to the Koch brothers or the right. But the critique from the Kochs and their libertarian allies is presented as part of a wider antipathy to subsidies more generally: They argue government subsidies are bad for consumers, as is any government intervention in the economy. The Kochs are spending their fortune advancing those ideas, along with the careers of Republican politicians — all while the company that produced that fortune has accepted hundreds of millions of dollars in government subsidies over the last decade.
Oil and gas conglomerate Koch Industries and its subsidiaries have received at least $422,796,782 in local, state and federal subsidies beginning in 2007, according to research by the Checks and Balances Project using the subsidy tracker built by  Good Jobs First. The actual figure is probably even higher: Of the 231 government subsidies to Koch companies Good Jobs First found after 2006, 49, or 20 percent, had an “undisclosed” dollar value.
Much of that value is coming to Koch Industries from cash-strapped states. In 2014, Koch Nitrogen received a  $148.7 million subsidy from the state of Oklahoma in the form of a tax increment financing district, the largest in state history. The subsidy helped make possible the construction of a $1.3 billion fertilizer plant in Enid, Oklahoma, which employed 143 people as of April,  according to Tulsa World, a local newspaper. That’s more than a million dollars per job. Meanwhile, Oklahoma’s budget is so tight that  20 percent of the state’s school districts have shifted to four-day school weeks due to lack of funds, and the state’s K-12 funding dropped  15 percent between 2008 and 2015.
One of the largest polluters in the U.S., Koch Industries was founded in 1940 by the father of current CEO and chairman Charles. Fred Koch had achieved success in the petrochemical industry by building refineries for the  Soviets and later the Third Reich. Thanks in large part to Charles’s business acumen, the Koch brothers are now two of the richest people in the world: Forbes estimates  they each have a net worth of $48.3 billion; combined, they are worth more than Bill Gates.
They’ve used that wealth to advance their shared libertarian agenda. David Koch ran for vice president on the Libertarian presidential ticket in 1980 and since then they’ve funded a vast network of think tanks, non-profits, educational initiatives and political campaigns with the goal of bringing libertarian ideology mainstream. Their network has come to be known as the Kochtopus, and its reach is considerable: Their political and advocacy network employs 3 ½ times the number of people who work for the Republican National Committee and its congressional campaign arm, according to a  2015 Politico report. Hard numbers on spending are difficult to come by, as the network is largely dependent on non-profit organizations that don’t disclose their donors (so-called “dark money” groups). In January, Charles Koch said his network would spend  $300 to $400 million on politics and advocacy over the next two years.
That advocacy has included decrying government subsidies and urging big business to wean itself off corporate welfare.
“Business leaders [must] recognize that their behavior is suicide, that it is suicide long term. To survive, long-term, they have to start opposing, rather than promoting, corporate welfare,” Koch told a coalition of political and business leaders at  a 2015 retreat. “This means stopping the subsidies, mandates and special privileges for business that enriches the haves at the expense of the have-nots.”
A small part of the millions the brothers have spent will go to the libertarian Reason Foundation, which counts David Koch as a trustee and is the publisher of Reason magazine. The Thanksgiving piece’s author, Veronique de Rugy, is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University. Mercatus is a research center that bills itself as “the world’s premier university source for market-oriented ideas” and it includes Charles Koch as a member of its board. It has been described as a “staunchly anti-regulatory center funded largely by Koch Industries” by the  Washington Post, and was called a “lobbying group disguised as a disinterested academic program” by a  Koch Industries management consultant who taught history at George Mason.


Portuguese soccer player and Real Madrid star Cristiano Ronaldo gained 30 million Instagram followers in 2017, which boosted him to over 116 million people’s accounts following his daily life -- and advertisements. But even more staggering, is the average $416,662 (or £308,000) he makes from each post to the Facebook-owned social network app.
Ronaldo, 32, is now the third-highest paid worldwide celebrity -- per post -- on Instagram.
Rife with advertising deals ranging from Clear Men’s products to Egyptian Steel to his own CR7 fragrances, Ronaldo gains far more money than any other athlete on the planet. The closest professional athlete per post is the NBA's Cleveland Cavaliers star Lebron James who pulls in just more than $125,000 for each Instagram post on average (or £92,457).
The Real Madrid footballer hitting 116 million followers in 2017 on the social networking site makes his profile the second-most followed on the platform, trailing only behind the actress and singer Selena Gomez -- who currently has 130 million Instagram followers.
However, regarding just revenue for each Instagram post, Selena Gomez out-earns him with more than $573,000 per post (£424,000), as well as Kim Kardashian, who pulls in in excess of $520,000 (£385,000) for her day-to-day posts. 
Research conducted by HopperHQ, a scheduling app used to automatically post to Instagram, shows Ronaldo as the third highest-paid celebrity in the world from sponsored photos. He is also the third highest-earning male on the entire photo-based social network, Goal first reported. 
A study conducted by Instagram itself reveals that Ronaldo has gained nine million more followers than rival soccer player, Argentinian Lionel Messi. The FC Barcelona athlete's 21 million additions this year puts him at an overall total of 84 million Instagram followers.


International tourism to the U.S. declined nearly 4 percent in the first six months of the year, according to the U.S. Department of Commerce National Travel and Tourism Office (NTTO) with some experts placing the blame on President Donald Trump.
Fewer visitors from nearly every region of the world visited the U.S. as compared to last year including Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East, South and Central America and the Caribbean, according to the Associated Press Thursday. The only place to send more tourists to the U.S. as compared to last year was Canada, there was a 5 percent jump in Canadian tourism to the U.S. as compared to 2016.
The first six months of 2017 saw around 33.8 million international travelers visit the U.S., a 3.9 percent dip from last year. The beginning of summer was particularly rough, as visitors in June fell 6.7 percent compared to last year.
“The latest government travel data is deeply concerning not just to our industry, but to anyone who cares about the economic well-being of the United States,” said Roger Dow, chief executive of the U.S. Travel Association in a statement.“Travel is our country’s No. 2 export and supports more than 15 million American jobs. These numbers are an undeniable wake-up call, and correcting this troubling trend needs to become a national priority.”
The U.S. Travel Association is a non-profit that represents the travel industry.
Trump’s attempts at travel bans — January and March executive orders barring travel from six Muslim-majority countries that were blocked by the Supreme Court — may have turned some travelers off.
“When Donald Trump came in with his travel ban, there was a noticeable drop [in travel] to the U.S. …And then when the ban was overturned, there was a recovery. And when a new ban was announced, there was a drop off,” David Tarsh, a spokesman for ForwardKeys, an airline booking research firm, told CNN in June.
The Global Business Travel Association, an advocacy group, estimated that the U.S. would lose $1.3 billion this year due to less travel.
“We urge the Trump Administration to consider the important lasting impact of business travel and enact policies going forward that preserve both our national security AND our economy for the future,” the group said in May.
The Middle East and Mexico were two places that saw some of the largest decreases in travel to the U.S. Travel to the U.S. from the Middle East dropped 30 percent in the first six months of this year as compared to last year, and Mexican travel dropped 9.6 percent.


How did Donald Trump win the presidency? In a new podcast interview with International Business Times, former Clinton adminstration Labor Secretary Robert Reich says the Republican was able to take advantage of voters' frustration with both parties' failure to confront corporations' growing power over American life — and Reich faulted Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama for failing to "deal with the structural problems" in the economy.
Subscribers can click here to listen to the entire podcast discussion.
Reich spoke to IBT during the release of his new Netflix documentary "Saving Capitalism," which argues that an unprecedented flood of corporate campaign cash resulted in public policies that have distorted capitalism and harmed America's middle class. 
Reich's desire to rescue capitalism has become increasingly controversial — with the United States facing stagnating wages, intensifying economic inequality and persistent poverty, public opinion polls show more and more Americans are questioning whether capitalism is the right economic system for the country. In 2016, one poll showed that among millenials, 43 percent said they had a favorable view of socialism and just 32 percent said they had a favorable view of capitalism . That  same year, democratic socialist Bernie Sanders received millions of votes for president.
Reich, who worked in the Ford, Carter and Clinton administraitons, is now a professor of public policy at the University of California-Berkeley. During his interview with IBT, he reviewed his economic argument through the prism of his relationship with Bill and Hillary Clinton, whom he has known since law school. He opened up about his battles with the Wall Street wing of the Democratic Party while he was serving as Labor Secretary under President Clinton, and recounted his biggest regret from his time in office. He also asserted that capitalism can be saved — but only if Americans are willing to confront and fight back against corporations using huge amounts of money to dominate its political system. 
What follows is a lightly edited excerpt of the podcast discussion.
You argue that capitalism needs to be saved, but what is your response to polls showing many Americans want an alternative to capitalism?
If we could come up with something that was much different, we might want to try that, but even the Chinese who call themselves a communist nation practice a form of capitalism in terms of private property and the free exchange of goods and services. I think the real question is what I meant by ‘saving capitalism’: saving capitalism from the moneyed interests that are now distorting our system of capitalism in ways that make it very difficult for most people to get ahead. 
The issue is not capitalism versus some other ism, because there really isn't another ism around. The question is how to organize capitalism so that big money doesn't make the rules. 
The idea that there is a free market out there some place in nature that can exist without rules, without rules that are generated by politics, by government, by federal agencies and departments and state agencies and departments and legislatures and courts is absurd on its face. 
These rules are necessary. They are constantly being changed and adapted and altered. They are, right now, more than at any time since the 1880s and the 1890s, the Gilded Age of the robber barons, they are being made by and for very, very big companies, corporations, Wall Street and economic elite of very wealthy individuals who were politically active. This is a huge problem. This generates the distress and cynicism and anger about a rigged economy and a rigged system that contributed to Donald Trump becoming president.
Some critics of capitalism argue that capitalism is predicated on unsustainable consumption and economic growth, and that crises like climate change show that over-consumption is destroying the planet. Do you agree?
If the point is that we can't just keep on consuming, that the environment, the planet, the resources we depend on can't tolerate the mass consumption and the increasing consumption that this planet is engaged in, I would say absolutely right, but growth itself is different from consumption. 
Economic growth gives a society the opportunity to do a lot of things, including environmental protection. Rich societies happen to be cleaner than very poor developing economies. Why is that? Because rich societies have the wherewithal to invest in environmental protection and sewers and water systems and systems that make the environment much, much safer and cleaner for most people. I think the issue of growth versus the issue of consumption is that we do want growth that increases our capacity to conserve and to be responsible in terms of stewardship of the planet.
 We want growth that gives us the capacity to do a lot of things beyond that, in terms of education and healthcare. We want growth that enables us to invest in our people, but we don't want growth that simply allows more consumption. They're different. I think that whether we have growth that allows these kinds of public investments or we have growth that simply is focused on consumption, that is a political matter and a cultural matter. There's no reason why growth has to lead to just more material consumption.
You argue that we are living in an age in which money has an unprecedented influence on politics. But were things really better in past eras? 
I think we're back to that Gilded Age right now, but we did have a period beginning after the second World War, culminating in the late '40s, '50s, '60s where we were much more equal society. We were a society that was striving very, very hard, struggling for even more equality in terms of the Civil Rights Act, the Voting Rights Act, Medicare, Medicaid, even the Environmental Protection Act. We were a society that was very much trying to live up to a set of American ideals that included democracy.
My first job in Washington was as an intern for Senator Robert F. Kennedy. I remember those days as being very idealistic days. People who were involved in government, people who were involved in politics were not in it to make a lot of money off of their service in government. They were not in it to become lobbyists. In those days, in the 1960s and '70s, only 3 percent of Members of Congress who were retiring became lobbyists. Today, almost 50 percent of retiring Members of Congress become lobbyists. 
In the '50s, '60s and '70s, you had major movements for improving the quality of life, civil rights, the environment. They were actually making a difference. They were having political consequences. In those days, you didn't have the political money spent on campaigns that you have today. You didn't nearly the degree of political organization by big businesses, by Wall Street, by wealthy individuals. You didn't have anything close to the amount of money being spent by all those various groups.
On top of that, you had countervailing power in the form of labor unions and local banks and farm cooperatives and other groups whose voice in politics counteracted and balanced the voices of big business and the big banks. You don't have those countervailing powers any longer. 
Labor unions in the 1950s and '60s represented about 35 percent of all workers in the private sector. Today, labor unions represent fewer than 7 percent of the workers in the private sector. Today, you don't have local banks. You have global banks. Today, you don't have farm cooperatives that were actually growing and becoming a major force in the farm economy. You have huge concentrated farm processors, agribusinesses.
I don't want to romanticize that period. I mean, we still had a lot of work to do, but at least we understood the work we needed to do, and we kept a very, very strong limit on corporate power.
Your new film recounts your battles with Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin and the Wall Street wing of the Democratic Party while you served as Labor Secretary under President Bill Clinton. When you first got the job, were you expecting those battles to be as intense as they were?
I did not expect the difficulties, the extreme difficulties that I ran into because Bill Clinton, in 1992, ran on a platform of investing in people. That's what “putting people first,” his campaign platform, was all about. Investing in education, in job training, in health, in infrastructure. His notion and my notion was that if you made these kinds of public investments in our workers, in our citizens, you build the economy from the bottom up. You make a more productive society. You overcome or begin to overcome widening inequality. You create opportunities for everyone, and you generate economic growth that allows you in turn to do even more public investments. 
I didn't realize that the budget deficit that we ran into at the start of 1993 when the administration began would be such a powerful instrument by the conservative forces outside and also inside the administration — the Wall Street wing of that administration — to stop in its tracks a lot of what Bill Clinton promised to do in 1992. I was, frankly, amazed and deeply frustrated.
When you spoke with President Clinton about these issues and your concerns about Wall Street’s influence on his administration, what did he say? 
I talked at the time a lot to people inside [the Clinton administration] who I was either expecting to be on my side or were already on my side, or I needed to recruit to my side, including Bill Clinton. I mean I spent a lot of time whenever I could grab him because I knew him for so long, I was able to sneak into his office or sneak into his car. I mean, nobody [but me] could fit into the jump seat opposite Bill Clinton in his presidential limousine because I'm so short. I would do that, and the other Cabinet members and other advisers would be quite annoyed with me for having that face time. I spent huge hours lobbying.
That's what it really came down to — trying to make the strongest case I could for the principles that I thought Bill Clinton was elected on, but the response I got back from Bill Clinton and from others who didn't agree with me was number one, we have got to get the bond traders on our side. We can't afford a huge deficit, budget deficit because that will cause interest rates to go back, that will make it difficult to get jobs back again. We've got to get the Fed and Alan Greenspan to be on our side. We've got to postpone most of what Bill Clinton wanted to do until the economy is better. 
Then, of course, came the terrible, well, the nightmare, politically, of the mid-term elections of 1994, the Republicans taking over Congress and from that point on, it was just trying to survive.
What is your biggest regret from your time serving as Labor Secretary?
The biggest thing that I regret not pushing harder on has to do with labor unions. Bill Clinton, as did Barack Obama, promised the unions that there would be labor law reform. That would be one of the major first initiatives of both administrations, when the Democrats had both houses of Congress. By labor law reform, I mean making it easier to form unions, making it harder for companies and employers to fire workers for trying to form unions. 
In both instances, both the Clinton administration and the Obama administration, both presidents essentially said, "No, I don't want to spend my political capital on that, even though I promised labor unions that I would. They have no real option. They're going to be with me in the future." That, I should have fought harder for...
Workers not only needed unions and still need unions but also the Democratic party needed labor unions because labor union members were the ground troops of the Democratic party. Without them, the Democratic party is really just a big fundraising machine. It has no members, no real active membership, apart from people who are party functionaries.
Do you believe the Obama administration was much different on economic issues than the Clinton administration? 
I think the Obama administration really was very similar to the Clinton administration. It was a continuation, in many ways, of the Clinton economic policies. Many of Obama's advisors were holdovers from the Clinton administration. Gene Sperling, Larry Summers and so on. Many of the decisions made by the Obama administration were consistent with the decisions made by the Clinton administration.
As a result, the economy did reasonably well after the financial crisis. It was a long sustained, and has been even now, a long sustained economic expansion starting in 2009, but the problem of inequality got worse, steadily worse. The fact that median wages were stuck in the mud, that most people did not get a raise. If you're talking about the bottom 80 percent of Americans, hourly workers, they actually, most of them, lost ground during the Obama years as they did during the George W. Bush years, as they did during the Clinton years. This is a long-term problem.
Then, of course the, financial crisis, the bailout of Wall Street exacerbated the anger and frustrations of a lot of people. They did not get much, much benefit out of TARP, which was supposed to be just a transitional program for not only the banks but also for homeowners. The homeowners didn't get bailed out. The banks got bailed out. Homeowners did not. That was a huge problem for many people, that the legacy of that great recession is still with us. 
Most Americans, particularly in the bottom 60 percent, are not yet back to where they were before the great recession. They lost jobs. Some of them still have not got back into the labor force. They lost their savings. They haven't got back to where they were in terms of their capital, their assets. Their houses, they lost. Many of them lost their homes. That legacy is very much a foundation stone, sadly, for the Trump administration, for the emergence of Donald Trump, for the power of the authoritarian right that we now see.
In retrospect, I think that both Bill Clinton and Obama, although they were good stewards of the economy, they didn't deal with the structural problems. They didn't turn the economy around in ways that most people would say generated a truly fair economy — an economy in which anybody could make it.
Do you believe the Democratic Party is part of the problems you outline, or part of the solution? 
I think that the party is nothing. The Democratic Party — there's no there, there. It's just a big fundraising machinery. The real energy, the core, the heart of the Democratic Party to the extent that there is one, is at the grassroots. It's bubbling up right now. It's this resistance to Donald Trump. It's more than that. It's people who are committed to single-payer, committed to getting big money out of politics, committed to many things that Bernie Sanders instigated or at least was a vehicle for getting people energized about. 
The energy in the Democratic Party is progressive energy, if that's the way you want to characterizes it, and the responsibility and the only hope for the Democratic Party as a party is to link up and take advantage of this energy. If it doesn't, then, the party, I'm afraid, is just going to maybe limp through 2018 and maybe pick up some seats, hopefully get control of the House and maybe get control of the White House again in 2020. It will not be a vital force.
Democrats seem energized in opposing Trump — but do you believe the party unity around “resistance” to Trump stifles systemic questions about whether Democrats should move in a more progressive direction?
Initially, the resistance to Trump is all about Trump and his lying... I think that the resistance is moving beyond that because as you get closer to the 2018 elections and then the 2020 elections, many people who are now in politics for the first time were running for office, who are engaged at the grassroots, many of them are coming up to the question you raised. What are we for? What's the positive agenda? Out of that positive agenda is coming many of the ideas that animated the Bernie Sanders campaign such as universal healthcare, single pair, such as getting big money out of politics...
These are thing that were already there in the progressive lexicon and agenda but had not been fully understood, fully appreciated, I think, by many people who call themselves Democrats.
It has been, I think, a massive learning experience for many people. Getting involved in politics and seeing it up close, people I know who have never been political before are saying things like, "We have got to reform our voting system. We've got to get rid of the gerrymandering that is going on and voter suppression. We've got to get big money out of politics. We've got to also do something very, very dramatic with regard to healthcare and the environment." These are people who are beginning to form a new Democratic Party.
If the old Democratic Party only understood that they are not opponents, they actually are potentially the source of energy and momentum and mobilization and the future for the Democratic Party. Then, I think the Democratic Party really does have some potential for taking back the system of government and also our economic system for average people and for the poor and embracing social justice as the Democratic Party once did.


A Swiss bakery in Chicago, which was forced to let go of 800 of its working staff after an immigration raid earlier this year, is struggling to earn the kind of profits it made before the raid happened.
Cloverhill Bakery, which used an unnamed staff recruitment agency to hire its work staff and did not bother double-checking if all of them had proper documentation needed to work in the U.S., ended up losing 35 percent of its work staff after the raid.
The company, which also makes hamburger buns for the McDonald’s Corp., has ended up losing $21 million since the raid. Chief Executive Officer Kevin Toland told Bloomberg that although they had managed to re-staff their facility, it was far from functioning like a well-oiled machine.
A Swiss bakery in Chicago, which supplies buns to McDonald's, was forced to let go of 800 of its working staff after an immigration raid earlier this year. In this photo illustration a lady eats a beefburger in London, England, July 12, 2007.  Photo: Getty Images/ Cate Gillon
“It’s proceeding very, very slowly because it’s like having a brand new factory and a brand new workforce,” Toland said. “That’s presenting a lot of challenges, as you can imagine.”
The parent company of Cloverhill Bakery — Aryzta AG — said it was struggling with retaining immigrant staff in its companies based in the U.S. after President Donald Trump’s promised crackdown on undocumented aliens in the country. The firing at Cloverhill Bakery is by far one of the biggest employment debacles since the president voiced out his agenda to curb undocumented immigrant population in the U.S.
In March, huge protests broke out after New York’s Tom Cat Bakery fired 24 illegally working immigrants. This was done after 30 of their 180 employees were told to produce the documentation required to prove their legal status in the country at an I-9 immigration audit by the Department of Homeland Security.
The people who failed to provide the required documentation ended up losing their jobs. Following the mass job termination, several dozen bakery workers, union organizers, and workers’ rights advocates took to the streets of midtown Manhattan with chants of “Qué queremos? Justicia! Cuando? Ahora!” (“What do we want? Justice! When? Now!” in Spanish) and “When immigrants are under attack, stand up, fight back!” Civil Eats reported. 
Dozens of workers and immigration activists march to the Tom Cat Bakery to demonstrate after numerous employees of the bakery claimed they've received letters threatening dismissal in 10 days if they can't prove they're in the U.S. legally in the Long Island City neighborhood of the Queens borough of New York City, March 22, 2017.  Photo: Getty Images/ Spencer Platt
According to a 2014 Pew Research survey, there were eight million unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. working or looking for work. Among the undocumented immigrants who were gainfully employed, 35,000 worked as bakers, 425,000 worked as cooks and an additional 25,000 worked in food processing industries like fruit and vegetable preserving and specialty.
Apart from that, at least 50 to 70 percent of the country's 1.5 to two million strong hired farm workforce is comprised of unauthorized laborers, an assessment by The American Farm Bureau Federation shows.
Industry experts have opined that due to Trump’s “America First” campaign, farms and factories could be left scrambling to fill the unprecedented number of spots left vacated by immigrants and the price tags on food — particularly produce and dairy — might soar to extreme levels.
"There's a misconception that [undocumented immigrants] have been taking jobs other people would do," Dr. Laura-Anne Minkoff-Zern, an Assistant Professor of Food Studies at Syracuse University, told Munchies. "For the most part that's been proven false. People born in urban areas who are coded as white are not willing to take these jobs. They pay very low, are not eligible for overtime, and workers can't organize."


Elon Musk’s the Boring Company seems to have come some ways from selling hats. In a tweet Wednesday, the billionaire entrepreneur announced his tunneling venture will bid to build an express service between Chicago downtown and the O’Hare International Airport.

Chicago Infrastructure Trust, started by the city’s Mayor Rahm Emanuel, announced on its website it was opening bids for private companies to "design, build, finance, operate and maintain the OES [O’Hare Express System] Project," which it says "will improve transportation between O’Hare International Airport and downtown Chicago by providing faster, more direct, and more reliable service."
Musk explained briefly, in reply to some Twitter users, that the "high-speed Loop" he mentioned in his announcement referred to a transport system similar to his Hyperloop concept, but without the need for vacuum tubes for the electric pods to move in.
The Hyperloop concept — which he gave away to anyone who wanted it and which has since been used by other companies to design their own transport systems — basically envisages transporting people and goods in pods moving at incredible speeds, of up to hundreds of miles an hour, on rails within tubes that have vacuum inside them to remove friction from everything, including air. This would drastically reduce the energy required to keep the pods moving.
Musk said the Loop system would not need to have vacuum tubes, since it is for relatively short rides and can therefore work without getting rid of air friction. And that while it would also use pods, it would not necessarily need rails for the pods to move on.
Despite the friction offered by air, the Loop system would likely complete its Chicago downtown to O’Hare journey in under 20 minutes, since that is the goal of the OES Project, according to the city’s Deputy Mayor Bob Rivkin. He also said the city would look at options both above and below the ground, so long as the service operated at least once every 15 minutes, at a cost lower than taxis, Chicago Sun Times reported.
Elon Musk said his the Boring Company will bid to build and operate a high-speed transport system between downtown Chicago and O'Hare International Airport. Photo: REUTERS/Kamil Krzaczynski
Before Musk had made the announcement about the Boring Company making a bid, Rivkins had expressed hope for exactly that to happen.
"We hope Elon Musk and either builders of hyper-loops and other innovative technologies will respond," Rivkin said.
Emanuel and his staff have been in talks with Musk for several months about a tunnel connecting Chicago downtown to the airport.
Oh, about the Boring Company hats, Musk announced Nov. 21 over $300,000 worth of them had been sold.



A day after the price of bitcoin crossed the $10,000-mark, cryptocurrency brokerage Coinbase had a bad day in court in its over a year-long tussle with the Internal Revenue Service. A federal court in California ordered the company to hand over to the IRS data for over 14,000 of its customers who traded upward of $20,000 in bitcoin between 2013 and 2015.
However, the court denied the IRS’ original petition that asked for Coinbase to release records of almost all its customers for a period of several years. Instead, the court limited it to 14,355 customers only, saying that number would suffice to serve “the IRS’s legitimate purpose of investigating Coinbase account holders who may not have paid federal taxes on their virtual currency profits.”
For its part, Coinbase called the court ruling a “partial victory over IRS” in a blog post written late Wednesday by its director of communications David Farmer. He said the company was “proud to accomplish two important victories for our customers.”
Other than the fact that Coinbase has to now disclose records of only a tiny percentage of its almost six million customers, Farmer pointed out in the blog post that “the quantity of data we must produce for the approximately 14,000 customers who remain in scope has been significantly reduced.”
The data to be handed over to the IRS includes customers’ names, addresses, dates of birth, taxpayer identity, and a complete record of all account activity, including other accounts to which they may have transferred money. IRS wants to investigate these customers because it says fewer than 1,000 citizens reported earnings from or holdings of cryptocurrency on their tax returns during the years 2013-15, which is at striking odds with the millions of people the brokerage says use its platform.
From its initial request for information on all Coinbase customers, IRS had previously scaled down its request to 500,000 customers, but the company contested that in court too, citing the privacy of its users.
“Coinbase is in the process of reviewing the order. As we proceed, we will continue to keep our customers updated. Coinbase has millions of customers and the narrowed summons affects approximately 14,000 of the highest-transacting customers from 2 to 4 years ago. This represents less than 1% of our customer base. In the event that we ultimately produce the documents under this Court order, we intend to notify impacted users in advance of any disclosure,” the company said.
Other cryptocurrency watchers found the ruling troubling.
“We remain deeply unsatisfied with the lack of justification provided by the IRS. Without better rationale for why these specific transactions were suspect, a similarly sweeping request could be made for customer data from any financial institution. It sets a bad precedent for financial privacy,” nonprofit Coin Center’s Peter Van Valkenburgh told the Verge.
Charles Hayter, CEO of market tracker CryptoCompare, told Bloomberg in an email: “The government has sensed a windfall — any company that has a plethora of wealthy users might be in the sights. If there is a tax to be paid the government is going to go after it if it makes an example.”
In a seemingly unrelated development, Coinbase also announced Wednesday night its services would be offline for an hour Thursday night for “performing scheduled maintenance.”



Donald Trump famously prioritizes loyalty, and he made his name as a reality television star who relished his power to fire people. As president, he has made a series of personnel moves that underscore those values: At key federal agencies that were designed to be insulated from political influence, he has refused to appoint officials to full terms, and instead appointed acting directors — a status that gives the officials fewer job protections, and allows Trump to more easily remove them if they displease him.
While White House aides serve at the pleasure of the president, federal law gives set terms to leaders of independent agencies such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Internal Revenue Service, the Office of Government Ethics and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. That, along with Senate confirmation, is designed to protect agency leaders from White House retribution if they make decisions that are politically inconvenient to the president.
Yet, faced with vacancies at the top of those independent agencies, Trump has refused to nominate permanent replacements — even though the Congress that would confirm them is controlled by his fellow Republicans. Instead Trump has put in place interim acting directors: They serve without a set term, can be replaced by Trump at a moment’s notice and can be installed without being examined by opposition party members in the Senate.
“What’s unfortunate about  the law that Trump is exploiting is, if you’re an administration trying to get away with stuff, you can basically govern through acting officials for much of your term, avoiding scrutiny and oversight,”  Jeff Hauser, executive director of the Revolving Door Project at the progressive Center for Economic and Policy Research, told International Business Times. “That’s the big picture concern about this.”
While Senate-confirmed government officials can be fired or pressured to resign, presidents rarely publicly terminate them because their status is supposed to guarantee they are terminated only for poor job performance — not political disloyalty. There are no such traditions when it comes to acting directors (although Trump has not appeared to feel constrained by presidential tradition, in any case).  
Outright firings of Senate-confirmed appointees are rare — only 35 presidential appointees were terminated from 1945 through mid-2014, according to  a report by Larry Sabato. However, in his first months in office, Trump defied precedent and fired FBI Director James Comey and acting Attorney General Sally Yates, touching off weeks of headlines and withering criticism.
Removing acting directors, by contrast, tends to be a routine, lower-profile move that is less politically fraught — a situation that potentially gives Trump more power over them.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Under Attack
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) was created as part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act as a way to defend Americans against the predatory financial practices that brought down the global economy in 2008. Even before its creation, Republicans in Congress had the agency in their crosshairs, and now that a Republican is president, the party has the opportunity to quash it.
When creating the CFPB, Congress opted not to put the agency inside the Treasury Department and under the Treasury Secretary. Instead, it established an independent organization and gave the CFPB’s director a fixed term of five years, which the president can terminate only for cause, not based on political allegiances.
But when Richard Cordray stepped down on Nov. 24, likely to pursue a gubernatorial campaign in Ohio, Trump quickly installed his own budget director, Mick Mulvaney — ignoring those who asserted the law creating the CFPB designated Cordray’s deputy as the acting director.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), who first conceived of the CFPB,  tweeted out the passage of the law that states that the deputy director will “serve as acting Director in the absence or unavailability of the Director.”
The Dodd-Frank Act is clear: if there is a @CFPB Director vacancy, the Deputy Director becomes Acting Director. @realDonaldTrump can’t override that. pic.twitter.com/r949ccaJAb
— Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) November 25, 2017
Further underscoring its desire to shield the agency from politics, Congress chose to fund the agency not through the White House budget but via the agency director’s requests to the Federal Reserve. Now, with Mulvaney serving as both the White House budget director and CFPB chief, that budgetary independence has vanished.
President Donald Trump's financial regulator pushed the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to ease up on the lending industry -- which had bankrolled him. Mick Mulvaney in D.C. November 27, 2017  Photo: Alex Wong/Getty Images
According to Sen. Warren, additional senior-level OMB staff, including OMB Director of Communications John Czwartacki, appear to have accompanied Mulvaney to the agency. She also wrote that CFPB employees are held to different, and higher, ethical standards than employees of the Executive Office of the President. Mulvaney, and other OMB staffers, occupy both realms. One requirement prohibits CFPB employees from owning “a security in any ‘entity supervised by the Bureau,’ and requires employees to confirm divestiture in writing within 30 days of the start of employment.”
Having Mulvaney lead the agency is “so singularly problematic” and “a total misreading of Dodd-Frank,” said Hauser.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) speaks during a protest in front of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) headquarters on November 28, 2017 in Washington, D.C. Sen. Warren is demanding that Mick Mulvaney step aside and let acting CFPB director Leandra English do her job. Photo: Mark Wilson/Getty Images
Another Political Figure At The IRS
The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) also has an acting director, whom the president appointed when the previous director finished his term. David Kautter, Assistant Treasury Secretary for Tax Policy, became acting director on Nov. 13, after a career at the law firm Ernst and Young,  helping wealthy clients avoid taxes.
Like Mulvaney, Kautter is maintaining his previous position as he takes on a new one.
The IRS isn’t technically a fully independent agency like the CFPB, as the president may remove the commissioner at will. But,  wrote the New York Times’ Teresa Tritch, “By law and by practice, the Treasury keeps an arms-length relationship with the IRS on matters of tax administration, enforcement and ‘process,’ which basically means that it doesn’t ask the IRS for information about taxpayers. But on matters of tax policy and regulations, it works closely with the IRS.”
Past presidents have used the IRS as a political tool to attack their enemies. The most famous example was Richard Nixon, who ordered the IRS to audit several of his political foes in 1971. During his impeachment proceedings, the House Judiciary Committee  wrote that Nixon, “endeavoured to obtain from the Internal Revenue Service, in violation of the constitutional rights of citizens, confidential information contained in income tax returns for purposes not authorized by law, and to cause ...  income tax audits or other income tax investigations to be initiated or conducted in a discriminatory manner.”
Howard Gleckman, a senior fellow in the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, wrote in Forbes that Kautter’s double role “is  a terrible idea... The IRS must…must…be perceived as non-political. Republicans, of course, have been complaining for years about the Service’s alleged bias. Yet, Trump is taking someone who is already serving in a highly political policy job and giving him the IRS post. The dual roles will inevitably raise serious questions about the independence of the IRS.”
Kautter’s appointment is “an outrageous scandal, but it’s not on its face illegal,” said Hauser, contrasting this instance with the CFPB appointment.
Until this week, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), a key federal banking regulator, had an acting director. When the previous OCC director finished out his term, Trump appointed Keith Noreika as acting director. Noreika was a financial industry lawyer — a conflict of interest — and was given  “special government employee” status, which exempted him from certain ethics and disclosure rules for members of the executive branch. Six Senate Democrats  said he was serving illegally.
On Monday, a former banking associate of Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, Joseph Otting, was  sworn in as OCC director.
Meanwhile, Trump’s acting directors in agencies including the Department of Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency are “quietly dropping the ‘acting’ title from their name,” wrote David Dayen in The Intercept, “suggesting they have every intention of overstaying their legal welcome.”
A Compromised Ethics Office?
Even the Office of Government Ethics (OGE) has a Trump-appointed acting director, as former director Walter Shaub resigned in July, six months before the end of his five-year term. “By not nominating a permanent replacement for Mr. Shaub, the White House  avoids public questions from lawmakers about how the agency should best monitor ethics questions at the White House, including about Mr. Trump’s continued financial ties to businesses now run by his sons,” wrote the New York Times. 
Trump has an acting director at precisely the moment he is filling positions in his administration and the OGE is conducting numerous ethics reviews. The acting director, David Apol, has worked on ethics issues in the federal government for three decades, but as the OGE’s general counsel, he had “a  much more cordial relationship with the White House” than did Shaub, who frequently clashed with the administration.
Trump’s acting director appointments allow him to give Wall Street and corporations the policies they seek while avoiding “a high-profile [Senate confirmation] fight about consumer protection that would be bad for the GOP,” said Hauser. “The optics of either a CFPB or IRS fight are just terrible for the administration.” 


Thousands of American Airlines flights for the holidays have no assigned pilots due to a scheduling error, according to the carrier's pilots union.
The union, the Allied Pilots Association, said that there are more than 15,000 flights that are unassigned between Dec. 17 through 31, one of the busiest travel times of the year. A glitch in the company’s scheduling system allowed all pilots to take the holidays off, according to ABC News.
 
BREAKING: American Airlines says computer glitch allowed all pilots to take vacation over Christmas week. Now union says thousands of flights are in jeopardy of cancellation. Americans says they’re offering 1.5x pay for pilots to fill in and expect to resolve the issue.
&mdash; Sam Sweeney (@SweeneyABC) November 29, 2017

 
 
“Basically there’s a crisis at American for manning the cockpits,” said Dennis Tajer, a spokesman for the Allied Pilots Association to Reuters Wednesday.
American Airlines is at risk of canceling thousands of flights. The company has offered pilots overtime equal to one and a half times their regular pay to take on the unmanned flights, but the union filed a grievance against management over the solution, saying it violates their contract, according to Reuters.
“We are working through this to make sure we take care of our pilots and get our customers to where they need to go over the holidays,” said American spokesman Matt Miller to the Chicago Tribune Tuesday.
American said they had fixed the glitch, but December flights from Dallas-Fort Worth International, American's largest hub, Boston, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, Salt Lake City and Charlotte, North Carolina, are all scheduled without a pilot, co-pilot or both, according to Bloomberg. 


Nov. 20 marked the end of the Atlantic hurricane season, but for the Caribbean, it’s only the beginning of a painful recovery process.
In early September, Hurricane Irma largely destroyed Barbuda and several neighboring Lesser Antilles islands. Two weeks later, Maria took a final fatal stab at Barbuda and entirely knocked out Puerto Rico.
According to The Economist, damage from Irma alone tallies up to US$13 billion. Totals for the entire 2017 hurricane season remain unclear, but Puerto Rico Gov. Roberto Rosello’s recent request for $94.4 billion in aid gives some sense of Maria’s toll.
No matter the final price tag, recovery is sure to be unpayable in a region where 30 percent of people live in poverty and the per capita gross domestic product averages under $9,000 a year, versus $57,000 in the United States.
And while France, Holland and the United Kingdom have come to the assistance of their territories in the region, independent Caribbean nations like Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda, and Cuba have no such obvious sponsors. Their economies shattered by storms – and, in some cases, shackled by debt – some Caribbean nations fear they may never recover.
But behind the scenes, numerous international players are actually racing to rebuild the Caribbean, from tech companies and wealthy individuals to far-flung countries.
Big corporations see an opportunity in the Caribbean’s recovery. Tesla, in particular, seems to have a vision for how the region could rebuild in a more renewable and resilient way.
As an energy and environment researcher, I’m certain that renewables would make Caribbean islands better able to withstand future storm impacts. Whether Tesla can achieve that is another question.
The California-based electric-car company has committed to sending to the island hundreds of its Powerwall battery systems, which could be paired with solar panels to get the electric grid up and running again.
For the millions of Puerto Ricans whose power has been out for over two months, this may come as welcome news. And though some experts have questioned how much it would really help, Tesla did manage to turn the lights on at the San Juan Children’s Hospital back in October.
Puerto Rico isn’t the only Caribbean country with an inadequate energy grid. Across the region, outmoded system designs that rely on a few plants for power production make complete blackouts much higher than grid systems that have an even distribution of power generation.
So even before Irma, Tesla had long seen the Caribbean as a nexus for its energy revolution, with talk of using electric-vehicle batteries to store renewable energy. The idea is that vehicles can charge during the day when the sun is high and winds are stronger, and then owners can sell excess electricity back to the grid when demand is high but supplies are much lower.
Tesla’s desire to power the Caribbean reflects a global energy race as tech companies – among them Samsung and LG – expand their international reach.
The British business magnate Sir Richard Branson, who owns a 30-hectare private island in the British Virgin Islands, has also long advocated that the  Caribbean should shift to clean energy.

The 2017 hurricane season catalyzed this ambition. After Irma, Branson suggested that rich countries fund a “Caribbean Marshall Plan” to help islands move beyond fossil fuels toward low-carbon renewable energy sources like solar and wind.
Hurricane Irma left the solar-powered system on his Necker Island, located roughly nine miles from the ravaged Tortola, relatively intact.
Branson isn’t the only international celebrity with a personal stake in rebuilding the Caribbean region. The actor Robert De Niro has also sought to pitch in.
In September, he said he was “saddened to learn of the devastation in Barbuda,” and called on financial institutions and governments to band together and rebuild the demolished island, where De Niro had hoped to build a $200 million resort.
Two months later, Barbuda remains uninhabitable, with nearly its entire population having evacuated to neighboring Antigua and elsewhere. Locals wonder whether Barbuda will ever be home to anyone again, much less the paradise tourist destination De Niro once envisioned.
For China, the crisis in the Caribbean is an opportunity to expand its influence in an area where it already has deep historic and economic ties.
China’s influence in the Caribbean dates back to Cuba’s 1959 revolution, when communism bound the two nations. Back then, China ignored the U.S. economic embargo to help Cuba after a 1963 hurricane.
This economic superpower also came to the assistance of Grenada in 2004, after more than 90 percent of the island was destroyed by Hurricane Ivan. The 351 housing units China promised to build for those left homeless by the storm opened in late 2012.
Today, China is reported to have offered aid to Cuba after Hurricane Irma. It has also committed $5 million for the United Nations Development Program to assist the Caribbean’s storm recovery.
China’s interest in the Caribbean goes beyond disaster aid. During his 2013 visit to Trinidad and Tobago, President Xi Jinping reportedly promised Caribbean nations a total of $3 billion in loans.
His country has also financed infrastructure and industrial projects across the region. In Jamaica, Chinese state money built the $600 million, 42-mile “Beijing Highway” connecting Kingston to the tourist hub of Ocho Rios. China has also invested $3 billion in Jamaican alumina plants.
This brand of economic diplomacy, which Beijing has also deployed in Africa and Pakistan, for instance, powerfully strengthens China’s international influence. The U.S. knows that, and is keeping a close eyeon Chinese incursions into its maritime backyard.
Caribbean governments must now weigh the pros and cons of these different offers. On the one hand, these countries are so devastated that they simply cannot recover without help.
On the other, I’d suggest it’s risky to cede control over your territory by allowing foreign agents to finance rebuilding. China’s project funding in African has been dubbed “neocolonialism,” because while the country studiously avoids political meddling, its money shapes national development to reflect Chinese interests.
Inaction, however, is not an option. A dozen Caribbean countries were hit hard by hurricanes this year, and climate change promises to keep bringing rising seas and stronger, more frequent storms.
Rebuilding smarter is thus a priority for Caribbean nations, all of which signed the Paris Agreement. That 2015 accord pushes wealthier industrialized nations to commit more money to building resilience, but Europe has shown little willingness to comply with that provision and the U.S is abandoning the entire deal.
Are China, Tesla and Robert De Niro the answer? If the Caribbean can’t save itself, who will?
Masaō Ashtine is Lecturer in Alternative Energy at University of the West Indies, Mona Campus.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Sidewalk Labs, the urban innovation startup owned by Google’s parent company Alphabet, has announced a partnership with the City of Toronto to develop a new waterfront precinct. Time to ask Google: can you build a city?
The Quayside precinct, dubbed “Sidewalk Toronto”, is to become a 500-hectare sandpit for testing a suite of new tech products. The aim is to radically re-imagine the way a city is made.
Even if only a fraction of the ideas being touted work, Sidewalk Labs will be expanding the possibilities of tech-enabled urbanism to far loftier heights than many run-of-the-mill smart city strategies.
Best take note. Any city mildly interested in using technology smarts to improve cities should be paying very close attention.
Further reading:  Creative city, smart city … whose city is it?
Sidewalk Toronto plans to grow phoenix-like out of the ashes of failed smart cities.
Smart cities are based on the idea that cities can be made more liveable, sustainable and efficient by making better use of information and communications technologies. This idea promises a lot, but so far has failed to deliver much.
The biggest failures in the 20-year history of smart cities – notably China’s Dongtan and South Korea’s Songdo – are testament to the hard-boiled truth that good cities can’t be built out of a technology mainframe. Even if they have tech smarts, they haven’t been places people have learned to call home.
And, as companies like IBM, Cisco and Microsoft have learnt, it’s not easy to redeploy the large-scale operating systems used by big organisations into complex urban environments.
Cities are messy places. They’re a heady mix of privatised utilities, legacy infrastructures, resource-constrained public authorities and opinionated voting publics. These ingredients have made it hard to sell a data platform that can operate at the scale needed to produce any real efficiency benefits.
Instead, what has so far been delivered are cities abounding in prototypes of smart parking and smart lights. More were announced last week under the Australian government’s A$50 million Smart Cities and Suburbs Program.
Further reading:  From Smart Cities 1.0 to 2.0: it’s not (only) about the tech
We have seen very little of the “game-changing” disruption spruiked at smart city conferences worldwide. This is also why Sidewalk Labs matters.
Led by CEO Dan Doctoroff, who was deputy mayor of New York under Michael Bloomberg, the company is on a mission to “re-imagine cities from the internet up”. Crucially, this is Google’s version of the internet – the one you’re most likely occupying most of your waking hours.
Instead of trying to sell a clunky operating system that fits legacy infrastructure with new data points, Sidewalk Labs is building products it thinks will change how citizens use the city. And let’s not forget it will own and monetise the data created when people use these products.
Rather than upgrading what we have already, the thinking behind Sidewalk Labs is more focused on the core of how people behave in cities.
For instance, its parking app, Flow, isn’t just about helping you find an empty park, as many smart parking systems do. It introduces a new pricing model that lowers the cost of parking for people who have had to travel further. And it penalises those who really should have walked.
The point of using sensors to monitor air quality and temperature isn’t just to generate real-time data, which governments may or may not use. It proposes to use the data to create optimised environments that reduce the need for restrictive zoning, allowing for “radical mixed use” zoning.
City Block Health, another startup spun out of Sidewalk Labs, is a personalised health system in the US for Medicaid or Medicare members. Presumably, though it’s a bit hard to tell, this will allow these people to be supported across many different (data-driven) interactions as they shop, commute and go about their daily lives.
This is human-centred product design for an era of not just digitally-enabled but “Google-powered” citizens.
The solutions offered here take in the full span of city regulation, pricing, planning, building and human interaction. This is not just tinkering at the edges of urban systems with new technology; this is redesigning the system with the technology at the core.
Of course, the scope to experiment with and ultimately reshape Google-powered urban behaviour is only possible when Sidewalk Labs owns and operates the city space where it can trial its products. This is the premise of Sidewalk Toronto.
Sidewalk Toronto is being built as a beacon for other cities to follow.
The way Sidewalk Labs sees it, the idea that technologists and urbanists can’t get along has to change. The company is integrating urbanists and technologists into its product planning. It’s including residents and workers in beta testing, with a city government giving it social licence to operate.
Instead of a cartel of architects, urban planners, consultants, developers and regulators mapping out the future of the city behind closed doors using the standard master planning process, the company will spend US$50 million over the next year to support an open conversation between citizens, governments, universities and others about what Sidewalk Toronto should be.

Sidewalk Labs is building offices across the US. It’s recruiting a cavalcade of new product managers, partnership and business development managers, machine-learning specialists and forward-thinking urbanists.
If its aggressive recruitment strategy is anything to go by, Sidewalk Labs is aiming for its tech products – focused on urban disruption, powered by the data it hoovers up from our daily lives – to raise the bar for city-making around the world. Doctoroff describes his desire to expand to other cities as “insatiable”.
No doubt there will be lots of ideas that go nowhere. But one thing is clear: Sidewalk Labs is thinking about cities like no other technology company has done before it.
Whether it succeeds in actually building one is everybody’s business.
Further reading:  What might Jane Jacobs say about smart cities?
Sarah Barns is an Engaged Research Fellow, Institute for Culture and Society at Western Sydney University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Many children have played hot potato, a game in which they pass a spud to other children quickly so they don’t get stuck with it when the music stops.
Taxes are like that potato. No one likes paying them; everyone tries to pass them to others. The game of hot potato sheds some light on the debate over Republican tax cutting plans, particularly when it comes to companies.
The House just passed its tax cut bill. It would give about two-thirds of roughly US$1.5 trillion in net tax cuts over the next decade to businesses, mainly by lowering the corporate income tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent. That puts a lot of money on the table. About $100 billion in U.S. corporate profits would be retained by companies rather than paid to the government each year.
Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin has claimed that most of this tax savings would go to workers, in the form of higher wages, in line with the president’s argument that the plan would benefit the middle class.
With the help of hot potatoes, let me explain why he’s wrong.
There are two ways a corporate income tax cut can trickle down to workers’ pockets: directly through higher wages or indirectly via lower prices at stores selling the things they buy.
Mnuchin contends that workers currently bear 70 percent of the corporate tax burden – or get stuck with 70 percent of the corporate tax hot potato. So, a tax cut would mean that companies pass much of their tax benefits to their employees by paying them more or by cutting prices and increasing the buying power of current workers.
Yet, based on past tax cuts, economists have estimated that only 20 percent of the corporate income tax is borne by workers, suggesting that they would get just a small fraction of any corporate tax reduction.
Furthermore, when asked how they’d spend the gains from a tax holiday on the $2.5 trillion that they currently have parked overseas – which is also part of the corporate tax cut plan – most companies indicated they’d pay back debt, repurchase shares or invest in mergers and acquisitions. Wage hikes were not high on the corporate agenda.
Nor have they been part of the corporate agenda for the past several decades. Since the 1970s worker productivity has increased 74 percent, while average wages have risen only 12 percent. There is no reason to believe that tax cuts would all of a sudden generate greater corporate generosity for workers.
As for lower prices, if the U.S. economy were dominated by small businesses, intense competition would force these companies to lower prices rather than give it to shareholders in the form of dividends. Reduced prices for goods would translate into improved living standards for workers the same way that a wage hike would.
But our economy today is dominated by large multinational corporations facing little pressure to reduce prices. So, the gains from a corporate tax cut will remain with the owners of the business – shareholders.
Furthermore, corporate CEOs have large incentives to avoid passing the gains from a tax cut to workers: Executive pay is tied to the company’s share price. If they pass the extra money on to shareholders in the form of dividends or stock buybacks, share prices will rise – as will executive pay packages.

So back to our game. When there’s a tax cut, someone still is stuck with a potato. That is, someone has to pay for it. There are two ways this can be done: increased borrowing or lower government spending.
When economies are near full employment, as the U.S. is today, additional government borrowing will increase borrowing costs or interest rates. So if the U.S. were to borrow more money to finance the tax cuts, the losers would be middle-income households borrowing to start a business, go to college or buy a home. Around 80 percent of Americans are currently in debt, with a median debt of $70,000. Homeowners would be big losers because higher mortgage rates would also lower the value of their home (they’d also get hammered by changes to the tax code that would make the mortgage interest deduction uselessfor most people).
Whether or not the U.S. borrows more and increases the national debt, some spending cuts would also be required.
These would likely come from Social Security, Medicare and other social programs that benefit average citizens and the poor. That’s because lawmakers won’t find much savings anywhere else, apart from the military budget, which they almost certainly wouldn’t touch.
Already this appears to be in the cards. The Congressional Budget Office warned that if the Republican tax plan adds to the deficit, it could set off a 2010 budget rule that would lead to half a trillion in automatic cuts to Medicare over the next decade. And the Senate tax plan calls for repealing the requirement in the ACA that everyone buy insurance, which would lead to 13 million Americans losing health insurance – all to save $338 billion over 10 years.
The consequence of the $1.5 trillion tax cut then would be continuing stagnant wages, cuts in government programs, higher interest rates and rising inequality. Translation: The rich get richer and average Americans get stuck holding some very big potatoes.
Adding further injury, average workers wouldn’t benefit very much from the proposed individual income tax cuts either. Only 8.3 percent of those in the House plan would go to taxpayers making $50,000 or less (which about half of all taxpayers). In contrast, millionaires, the richest 0.3 percent of the population, receive more than a fifth of the cuts.
Even worse, unlike for companies, all the tax cuts for the working class disappear after 10 years.
Steven Pressman is Professor of Economics at Colorado State University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


In the latest in a series of embarrassments for provocateur James O’Keefe, he and his nonprofit Project Veritas were exposed in an attempted sting operation. The group gave a false story about embattled Alabama U.S. Senate candidate Roy Moore to the Washington Post — the news organization that first published corroborated stories of the Senate candidate’s alleged sex abuse of minors — and hoped the paper would run with it. Instead, the Post  disclosed Project Veritas’ attempt to discredit the paper.
Despite the Washington Post humiliation and other recent flops, O’Keefe is doing pretty well for himself. He is president of Project Veritas, which takes in millions in anonymous donations each year, and as of 2016 his annual salary was nearly $320,000. But the work that he and his organization engage in — attempts to make mainstream journalists and liberal organizations incriminate themselves — consistently fails to achieve O’Keefe’s goals.
Why, then, does the money keep coming in, and, in fact, increase every year? Project Veritas is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, so it’s not required to disclose its donors, but by consulting other nonprofit organizations’ tax forms it’s possible to identify some of the group’s donors. An International Business Times review of publicly available 990 tax records and data compiled by Conservative Transparency found that Project Veritas gets much of its funding from two connected nonprofits that act as “pass-through” vehicles for conservative millionaires and billionaires who wish to dissociate their names from the organizations they fund.
Donors Trust, and to a lesser extent Donors Capital Fund, have provided Project Veritas with millions of dollars since its founding in 2010. Both groups are financed by foundations run by wealthy conservative mega-donors such as Charles and David Koch and the Bradley and Searle families.
In 2015, Donors Trust and Donors Capital Fund combined to give Project Veritas close to $1.5 million, about 40 percent of its overall revenue that year. The Knowledge and Progress Fund, a nonprofit directed by Charles Koch and other family members and close associates, gave a single, $5.2 million donation in 2015 — to Donors Trust. That year, the fund pulled in a total of $82.1 million — including $725,000 from the Searle Freedom Trust, $115,000 from the Charles Koch Foundation and $30,000 from the Bradley Foundation — and gave out $68.3 million in grants.
In 2016, the Charles Koch Foundation stepped up its funding of Donors Trust significantly, donating over $700,000. 2016 tax records for many major conservative foundations including Donors Trust are not yet publicly available.  Donors Trust funders also include the Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation (the in-laws of current Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos), the Philanthropy Roundtable and the John William Pope Foundation.
From 2011 to 2015, the sister groups gave Project Veritas over $2.5 million, IBT found. Per IBT’s research, other Project Veritas donors include Dunn’s Foundation for the Advancement of Right Thinking ($100,000 from 2013 to 2014), the National Christian Charitable Foundation ($7,350 from 2013 to 2015) and the Robert S. and Star Pepper Foundation ($5,000 in 2011).
Another prominent donor to Project Veritas is the foundation of now-President Donald Trump, which gave Project Veritas  $20,000 in 2015. Alleged funder of Project Veritas, Eric O’Keefe (no relation to James O’Keefe), a Koch and Scott Walker ally,  reportedly gave the group $50,000 in 2013, although he denied doing so when asked by the Center for Media and Democracy. And before O’Keefe established Project Veritas, PayPal co-founder and  Trump campaign donor Peter Thiel reportedly gave O’Keefe  between $10,000 and $30,000 to produce a video in which he mocked people of color by leading them to believe they had won a lottery.
Billionaire Charles Koch is head of Koch Industries, which he runs with his younger brother, David. The Kochs are some of the wealthiest people in the world, and they spend large amounts of their money on conservative politics and free-market academic programs. Photo: Getty Images/Bo Rader/Wichita Eagle/MCT
‘Donor-Advised Funds’ With Strong Koch Ties
A 2013  article by Paul Abowd at the Center for Public Integrity explains that at Donors Trust, a “donor-advised fund,” funders can open individual accounts, and the trust gives donors “an extra level of control over where their money ends up.” Founded in 1999, Donors Trust has pumped hundreds of millions of dollars into a stream of conservative nonprofits such as the Heartland Institute, the American Legislative Exchange Council, the American Enterprise Institute, George Mason University’s free-market think tanks the Mercatus Center and the Institute for Humane Studies — to which Koch foundations have also given heavily — and the Kochs’ Americans for Prosperity Foundation.
According to its website, the Donors Trust  board of directors includes leaders of some of its donor foundations. Chair of the board Kimberly Dennis is the president and CEO of the Searle Freedom Trust, and Vice Chair James Piereson is president of the William E. Simon Foundation and was previously executive director of the John M. Olin Foundation. Another board member, Thomas Beach, is chairman of two key conservative think tanks, the Reason Foundation and the Property and Environmental Research Center.
The Donors Trust  staff includes past Koch associates. President and CEO Lawson Bader was vice president of the Koch-funded Mercatus Center; Director of Growth Strategies Peter Lipsett previously worked for the Charles Koch Foundation and Koch Industries; and Marketing Assistant Lydia Pitea joined Donors Trust “as a participant in the Koch Associate Program.”
Rising Revenue
As The Hill’s Will Sommer  documented on Twitter, O’Keefe and Project Veritas have frequently undermined their own goals and their credibility since they began operating. The humiliation began in 2010, when an attempted sting of Louisiana Democratic Sen. Mary Landrieu backfired and O’Keefe ended up with a misdemeanor conviction. More recently, in 2016, O’Keefe attempted to scam George Soros’ Open Society Foundations but blew his cover when he forgot to hang up the phone with a target, proceeding to map out his string operation before ending the call.
Nevertheless, both Project Veritas’ revenue and O’Keefe’s salary have steadily increased over the years, as The Daily Beast’s Lachlan Markay  noted on Twitter. In 2012, revenue was roughly $740,000; in 2016, that figure was more than six times higher at nearly $4.9 million. While O’Keefe made  $56,000 as the group’s president in 2012, his salary exploded to  $235,000 in 2015 and then roughly $318,000 in 2016.


President Donald Trump’s namesake company is selling a new line of Trump-branded items this month and several of them are made outside the U.S., according to a new report by the Daily Beast.
The Trump Organization, which Trump still owns, is selling a $32 golf hat made in Bangladesh and a $25 faux gold bar piggybank that made in China. On the Trump website, it said that the hat is “decorated in the USA.”
The company is run by the president’s two sons Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump.
The president has long advocated putting America first and made it a key piece of his presidential campaign and presidency. Trump has also complained about places like China and Mexico stealing jobs away from the U.S. and the importance of manufacturing in the U.S.
“Even though he’s taken some steps to separate himself from his business, we know that he can still receive reports about the Trump Organization and that he can directly profit from the sale of those goods,” said Larry Noble of the Campaign Legal Center, a Washington D.C.-based ethics watchdog to the Daily Beast.
Before becoming president, Trump built his business empire on real estate — namely hotels, luxury condos and golf courses. The company then spun that success into a name licensing business and a reality television show starring Trump called “The Apprentice.”
Trump has taken heat for not following in the footsteps of previous presidents by walking away from his business empire. Issues like foreign dignitaries choosing to stay at Trump’s Washington D.C. hotel may be a conflict of interest for the president.
But being President may also be costing Trump money. An investigation by the Telegraph showed that room rates have fallen at many Trump resorts, some by as much as 67 percent. Earlier this month, the Trump Organization reached a deal to get out of its SoHo hotel in New York City. It was also discovered earlier this month that company is worth far less than they have stated in the past.
Trump's company is selling a hat made in Bangladesh.  Photo: Trump Organization


Update: A federal judge denied a request for an emergency restraining order from Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) deputy director Leandra English on Monday. The order would have kept Mick Mulvaney from serving as the active director of the CFPB. Judge Timothy Kelly made the ruling, just two months after joining the federal bench as an appointee of President Donald Trump. 
Original story: 
Demonstrators gathered outside the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) in Washington D.C.  Wednesday to protest President Trump’s decision to appoint White House budget director Mick Mulvaney to director of the agency. Critics of Mulvaney’s appointment, including Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-MA, who attended the rally, argue that legally, the deputy director automatically takes over if the director leaves, so that deputy director Leandra English is the agency's rightful chief. The procedural issue has become so contentious because Mulvaney opponents fear he’s aligned with the financial services industry, which is vigorously opposed to new CFPB rules governing payday lending the agency instituted last month. 
The CFPB was formed to protect consumers as part of the wide-ranging Dodd-Frank legislation that implemented new regulations on Wall Street after the financial crisis. One of the industries the CFPB has sought to protect consumers from is the payday loan industry, whose members issue short term loans to consumers  at exorbitant interest rates. Mulvaney’s record with the industry, including his comments at a 2014 Congressional hearing, shows a concern for lenders often described as predatory.
As a Congressman, Mulvaney  accepted $55,500 in contributions from payday lenders during his four successful runs for Congress, including $26,600 during the 2016 election cycle,  according to the National Institute on Money in State Politics. Before he was tapped to lead President Donald Trump’s Office of Budget Management, Mulvaney took $115,200 from the securities and investment industry, and another $96,564 from the insurance industry in the 2016 cycle, both more than any other industry, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. This record, along with comments Mulvaney made indicating he  would shutter the agency if given the opportunity, has led critics to question whether Mulvaney’s priority will be consumers — or the companies the agency is responsible for regulating.
In a 2014 hearing, then congressman Mulvaney submitted on-the-record comments for CFPB director Richard Cordray, who recently resigned to run for governor of Ohio as a Democrat. Prefacing a question to Cordray on “payday loans” and “certain types of installment loans,” Mulvaney’s comments suggest a deference to payday lenders.
“I share your understanding that small-dollar lending serves an important function for many borrowers, especially those who may not utilize traditional banking services, and hope the Bureau will work to ensure the continued viability and availability of these products,” Mulvaney said.
Citing a Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank working paper on payday lenders, Mulvaney also asked Cordray how the CFPB would "ensure that there is a balance between strong consumer protection and creditor rights?"
The comments came just two months before a  CFPB report found four out of five payday loans are rolled over or renewed after two weeks, and that the majority of payday loans are renewed so many times that borrowers pay more in fees than the loan was originally worth.
“We are concerned that too many borrowers slide into the debt traps that payday loans can become,” said Cordray at the time.
Payday lenders appear to want Mulvaney to lead the CFPB. The Intercept reported Monday that the Office of Legal Counsel memo arguing for the legality of installing Mulvaney as acting director was written by Steve A. Engel, an attorney who represented a Canadian payday lender before the CFPB in 2015. Engel was one of two lead counsels defending NDG Financial against charges that the company ran a nine-year scheme to illegally offer U.S. customer high-cost loans. The case is still active in federal court.
Although Mulvaney's political views make him naturally inclined toward deregulation — he was a member of the Republican Freedom Caucus — geography may play a part in his concern for payday lenders. The South Carolina congressional district he represented from 2011 to 2017 is located just a 30-minute drive from the national headquarters of Advance America, the "largest non-bank provider of cash advance services in the United States" according to SEC filings. 
At least two of Mulvaney’s former staffers have left government jobs and now represent companies that offer consumer financial products.  As International Business Times first reported Monday, Mulvaney’s longtime staffer and former chief of staff Natalee Binkholder left his office this year to become a registered lobbyist for Santander Bank, which agreed to pay a $10 million fine to the CFPB in 2016 for “illegal overdraft service practices,” and is currently under a  consent order from the agency, which Mulvaney will be responsible for enforcing. Last week,  Reuters reported that the CFPB was preparing to sue the bank over its auto loan practices. In 2015, Santander  came to an agreement with the Massachusetts attorney general to pay $5.4 million for charging excessive interest rates on its subprime auto loans.

Greg Thomas, another former Mulvaney staffer, is now a lobbyist for Primerica Life Insurance Company. In 2015, Sen. Warren dressed down the company’s CEO Peter Schneider during a Senate hearing over the company’s decision to encourage workers near retirement age to move their money from government pensions to risky investment vehicles.


Conservative campus group Turning Point USA is opposed to “safe spaces” — except when it comes to the generosity of its donors. Charlie Kirk, the group’s 24-year-old founder, has claimed his organization has campus chapters at 1,000 colleges and universities and raised more than $5 million in 2016. Earlier this year,  leaked records  revealed TPUSA efforts to secretly funnel thousands of dollars into multiple college student government elections to elect conservatives.
The sources of much of that money have been a mystery, and how much some known sources give is still unknown. “To answer your question, no I will not disclose private giving amounts,” Kirk told International Business Times in an email. “Some people like the amount of their charitable giving to remain anonymous so we wish to honor that request.”
As a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, TPUSA is not required to disclose its donors. But based on public tax records and some reporting by other outlets, IBT has identified the sources of over $900,000 in funding for TPUSA. Republican mega-donor families, GOP politicians and other wealthy individuals have provided large amounts of money so the organization can spread free-market principles — from which the donors benefit — among young people, the majority of whom, overall,  lean  liberal.
The group’s motto is “Big Government Sucks”; its  mission, “to identify, educate, train, and organize students to promote the principles of freedom, free markets, and limited government.” TPUSA recruits “free market activists,” creates “innovative grassroots messaging,” puts out publications and hosts conferences.
“We are proud to fight for free markets and smaller government, both of which are ideas that are resonating extremely well to our target demographic of 18-24 year olds,” Kirk told IBT.
Working to appeal to millennials, TPUSA is funded by a substantial number of older, wealthy individuals whose economic views the group promotes. IBT identified 17 donors to TPUSA, including nine from publicly available Internal Revenue Service records. The documented donations came mostly in 2014 and 2015, as tax records from many of the foundational donors are not yet available for 2016.
Wealthy Conservatives Bankroll TPUSA
Some of the biggest donations came from rich families in the Chicago area, where TPUSA is based.
From 2014 to 2016, the Ed Uihlein Foundation gave TPUSA $275,000, including $175,000 in 2016. Richard Uihlein, the founder of a lucrative shipping business and president of this foundation named after his father, is a Republican mega-donor and a “free-markets, smaller-government crusader” from the Chicago area. He and his wife, Elizabeth, spent  $23.7 million on politics during the 2016 election cycle, the ninth-highest total in the country, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Richard Uihlein made 6- and 7-figure donations to many independent political spending groups including the Unintimidated PAC, which supported Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker; the Tea Party Patriots Citizens Fund; and Club For Growth Action. Uihlein is America’s  top donor to outside spending groups in the current election cycle.
Republican gubernatorial candidate Bruce Rauner declares victory during his election night gathering while incumbent Democratic Gov. Pat Quinn is yet to concede on November 4, 2014 in Chicago, Illinois. Photo: John Gress/Getty Images
The family foundation of Republican Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner, a former private equity executive worth an estimated  $500 million, gave TPUSA $150,000 from 2014 to 2015, according to tax records. Uihlein spent nearly  $3 million in 2014 to help elect Rauner. The governor, with help from his wealthy friends, is trying to  remake Illinois into a conservative-dominated state.
The family foundation of healthcare products company CEO  Vince Foglia and his wife Pat, based in the Chicago area, donated $210,000 to TPUSA from 2013 to 2014. Foglia is a frequent  donor to Republican campaigns, including  $55,000 to Rauner in 2014 and donations to former Illinois Rep.  Joe Walsh, who is a member of the TPUSA advisory council.
In 2015, Home Depot co-founder Bernie Marcus’ foundation donated $72,600 to TPUSA. Marcus is a major GOP donor, having given  $5 million to the pro-Trump super PAC Rebuilding America Now and millions more to spending groups affiliated with the Republican House and Senate during the 2016 cycle.
TPUSA advisory council member  Gary Rabine, an Illinois-based roofing and paving CEO, is a donor, Kirk told IBT.
Other GOP mega-donors to the group include the Henry and Lynde Bradley Foundation ($20,000 from 2015 to 2016), the Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation, named after the in-laws of current Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos ($10,000 in 2015), and Foster Friess, a Wyoming-based investment manager known for his  2012 comments about “gals” putting aspirin “between their knees” as a mode of contraception. Former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon has encouraged Freiss to run for U.S. Senate. IBT did not find public records of Friess’ donations, but Bloomberg  reported that  Freiss, who is on TPUSA’s advisory council, gave Kirk a “five-figure check.” Freiss made least  $3.4 million in contributions in federal political races since the 2012 election cycle, according to Buzzfeed News.
Other donors identified by IBT include:
According to a  book co-authored by Kirk, TPUSA has also received unknown amounts of money from Montana Congressman Greg Gianforte, who is known for assaulting a reporter during a campaign event this year; Allie and Lee Hanley (Allie Hanley is a TPUSA adviser, and Lee Hanley is deceased); Tom Patrick; and the late Jack Roeser.
Kirk would not disclose amounts but told IBT that most members of the  TPUSA advisory council “are financially supportive on a varying degree of support.” While IBT did not discover records of contributions from TPUSA advisory council member Doug Deason, a big donor to Republican candidates whose  father is worth $1.3 billion, he is likely an important donor to TPUSA.
Tomi Lahren (L) and Charlie Kirk at Politicon at Pasadena Convention Center on July 29, 2017 in Pasadena, California. Kirk is the founder of Turning Point USA, and Lahren, a Fox News contributor, will speak at the group's December seminar. Photo: John Sciulli/Getty Images
Event Sponsors Add To List Of TPUSA Supporters
In addition to traditional funders, TPUSA has a host of event sponsors, many of which are key organizations in the right-wing advocacy movement such as the conservative public policy think tank Heritage Foundation, the nonprofit Christian law firm Alliance Defending Freedom and the libertarian think tank the Reason Foundation. Kirk said event sponsors typically top out at $5,000-$10,000. 
“Most of the speakers we bring to campus are paid for by Turning Point USA but we do [have] several partnerships throughout the year with select organizations,” said Kirk. The Foundation for Economic Education provided its CEO Larry Reed to “speak on free markets and the purpose of limited government” at a TPUSA-sponsored  event in April at the University of Colorado at Boulder. FEE is a  recipient of donations from the Charles Koch Foundation and from TPUSA donor Dunn’s Foundation for the Advancement of Right Thinking.
Just a few weeks ago, Dennis Prager — CEO of digital media organization PragerU, a TPUSA  sponsor — spoke at a TPUSA  event at the University of Wyoming. Kirk says it was a “packed house,” but students came out to protest as well, upset at potential “hateful rhetoric” and the fact that student fees covered the event’s $10,000 price tag.
Another TPUSA sponsor, the National Rifle Association, visits TPUSA campus events to “speak about the constitution,” said Kirk. In October, the NRA participated in an  event at the University of Arizona.
Sponsors of TPUSA’s recent Western Regional Conference, which featured speakers including former Breitbart writer Ben Shapiro and Benny Johnson, now a Daily Caller reporter known for his previous plagiarizing, include nonprofits to which TPUSA funders also donate. They include the Heritage Foundation, the Job Creators Network, the Leadership Institute and Alliance Defending Freedom, which the Southern Poverty Law Center has labeled an  anti-LGBTQ hate group.
TPUSA’s upcoming  Student Action Summit in December has additional sponsors including the Reason Foundation, the Koch-connected Generation Opportunity Institute and the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education. Most featured speakers listed on the event page are either Trump insiders, Fox News employees, or both; speakers include Donald Trump Jr., former White House chief strategist  Steve Bannon, former White House press secretary Anthony Scaramucci, former Trump White House adviser and current Fox News “national security strategist" Sebastian Gorka, Fox & Friends host Brian Kilmeade, Fox News host Greg Gutfield, Fox News host Jeanine Pirro, Fox News contributor and  pro-Trump nonprofit employee Tomi Lahren, Fox News host Jesse Waters and Fox News contributor Guy Benson. Some speakers listed on the event page and other not listed are not affiliated with Fox or the Trump administration, Kirk said.
The events are being held in West Palm Beach, Florida, the town that is home to Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort, but Kirk says his summit will take place at the Palm Beach Convention Center. Kirk said that “one of our supporters is thinking of hosting a small dinner early that week at Mar-a-Lago, but nothing [is] finalized and not officially part of [the Student Action Summit],” and that he could end up attending the dinner.
In addition to sponsoring events, the Heritage Foundation provides pocket constitutions to TPUSA students, said Kirk. Heritage is one of the most influential conservative think tanks in America, and its healthy  funding comes from the likes of TPUSA donors the DeVos Foundation and Dunn’s Foundation, as well as from multiple Koch family foundations.
Controversial Moves
TPUSA has had its fair share of controversy over the last several years.
On Nov. 15, journalist Adam Weinstein reacted on Twitter to a  meme generated by the group with the heading, “Socialism Hurts Everyone.”
Socialism Hurts Everyone #SocialismSucks pic.twitter.com/8C3yeOetnM
— Turning Point USA (@TPUSA) November 15, 2017
The best grift in America is convincing rich old-man conservatives to give you their money so you can “reach” young people with a rich old-man message https://t.co/WJUpg7BFXo
— Adam Weinstein (@AdamWeinstein) November 15, 2017
TPUSA’s twitter account came back with an  alarming reply, writing, “The best ‘grift’ this morning is having a guy named Weinstein criticize young people for wanting fewer hands in their pockets. Too good.”
Turning Point USA responded to a tweet by journalist Adam Weinstein on Nov. 15, 2017. The reply is now deleted. Photo: Twitter
After enormous criticism, TPUSA deleted the tweet and issued an  apology, saying the tweet was in “poor taste” and was meant to be a Harvey Weinstein joke and not anti-Semitic.
The organization has invited former Breitbart News editor and right-wing provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos to  college  campuses. During an appearance at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Yiannopoulos  targeted a transgender student.
In November 2016, the group launched a “Professor Watchlist,” which lists professors who allegedly “advance a radical agenda in lecture halls.” Media Matters  found that most of the alleged incident reports on the various academics cited by TPUSA came from conservative activist groups such as the Leadership Institute (which is a  partner of TPUSA and receives donations from TPUSA donors such as the Ed Uihlein Foundation), heavily biased sources such as The College Fix and discredited sources such as the David Horowitz Freedom Center and Project Veritas, which was revealed on Monday to have botched a sting operation targeting the Washington Post. Some have compared the watchlist to a Cold War-era, anti-Communist McCarthyism.
As part of its student activism efforts, TPUSA chapters sometime demonstrate against liberals on campus. One recent demonstration in which a Kent State student wore a diaper and played with toys in a public, outdoor area ended up causing much of the social media world to ridicule TPUSA.
Safe spaces are for children. pic.twitter.com/OSsETyDbC4
— TPUSA at Kent State (@TPUSAatKent) October 19, 2017
As a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, TPUSA is not allowed to engage in direct political advocacy, and the organization has not done so, according to Kirk. But its funding by major Republican donors and close ties to the White House project the image of a partisan organization.
Kirk, a former contributor to Breitbart News, the online platform of the racist alt-right, is an ally of the Trump administration. He worked for the Trump campaign in 2016 and spoke at the Republican National Convention that year. Kirk has appeared on Fox News alongside members of the Trump family.
Two members of the TPUSA advisory council, investor  Gentry Beach and  Thomas Hicks, Jr., the son of a Dallas billionaire, worked with Trump’s sons Donald Jr. and Eric to establish a Texas nonprofit to sell access to the president to big donors during inauguration festivities in January. Beach and Hicks, who were both national vice chairmen of the Trump campaign,  raised millions of dollars for the campaign. Beach has visited the White House multiple times in 2017.
Beach’s father, Gary, was  indicted on five charges of bankruptcy fraud in 2016. Charlie Kirk's father is allegedly  Robert W. Kirk, the project architect manager for Trump Tower in New York City.
“We stay totally removed from restricted political activity,” said Kirk. “Instead, we focus on starting chapters, hosting debates on campus, planning training seminars, and hosting national training conferences such as our upcoming one in Palm Beach in December.”
The organization has over 100 people on staff, and the highest salary is $70,000. “Considering the size of our budget and organization that is something that is not typical with non profits in today’s time,” said Kirk.
Controversy aside, Kirk says that the last year has been “amazingly successful.” TPUSA chartered over 350 new chapters and expects over 2,000 students at its December summit in Florida, said Kirk. “We are proud to have the support of thousands of grassroots Americans that want to see the next generation more understanding of the ideas of free enterprise and smaller government.”


In one of the clearest examples of the revolving door between government and lobbying firms in recent years, Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper’s office announced Monday his chief of staff is leaving the position to return to his previous job at a lobbying firm hired by the governor's office earlier this year.
In 2015, Hickenlooper, a Democrat, hired attorney Doug Friednash to oversee his staff. Friednash came to the governor's office straight from lobbying powerhouse Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck (BHFS). According to a  bio page on the governor’s website, Friednash was a shareholder at the firm, which has seen its revenues and influence grow dramatically over the last decade.
BHFS made $13 million in 2007, nearly doubling to $25 million in 2015 and $20 million through three quarters of 2017, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. In its list of D.C.'s top lobbying firms in 2017,  The Hill said BHFS “has rocketed into the stratosphere” by growing revenue and adding clients. One of those clients is Hickenlooper’s office.
In February, two years after Friednash started working for Hickenlooper, the  governor’s office hired Friednash’s former firm to lobby for the state in the nation’s capital at a cost of $210,000 a year, or $17,500 a month. Federal lobbying records show BHFS lobbied Congress and a variety of executive agencies on fiscal year 2017 and 2018 appropriations as well as “issues related to federal funding for national service programs” and “issues related to health care.”

The contract between the governor's office and BHFS, signed by the governor February 24, said Lt. Gov. Donna Lynne and Friednash would “serve as the primary points of contact for the Office.” Lynne, who is running for governor in 2018, was an executive at Kaiser Foundation Health Plan before she was tapped to join the Hickenlooper administration last year. 
Online lobbying records show no other instances in which the Colorado governor’s office hired a lobbying firm. The governor’s office confirmed to International Business Times that the current administration has never hired any other lobbying firm.
On Monday, the governor’s office and  BHFS announced Friednash would be rejoining his former firm on January 2 of next year and will chair a new political strategies practice group.
Democratic congressman Jared Polis, a candidate for Colorado governor, responded to the news on Twitter, saying, “I think the revolving door of politics is terrible.”

Jacque Montgomery, the governor’s press secretary, said BHFS was hired to help Colorado build relationships with the Donald Trump administration and noted BHFS was the only federally registered lobbying firm with an office in Denver.  
In an August email responding to initial IBT questions about the firm, Montgomery said: “Our office hired a lobbying firm after the new administration came in, anticipating that we would need to build key relationships with the new administration.
“We recognized we would be navigating possible changes in the federal approach to issues of importance to states including energy policy, health care, marijuana and the environment to name a few. We wanted to ensure Colorado had a voice as these issues were discussed.”
Monday, the governor’s office declined to comment on Friednash, his new job or when Friednash received a job offer from BHFS. The office also declined to make Friednash available for comment. When asked if Friednash was behind the decision to hire BHFS, Montgomery told IBT: “As you know, the decision to hire the firm was to help build relationships with the new administration.”  
BHFS did not answer specific questions sent to the firm's press office, but a spokeswoman did say the firm would not be renewing its current contract with the governor's office.
"As part of Doug’s transition to private practice, Brownstein, together with Governor Hickenlooper and Doug, have mutually agreed that Brownstein will not seek to renew its federal lobbying contract when the terms end on February 1, 2018," Lara Day, chief culture and communication officer at BHFS, told IBT in an email. 
Pat Meyers, a veteran of restaurant chains Quiznos and Smashburger, will replace Friednash as Hickenlooper’s chief of staff. Next year, Colorado voters will decide who will replace the term-limited Hickenlooper, who has been mentioned as a possible 2020 presidential candidate. 
This story was updated to include comment from BHFS. 


Mumbai International Airport set a record for the busiest single runway airport in a 24-hour period Friday, according to the Times of India, the airport handled 969 take-offs and landings.
The Mumbai metropolitan area is home to more than 21 million people and is the second largest metropolitan area in India. Despite its gigantic population Mumbai’s airport only operates as a single runway airport. Technically it has two rnways, but they crisscross, so only one can be operated by one at any given time. This quirk of technically being a single runway airport puts Mumbai in the same category as smaller cities and secondary airports to larger cities such as ones in San Diego and Xiamen, China.
Mumbai beat its own previous record of 935 arrivals and departures, according to an airport spokesperson. Mumbai regularly handles over 900 flights per day and hopes to eventually hit 1,000 flights. The record was helped set by unscheduled charter and private flights. These take-offs are banned during peak hours in the morning and evening — but a spike in off-peak take offs helped the Friday record.
The lack of free land in Mumbai coupled with an increased demand for air travel means that the airport has to squeeze the most use it can out of its one runway. The runway has a stated capacity of 46 flights per hour, but twice on Friday, the airport hit 50 flights in an hour. Between 5:30 am local time on Friday and 5:30 am on Saturday the airport averaged just over 40 flights an hour, which meant an arrival or departure every 90 seconds.
Indian air carriers flew around 100 million domestic passengers in 2016, but 97 percent of India’s 1.3 billion people have never been on a flight, according to Bloomberg Sunday.
India is slated to be the third largest flight market in the world by 2025, according to International Airport Review, meaning it will surpass the United Kingdom and settle in behind the U.S. and China.
An Indian-operated SpiceJet Boeing 737-800 aircraft (foreground) takes off as a British Airways Boeing 747-400 aircraft (background) sits on the tarmac at the international airport in Mumbai on October 1, 2009. Photo: Indranil Mukherjee/AFP/GETTY
 


After spending big bucks at big box retailers during Thanksgiving and Black Friday sales, consumers have turned their attention to the other side of retail for Small Business Saturday, a day which encourages shopping at the more local and small-scale mom and pop stores in cities.
The big shopping day, which is sponsored by American Express, encourages shoppers to avoid the more recognizable stores in favor of the ones owned by their neighbors and other members of their local communities. The idea is to give back to the community through the event, by streaming revenue back into it, instead of into the pockets of the corporations that own the bigger chain stores.
While Black Friday and Thanksgiving, as well as Cyber Monday, are all big shopping days that see huge revenue for stores and consumers spending billions of their hard-earned money, Small Business Saturday is also projected to be a successful shopping day, with billions expected to be spent after 2016 saw as many as 112 million customers reportedly shopping at independently-owned businesses and spending more than $15 billion.
While all consumers may know of businesses they would love to frequent in their towns for the day, some places are also potentially going to be better in terms of the atmosphere that small businesses can provide. In a recent study conducted by Thumbtack.com, several cities were rated based on how small-business friendly they were, with Boise, Idaho, Worcester, Massachusetts, San Antonio, Austin, Texas, Grand Rapids, Michigan, Memphis, Tennessee, Louisville, Kentucky, Lawrence, Massachusetts, Salt Lake City and Houston all ranked as being the friendliest to small business owners.
Of course, small mom-and-pop brick and mortar retail shops aren't the only ones who are expected to benefit on Small Business Saturday. The movement also encourages consumers with plans to eat out to Dine Small as well, and take their patronage to local restaurants instead of chains.
In addition, there is some focus online as well. Similarly to Black Friday, where online sales have increased greatly over the years, small shops are also popping up online, specifically with stores in places like Etsy.
According to CNBC, Etsy sellers have been prepping for months in the hopes that they will see big sales throughout Small Business Saturday. This is the first time that Etsy has partnered up with American Express for the event.
Several cities are participating in Small Business Saturday, Pictured, Shaquille O'Neal shops small in a promotional video for Small Business Saturday at a store in Atlanta on Oct. 24, 2017.  Photo: Daniel Shirey/Getty Images for American Express


The holiday shopping season has officially kicked off and gift-givers everywhere are seeking out some of the hottest items in the world in the hopes of scoring the most in demand items. However, those who have been hoping to score a new pair of Adidas Yeezy Boost 350 V2 "Beluga 2.0" shoes may be finding themselves out of luck as they try to get a hold of the highly coveted shoes.
The newest design in the collection, a collaboration between the sports apparel maker and rapper Kanye West, dropped on Saturday, Nov. 25, and eager shoppers everywhere have been trying to get their hands on them. However, technical issues for those trying to order them online are threatening to keep the shoes out of some shopper's carts entirely.
I just come off in the end.... you have no sign of where u are in the line, there is no update.... same page with the same circle rotating. @adidas #YEEZYSEASON
&mdash; knighty (@LeonKnight_) November 25, 2017
Thanks @adidasoriginals let’s me in, but doesn’t even let me verify the captcha page___#yeezy #YeezySeason #YEEZYBOOST #yeezysupply pic.twitter.com/ORoKkLZjeP
&mdash; Vin O_o (@VinO___o) November 25, 2017
4 websites set up at 10am on my computer, iphone and tv... still wasn&#39;t able to cop a pair of yeezy beluga 2.0, mane I hate bots and resellers ___‍♂️ #YeezySeason #IQuit
&mdash; HD (@17HugoD) November 25, 2017
I&#39;ve decided I&#39;m jumping off a bridge after being let into the website to buy the yeezys and it took me off I WANNA DIE @SlLLY @FaZeRug @theyeezymafia @FaZeRug pic.twitter.com/WWAROWMuZs
&mdash; Preavai (@Preavai) November 25, 2017
However, some others have found luck on scoring the shoes by seeking them out in stores, and while some may want to avoid the malls and stores in general, there may be several options for those brave enough to trek outside and away from the computer. While many are focusing on online orders and raffles, other retailers who are offering them may still have them in stock in stores. According to Sole Collector, a number of Adidas stores were set to carry the shoes, including U.S. locations in Atlanta, New York, Chicago, Houston, Las Vegas, Los Angeles and more.
Of course, a big focus on the shoes remains online, with raffles to access a pair from several footwear outlets. Most of these raffles seem to have already ended, however, Shoe Palace still has one going which will allow eager consumers to enter for one last chance to get the shoes.
According to that website, the raffle will be open until Monday, Nov. 27, and only those who win the raffle will be allowed to purchase the shoes.
"Winners will be contacted via email on how to purchase. Raffle starts Monday, Nov. 20th at 6:00AM PST and closes Monday, Nov. 27 at 12:00 AM PST. Winners will be notified by email on Tuesday, Nov. 28th after 12 p.m. PST," the website reads.
These shoes are the second release from the Yeezy collection in the last week. The Yeezy Boost "Semi-Frozen Yellow" shoes were released on Nov. 18.
There are still ways to get the newest Yeezy shoes. Pictured are models wearing Yeezy Boost shoes during the Kanye West Yeezy Season 3 show in New York on Feb. 11, 2016.  Photo: JP Yim/Getty Images for Yeezy Season 3


The figure behind the Wendy’s social media machine has once again shown their internet prowess with a hit on rival fast-food McDonald's. Wendy’s went after the purveyor of the Big Mac in a hilarious Friday tweet.
“Black Friday ***** Need copy and link *****,” McDonald's tweeted Friday in what can only be assumed was an accidental post.
Wendy’s quickly took advantage of the social media mishap.
“When the tweets are as broken as the ice cream machine,” Wendy’s wrote in a retweet.

Wendy’s has been cultivating a hilarious social media presence in recent years, particularly in response to McDonald's. When McDonald's announced in March it would start using fresh beef in its Quarter Pounders at the “majority” of its restaurants, Wendy’s once again went in.
“So you’ll still use frozen beef in MOST of your burgers in ALL of your restaurants?” Wendy’s wrote back. “Asking for a friend.”
Wendy’s also trolled McDonald's in October after the Golden Arches brought “Rick and Morty’s” Szechuan sauce to its restaurants but quickly ran out of supply. Wendy’s responded to numerous tweets from users about McDonald’s sauce by roasting its competitor.
“@Wendys how can you top McDonalds Szechuan Sauce?” one user wrote.
“We’ll start by actually having our sauce,” Wendy’s replied.
Wendy’s has been lauded for its cunning on social media - and it apparently knows its strengths.
“We like our tweets the same way we like our hamburgers,” the company’s Twitter bio reads. “Better than anyone expects from a fast food joint.” 
It’s safe to say Wendy’s won't be ending its Twitter war on McDonald’s anytime soon.



Following  a major investigation that found flaws in YouTube ability to flag predatory content in the comments section of children's videos, several companies are pulling their ads from YouTube.
Mars, Cadbury, Deutsche Bank, Lidl and others have either suspended or pulled their ads until the problem is resolved. “We are shocked and appalled to see that our adverts have appeared alongside such exploitative and inappropriate content,” a spokesperson from Mars said. “We have taken the decision to immediately suspend all our online advertising on YouTube and Google globally. Until we have confidence that appropriate safeguards are in place, we will not advertise on YouTube and Google.”
According to a statement  provided to the Guardian, Lidl is suspending its ads from YouTube as well. “It is completely unacceptable that this content is available to view and it is, therefore, clear that the strict policies which Google has assured us were in place to tackle offensive content are ineffective. We have suspended all of our YouTube advertising with immediate effect.”
Some companies, like Adidas, said they were aware of the issues but did not announce a YouTube ad suspension. “We recognize that this situation is clearly unacceptable and have taken immediate action, working closely with Google on all necessary steps to prevent this from happening again,”  Adidas said.
According to the BBC report the problem stemmed from flags comments not being associated with a correct video. Sources told the BBC that moderators could see if an account had been flagged but not the specific comment or video that led to the report.  There could be upwards of “at least 50,000 active predators” on YouTube today, the BBC reports.
The comments could range from suggestions to outright obscene. Comments like "oh baby," "nice sexy" and even "please can you get completely naked" were comments found on videos children posted to YouTube.
This week YouTube announced it was 'toughening' its approach to 'protect families' on its service. "In recent months, we've noticed a growing trend around content on YouTube that attempts to pass as family-friendly, but is clearly not,”  YouTube said in a statement. “While some of these videos may be suitable for adults, others are completely unacceptable, so we are working to remove them from YouTube.”
New YouTube comment protections include:
Tougher application of our Community Guidelines and faster enforcement through technology
Removing ads from inappropriate videos targeting families
Blocking inappropriate comments on videos featuring minors
Providing guidance for creators who make family-friendly content
Engaging and learning from experts
You can read YouTube’s full strategy to combat predatory YouTube comments  here.
“Across the board we have scaled up resources to ensure that thousands of people are working around the clock to monitor, review and make the right decisions across our ads and content policies,” Johanna Wright, Vice President of Product Management at YouTube said in a statement. “These latest enforcement changes will take shape over the weeks and months ahead as we work to tackle this evolving challenge. We’re wholly committed to addressing these issues and will continue to invest the engineering and human resources needed to get it right. As a parent and as a leader in this organization, I’m determined that we do.”


South Korean authorities reportedly raided Apple’s office in Seoul earlier this week, just ahead of the launch of the company's 2017 flagship — the iPhone X.
While both Apple and South Korean authorities are silent on the reason for the raids, a report in Metro.UK on Thursday said it was done with regard to Apple’s business practices in the country.
According to both Metro and Apple Insider, the timing of the raid is conspicuous and could have been done to hamper the success of the iPhone X, which is launching in the country on Friday.
South Korea is the home ground of Apple’s biggest rival — Samsung. While Samsung’s flagships for the year — Samsung Galaxy S8 and Note 8 — have done well in terms of sales, the iPhone X has definitely outperformed them globally. Apple's devices are also fast catching up to Samsung's offerings in South Korea itself. 
An investigation was launched last year into Apple’s business dealings will local carriers with the South Korean Free Trade Commission. The South Korean FTC has been specifically looking into the company’s contract terms with local carriers, which included the carriers signing up for a specific number of iPhones, sharing a burden of the repair costs and the limitation period of an year on all repair firms for any disputes with Apple.
The circumspect timing hints at the connection between local smartphone makers and the South Korean government. Samsung and its affiliates have a deep reach in the South Korean economy — the company is responsible for one-fifth of the country’s economy.
iPhone X has been already declared sold out in South Korea since pre-order opened in the country. It has been reported that the device’s pre-orders in the country exceed 300,000 putting a huge dent in its rival’s sales. This is too close for comfort for Samsung, which has a big following in the country. Its Galaxy Note 8 received 3,95,000 pre-orders in South Korea in the first 24 hours after its launch in the country in August.
Samsung, on the other hand, has been previously accused of bribing South Korean government officials — its heir Lee Jae-Yong was arrested last year on bribery and other charges.
The South Korean government was accused in 2015 by Roger Kay, the associate president of tech company Endpoint Technologies, of running a protectionist agenda in the country. In his article in Forbes, which was published on June 22, Kay accused the South Korean FTC of giving preferential treatment to local firms in comparison to international firms.
“The KFTC [Korea Fair Trade Commission] has pretty much run amok in recent years, slapping spurious charges on foreign companies as it attempts to execute a protectionist agenda that it thinks benefits entrenched South Korean manufacturing interests,” Kay stated in his article.
Despite such issues, Apple has been steadily gaining traction in the South Korean smartphone market and currently holds a massive 33 percent market share in the country.


America’s first president without prior public sector experience has sent share prices in careening in various directions with a tweet or two, and has engulfed CEOs in glory or ignominy with insults or inclusion in his litany of advisory councils. In a nutshell, Donald Trump has put many companies and their leaders — including Uber Technologies Inc., Facebook Inc., Lockheed Martin Corp. and Boeing Co., to name a few — at risk.
A new study from researchers in the U.S. and Europe seeks to predict what those companies do in response.



Measuring firms’ political risk by examining the frequency with which executives mention political topics during their quarterly earnings conference calls, the authors found that, when corporations face threats of, say, a government shutdown or the U.K.’s exit from the European Union, they use the tools at their disposal to make their circumstances more favorable. 
Those tools include freezes on hiring and investment, but also upticks in lobbying, campaign finance and “forg[ing] links to politicians,” according to the study, which was published this week in the National Bureau of Economic Research. Perhaps more worrisome for those in favor of a government free of private sector influence, they found, was that “such active engagement in the political process is primarily concentrated among larger firms.”
The effects of political risk, according to the authors — from Boston University; Tilburg University, in the Netherlands; the Frankfurt School of Finance and Management, in Germany, and the London Business School — varied across firms that shared a sector or industry. This variation, they wrote, indicated “that the economic impact of political risk is not well described by conventional models in which individual firms have relatively stable exposures to aggregate political risk.”
Put simply, a single oil company’s reaction to tax reform or stricter environmental protection measures, for example, may differ substantially from the energy market’s response, let alone that of the private sector as a whole. And the bigger the corporation, the more effort it pours into government influence. 
The implications extend beyond the potential for private companies to pay for greater influence over policy than regular American citizens. Money spent on campaign finance and lobbying represents a “socially wasteful diversion of resources,” the authors wrote. Slowing productivity by halting hiring and investment, meanwhile, can stunt the economy, depending on the size of the firm in question or the number of companies responding to political discord.


Elon Musk, the South African inventor and founder of Tesla Inc., unveiled his company’s shiny new semi trucks and Roadster sports car last week to much fanfare, and the New York Post reported Wednesday that the firm finished construction of the world’s largest lithium ion battery as part of a multi-million-dollar contract with the South Australian government. 
But a new Bloomberg report more or less rained doom and gloom on those parades.
Taking a look at the company’s expenses over the past year, reporters Nabila Ahmed and Sally Bakewell crunched the numbers and found that Tesla burned through nearly half a million dollars per hour over that period. The automaker, they wrote, is set to run out of money by early August. 
Shares hardly budged in the wake of the Bloomberg story, falling to $312.60 by market close Wednesday, down from $317.80 just ahead of the close on Tuesday and a spike to $322.87 the morning after Musk’s big truck reveal. 
The company reported a net loss of over $773 million last year — down from close to $889 million in 2015 but more than 2.5 times 2014’s more than $294 million loss — according to its most recent annual Securities and Exchange Commission filing. Its revenues, meanwhile, spiked to over $7 billion in 2016 from $4.05 billion and $3.2 billion in 2015 and 2014, respectively.
Revenues rely mainly on auto sales, of which Musk, who is also the chairman and CEO, promised a record number for the fourth quarter of 2017. Still, that pledge came with a note that might scare Tesla shareholders: $1 billion in projected capital expenditures over the same three-month period.
Musk’s promises came in a letter to shareholders a little over a year after his 14-year-old company’s second-ever profitable quarter — and a little under a year after Tesla acquired what Musk wrote that he believes is becoming another moneymaker for the company. On Nov. 21, 2016, Tesla closed its $2.1 billion purchase of the energy company SolarCity Corp., and added hundreds of millions in energy generation and storage revenues ever since.
“Energy generation with Solar Roof will become a bigger portion of our business next year,” Musk wrote investors, citing an increase in residential solar system purchases, relative to leases, in the third quarter. “As we fine-tune and standardize the production and installation process, we expect to ramp Solar Roof production considerably in 2018.”
Although those revenues were still dwarfed by those stemming from car sales, the company has certainly turned its attention to solar on the lobbying front, spending tens of thousands of dollars lobbying Congress to pass legislation in favor its interests in solar energy policy over the past year, federal lobbying documents show.


The 91st annual parade of floats snaking down Manhattan from 77th Street and Central Park West to 7th Avenue and 34th Street has, for many, officially kicked off the holiday season Thursday morning. It also comes with a price tag.
The official costs remain a mystery, as Macy’s Inc. keeps the numbers under wraps, but estimates abound. Just filling those balloons with hundreds of thousands of cubic feet of helium — of which Macy’s is the world’s second largest consumer, after the U.S. government — costs more than half a million dollars, according to CBS. The total annual cost, including float decorations and supplies, staff salaries, costumes and property taxes, the broadcast network found, reaches a staggering $11.6 million to $13.4 million, on average, while each new balloon costs its sponsoring company close to $200,000.
Macy’s, however, reuses plenty of costumes and supplies, rather than starting from scratch each year. Regardless, those expenses represent just a roughly 2 percent dent in Macy’s profits for 2016, down to $611 million from $1.07 billion the previous year, according to the company’s annual Securities and Exchange Commission filing.
Though Macy’s net income may have dropped precipitously year-over-year — in 2014, it stood at around $1.5 billion — times aren’t as tough for the department store’s Thanksgiving Day Parade as they were in the years during World War II. The 1942, 1943 and 1944 parades were halted that year, due to a rubber shortage and the need for helium to inflate U.S. Navy blimps, according to TIME’s brief history of the annual event.
On the other hand, one thing likely driving costs upward this year is heightened security. In the wake of a terrorist attack just south of the route that killed eight people and injured 11 on Halloween this year, security measures at the event included officers wielding assault weapons and carrying radiation detectors, sanitation trucks serving as street-crossing barriers and even sharpshooters eyeing crowds for threats from nearby rooftops, according to USA Today.
In addition to the recent shooting, violence in Las Vegas and a southern Texas town, as well as the Islamic State militant group’s reported designation of the parade as an “excellent target” in the fall of 2016, may give parade-goers pause, but the New York City Police Department was sure to dispel any notion that proper safety was too costly for the city to handle.



Delayed or canceled flights are known to be an annoyance to passengers traveling on or around the holidays. But a group of travelers at the Toronto Pearson International Airport awaiting a delayed flight appeared to make the best of their situation Monday as they broke into song and dance in a series of videos that have since gone viral.
A room full of WestJet passengers awaiting boarding for a flight from Toronto to St. John’s were filmed by fellow passenger Michelle Sacrey Philpott singing folk songs such as “Sweet Forget Me Not,” “Grey Foggy Day,” and “Aunt Martha’s Sheep,” among others. Some passengers were seen dancing as well.

The videos, which were posted on Philpott’s Facebook page, have since been viewed tens of thousands of times.
“Everyone was talking about the videos when we got off the flight because so many people seen it, it was quite funny,”  Philpott told CBC of the videos.
Philpott, who was on her way to Newfoundland by way of the Canadian budget carrier,  told NTV that she’s been contacted by people thanking her for sharing the videos.
“People have been emailing me saying, ‘I’m homesick, I’m away, and this just reminds me of Newfoundland,’” Philpott said.

Sheldon Thornhill and Sean Sullivan were two of the musicians filmed respectively playing the accordion and a guitar. According to Sullivan, his playing music for passersby is a semi-regular occurrence.
“My buddy with the [accordion], Sheldon ... I’m a bit shyer than he is,” Sullivan told CBC. “Anytime we’re gathered around airports like that, he’s often taking out his accordian just out of the blue and start playing for people.”
But Thornhill described the event as a “spontaneous decision” in an  interview with CTV.
“We put smiles on their faces,” Thornhill said. “That’s what we’re all about. That’s what turns us on.”
Toronto Pearson International Airport commented on the viral videos Tuesday morning, writing, “This is what happens when a delayed flight turns into a Newfoundland kitchen party!”


The ongoing feud between President Donald Trump and Big Baller Brand entrepreneur LaVar Ball has provided free publicity for the outspoken basketball dad and his sports apparel company.
According to Apex Marketing Group, a company that examines sports profits, Big Ball Brand has gained an estimated $13.2 million in free digital and TV advertising since Trump and Ball have been exchanging grievances.
"This back and forth with Donald Trump has extended the brand awareness outside of just sports," Apex Marketing Group Eric Smallwood told Yahoo Sports Wednesday. "People who don’t follow sports are starting to get more awareness of the brand. To have that reaction from someone as high up as Trump, it has definitely helped [Ball] reach a larger audience."
Trump and Ball have been in the news since the Big Baller Brand owner seemingly downplayed Trump’s role in the release of his son LiAngelo Ball and two UCLA Bruins players who had been arrested last week for shoplifting in China. Trump, who made a two-day visit to the country, claimed he expedited the case when he asked Chinese president Xi Jinping to help.
After the president heard Ball’s comments, he took to Twitter, called the basketball dad "ungrateful" and suggested he should have "left his son in China." Ball appeared on CNN Monday night and insisted that he didn’t need to thank the president. Trump took to Twitter once again regarding the incident.
"It wasn’t the White House, it wasn’t the State Department, it wasn’t father LaVar’s so-called people on the ground in China that got his son out of a long term prison sentence — IT WAS ME. Too bad! LaVar is just a poor man’s version of Don King, but without the hair," Trump tweeted.
Since the feud, Ball has been the subject of jokes on NBC's famed comedy show "Saturday Night Live." "Late Show" host Stephen Colbert even dedicated a monologue about Ball Monday night, which has helped increase his company’s exposure, according to Bob Dorfman, executive director of San Francisco-based Baker Street Advertising.
"It’s getting Ball’s face out there to an audience that had either never heard of him or had heard of him but didn’t know a lot about him," Dorfman told Yahoo. "If exposure is half the problem, then I think it’s got to help."
Big Ball Brand was founded by LaVar Ball in 2016.  Photo: Getty Images


Some people take to the couch after a big Thanksgiving dinner, but others prefer some retail therapy. Plenty of stores will be open for business on Thursday night.
Kmart is the earliest riser with stores opening at 6 a.m. local time on Thanksgiving. Other stores will hold off until the afternoon or evening. Similarly, Walmart will be open all day, but Thanksgiving deals don’t start until 6 p.m. Meanwhile, Black Friday favorites like Best Buy and Target won’t open until 5 p.m. and 6 p.m., respectively.
Some stores, of course, do not participate in Thanksgiving sales. Costco, BJ’s Wholesale Club, TJ Maxx and Babies R Us are just a few of the major chains that will keep their doors closed on Nov. 23.
Walmart will be one of many stores open on Thanksgiving Day 2017. Photo: Robyn Beck/AFP/Getty Images
Then there are some stores that just can’t open on holidays. Maine, Massachusetts and Rhode Island shoppers have to wait until Black Friday to do their shopping. Stores in those states are closed on Thursday due to local laws.
The following stores will be open in states where it’s legal. Remember to check with your local store in advance as some locations will not participate in holiday hours.
Abercrombie & Fitch: 6 p.m. [store locator]
Belk: 4 p.m. [store locator]
Best Buy: 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. [store locator]
Big Lots: 7 a.m. to midnight [store locator]
Bon-Ton: 11 a.m. [store locator]
Boscov’s: 6 p.m. to 1 a.m. [store locator]
Cabela’s: 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. [store locator]
CVS: open, but hours vary [store locator]
Dick’s Sporting Goods: 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. [store locator]
Dollar General: 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. [store locator]
Dunham’s Sports: 4 p.m. to 1 a.m. [store locator]
Express: 6 p.m. [store locator]
Five Below: 6 p.m. to 1 a.m. [store locator]
Hollister: 6 p.m. [store locator]
JCPenney: 2 p.m. [store locator]
Kohl’s: 5 p.m. [store locator]
Kmart: 6 a.m. [store locator]
Loft: select stores open with various hours [list of holiday hours]
Macy’s: 5 p.m. [store locator]
Meijer: 6 a.m. [store locator]
Michaels: 6 p.m. to midnight [store locator]
Modell’s Sporting Goods: 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. [store locator]
Old Navy: most locations open, but hours vary [store locator]
Sears: many locations open, but hours vary [store locator]
Target: 6 p.m. [store locator]
Toys R Us: 5 p.m. [store locator]
Ulta: 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. [store locator]
Victoria’s Secret: many locations open, but hours vary [store locator]
Walgreens: Most stores open with varying hours, but pharmacies are mostly closed [store locator]
Walmart: Black Friday sales start at 6 p.m., but many will be open all day [store locator]


He was one of the Freaks and Geeks, he was the guy trying to forget Sarah Marshall, he wrote a Muppet movie, he starred on “How I Met Your Mother” and he even played David Foster Wallace. Now, in a podcast interview with International Business Times, actor Jason Segel weighs in on the Harvey Weinstein scandal consuming the entertainment industry. The Hollywood veteran said the situation exemplifies how powerful men have “a Jabba the Hutt mentality” in which they exude “a deep down, core belief that everything is purchasable.”
Subscribers can click here to listen to the full podcast interview.
IBT caught up with Segel during his tour to promote a new novel he co-authored called Otherworld. The action-adventure book explores the dark sides of virtual reality and immersive technologies. Segel tells IBT that the book should warn kids that these technologies are not “being offered to you by people who care about your well-being — they’re being offered to you by people who want to monetize your happiness.”
What follows is a lightly edited excerpt of the podcast interview.
Powerful men like Harvey Weinstein have a Jabba the Hutt mentality, says Jason Segel. Photo: Getty Images, Google Images
What prompted you to write a book about virtual reality?
I was trying the Oculus Rift at Sundance Film Festival a few years ago. They had a demo right before the consumer release, and I got put through their demo with a bunch of different scenarios. I remember I thought two things. First, I thought they've finally cracked it. There's this promise of virtual reality since we were kids, but it was always so clunky and it was at the State Fair, and you were so aware that you were wearing this weird suit. I was like, “Oh, they've done it.” It's only going to get better from here.
Then I had this thought: If your life is not a life that you're really enthused by, why would you ever leave this? If you go from working a job you don't enjoy, and an apartment you don't enjoy, to being able to put on a headset and be in a beautiful mansion and be king of your own skull-sized kingdom, as David Foster Wallace quote, why would you ever leave?
Do you think we are headed for a future where we are all plugged into virtual reality and ignoring the world around us?
I think that there are a few actual potential dead-ends to this road we're on. I think there might be some version because I've been forced to think about technology a lot in doing these books. I think there may be some version where we realize you cannot secure things digitally… Your bank account is not safe if it's all digital. Your election is not safe if it's all digital.
Pretty soon, there's always emerging technologies that they say are for film editing. Honestly, where you can replicate somebody's voice with only a 30-minute sample of them talking? You're going to be able to do it visually, too. Then everything is plausible deniability...
This virtual reality in this book is literal but it can also be used as a metaphor. We are in the middle of a “what is real?” revolution. From fake news to the Instagram life that we all present. That's virtual reality.
Our life is not all made up of perfectly staged photos of food, but that's how we present ourselves. Look how great my day was, and all of a sudden people are wondering why they feel less than [everyone else]. Because we're all comparing our insides to other people's outsides.
There is a debate about technology. On one side there are the triumphalists who say technology's going to solve all the world's problems. On the other side are those warning that technology is destroying the world. Where do you come down?
Like any complicated issue, it's a mix of all of those things. But obviously when someone is trying to sell you something, they only put out the positive aspects of it. So we were told this was going to bring us closer together. Social media's going to allow us all to engage with people we never would have the opportunity to talk to or meet.
Then at the same time I think in a lot of ways it's dehumanized us. There's a road rage phenomenon to social media, where people all of a sudden feel comfortable to say horrible things that you would never say to somebody's face in real life. What's really scary is that I think that people are becoming accustomed to that being acceptable… [It] is slowly becoming okay to say those things to people face to face.
We're seeing people clash in these terrible protest, counter protest, and people screaming at each other and so I think in a lot of ways we've become less sophisticated socially because of technology.
Jason Segel has co-authored a new novel called Otherworld, about virtual reality and immersive technologies. Photo: Mike Windle/Getty Images
What do you hope young people take away from your book?
First of all, this is a fun adventure. It's like Last Star Fighter, which are [the] kind of movies I loved. It has all of that stuff, the Matrix. I remember when I saw the Matrix I was like, “Oh, this changes everything for me.” I'll never write something adventure-wise that’s not influenced by the Matrix.
But also, what it really is about is this deep belief I have that we have to make sure not to trade in this living human interaction for this false promise of something better, because none of that is being offered to you by people who care about your well-being. They're being offered to you by people who want to monetize your happiness.
We already are so close to companies like Amazon being able to provide all of your needs. Already, I'd leave my house less…because Amazon will bring it to me. That's not a great thing. There are ways to use [technology] that are important. It's important to get out into your community and to see people. It's about finding that balance.
How do you think the Harvey Weinstein scandal will change Hollywood?
I think my first answer is okay, well obviously we can get out of the way that sexual assault and rape is a terrible thing, so let's get that out of the way as an obvious statement that everybody should accept. I think that there is another really dark issue at play in the whole scenario, which is powerful people — usually powerful men — having a deep down, core belief that everything is purchasable...including your dignity and I will find the price at any cost, and if I don't find the price, I still don't believe you and I'll take it.
It's a really deep, dark, scary point of view. I think it's rearing its ugly head and you're finding out, “Oh, powerful men seem to have that belief.” That's not a belief that I hold and I hope this moment makes everybody sort of look at that idea — that it's not all purchasable, especially dignity. You can't just take what you want.
Do you think the revelations of sexual harassment and sexual assault will make it more difficult to portray issues of gender and sexuality in comedy?
I think first of all, we'll be in a moment of everybody figuring out levels for a long time and appropriately so. We should all be thinking about these issues, thinking in a serious away. Till the dust settles, I don't think anyone should go near those issues, certainly comedically…
I think that there is a real distinction to be drawn between juvenile attitudes and predatory attitudes. Those are really distinctly different things. There are periods where men and women alike are figuring out how to interact with the opposite sex. Those talks need to be able to be had also. That's a living dynamic also, but when it switches into predatory zone, it's a different thing. It's about power.
I don't think that those interactions are very much about sex. It's a Jabba the Hutt mentality of, I'm going to own this. 


Beyonce’s hit album "Lemonade" and her "Formation" world tour helped her become the world’s richest female musician. She had a stellar year which propelled her over pop star Taylor Swift.
Forbes released their annual list of the highest-paid women in music on Monday, which had Beyonce at the No. 1 spot. Last year, the R&B singer earned $150 million from records sales and touring, according to the website. Her tour alone racked in a quarter of a billion dollars.
British singer Adele followed Beyonce at the second spot with an estimated $69 million. Her "25" album broke records in the first week of sales and it won her a Grammy Award for Album of the Year in February. She secured millions during her world tour, her first since 2011. She performed over 100 shows before she canceled her last two due to vocal issues.
"Adele’s music appeals to listeners of all ages all over the world with her undeniably powerful, emotional vocal interpretations paired with timeless songwriting and production," singer-songwriter Skylar Grey told Forbes. "No matter what genre someone generally subscribes to, it’s hard to find a music lover who doesn’t appreciate what she does."
Swift, who topped last year's list with $170 million, came in third with an estimated $44 million in earnings. Swift should see a windfall as she holds the best-selling album of the year so far with "Reputation."
Canadian legend Celine Dion claimed the fourth spot with an estimated $42 million when she returned to her Las Vegas residency in February. She took a sabbatical after her husband Rene Angelil died in January 2016.
"It's been a tough journey," she told E! News July 2016. "Like I say, many times, many people go through this, and you see your husband suffer for three years, and it's not what you want to see. So now I know he is well, and we live with him in a different way. And I see him through the eyes of my children every single day."
Beyonce and husband Jay-Z had two twins, Rumi and Sir this summer.  Photo: Getty Images


John Lasseter, the chief creative officer of Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios, is taking a six-month break from his position after accusations of sexual misconduct. The longtime animator, who helped turn Pixar into an animation powerhouse, has an estimated net worth of $100 million.
As an executive producer and director, Lasseter's films have brought in roughly $11.2 billion in global box-office sales. He directed acclaimed hits "Toy Story," "Toy Story 2," "A Bug's Life," "Cars" and "Cars 2."
Lasseter, 60, has served as the creative director for all of Disney's animated films and projects. He has been credited with reviving Disney's animation unit.
The Hollywood Reporter reported Tuesday that actor Rashida Jones and Will McCormack, her co-writer on “Toy Story 4,″ stepped down from the project after Lasseter made "an unwanted advance." 
In a memo to his staff, Lasseter cited "missteps" for his leave of absence. He added that the decision came after "difficult conversations."
"I’ve recently had a number of difficult conversations that have been very painful for me," Lasseter wrote in the memo. "It’s never easy to face your missteps, but it’s the only way to learn from them. It’s been brought to my attention that I have made some of you feel disrespected or uncomfortable. That was never my intent."
Lasseter joins a long list of high-profile Hollywood men accused of sexual misconduct, including movie mogul Harvey Weinstein, comedian Louis C.K., director Brett Ratner and actor Kevin Spacey.
Disney executive John Lasseter is talking a leave of absence after being accused of sexual misconduct. He is pictured on July, 17, 2017 in Anaheim, Calif. Photo: Getty Images


Facebook allows housing advertisers to target their ads so that they can be hidden from users of a certain race, according to a new investigation by ProPublica. Facebook had previously vowed to better regulate advertisements that could be seen as discriminatory, but the investigation shows that Facebook’s enforcement doesn’t always work.
ProPublica bought dozens of fake rental ads on Facebook, and specified that they not be shown to users in certain categories, such as Spanish speakers, African Americans and people interested in Islam. The ads violated not only Facebook’s own rules, but they also go against the Fair Housing Act. The law prohibits housing ads that “indicate any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.” The ads were approved within in minutes.
“This was a failure in our enforcement and we’re disappointed that we fell short of our commitments,” said Ami Vora, vice president of product management at Facebook, in a statement to ProPublica. “The rental housing ads purchased by ProPublica should have but did not trigger the extra review and certifications we put in place due to a technical failure.”
If not denied outright, the ads should have at least triggered Facebook’s “self-certify” protocol, which prompts users to assert that their ads are in compliance with anti-discrimination laws.
Rachel Goodman, an attorney with the Amercian Civil Liberties Union's Racial Justice Program provided a statement to International Business Times. 
“While we appreciate that Facebook continues to express a desire to get it right on this important civil rights issue, this story highlights the need for greater transparency and accountability. Had outside researchers been able to see and the system Facebook created to catch these ads, those researchers could have spotted this problem and ended the mechanism for discrimination sooner,” said Goodman. “We’re very, very disappointed to see these significant failures in Facebook’s system for identifying and preventing discrimination in advertisements for rental housing.”
ProPublica produced a similar investigation last year, in which they showed housing ads could be bought that target a white-only audience. In February, Facebook introduced new measures that they said would prohibit discriminatory ads.
“Over the past several months, we’ve met with policymakers and civil rights leaders to gather feedback about ways to improve our enforcement while preserving the beneficial uses of our advertising tools,” said Facebook in a press release earlier this year. “We heard concerns that discriminatory advertising can wrongfully deprive people of opportunities and experiences, particularly in the areas of housing, employment and credit, where certain groups historically have faced discrimination.”
Facebook’s ads also came under scrutiny this year because of Congressional investigations into Russian influence on the 2016 presidential election. Facebook testified that Russian ad buys meant to influence voters could have reached the eyes of as many as 126 million Americans.
Facebook is increasingly a place where businesses are going to attract consumers. Last year Facebook took in over 19 percent of all online ad revenue, according to the Interactive Advertising Bureau, netting $14.1 billion. Facebook ad spending accounted for 40 percent of the overall increase in ad revenue between 2015 and 2016.
UPDATE: Wednesday, Nov. 22, 2017 at 12:26 p.m. EST: Facebook's Vora provided a longer statement about ProPublica's reporting to International Business Times in response to this article. 
“This was a failure in our enforcement and we’re disappointed that we fell short of our commitments. Earlier this year, we added additional safeguards to protect against the abuse of our multicultural affinity tools to facilitate discrimination in housing, credit and employment. The rental housing ads purchased by ProPublica should have but did not trigger the extra review and certifications we put in place due to a technical failure. Our safeguards, including additional human reviewers and machine learning systems have successfully flagged millions of ads and their effectiveness has improved over time. Tens of thousands of advertisers have confirmed compliance with our tighter restrictions, including that they follow all applicable laws. We don’t want Facebook to be used for discrimination and will continue to strengthen our policies, hire more ad reviewers, and refine machine learning tools to help detect violations. Our systems continue to improve but we can do better. While we currently require compliance notifications of advertisers that seek to place ads for housing, employment, and credit opportunities, we will extend this requirement to ALL advertisers who choose to exclude some users from seeing their ads on Facebook to also confirm their compliance with our anti-discrimination policies – and the law.” -Ami Vora, VP Product Management, Facebook
Facebook ads failed their own protocols.  Photo: Dan Kitwood/GETTY


The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) announced Tuesday it would seek to end regulations that stopped internet providers from limiting to access to certain websites and charging different prices for access to certain parts of the web. Internet and tech companies stand in stark opposition to the move — wanting people to have access to all internet sites, without having to pay extra. Internet users also mocked up photos envisioning what the end of net neutrality might look like.
If you're unawareness of the potential impact repealing #NetNeutrality will bring. Then view the image to get a better understanding. #SpreadTheWord pic.twitter.com/J4n5lH3TRr
— Bill Hatem (@illhate) November 21, 2017
Do you want your Internet to look like this? Fight for #NetNeutrality! pic.twitter.com/OOwx5Yy4SX
— Ben Kermani (@bkermani) November 21, 2017
If you don't fight for #NetNeutrality now, here are the questions you will ask later...Why is... by #gigibsohn pic.twitter.com/rDCWXCs4R2
— Commnexis, Inc. (@Commnexis) November 21, 2017
This is what #NetNeutrality prevents. FCC recommends a full repeal of this protection. Call congress to preserve internet freedom. 202-224-3121 pic.twitter.com/ZCPCd3qRpF
— Cardboard Cory (@CardboardCoryCO) November 21, 2017
The proposal would allow internet providers to block or slow down certain websites or charge variable rates for different streaming quality or other internet services. Regulations that created net neutrality prohibited this behavior. FCC chairman Ajit Pai put forward the proposal, which will be taken up in Dec. 14 vote, as a signature piece of his deregulation agenda. Pai, a Republican, was installed by President Donald Trump. The commission has five seats and the vote is expected to fall along party lines, with the three Republican members voting in favor.
“Under my proposal, the federal government will stop micromanaging the internet,” said Pai in a statement. “Instead, the FCC would simply require internet service providers to be transparent about their practices so that consumers can buy the service plan that’s best for them and entrepreneurs and other small businesses can have the technical information they need to innovate.”
Several internet companies are strongly opposed to the move.
“The FCC’s net neutrality rules are working well for consumers, and we’re disappointed in the proposal released today,” said Google in a statement.
Netflix also said that they didn’t support the FCC.
“Netflix supports strong #NetNeutrality. We oppose the FCC's proposal to roll back these core protections,” said Netflix in a tweet.
Netflix supports strong #NetNeutrality. We oppose the FCC's proposal to roll back these core protections.
— Netflix US (@netflix) November 21, 2017
Earlier this year a large number of websites participated in an online protest to preserve the open internet, asking people to call their congressional leaders. The websites included Netflix, Reddit, Vimeo and Twitter.


A recent British Airways survey finds that the majority (59 percent) of airline travelers say it’s perfectly fine to remove your shoes during a flight.
The airline etiquette survey of more than 1,500 travelers from the United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany and Italy found wide disparities in how some passengers view privacy and courtesy. Among the findings, two-thirds (67 percent) say that passengers should only commandeer one armrest and leave the other one open. In regards to chattiness, 83 percent of travelers said conversation with other passengers or people sitting next to you should end after a “hi and a smile.”
Forty-two percent of U.S. travelers said it’s completely unacceptable to share personal stories with other passengers, while U.K. passengers suggested the top way for avoiding conversation is simply to use the restroom.
Americans were much less likely to sign on to the shoeless policy, with 60 percent saying its ok versus 78 percent of British respondents. And although the majority still backed taking one’s shoes off, 87 percent of survey respondents said removing your socks is not tolerable.

Sleeping on crowded flights as well as asking permission to move from one’s seat also saw highly opinionated responses. Eighty percent of travelers said it’s fine to wake up a neighboring passenger in order to use the restroom. But only half that percentage said you can take that opportunity more than once per flight. One-third of those surveyed said they would climb over a sleeping passenger in order to use the bathroom.
And how to do people prefer to climb over a fellow passenger? More than half (54 percent) said the best etiquette for physically maneuvering around them is slither by them face-to-face.
Nearly half of respondents said that the middle armrest on flights is on a first-come, first-serve basis. Although French travelers were twice as likely than all other nationalities to avoid armrests altogether. British passengers were the most likely to move to an empty seat once the seat belt sign was turned off, but 62 percent of Americans said people should wait and ask a flight attendant.
Just slightly more than 1-in-10 U.S. respondents (11 percent) said they would poke a sleeping neighbor who is snoring too loudly, while twice that amount of British passengers would do the same. But 66 percent overall said the best etiquette is too simply ignore a passengers who is snoring obscenely loud.
The most agreement among passengers from every country pertained to bright device screens: 92 percent of travelers said you should dim phones, tablets or computers when the cabin lights are off.


The release of the so-called “Paradise Papers” touched off new scrutiny of how moguls, celebrities and politicians stash their cash in offshore tax havens. The practice, though, is hardly limited to the global elite. In fact, government documents show that state and local officials have sent hundreds of billions of dollars of public sector workers’ retirement savings to a tiny archipelago most famous for white-sand beaches — and laws that shield investors from taxes.  
Operating outside the U.S. legal system, the offshore accounts in the Cayman Islands give Wall Street firms leeway to make complex international investments and to earn big fees off investors' capital. But with offshore accounts featuring prominently in high-profile Ponzi schemes, some critics warn that the use of tax havens can endanger the retirement savings of millions of teachers, firefighters, cops and other public workers — a situation that could put taxpayers on the hook for losses if the investments go bust, or the money goes missing.
The tidal wave of cash has flowed from public pension systems into so-called “alternative investments”: private equity, hedge funds, venture capital firms and real estate. While many alternative investment firms operate in Lower Manhattan, more than a third of all the cash in those private funds flows through vehicles domiciled in the Caymans, according to Securities and Exchange Commission  records reviewed by International Business Times. Those same records show that public pension plans, university endowments and other nonprofits have funneled a massive $1.8 trillion into alternative investments.
“Based on SEC data, it appears that public pensions alone hold around $300 billion offshore in the Cayman Islands in hedge funds and private equity,” said Chris Tobe, a former state pension trustee and author of the book “Kentucky Fried Pensions.”
In recent years, SEC regulators have tried to  crack down on alternative investment firms’ fee schemes that regulators say can end up enriching money managers at the expense of investors. At the same time, state officials and investor groups have pushed for more transparency in the alternative investment industry as a whole.
But with so many of the investments now running through a maze of shell companies in lightly regulated tax havens, some experts say the outflow creates the conditions for rampant fee abuse and financial shenanigans — and prevents pension officials and law enforcement officials from even knowing exactly where billions of dollars of public money is being held.
“The additional risks related to investing in funds established, regulated and custodied in tax havens are real,” former SEC attorney Edward Siedle has warned.
A trove of confidential hedge fund documents reviewed by IBT shows that major financial industry players acknowledge some of the potential risks that can arise when money is invested outside the United States. The documents show that in the fine print of their agreements, the firms admit that shifting cash to less-well-regulated foreign locales can end up putting money into brokerages that may not adhere to traditional banking regulations. They also acknowledge that moving money into international securities can reduce basic protections for investors and ultimately increase the risk of significant losses.
“How does investing in funds established in loosely regulated offshore tax havens benefit government workers — participants in a pension that doesn’t even pay taxes?” Siedle has written.
One answer to that question, say lawyers, involves pension systems seeking to preserve their existing tax exemptions. Under laws passed in the  1960s, those tax-exempt entities would have to pay taxes on the kinds of debt-financed earnings involved in private equity and hedge fund investments — but they  can avoid those levies if they first route their investments through “blocker” corporations in tax-free jurisdictions like the Caymans.
“This is very standard planning — it’s a plain vanilla technique,” said the Tax Policy Center’s Steven Rosenthal, a former partner at the global law firm Ropes & Gray LLP, who advised universities on investments.
Public pension systems vary in how they report their investments. Many simply list the firms that are managing retirees’ money, but not where the firms are located, or whether the funds are ultimately being moved offshore. However, occasional references to offshore funds are scattered throughout public filings.
In South Carolina, for instance, the  annual report for the government workers’ retirement system listed nearly $60 million invested in a Cayman-based fund run by Reservoir Capital Partners, which received more than $2 million in fees from the state last year. In New Jersey, state investment officials have in recent years committed more than a quarter-billion dollars of state pension money to hedge funds based in the  Cayman Islands and  Bermuda, the country at the center of the Paradise Papers controversy. And in Texas, a 2015 report from the teachers retirement system showed the state paying a combined $13 million in fees to Cayman-based funds run by Bain Capital and Soroban Capital Partners.
Siedle told IBT that Wall Street firms may set up shell corporations in tax havens “not to help public pension fund investors, but really to protect the managers from taxes and regulations.”
A  2008 Government Accountability Office report detailed some of the potential benefits financial managers can glean from domiciling their operations in the Caymans. The agency found that “some U.S. persons can minimize their U.S. tax obligations by using Cayman Islands entities to defer U.S. taxes on foreign income.” GAO also warned that “some persons have conducted financial activity in the Cayman Islands in an attempt to avoid discovery and prosecution of illegal activity by the United States.”
Law firms openly promote the benefits of offshore investment vehicles.
“The tax exempt, tax transparent, non-regulated and highly flexible nature of the [exempted limited partnership] and the absence of regulatory or licensing requirements touching the general partner, together with the flexibility of the Cayman Islands exempted limited company, combine to make the Cayman Islands the preeminent jurisdiction for offshore private equity funds,” said a recent  memo from Mourant Ozannes, an offshore law firm whose  website says it is “advising many of the world's foremost financial institutions” on the laws in the Caymans, British Virgin Islands, Guernsey and Jersey.
“The American People Are Not Against Offshore Wealth”
In the political arena, members of both parties have offered varied messages about the flow of American capital offshore.
Republicans faced Democratic attacks over  Mitt Romney’s involvement with Cayman funds, but four years later, Republican Donald Trump ran for president promising to discourage the use of offshore tax havens. Some Democrats have sponsored  legislation designed to try to stop the use of offshore tax havens. During the 2012 election, though, the Cayman Islands Journal reported that longtime Democratic Party official Donna Brazile  told investors at a Cayman Islands conference that “the American people are not against offshore wealth, offshore ‘tax havens’, but they’re often told that, you know, this is taking something away from them."
When it comes to billions of dollars of public pension money leaving the country, Rosenthal said there is nothing inherently problematic about tax exempt organizations using offshore accounts to avoid taxes.
“If you thought the rules about debt-financed income make a lot of sense, then sure, you could get worked up about how this kind of tax planning contravenes congressional intent,” he told IBT. “But I don’t think those rules make a lot of sense, and this is an alternative way to structure investments to sidestep those rules.”
Some lawmakers have disagreed.
In 2007, Michigan Rep. Sander Levin, a Democrat,  proposed a bill to allow tax-exempt organizations such as pension systems to invest directly in private equity and hedge funds, without incurring the tax on debt-financed income — a move designed to discourage the use of foreign blocker corporations.
Two years later, his brother, then-Sen. Carl Levin, introduced  legislation that would have subjected offshore blocker corporations to U.S. taxes. Both measures were designed to keep investments within the domestic financial system and to discourage the use of offshore vehicles, but some lawyers who help financial firms navigate tax laws warned that the Senate legislation would harm the alternative investment industry.
“If enacted [the bill] could significantly reduce investment in U.S. hedge and private equity funds,”  wrote Steve Bortnick of Pepper Hamilton, a compliance law firm. “The provision would tax income that simply should not be taxed in the U.S. (i.e., foreign source income) or tax it at inappropriate rates. This likely would force these funds to restructure in a manner that nevertheless would alienate tax-exempt and foreign investors. At a time when the U.S. economy is struggling, these provisions appear to establish an unnecessary impediment to investment in U.S. investment funds.”
Proponents of the legislation argued that offshore vehicles were being abused to help financial managers shield themselves from taxes.
“This would prevent companies (notably hedge funds) that are American for all practical purposes from avoiding U.S. taxes by claiming to be a foreign company simply because it did certain paperwork and maintains a post office box in a tax haven country,” declared  Citizens for Tax Justice when the senate initiative was launched.
The Managed Funds Association, the  self-described “voice of the global alternative investment industry,” was among the universities, foundations and advocacy groups lobbying Congress and the Internal Revenue Service on Sander Levin’s  bill, federal lobbying  forms show. The organization  also lobbied throughout 2009 on Carl Levin’s bill. Other financial industry players that lobbied on the bill included the Blackstone Group LP, Credit Suisse, the  American Bankers Association, the Investment Company Institute, the  Cayman Islands Financial Services Association and the  Private Equity Council.
The legislation never passed.
“A Number Of Unusual Risks, Including Inadequate Investor Protection”
As public pension money continues to move offshore, taxes are not the only policy question at issue. There is also the matter of potential risks associated with investments outside of the United States.
One set of risks has to do with regulations — or lack thereof.
“Tax havens generally have laxer laws and oversight than in the United States,” wrote researchers Norman Silber and John Wei in a recent Hofstra University  study of offshore investments. “The use of foreign blocker corporations also reduces the amount of information available to the government and the public.”
Some potential risks are outlined in documents from major hedge funds that have managed public pension money. While those documents are confidential — and have been exempted from state open records laws, at the behest of the financial industry — IBT reviewed some that show hedge fund managers admitting the potentially enormous risks of shifting retirees’ money outside the U.S. financial system. 
For instance, 2015 documents from a Canyon Partners fund based in the Caymans tell investors that the fund is registered under a Cayman law that “does not involve a detailed examination of the merits of the fund or substantive supervision of the investment performance of the fund by the Cayman Islands government.” It also tells investors that “there is no financial obligation or compensation scheme imposed on or by the government of the Cayman Islands in favor of or available to the investors in the fund.”
A similar 2015 document from a Cayman-based Fir Tree Partners fund notes that while there is a Monetary Authority in the Caymans, “the fund is not subject to supervision in respect of its investment activities or the constitution of its investment assets by the Authority or any other governmental authority.”
The Cayman-based funds say they can move investors’ money into foreign assets. In separate disclosures applying more broadly to those assets, the hedge funds acknowledge the risk of international investing in emerging markets. These specific risk disclosures apply only to the international assets that the Cayman funds are investing in — and not the Cayman funds themselves. However, the disclosures appear to illustrate the general risks pension systems may face when they move money outside the U.S. financial system.  For example:
Government records and reports from the financial analysis firm Preqin show that public pension systems in  Rhode Island,  Texas,  Florida,  California,  Florida,  Arizona,  Oregon,  Illinois, Washington, Louisiana, New York and  New Jersey have invested in at least one of these aforementioned hedge funds.
“Shareholders May Be Unable To Liquidate Their Investment"
There is also the issue of investor rights. Last year, Rhode Island retirees sounded an alarm about the prospect of their state pension system’s financial managers allowing certain anonymous investors to receive more favorable terms from the same funds in which the pension system puts its money. They asserted that such schemes could end up enriching anonymous investors and financial managers at the pension fund's expense. Other experts have  warned that because firms’ investments are not independently valued by third-parties, managers can use their own valuation process to fleece investors.
Those potential dangers were spelled out in 2015 documents from Luxor Capital and AQR funds in the Caymans, where, according to the Tax Policy Center’s Rosenthal, foreign investors and managers can avoid filing IRS disclosure paperwork and exposing themselves to U.S. transparency laws.
The Luxor fund, said the documents, had signed “side letter” agreements that allow the firm to provide certain shareholders “access to more frequent and/or more detailed information regarding the fund’s securities positions...performance, finances, and management.” That includes “notification of the commencement of certain disciplinary actions, legal proceedings, investigations or similar matters against the fund...possibly enabling such shareholders to better assess the prospects and performance of the fund.”
The documents also said “the fund may give certain shareholders the right to redeem all or a portion of their shares on shorter notice and/or with more frequency,” and that “shareholders may be unable to liquidate their investment promptly in the event of an emergency or for any other reason.”
The AQR fund, meanwhile, warns that it could put investors’ money into assets that “may be extremely difficult to value accurately.” That means “there is a risk that an investor that makes a redemption while the Fund holds such investments will be paid an amount significantly less than it would otherwise be paid if the actual value of such investments is higher than the value designated.”
Preqin data show pension funds in Texas have invested in Luxor’s Cayman-based fund, and government records show the state teachers’ retirement system has paid the offshore fund more than $21 million in fees between  2013 and 2015.
Most Cayman-based hedge fund firms managing pension money — including those whose documents IBT reviewed — are registered with the SEC. However, that does not necessarily mean the agency or American courts have as much power over them as they do over onshore funds.
“The Cayman Islands’ strong bank secrecy laws help shield assets,” wrote University of Hawaii accounting professor Thomas Pearson in a 2009 paper. “Therefore, because of concern that not all the assets are apparent or accessible, a U.S. bankruptcy court may refuse to provide assistance to liquidation of hedge funds domiciled in the Cayman Islands.  Although the SEC has tried to collaborate with authorities offshore, hedge funds’ use of the Cayman Islands or another tax haven country lowers their risk that the SEC or other major securities regulators can acquire the real identity of certain traders and properly enforce insider trading laws.”
Taken together, the risks of investing offshore are significant, said Deborah Hicks Medanek, whose  firm, the Solon Group, advises corporations on restructuring.
“If I were a fiduciary responsible for a large pension fund, I would be very careful not to assume that the legal environment in Cayman or Curacao or the British Virgin Islands was really similar to the legal environment I’m used to,”  Medanek told IBT. “You cannot assume that the same kind of investor protections are out there. If I’m sitting there as a fiduciary of a public pension fund, my ass is already seriously on the line for people who can’t afford not to have pensions when they come due — so I don’t think I’m going to go take those risks, unless I am utterly convinced that the offshore investment gives pensioners access to an attractive manager that’s otherwise not available onshore.”
None of the hedge funds whose documents IBT reviewed offered any on-the-record comments for this story.
“The Fund Will Not Maintain Custody”
Out of all the risks of moving pensioners’ money overseas, few raise as much concern as “custody,” or where pensioners' money and assets are ultimately stored and accounted for, said South Carolina State Treasurer Curtis Loftis. He noted that whereas state and local governments’ investments in stocks and bonds are typically held in U.S.-regulated banks, offshore funds can hold money in opaque accounts and brokerages across the globe.
“Custody was a pretty big part of the  Bernie Madoff and  Jon Corzine problems,” Loftis told IBT, referring to high-profile cases where investors lost their money. “Those guys were custodying money all over the world, allowing them to do all sorts of things with it because offshore does not have the same protections as in the United States. So when public pensions are investing offshore, they are agreeing to have their money custodied in ways that are very risky.”
The hedge fund documents reviewed by IBT underscore Loftis’s assertion.
Under the heading “Absence of Regulatory Oversight,” a Cayman-based Governors Lane vehicle says “the fund will not maintain custody of its securities or place its securities in the custody of a bank or a member of a U.S. securities exchange in the manner required of registered investment companies under rules promulgated by the SEC.” Governors Lane has managed money for the Kentucky public pension system.
Och-Ziff’s documents include similar language, and note that the custody methods means that a bankruptcy “might have a greater adverse effect on the Fund than would be the case if it maintained its accounts to meet the requirements applicable to registered investment companies.”
In its section on custody risk, Mason Capital’s Cayman-based fund says it “may use counterparties and other financial institutions located in various jurisdictions outside the United States” and that “financial institutions may use sub-custodians and disclaim responsibility for any losses.” The firm warns that “investors should assume that the insolvency of any non-U.S. counterparty or other financial institution would result in a loss.”
The custody risks relate to other concerns about the overall governance of Cayman-based investment vehicles. A 2011 Financial Times investigation found that “a small group of Cayman Islands ‘jumbo directors’ are sitting on the boards of hundreds of hedge funds” based there. These directors are supposed to be watching over investors’ money and protecting their interests, but some experts have questioned whether they are adequately independent and able to provide oversight when they are working for so many different funds. Those questions, which have been simmering for years, have resurfaced in a recent hedge fund case in the Caymans.
“With perhaps two-thirds of all hedge funds domiciled in the Cayman Islands, Bermuda, and British Virgin Islands, a web of ‘independent directors’ has developed in these island paradises,” wrote George Mason University professor Janine Wedel, who has studied corruption and corporate governance. “Officially, these directors are independent watchdogs who protect the interests of investors, such as pension funds. The problem is that some appear to be little more than ‘paper directors,’ with perhaps billions of retirement dollars exposed to funds with weak oversight and potentially conflicted governance.”
While these risks of offshore investing may seem hypothetical, a landmark case in Louisiana suggests the opposite. There, three public pension systems found themselves unable to withdraw their collective $144.5 million in investments and earnings from a Cayman Islands-based hedge fund of New York City-based Fletcher Asset Management in 2011. The funds than had to rely on a Cayman court to force the fund to relinquish the money, the Wall Street Journal  reported.
The following year, a Louisiana state legislative auditor produced a  report urging the three pensions to better document any risk that stemming from an inability to quickly and easily withdraw their investments at market price. In 2013, trustees of the pensions  sued affiliates of Fletcher, along with a law firm and an financial services firm involved, for overstating the fund’s value and liquidity.
Months after the case moved to a U.S. federal court, a trustee the pensions appointed — who, after on-site examination in the Cayman Islands, found the fund to be insolvent —  placed the fund and its affiliates into bankruptcy in 2014. The case — which is ongoing  — is exactly the kind of situation that Loftis says he fears for states and cities all over America.
“I’m sure some of these firms set up offshore in order to offer pensions a way to avoid paying taxes, but I’ve always believed it is mostly about the managers creating a way in which they can limit their own taxes and their own legal liability and do whatever they want with the public’s money,” he told IBT. “The custody issue is one of the biggest problems: these offshore accounts mean we don’t really know where all of this money actually is. If we have another economic downturn, I’m not sure the money custodied all over the world ever makes it back home.”


An Icelandic volcano named Öræfajökull has exhibited new geothermal and seismic activity causing the government to issue a warning Friday.
The Icelandic Meteorological Office has issued a yellow alert for the volcano located under Vatnajökull, Iceland's largest glacier. Satellite imaging showed that a half-mile long depression has formed in the ice due to geothermal activity. Icelandic authorities also say that a sulfur smell has been reported nearby at a smaller outlet glacier called Kvíárjökull.
A yellow warning means "Volcano is experiencing signs of elevated unrest above known background levels." The scale has five levels and yellow is third. 
Though the government said there is no sign imminent eruption, they are monitoring Öræfajökull closely.
The Meteorological Office said that seismic activity around the volcano has increased over the past several months as well, indicating increased volcanic activity.
The Meteorological Office said the situation will be monitored in collaboration with scientists from the University of Iceland and the Icelandic Civil Protection Authorities. The Icelandic Coast Guard will fly over the area to gather more data about the volcano which last erupted in 1727.
Volcanic eruptions can have had a far and wide economic impact for the rest of the globe, especially for air travel. The 2010 eruptions of Eyjafjallajökull caused a widescale shutdown for flights entering airspace near northern Europe. The eruptions themselves were relatively small, but they sent massive plumes of volcanic ash into the skies over Europe disrupting the journies of at least 10 million travelers. Much of Europe’s airspace was closed from April 10 through April 15. It is estimated by the International Air Transport Association that airlines lost a total of around  $1.4 billion because of the eruptions.
Map of Volcano statuses in Iceland. Öræfajökull is the yellow volcano on the southeastern coast.  Photo: Icelandic Meteorological Office


Arkema, the French chemicals company whose plant was the site of multiple explosions during and after Hurricane Harvey, has become the subject of a lawsuit Thursday by Harris County, Texas.
The explosions and chemical fires resulting from the hurricane’s flooding released toxic emissions into the nearby residential neighborhood that left several residents and first responders ill. The county’s lawsuit seeks a $1 million penalty and would force Arkema to undergo an independent audit of its disaster preparedness plans and implement any recommendations of that assessment.
For the county, the priority is more on making sure such a public health emergency does not reoccur.
"We're not so much interested in the penalties as we are in the audit and emergency response plan so that it’s prepared for flooding in the future,” Assistant County Attorney Rock Owens, who handles environmental cases for Harris County, told International Business Times. “We’d like to see Arkema consider hardening their storage facilities so that there’s not such a risk of uncontrolled chemical ignition. That created a lot of dangerous possibilities.”
Owens told IBT that the suit was brought with the full support of the Harris County Commissioners Court because everyone involved wants to make sure that the county does not become “another West, Texas,” referring to the 2013 West Fertilizer Company explosion that left 15 people dead and well over 100 injured.
“Suing a victim is never the right solution to a natural disaster,” Arkema’s attorney Rusty Hardin said, responding to the lawsuit in a statement emailed to IBT. “We are disappointed that this lawsuit was filed when we were in discussions with the county to cooperatively resolve the issues. As they and we all know, this was an extraordinary flooding event.  Arkema and its employees, like other businesses and individuals in Harris County, were victims of this storm.”
An  IBT review of Arkema’s Securities and Exchange Commission filings found that the company had warned its shareholders of the very scenario that occurred in August: a flood causing a power failure that results in a loss of temperature control leading to stored chemicals becoming volatile. So Arkema was aware of the dangers posed by extreme flooding.
Owens, volunteering a response to Arkema’s statement, said that he was “responsible to the six million victims of the storm,” not Arkema. “We knew around August 23rd to expect heavy flooding,” said Owens. “The company had time to consider alternatives to keep those materials high and dry and keep residential neighborhoods safe.”
An  IBT review of lobbying records previously found that Arkema had successfully lobbied to delay the implementation of safety rules that would have required the company to more closely coordinate with first responders in preparing for emergencies such as hurricanes.
When asked if Arkema’s lobbying activity was a concern for the county, Owens responded: “They’re entitled to express their opinions in Washington or Austin. But they’re not entitled to endanger the community.”


A Democratic senator is leading the way to allow payday lenders to escape basic consumer protections. In a rare bipartisan effort in July, Sen. Mark Warner, a former venture capital executive representing Virginia, introduced the  Protecting Consumers' Access to Credit Act of 2017 (S.1642) with three cosponsors: two Republicans and one Democrat. The bill would allow lenders to ignore state interest-rate caps by partnering with a national bank. Most states have interest rate caps of  36 percent, but  15 states have none at all, and the bill could mean that millions of Americans would face rates of 350 percent or more.
In addition to traditional payday lenders, newer financial technology companies want to become bigger players in the high-interest loan business, the Huffington Post  reported Tuesday. Warner is an outspoken  proponent of fintech, and should his bill become law, these companies will be able to partner with major banks, evade interest rate caps and profit off of low-income borrowers facing soaring interest rates. Companies such as LendingClub, Prosper and  LendUp will be able to expand their high-interest lending operations.
According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) — which was established under the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010 to help defend consumers against the fraudulent practices of financial firms that led to the global financial crisis of 2008 — over 19 million American households use payday loans, which include an initial fee of around $15 to $20 per $100 borrowed. After two weeks, 70 percent of these borrowers have to then take out a second loan to cover the first. In many cases, that loan gets “rolled over” into still more loans, and borrowers can get saddled with effective interest rates of over  350 percent on the original.
Since last year, payday lenders have been concerned about a  new rule that was under consideration by the CFPB requiring lenders to assess whether a potential borrower can afford to pay back a loan within 30 days, thus avoiding “payday death traps,” among other measures. The rule, which would seriously disrupt the payday lending business model, was finalized in October but won’t go into effect until mid-2019. Warner and some cosponsors say they support this CFPB rule. In May, as the CFPB was considering these rules, House lawmakers  inserted a provision in its  Financial Choice Act — which repeals parts of Dodd-Frank — that would hobble the CFPB’s ability to enforce its rules on payday lenders. The bill passed the House but sits in the  Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, of  which Warner and cosponsor Pat Toomey (R-PA) are members.
Now, President Donald Trump is expected to appoint current Office of Management and Budget Director  Mick Mulvaney as interim director of the CFPB, leaving the agency in the hands of someone who wants to  do away with it.
On Thursday, Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), who originally proposed the formation of the CFPB, expressed her fury on Twitter.
Mick Mulvaney thinks the @CFPB shouldn’t exist. A member of the GOP anarchy gang has no business running the agency. This is a giant middle finger to consumers. https://t.co/rDJ3BR2siO
— Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) November 17, 2017
 
A Deep Divide Over How To Protect Consumers’ Credit
In September, 152 state and national organizations, including the Center for Responsible Lending, the National Consumer Law Center and the NAACP, wrote  a letter to Congress urging members to vote against the Protecting Consumers' Access to Credit Act. “This bill could open the floodgates to a wide range of predatory actors to make loans at 300% annual interest or higher,” wrote the groups. “Fintech lenders also should not be allowed to make loans that exceed state interest rate caps… The bill wipes away the strongest available tool against predatory lending practices.”
Diane Standaert, director of state policy and executive vice president at the Center for Responsible Lending, told International Business Times, “What’s at stake is pretty simple: either allowing 300 percent interest loans or not. Siding with consumers or not. You have to look at the more than 150 groups opposing this versus who’s pushing the bill. There’s a clear the line in the sand about what’s at stake and who really benefits.”
On Oct. 5, a group of business associations wrote  a letter to four of the House and Senate sponsors, thanking them for introducing the legislation and agreeing that without the bill, creditors risk their loans being invalidated once they are sold to secondary buyers, making banks lend less frequently and at higher interest rates. The groups signing the letter include Financial Services Roundtable, Independent Community Bankers of America, American Bankers Association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY), a cosponsor of the House’s companion bill — which passed in the House Financial Services Committee on Thursday with nine Democrats voting for it — explained how he thinks the bill will help low-income borrowers: “The bill corrects a court case,  Madden v. Midland , that closed doors to affordable credit for New Yorkers.” In 2015, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals  ruled that non-bank entities, like payday lenders, that assign debt originally issued by a national bank must adhere to the interest rate caps of the state where the borrower lives. “A joint study by law professors from Stanford, Fordham, and Columbia found that since  Madden upended over 200 years of settled law, access to loans facilitated through bank partnerships with fintech firms disappeared for individuals with credit scores of 644 or less in the Second Circuit,” Meeks said. “A recent Philadelphia Fed study found that loans facilitated through bank-fintech partnerships made available better priced credit for underserved markets. My bill preserves those opportunities for individuals who need them most.”
Steve Kelly, press secretary for Toomey, told IBT, "The bill has nothing whatsoever to do with payday lending. Further, payday lenders do not use the bank partnership model, as confirmed by Acting Comptroller General Noreika, and a recent New York Times report. This bill also does not affect the CFPB’s recent rules relating to small dollar lending, nor does it affect [the Office of the Comptroller of Currency] and [the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation] guidance on bank relationships with payday lenders."
But the contrast between those who support and oppose the bill is stark, with consumer advocates assailing it and financial groups lauding it. The Center for Community Capital at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill put out  a 2007 study after the state legally ended payday lending. Most of the study’s respondents were “completely unaffected by the ban.” Two-thirds of the study’s low- and middle-class respondents for whom the absence of payday lending had an impact said that this absence had a positive effect on their households, as they had “an array of options they use to manage financial shortfalls.”
However, “There was broad agreement that there is a need for short-term consumer credit that is more affordable and manageable than a payday loan.”
Payday Lenders, FinTech Firms Donated To Bill’s Sponsors
The payday lending industry donates to many House and Senate candidates each election cycle. From 2015 to 2016, companies, corporate political action committees and individuals in the industry gave over  $2.8 million to campaigns and independent political groups, 82 percent of which went to Republicans. So far this year, the industry has reported nearly  $840,000 in contributions, with over 90 percent going to Republicans.
But regarding sponsors of friendly legislation, the payday lenders do not discriminate by party — both Democrats and Republicans who sponsored the bill are some of the industry’s biggest recipients of campaign cash. In the 2014 election cycle, Warner’s most recent, the primary sponsor of S.1642 took in the  fourth-largest total in campaign donations from the industry ($21,500), including a maximum donation of $5,000 from the political action committee of the Community Financial Services Association of America, a major trade group for payday lenders. Warner received  other PAC contributions from lenders such as Cash America International and Checksmart Financial.
“Campaign contributions have never influenced Senator Warner’s decision-making on policy matters and never will,” said Warner’s spokesperson.
Warner’s estimated net worth of $238 million made him the  wealthiest senator and the third-richest member of Congress in 2015, the most recent year for which the Center for Responsive Politics (CRP) has estimates. In the 2014 election cycle, Warner was the Senate’s  top recipient of campaign donations from finance and credit companies.
Cosponsor Toomey, a former currency trader and former president of the “free-enterprise advocacy group” Club for Growth, received the  second-highest amount from payday loan donors in the Senate in 2016, his most recent election ($32,900). Maximum donations of $5,000 came from Lendmark Financial Services, trade group National Installment Lenders Association and the Online Lenders Alliance, another industry association. In 2012, a non-election year for Toomey, he still took in the  largest amount of payday lending cash in the Senate — $57,250 — including  $10,000 from the Community Financial Services Association. This year, he’s gotten $1,000 from the industry. CRP estimated Toomey’s 2015 net worth at about  $2.7 million.
In the 2016 election cycle, payday lenders donated $5,000 to the campaign of co-sponsor Sen. Gary Peters (D-MI), a former financial adviser and executive, although his next election is in 2020. CRP estimated Peters’ 2015 net worth at just over  $4 million.
Sen. Steve Daines (R-MT) received  $6,000 from the PAC of Cash America International in the 2014 election cycle and another  $1,500 in the 2016 cycle, according to CRP. Daines was worth  $14.4 million as of 2015, according to CRP, making him the 17th-richest senator. In 2012, the senator worked at Rep. Greg Gianforte’s (R-MT) RightNow Technologies, and after Oracle bought the company, Daines made over $2 million by  selling his stock options.
Advance America is one of the payday lending companies that have donated to the campaigns of sponsors of the Protecting Consumers' Access to Credit Act of 2017. Photo: Andrew Bain/Flickr
A bipartisan trio of representatives introduced the  companion bill in the House, and all have received campaign donations from the payday lending industry. So far during the  current election cycle, primary sponsor Patrick McHenry (R-NC) hasn’t gotten any payday cash, but the campaigns of cosponsors Gwen Moore (D-WI) and Meeks of New York have taken in $5,000 and $4,000, respectively. From  2015 to 2016, Moore received over $16,000, Meeks got $13,000, and McHenry received $5,500 from payday lenders. In the 2014 election cycle, McHenry received over  $43,000 from payday lenders in 2014, the fourth-highest total in the House during that session.
Executives and top-ranking employees of fintech firms have also donated to the bill’s House and Senate cosponsors. For example, Moore has received $7,500 in donations from  individuals affiliated with fintech firm Elevate, which offers loans with interest rates of up to  365 percent. CEO  Ken Rees donated $3,000 to Moore from 2014 to 2016, and  Kevin Dahlstrom also gave Moore’s campaign $1,000 in 2014, when he was chief marketing officer of Elevate. Also in 2014,  Sharon Clarey, then senior VP of human resources at Elevate, gave $1,000. In 2015, then-chief risk officer and executive VP of corporate development  Kathy Boden Holland donated $2,500 to Moore’s campaign.
On Sep. 30 of this year, Elevate CEO Rees donated $5,000 to McHenry’s campaign. One year earlier,  Walt Ramsey, then chief risk officer at Elevate, had given McHenry $1,000 and Daines’ campaign $1,500.
McHenry’s office did not return IBT’s request for comment.
Moore’s chief of staff Sean Gard told IBT that “[Moore’s] thinking is what is best for her constituents. She has taken many votes contrary to what some of her donors have asked.”
Meeks told IBT, “No, campaign donations do not impact my legislative activity. In fact, in September, I voted in favor of an amendment to the appropriations bill to protect the CFPB’s small dollar lending rule which was promulgated to stamp out abusive lending practices among financial firms, including payday lenders.”
Some campaign finance experts have found otherwise in recent years. While there are differing views on the influence of campaign donations, several studies have concluded that contributions do influence policy outcomes. A 2012 book by University of Rochester political science professor Lynda Powell found that at the state legislative level, while the effects vary,  campaign donations do affect the bill-drafting process.
“I am not arguing that there is much quid-pro-quo influence,” said Powell. “But even the best intentioned legislator receiving money from an interest group is likely to at least listen to what donors have to say. And if you are hearing much more from people who donate money to you, it is hard not to be swayed by the greater body of argument and evidence from donors.” Powell’s study also found that “the access legislators give to lobbyists clearly is biased in favor of campaign donors.”
Another  study from 2010 by Baylor political science professor Patrick Flavin found that states with stricter campaign finance laws spend more of their annual budget on public welfare. And the populace appears to have caught on: A 2014  poll found that most voters think members of Congress are more concerned with their donors than their constituents.
Payday Lenders Lobby Congress To Help Expand Their Operations
Research shows that a “particularly effective” strategy for helping shape public policy is  a combination of campaign donations and lobbying — and payday lenders and their trade groups don’t just donate to candidates they hope will support legislation that boosts their interests. Three trade associations representing lenders have spent a combined $1.6 million on lobbying in 2017 to lobby Congress on specific legislation and issue areas, according to federal lobbying records reviewed by IBT.
The Community Financial Services Association of America spent over $700,000 on lobbying in the first three quarters of 2017, lobbying the U.S. House and Senate in 2017 on issues including  consumer financial protection,  short-term lending,  payday advance loans,  Operation Choke Point — an Obama-era Justice Department program to investigate banks’ business with fraud-prone industries such as payday lending,  rules by the CFPB, and a  House resolution against a CFPB rule barring financial firms from preventing their customers from joining class-action lawsuits.
The Online Lenders Alliance has spent $840,000 on lobbying so far this year, speaking with Congress and the Executive Office of the President about  FinTech,  Dodd-Frank and  Operation Chokepoint, “  CFPB regulations on short-term lending,” and  bills from past sessions relating to lending regulation. The groups lobbying on Dodd-Frank implementation don’t specify the particular provision in question, but their lobbying likely has to do with the provision in the House’s  Financial Choice Act hobbling the CFPB and other CFPB-related issues.
In 2017, the Online Lenders Alliance has spent over $112,000 lobbying Congress and the CFPB on  Dodd-Frank,  small-dollar lending, and a previous  consumer credit bill.
Individual companies that have donated to the sponsors of Warner’s Senate bill are also lobbying directly on the same issues. ACE Cash Express, which donated $2,500 to Toomey in the 2016 election cycle, reported spending $460,000 this year to  lobby Congress on the House’s  Financial Institution Customer Protection Act of 2017 as well a 2018 financial services appropriation  bill and other matters.
Elevate has spent over $1.1 million to lobby Congress since late 2013 on credit issues. The company has lobbied on  Dodd-Frank implementation,  Operation Choke Point, 2014  legislation relating to  online lending charters, and  CFPB regulations on short-term lending.
Bill sponsors said that they always consult with lobbyists on both sides of an issue. “Our staff meets with a wide range of constituents, groups and advocates, including some who support this bill, and some who oppose it,” said a Warner spokesperson. Meeks said much the same thing to IBT. “As a Senior Member of the House Financial Services Committee, I naturally interact with every stakeholder that has an interest in the bills before the Committee including their opponents and proponents.”
“Yeah, I have met with a lobbyist from just about every financial services stakeholder,” said Gard, Moore’s chief of staff, who has  worked in government affairs for the National Association of Bond Lawyers and was previously a broker for online investment firm TD Ameritrade. “I have an open door for anyone so there can never be a question about impropriety. The meetings did not affect the drafting of bill; the congresswoman was added to the bill after drafting.”
While the payday lending bill’s sponsors say they aren’t influenced by campaign donations or lobbying, the people affected by payday lending laws have been clear: voters in several states have approved measures that impose interest rate caps on short-terms loans. 
Nov. 17, 4:35 PM: This story has been updated to include comments from the office of Sen. Pat Toomey.


President Donald Trump declared his nearly two-week trip through Asia “tremendously successful,” but economic history should make us more skeptical.
During the trip, the president continued to promote his so-called “America first” trade policy. He is orienting the country distinctly toward protectionism and claiming that unilateralism in trade is good for America.
Here is the problem: President Trump’s approach to trade seems to be based on a false understanding of how the global economy works, one that also plagued American policymakers nearly a century ago. The administration has forgotten an important lesson of the Great Depression, and virtually all economists agree that this could have unfortunate consequences for the U.S. and the world.
Trump’s “America first” orientation assumes that the United States, as the world’s dominant actor, can behave freely and independently in trade.
Unfortunately for the administration, America’s top economic position does not shield it from the dire consequences that unilateral trade policy can provoke. The constraints on U.S. action result from the basic nature of the international economy and from America’s declining dominance of the world trade system.
It is a standard principle of economics that all individual actors exist within a system. Any action taken by one actor will likely result in a response from others. This means that wise governments, in considering which policies to adopt, must make difficult calculations about how their actions will interact with those of others.
“America first” fails to make these calculations. It disregards how America’s trading partners will respond to the new U.S. protectionism – which is also what American lawmakers ignored during the Great Depression.
Before the 1930s, America’s trade policy was generally set unilaterally by Congress – that is, without the international negotiations used today.
Lawmakers, already in a protectionist mood, responded to the pain of the Great Depression by passing the infamous Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act of 1930, which raised duties on hundreds of imports.
Meant in part to ease the effects of the Depression by protecting American industry and agriculture from foreign competition, the act instead helped prolong the downturn. Many U.S. trading partners reacted by raising their own tariffs, which contributed significantly to shutting down world trade.
Fortunately, America and the world learned a lesson from this experience. With the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act of 1934 and its successors, which granted the president authority to reach tariff reduction agreements with foreign governments, U.S. trade policy came to be global and strategic. This new approach was institutionalized at the international level with the creation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in 1948 and its successor, the World Trade Organization, in 1995.
The basic principle of these agreements is reciprocity – that each country will agree to liberalize its trade to the extent that other countries liberalize theirs. The approach uses international negotiations to overcome protectionist political pressures and recognizes that trade is a global phenomenon that generates national interdependence.
The dangers of ignoring history are only beginning to manifest themselves, but they can be seen in several recent developments that bode ill for us all.
One of the Trump administration’s first actions was to withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership. This agreement, which was a major initiative of the Obama administration, would have created the largest economic bloc in the world by linking America’s economy with those of 11 other Pacific nations. It would also have created an American-led, liberal bulwark in Asia against any Chinese challenge to the regional economic order.
Withdrawing from the agreement denied American exporters enhanced access to foreign markets and was a gift to Chinese influence in Asia. But we are only now beginning to see the longer-term repercussions of President Trump’s decision.
During Trump’s trip, the other 11 signatories of the original trade deal, including Japan, Australia, Canada and Mexico, agreed to move forwardwithout the U.S. This is a problem for America because it means that these countries will grant preferential market access to one another, making it harder for American companies to compete in their markets.
American companies are already feeling the impact of what happens when they’re left out of a trade deal. A recent New York Times article, for example, highlights the plight of American lobster producers whose prices are being undercut by Canadian producers in the wake of a new Canada-European Union trade agreement.
If the United States is reluctant to participate in multilateral trade agreements, other countries have every incentive to do deals that exclude and even may hurt the U.S.
Trump’s ongoing efforts to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement also pose potential dangers. The administration has a tendency to speak of renegotiation as if it can dictate the terms. But while Canada and Mexico may be more dependent on the U.S. than the U.S. is on them, an implosion of NAFTA would be devastating for many U.S. industries that rely on North American trade. Markets increasingly worrythat NAFTA may not survive the negotiations.
In addition to withdrawing from and renegotiating trade agreements, the administration has ramped up unilateral efforts to sanction U.S. trading partners for receiving subsidies or for dumping their products on the American market.
Decisions to impose trade penalties risk blowback, as when sanctions on Bombardier drove the Canadian plane manufacturer into the arms of Airbus, Boeing’s top foreign rival. The threatened imposition of sanctions on imports of solar panels may have a similar effect, damaging American panel installers and encouraging foreign retaliation.
President Trump assumes the U.S. can act unilaterally without consequences.
Economic history shows this doesn’t work. The world’s economies are far more interdependent than they were during the Great Depression, so the impact of governments all following a “my country first” trade policy – as the president said he expected world leaders to do – could have disastrous consequences.
Today, the international trade system America helped create, one based on open markets and classically liberal principles, is under threat as never before. Yet President Trump’s “America first” approach is a total abdication of the traditional U.S. role as its defender. And in fact, the president is doing his best to undermine that system.
In the final analysis, the Trump administration is reverting to a policy that is dangerous for the U.S. economy and for the international system.
If the U.S. abdicates, China may be the only country that can take the reins. The question is, what would that mean for the current system of open and free markets?
Charles Hankla is Associate Professor of Political Science at Georgia State University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.


Republicans in Congress and the White House have been very blunt about their desire to gut the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau – and the threats to it are mounting.
The agency was launched in 2011 in the aftermath of the financial crisis as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The goal was to protect consumers from deceptive or misleading practices in the financial industry.
At the moment, Republicans seem focused on blocking CFPB rules they don’t like, such as one that would have prevented the use of arbitration clauses in financial contracts, making it easier for people to band together to sue banks for wrongdoing.
The Trump administration, which has been heavily critical of the CFPB, now has an opportunity to reshape it from the top because its founding director, Richard Cordray, plans to step down by the end of November.
So what would you miss if the agency suddenly disappeared or was weakened?
In short, a lot. We base this conclusion on the work the three of us have done in recent decades. One of us (Sovern) has been writing about consumer law for more than 30 years, while the other two of us direct a legal clinic that represents elderly consumers. We’ve seen the worst of what financial companies can do, and we’ve also witnessed how the CFPB has begun to reverse the tide.
If you are one of the more than 29 million consumers who have collectively received nearly US$12 billion back from misbehaving financial institutions because of the CFPB’s efforts, you already know its value. But even if you are not, you have probably benefited from the bureau’s existence.
Before Congress created the bureau, there was no federal agency that made consumer financial protection its sole mission. Rather, consumer protection was rolled into the missions of a bunch of different agencies. And, as we saw during the financial crisis, regulators often gave it a back seat.
Congress, for example, gave the Federal Reserve the power to bar unfair and deceptive mortgage lending in 1994. Yet the central bank considered consumer protection a backwater and didn’t use that power until 2008 – too late to prevent the Great Recession. Congress took it away two years later when it passed Dodd-Frank.
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency regulates banks but was so preoccupied with ensuring lenders were safe that it failed to protect consumers from their predatory subprime mortgages – so much so that it prevented states from doing so too. And now President Trump has put a former bank lawyer in charge of it. The Federal Trade Commission, which is tasked with fighting deceptive business practices, lacked the power to prevent such dangerous lending.
This meant consumer protection on financial matters fell through the cracks.
Wells Fargo’s recent fraud scandal is a case in point. In the early 2000s, Wells Fargo employees began opening fake accounts in clients’ names without permission, leading in some cases to lower credit scores and a variety of fees. The bank ultimately opened millions of fraudulent bank and credit card accounts before the scheme came to an end last year.
But as early as 2010, before the CFPB was set up, regulators at the OCC were increasingly aware of what was happening at Wells Fargo thanks to hundreds of whistleblower complaints. The OCC even confronted the bank, yet failed to take any action despite many red flags, according to an internal audit.
It wasn’t until the Los Angeles city attorney and the CFPB became involved years later that Wells Fargo took forceful action to stop the fraud. The regulators fined Wells Fargo a total of $185 million and forced it to refund fees it had charged customers and hire an independent consultant to review its procedures.
More importantly, they sent a clear message to other financial institutions: Cheat consumers and you will face the consequences.
Since its inception, the bureau has acted repeatedly to stop financial institutions from harming consumers.
It blocked debt collector attorneys from suing consumers based on false information. It discovered systemic problems with consumer credit reports and forced companies to correct errors. It compelled credit card companies to refund illegal fees. It protected borrowers from unlawful student loan servicing practices. It made lenders repay consumers they discriminated against. It recovered money for veterans who complained of abusive financial practices.
When the bureau began publishing consumer complaints on its website, companies that might previously have ignored negative feedback paid attention. Financial institutions have responded to complaints to the CFPB more than 700,000 times, often by providing a remedy to the consumers.
Besides protecting consumers, however, Congress had a second motive in creating the bureau: to help prevent the kind of mortgage lending that helped cause the Great Recession.
To that end, the bureau has adopted rules that help consumers to understand their mortgages – something that often wasn’t possible under the previously misleading mortgage disclosures. It also issued regulationsto prevent consumers from taking out mortgages that they couldn’t repay. And after borrowers take out a mortgage, CFPB servicing rulesestablish the procedures servicers must follow when communicating with borrowers, correcting errors, providing information and dealing with loan modification requests.
Two of us have personal experience with one of the bureau’s new mortgage rules, which powerfully illustrates the value of the CFPB.
In 2014, Alice, a client of our law school clinic, was struggling to pay the mortgage on her home – which she had refinanced a few years earlier – after a stroke forced her into retirement. Our clinic helped her apply for a modification of her loan.
But within weeks, instead of acknowledging Alice’s application, the loan servicer summoned her to court to begin foreclosure proceedings in violation of CFPB servicing rules. Fortunately, our clinic was able to rely on those rules in getting the foreclosure action dismissed. Alice got her loan modified and remains in her home.
This reveals how the bureau is particularly important to protect vulnerable consumers, like the elderly, who are frequently targeted by fraudsters and predatory lenders because of their cognitive and other impairments and because they often have accumulated substantial assets. The CFPB is the only federal agency with an office specifically dedicatedto protecting the financial well-being of older adults.
The bureau has brought cases against companies that attempted to take advantage of seniors by, for example, misrepresenting the interest rateson pension advance loans or deceptive advertising. In 2015 alone, consumer complaints to the CFPB brought relief to more than 600 older Americans just through debt collection problems.
The bureau has also worked to prevent financial abuse of the elderly, estimated to cost seniors as much as $36 billion annually. The CFPB has educated financial institutions, nursing facilities and others about recognizing and stopping elder financial abuse and exploitation.
Given Alice’s ill health, the consequences for her might have been disastrous if she had been thrown out of her home. But now she – and all of us – face the loss of the CFPB’s aid.
The CFPB is under attack from Republican members of Congress who believe more in lifting bank regulations than in protecting consumers. Some members have proposed eliminating the agency altogether.
The House of Representatives has passed a bill that would cripple the CFPB by, for example, taking away the power it used to fine Wells Fargo for opening illegal accounts and concealing its complaint database from public view. In other words, it would force the bureau to sit idly by as financial institutions lie to consumers.
Even if the bureau survives, it may be less protective of consumers when current director Richard Cordray leaves, which he said he plans to do by the end of the month. Then we might see a former banker or bank lawyer put in charge, just as has happened at the Treasury Department and comptroller’s office. Those officials opposed the CFPB’s arbitration rule and seem far less interested in protecting consumers than Cordray. It is even possible that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin himself might become the interim leader of the CFPB.
Nearly every American has or will have a loan or bank account, a prepaid card, credit card, a credit report or some combination of those, and so has dealings with a financial institution policed by the CFPB. But few of us read the fine print governing these things or can understand it when we do. That gives the companies that write these agreements the ability to draft them to suit their own interests at the expense of consumers.
Similarly, we do not always know when a financial institution takes advantage of us, just as Wells Fargo customers did not always know that it had opened unauthorized accounts that lowered their credit scores.
Consumers need protection from misbehaving companies. If the bureau is eliminated, significantly weakened or starts protecting banks rather than consumers, all consumers will suffer.
This is an updated version of an article originally published on July 10, 2017.
Jeff Sovern is Professor of Law, St. John's University.
Ann L. Goldweber is Professor of Clinical Education, St. John's University.
Gina M. Calabrese is Professor of Clinical Education, St. John's University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.


Furnishing a new apartment or home? Black Friday is the perfect day to find deals for household appliances. Home Depot, Best Buy, Sears and others all have to deals for refrigerators, washers and toasters.
With the holidays right around the corner, getting those big-ticket items for friends and family is cheaper with Black Friday deals.
Best Buy has a variety of French Door, Side by Side and Top and Bottom refrigerator deals. 
Insignia™ - 9.9 Cu. Ft. Top-Freezer Refrigerator - White - $279.99
Insignia™ - 10.2 Cu. Ft. Bottom-Freezer Refrigerator - White - $299.99
Frigidaire - 18.1 Cu. Ft. Top-Freezer Refrigerator - White - $429.99
Haier - 16.4 Cu. Ft. Counter-Depth Refrigerator - Stainless steel - $699.99
Frigidaire - 25.6 Cu. Ft. Side-by-Side Refrigerator - Stainless steel - $799.99
Samsung - 24.5 Cu. Ft. Side-by-Side Refrigerator with Thru-the-Door Ice and Water - Stainless steel - $899.99
Samsung - 25.5 Cu. Ft. French Door Refrigerator with Ice Maker - Stainless Steel -$999.99
LG - 21.8 Cu. Ft. French Door Refrigerator - Stainless Steel - $999.99
Samsung - 30" Wide, 22 cu. ft. French Door Refrigerator - Black stainless steel - $999.99
Whirlpool - 24.6 Cu. Ft. Side-by-Side Refrigerator - Stainless steel -  $999.99
Magic Chef 10.1 cu. ft. Top Freezer Refrigerator in Black - $288.00
Hotpoint 14.6 cu. ft. Top Freezer Refrigerator in White - $398.00
Frigidaire 18 cu. ft. Top Freezer Refrigerator in White - $428.00
Haier 28 in. W 15 cu. ft. French Door Refrigerator in Stainless Steel - $698.00
Frigidaire 25.5 cu. ft. Side by Side Refrigerator in White - $748
Maytag 33 in. W 21 cu. ft. Top Freezer Refrigerator in Fingerprint Resistant Stainless Steel - $798.00
Samsung 24.5 cu. ft. Side by Side Refrigerator in Black - $898.00
Kenmore 60412 18 cu. ft. Top Freezer Refrigerator w/ Wire Shelves - White - $429.99
Kenmore 60304 14.5 cu. ft. Top Freezer Refrigerator - Bisque - $479.99
Kenmore 60413 18.1 Cu. Ft. Stainless Steel Refrigerator - $559.99
Samsung RT18M6215SG/AA 18 cu. ft. Top-Freezer Refrigerator with FlexZone™ - Black Stainless - $649.00
Frigidaire FFSS2615TE 25.5 Cu. Ft. Side-by-Side Refrigerator - Black - $743.99
Frigidaire FFSS2615TS 25.5 Cu. Ft. Side-by-Side Refrigerator - Stainless Steel - $793.99
Kenmore 51113 25 cu. ft. Side-by-Side Refrigerator with Ice & Water - Stainless Steel - $949.99 
Amana - 3.5 Cu. Ft. 8-Cycle Top-Loading Washer - White - $269.99
Amana - 6.5 Cu. Ft. 11-Cycle Electric Dryer - White - $269.99
Whirlpool - Cabrio 4.3 Cu. Ft. 12-Cycle High-Efficiency Top-Loading Washer - White - $399.99
Whirlpool - Cabrio 7.0 Cu. Ft. 13-Cycle Electric Dryer - White - $399.99
Samsung - 5.0 Cu. Ft. 11-Cycle High-Efficiency Top-Loading Washer - White - $499.99
Samsung - 7.4 Cu. Ft. 11-Cycle Electric Dryer with Steam - White - $499.99 
Hotpoint  3.8 cu . ft. DOE Top Load Washer in White - $349.00
Hotpoint 6.2  cu. ft. Electric Dryer in White - $349.00
GE 3.8 cu. ft. DOE Top Load Washer in White - $359.00
GE 7.2 cu. ft. Electric Dryer in White - $359.00
Samsung 4.5 cu. ft. High-Efficiency Top Load Washer in White, ENERGY STAR - $449.00
Samsung 7.4 cu. ft. Electric Dryer in White - $449.00
Kenmore 3.5 cu. ft. Top Load Washer & 6.5 cu. ft. Dryer Bundle - White - $679.98
Kenmore 3.5 cu. ft. Top-Load Washer & 6.5 cu. ft. Electric Dryer - White - $709.98
Samsung 4.0 cu. ft. Top-Load Washer & 7.2 cu. ft. Front-Load Electric Dryer - White - $759.98
Other retailers have deals on large and small appliances including electric ovens and microwaves. There are also a number of deals for appliances at places like  AJ Madison and Lowe's. 


A Southwest Airlines pilot was arrested Wednesday at St. Louis Lambert International Airport after security officials for the Transportation Security Administration found a loaded 9mm pistol in the first officer’s carry-on luggage.
The 51-year-old unnamed pilot was detained at the Terminal 2 security checkpoint around 4:45 a.m Wednesday, the  St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported. He was arrested on suspicion of unlawful use of a weapon by local authorities after they were alerted to the incident by the TSA. The pilot was reportedly scheduled to board Flight 1106 to Las Vegas.
Police confiscated the man’s Smith and Wesson M&P Shield 9mm pistol, which TSA Spokesperson Mark Howell said was loaded with seven rounds of ammunition at the time of the pilot’s arrest. It was not clear why the pilot had the gun in his carry-on, but he did not have a permit and was not authorized to carry it.
“We are aware of a situation involving a Southwest Pilot at St. Louis Airport,” the carrier said in a statement to International Business Times. “We are currently working alongside the appropriate authorities to gather more information. We have no further information to share at this time.”
UFC champion Tyron Woodley claimed he was on the same Las Vegas-bound flight the pilot was scheduled to board and said he witnessed two individuals handcuffed at security prior to boarding.
“I get there, it’s like 5 a.m. I’m going through pre-TSA, and I see two pilots that are handcuffed,”  Woodley told TMZ on Tuesday. Woodley went on to say that he thought nothing of it until he boarded the flight, which was scheduled to leave at 6 a.m. At departure time, passengers were informed they were missing flight crew needed to fly the plane, Woodley claimed.
“We found out that one of the pilots had a 9mm [pistol] or some type of gun,” he said. Woodley said passengers were compensated with $100 vouchers for the delay.
The St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported Wednesday that charges against the man are pending, and the case has been turned over to St. Louis County prosecutors.
A Southwest airline plane is seen on the tarmac at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport on September 19, 2016 in Phoenix, Arizona. Photo: DANIEL SLIM/AFP/Getty Images


The Trump Organization is worth far less than they have previously stated, according to Crain's New York Business Wednesday. The business magazine said that the company has claimed revenues 10 times larger than what they actually bring in.
The Trump Organization tumbled 37 spots on Crain’s annual list of largest privately held companies in New York City from No. 3 to No. 40. Cain’s relies on companies to self-report revenue figures. New federal filings by President Donald Trump show that the company’s annual revenue falls somewhere between $600 and $700 million, less than one-tenth of the $9.5 billion figure the company had been reporting.
The Trump Organization did not respond to the new list, as well as a request for comment from International Business Times.
“It was obviously important to Donald to have his company at the top of the list and I don't know why he felt that way but the numbers that he presented are just flagrantly untrue,” said Crain’s reporter Aaron Elstein in an interview with WNYC, a public radio station in New York.
In the previous rankings, the Trump organization was next to companies like Hearst and Bloomberg. In the new rankings, the Trump Organization falls just after Bamberger Polymers, Inc. and just before Krasdale Foods, Inc.
The Trump Organization has focused on hotels and luxury condominiums — two real estate sectors that have seen a building boom in New York in the past decade. Since 2008, hotel room stock in the city has increased by 50 percent, reaching 115,000 rooms. New York has seen 9,000 new condos since 2015.
Trump as a brand name also seems to be devalued. The average price per square foot at two of Trump properties in New York have fallen by almost a quarter since 2015, according to the Wall Street Journal. The square footage value of space in Trump Towers has fallen 23 percent and at the Trump International Hotel and Tower on Central Park West, its fallen 24 percent.


Nevada has temporarily called off its first inmate execution in 11 years. Scott Dozier, sentenced for the 2002 murder of his 22-year-old drug associate, Jeremiah Miller, was to be put to death on Nov. 14. Dozier instructed his lawyer in August not to file any more appeals.
On Thursday, Nov. 9, however, Judge Jennifer Togliatti temporarily postponed the execution. Judge Togliatti said she was “loath to stop” Dozier’s execution, but she did so because she was concerned about the untested and controversial drug protocol that would be used to put him to death. She wanted to give the state Supreme Court a chance to evaluate.
From my perspective as a scholar of capital punishment, Nevada’s new drug protocol sheds a glaring light on the troubled state of lethal injections in the United States. It also raises some serious ethical questions.
The first lethal injection protocol was developed by Oklahoma’s medical examiner, Jay Chapman, in the late 1970s. Back then, Oklahoma was looking for an alternative to electrocution, which was considered  inhuman and brutal.
The protocol Chapman developed called for the  use of three drugs : The first, sodium thiopental, would anesthetize inmates and put them to sleep before the lethal drugs were administered. The second drug, pancuronium bromide, a muscle relaxant, was meant to render the inmate unable to show pain. The third drug, potassium chloride, led to a cardiac arrest and eventual death. This protocol soon became the standard and was adopted by all death penalty states –  now numbering at 31.
However, by the start of this decade, pharmaceutical companies, “citing either moral or business reasons,” refused to allow their products to be used in executions.
The difficulty of securing the drugs that had been part of the standard protocol led death penalty states to experiment with many different drugs in many different combinations.
States likes Alabama and Arkansas, for example, maintained the three-drug protocol but replaced sodium thiopental in the standard drug cocktail with midazolam or pentobarbital, which doctors normally use as sedatives or for anesthesia. Other states, including Arizona and Ohio, started using a two-drug protocol, while a few, such as Georgia, Missouri and South Dakota, adopted a single drug.
Nevada’s new protocol involves a three-drug combination – the sedative diazepam (better known as Valium), the muscle relaxant and paralytic cisatracurium and the opioid fentanyl.
My research on methods of execution reveals that this combination of drugs has never been used in an execution.
Execution by a lethal injection, even when it follows the standard protocol, is a surprisingly complicated procedure. Finding usable veins and getting the drug dosages right has proved to be particularly difficult. As I found out, it has often been an unreliable method of execution. Since its introduction, 7 percent of all lethal injections have been botched.
Those complications and difficulties increase when states try out new, untested drugs or drug combinations. Convicts have taken a leading role in opposing such experimentation. In February 2017, a death row inmate in Alabama appealed to the United States Supreme Court saying that he preferred death by firing squad to an injection of midazolam. While it recognized lethal injection’s history of problems, the majority held that since Alabama did not offer the firing squad as an execution method, his preference could not be honored. In a dissenting view, however, Justice Sonya Sotomayor called the use of new drugs in lethal injection the “most cruel experiment yet.”
Nevada’s Dozier too has said that he is opposed to “the state’s plan to kill him using a drug protocol that has never been used in an execution.”
There are other troubling issues as well. Using fentanyl, a drug that is killing thousands of Americans annually during the current opioid crisis, is horrifying, to say the least.
In addition, figuring out the right dosage of diazepam and fentanyl in Nevada’s new protocol will not be easy. And if this is not done correctly, Dozier could even wake up in the middle of the execution, as Susi Vassallo, a New York University professor of emergency medicine, has written on lethal injection notes. In the words of Judge Togliatti, he could be “aware of pain” and struggle to breathe.
Employing the powerful paralytic cisatracurium in this new drug protocol raises other ethical concerns.
If the combination of diazepam and fentanyl fails to work, cisatracurium will prevent Dozier from signaling to his executioners that they are botching the execution even as it happens. As David Waisel, an anesthesiologist at Boston Children’s Hospital, claimed, “Cisatracurium can hide signs of inadequate anesthesia.” That is its only purpose.
In other lethal injection protocols, the muscle relaxant was also designed to stop the heart. Thus, those who conduct the execution and those who witness it will not be able to see the visible signs of Dozier’s suffering if it occurs.
In my view, if Nevada and other death penalty states insist on experimenting with new drugs to keep the machinery of death running, citizens and government officials alike need to take responsibility to prevent any cruelty.
Writing about the use of the guillotine in France more than half a century ago, Albert Camus, philosopher, author and journalist, said,
“Society must display the executioner’s hands on each occasion, and require the most squeamish citizens to look at them, as well as those who, directly or remotely, have supported the work of those hands from the first.”
While lethal injection is different from the guillotine, in modern times the imperative remains the same.
Austin Sarat is Professor of Jurisprudence and Political Science at Amherst College.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.


A team of scientists in the United Kingdom and the U.S. recently reported the discovery of pathological signs of Alzheimer’s disease in dolphins, animals whose brains are similar in many ways to those of humans.
This is the first time that these signs – neurofibrillary tangles and two kinds of protein clusters called plaques – have been discovered together in marine mammals. As neuroscience researchers, we believe this discovery has added significance because of the similarities between dolphin brains and human brains.
The new finding in dolphins supports the research team’s hypothesis that two factors conspire to raise the risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease in dolphins.
Those factors are: longevity with a long post-fertility life span – that is, a species living, on average, many years after the child-bearing years are over – and insulin signaling.
Gallego-Iradi, one of the authors of the paper, began the study on the dolphins’ brains more than a decade ago on the shores of Spain. It took several more years for other researchers to establish the connection between metabolic dysfunction and insulin resistance in dolphins and humans. This recent study also did that.
Together, the insight into the similarities between dolphins and humans has led us to hypothesize that Alzheimer’s and diabetes are diseases not of old age but of a long post-fertility life span.
Alzheimer’s is a progressive brain disease that leads to memory loss and changes in cognitive ability. There is no cure, and the disease ultimately leads to death.
It is hard to overstate the burden of the disease, both on those who are diagnosed with it and their families. It is the sixth-leading cause of deathin the U.S. Deaths from the disease in the U.S. rose 55 percent from 1999 to 2014.
Alzheimer’s disease has two major pathological hallmarks: The development of clusters of a protein called beta-amyloid outside the cells and tangles of another protein called tau inside the cell.
The protein clusters outside the cells are called senile plaques. The tangles inside are called neurofibrillary tangles.
We saw both of these in the brains of the deceased dolphins.
Dolphins belong to an order of mammals called cetaceans that have adapted to live in the water.
Although dolphins live in water and humans live on Earth, dolphins and humans are very much alike in some key ways. In the last 50-60 million years, the brains of dolphins and other cetaceans, including porpoises and whales, have hyperexpanded. So have human brains. This is a process called enchephalization.

Also, as do humans, dolphins have a highly evolved brain development and a very complex social relationship. This brain similarity with humans suggests the possibility that dolphins, as humans, have developed similar molecular machineries and pathological characteristics, including similar neurodegenerative diseases.
And, cetaceans and humans live long. This is important, as longevity is one of the most relevant factors in neurodegenerative diseases. Cetaceans have longevity ranges between 20-100 years, which is enough time to develop brain amyloid deposits.
Some aspects of Alzheimer’s pathology have been reported in a wide range of other animals. Our evolutionary relatives, such as apes and monkeys, and our pets, dogs and cats, develop one of the pathologies, the amyloid pathology. Amyloid plaques also have been described in captive wild animals such as bears.
But to see both plaques and tangles in another species is rare.
We believe this makes our findings in dolphins of both neuritic plaque and tangle pathology in dolphins all the more remarkable.
Cetaceans become stranded many times each year all over the world. This stranding generates alarm, and scientists study to understand why it happens. Some of the factors include poor water quality; animals living in very deep water who detect the shore too late; unbalance and confusion created by Earth’s magnetic field changes; contamination by heavy metals such as mercury, cadmium or zinc; or contamination by compounds such as PCBs and DDTs. Other possible causes are viruses and parasites, traumatic death, predation or fishing mutilation, or ship sonars interfering with animal echolocation.
Dolphins stranded in Spain between 2003 and 2006 led to Gallego Iradi’s findings about the Alzheimer’s pathology.
The samples represented three different species of dolphins (bottlenose, striped and Risso’s) stranded on the coasts of Spain. Their brains all had the same twisted strands and protein clusters in their brain as human patients with Alzheimer’s disease. They also had neuronal loss, strengthening the idea that dolphins and humans could have the same Alzheimer’s pathology.
Years after those findings, other scientists began to explore a possible connection between a failure in insulin signaling and Alzheimer’s.
Dr. Simon Lovestone at the University of Oxford and Dr. Frank Gunn-Moore at the University of Saint Andrews began to develop a hypothesis that this failure in insulin signaling in humans, related to post-fertility longevity, could be a cause of Alzheimer’s in humans.
And here’s another connection.
Cetaceans are uniquely prone to a prediabetes state and are one of the few animals, other than humans, with a naturally long post-fertility life span.
We postulated a linked mechanism that led us to hypothesize that animals with a long post-fertility lifespan would be at risk for both insulin resistance and Alzheimer’s. This hypothesis led us to the prediction that cetaceans and other animals with unusual longevity would be at risk for both insulin resistance and would have Alzheimers’ pathology – a prediction for which we have provided some proof in our recent article.
Maria Carolina Gallego-Iradi is Assistant Scientist at University of Florida.
David Borchelt is Professor, Neuroscience at University of Florida.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.


A recent American Airlines flight from Mexico City to Miami was struck by a bird that became lodged in the plane’s nose mid-flight. The airline confirmed the incident in a statement to International Business Times.
“American Airlines Flight 1498 from Mexico City to Miami encountered a bird strike upon landing Nov. 14. The flight landed safely and taxied to the gate,” the airline said. “The aircraft was temporarily taken out of service as our maintenance team repaired the radome. The aircraft was repaired, and returned to scheduled service later that same day.”
A representative for the carrier  told Fox News in a statement that no one was injured during the incident.
BIRD STRIKE: An American Airlines plane get a bird stuck in its nose cone while landing in Miami. pic.twitter.com/JeAZeYYjUV
&mdash; ABC World News Now (@abcWNN) November 15, 2017

A news clip from ABC captured the aftermath. An unnamed employee told ABC-affiliate WPLG that while carriers do deal with bird strikes, they are “never like this.” It was not clear whether the individual worked for American Airlines, Miami International Airport or another employer.
A flight safety specialist for the British Airline Pilots Association (BALPA)  told the Telegraph earlier this year that bird strikes aren’t usually dangerous.
“Aircraft are designed and built to withstand bird strikes and pilots undergo rigorous training to enable them to deal with eventualities like a bird strike,” Stephen Landells told the Telegraph. “In my flying career I have experienced 10 bird strikes, none of which caused any significant damage. On half the occasions, in fact, due to the small size of the birds, I was not aware that I had hit one until inspecting the aircraft after landing.”
Images of the plane were also shared by the Miami Plane Spotter account on Instagram.
A post shared by Miami Plane Spotter (@planespottermia) on Nov 14, 2017 at 9:18am PST


NutriBullet's maker and distributor, Homeland Housewares, is facing a lawsuit Tuesday after 22 customers claimed to have suffered severe injuries from the Magic Bullet NutriBullet Pro blender system. The $40 blender has reportedly caused cuts, nerve damage and second-degree burns to customers. 
NutriBullet boasts a "powerful, 600-watt motor," according to an advertisement claim. Customers alleged that its motor caused the product to explode because of how quickly the blades were spinning. Many claimed an explosion happened after 15 to 20 seconds of use.
Getting a NutriBullet as a present? It makes more than just smoothies. https://t.co/CpDCHucCdx pic.twitter.com/sl22ln0z6o
— NutriBullet (@thenutribullet) December 12, 2016
Abir Cohen Treyzon Salo, LLP represents the alleged NutriBullet victims. The firm asserts that manufacturers and distributors are required, by law, to warn customers of the product's "hidden dangers."
"Unsafe products due to design and manufacturing defects, like the NutriBullet, can lead to serious injuries, including nerve damage," the law firm wrote on its website. "Product liability laws require manufacturers and distributors of products like the NutriBullet to warn consumers about these often hidden dangers when their consumers are using their products for their intended use."
Rosa Rivera, who is the mother of late Latina singer Jenni Rivera, is among those who claim to have been injured by the product. Rivera spoke to reporters at a Tuesday press conference about the product, saying: "Don't use this product no more because it's dangerous."
NutriBullet released an official statement Tuesday in response to Rivera's allegations.
"Customer safety and satisfaction are paramount at NutriBullet, and we were saddened to learn that Ms. Rivera was injured," NutriBullet said in a statement, according to CBS affiliate KCAL. "It is clear, however, that the plaintiff's attorneys are trying to sway public opinion by orchestrating a publicity campaign that makes a very safe product appear dangerous."
"Reports of our blenders causing injury are extremely rare...We typically find customers have failed to adhere to the operating instructions and warnings provided, but we will have to let the process play out to determine the final cause in this case," NutriBullet added. 

This wouldn't be the first time Homeland Housewares has faced legal complications over the NutriBullet. San Francisco resident Pete Damiano alleged in March 2017 that he had suffered severe injuries after his NutriBullet exploded while he was making hot mango sauce. 
"My client did not have warnings on his device and the user manual had soup recipes on it," Lori Andrus, a lawyer from Andrus Anderson and Damiano's representative, told Fox News in March. "We sued the makers of Magic Bullet, a year ago, for the same suit. We settled the suit, and got them to add the warnings to their manuals."
A Florida couple also accused the manufacturer of negligence in 2016 after a man alleged that the blender caused injury to his wife Dec. 20, 2014. The couple's lawsuit also claimed that damage to their property also occurred because of the NutriBullet. 
Representatives for NutriBlender and the Abir Cohen Treyzon Salo law firm did not immediately return International Business Times' request for comment. 
NutriBullet, pictured December 12, 2016, has come under fire over allegations that their blenders are exploding and causing injury to customers. Photo: NutriBullet/Twitter


Nordstrom was under fire Tuesday after shoppers complained about the limited offerings within its newly launched plus-sized selection. A customer shared pictures on Twitter Oct. 29 following her experience shopping for plus-size items at a branch of the store in Brea, California. She claimed that Nordstrom's selection was "unfortunate," which led others to share their thoughts on the matter. 
The retailer reportedly announced their plans to expand upon its current plus-size offerings after the success in sales from Khloé Kardashian's Good American line, a denim brand that is carried at Nordstrom. The department store capitalized off of the success, which led to the opening of its new Century City location in Los Angeles — the location was set to include extended sizes of denim wear from its brand partners. The all-inclusive expansion carried over to other stores nationwide, including the Brea Nordstrom.  The Brea location, however, received backlash on Twitter for its apparent lacking selection. 
"It's unfortunate that a big brand like Nordstrom's plus size formal dress section is this small compared to 'regular' sizes," one user wrote in an Oct. 29 tweet alongside pictures of Nordstrom's seemingly minuscule plus-size selection.
it's unfortunate that a big brand like Nordstrom's plus size formal dress section is this small compared to "regular" sizes pic.twitter.com/kARNdtWMQa
— sofia a (@sup3random) October 29, 2017
Nordstrom didn't catch wind of the Twitter complaint until Nov. 9, saying: "We're sorry you're disappointed."
"Thanks for the info. Our in-store Manager at the Brea, CA location is aware of this matter," Nordstrom said in a Nov. 11 tweet. "If you'd like to connect with her directly, please don't hesitate to DM us with your best method of contact."
We’re sorry you’re disappointed. We’d like to help connect you with the store manager, can you let us know which location you visited?
— Nordstrom (@Nordstrom) November 9, 2017
Thanks for the info, Sofia. Our in-store Manager at the Brea, CA location is aware of this matter. If you'd like to connect with her directly, please don't hesitate to DM us with your best method of contact - either phone number or email address. Thank you.
— Nordstrom (@Nordstrom) November 12, 2017
Other Twitter users complained that "all their stores are like that" or that there was "very little selection of anything plus sized."
Yup! Don't let @Nordstrom fool you. All their stores are like that. #KingOfPrussiaMall #Pennsylvania
— Nuggett Flavor (@MzFlavor70) November 15, 2017
It's not just formal attire, my local store has very little selection of anything plus sized so I quit shopping there
— NH (@Buffy1962) November 14, 2017
"We're sorry we disappointed the customer who tweeted about her experience at our Brea store. We have varying levels of formalwear in plus sizes in our stores," Pamela Lopez, Nordstrom's PR director, told International Business Times Wednesday. "We know there’s an opportunity to have a more robust plus-size formalwear selection in some of our stores and we’re working on it." 
Added Lopez, "We're always happy to connect customers to a personal stylist who can bring in merchandise from any of our stores and Nordstrom.com so customers can continue to visit their local store for all their shopping needs."
The retailer confirmed in October that it will work towards adding more options and variety to its existing plus-size and petite selections, both in-store and online. Nordstrom asked its brands to add more zeros, 2's, 14's, 16's and 18's. Participating brands initially included Topshop, Rag & Bone, Madewell, Caslon and Halogen. The size selection and brands will also expand by Spring 2018 to 15 additional stores. 
"Our customers have been asking for a broader range of sizes on both sides of the spectrum – the zeros and 2's and beyond size 12," Tricia Smith, Nordstrom's executive vice president and general merchandise manager, said in an October press release. "We recognize the opportunity to serve customers better by having more sizes. Style and fashion apply to everyone. They're not created for a limited group of sizes."
"We don't view being size inclusive any differently than the need to be more inclusive across the board—whether it's ethnicity, size or body type. In our opinion, petite and plus sizes shouldn't be considered special categories. They're just sizes," Smith added. 
Nordstrom has 357 stores in 40 states nationwide. Founded as shoe retailer in 1901, the Seattle-based department store giant, was valued at $7.4 billion in May.
This story has been updated to include a comment from Nordstrom.
Nordstrom, pictured on February 8, 2017 in Miami, first announced its size-inclusive plan in October 2017. Photo: Getty Images


This story is being co-published with Capital & Main
Mark Janus, an Illinois child-support worker, will soon argue before the U.S. Supreme Court that his free speech rights have been violated because he must pay “agency fees” to a union that, inter alia, negotiates contracts on his behalf. Last year California elementary school teacher Rebecca Friedrichs made the same First Amendment arguments at the high court against the teachers association to which she paid agency fees. The court deadlocked on Friedrichs’ complaint following the death of conservative Justice Antonin Scalia, but his replacement, Justice Neil Gorsuch, is widely expected to cast a decisive vote in favor of Janus and against public-sector unions.
California’s labor movement has helped enact some of the most progressive reforms in the country, including the $15 minimum wage, rights for domestic workers and sanctuary state legislation to protect undocumented residents. It has helped to establish the state as a counterweight to the Donald Trump administration. But the Supreme Court is likely to undercut that power when it rules later this term in Janus v. American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Council 31.
“The entire country will become right-to-work with the stroke of pen,” predicted Terence Pell, the president of the Center for Individual Rights at a Heritage Foundation event in Washington D.C. last August.
Pell, whose organization represented Rebecca Friedrichs against the CTA, exaggerated the impact of a  Janus win, but not by much. The decision would affect only public employees, but they comprise the majority of unionized workers in the country. Thirty-four percent of public-sector workers are in unions nationwide, compared to just six percent of those who work for private companies. In California, some 54 percent of public employees hold union cards, while only about nine percent of private-sector workers do, according to unionstats.com.
Millions of public-sector workers would be fair game for anti-union messages from groups on the right, including the Washington state-based Freedom Foundation. “By educating union members about their right to stop paying dues, the Freedom Foundation defunds Big Labor,” a narrator intoned in a videotaped fundraising appeal earlier this year. “That means more money for the workers and less money for liberal politicians.”
Cutting unions off at the knees to curtail their political power is the dream project of some of the nation’s biggest right-wing funders and activists, including the Koch brothers, the Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation ($845 million in assets in 2015) and the State Policy Network (SPN) a consortium of 66 ultra-conservative think tanks with a combined revenue of some $80 million. For years these groups have poured money into anti-union causes in the belief that union-backed Democrats stand in the way of slashing government spending and of privatizing education through more charter schools and school voucher programs.
The SPN director, Tracie Sharp, wrote in a 2016 fundraising letter, “Today, coercive Big Government unions are the biggest sources of funding and political muscle for the Left – but we are also primed right now to deliver the mortal blow to permanently break its stranglehold on our society.” Sharp especially singled out teachers’ unions for her ire.
The Bradley Foundation, whose founder, Harry Bradley, was a member of the John Birch Society, gave out more than $42.5 million in 2015 (the last year for which its tax return is available), including a half-million-dollar grant to the Freedom Foundation. Documents obtained by the Center for Media and Democracy showed that union-busting to defund Democrats has been an aim of Bradley Foundation grant-making for at least 14 years. The documents include notes about many of the foundation’s grants that are similar to one attached to a $100,000 gift to Colorado’s Independence Institute, for “neutralizing the power of Colorado’s teachers’ unions by defunding them at the local school district level.”
Not to be outdone, the Alexandria, Virginia-based Donors Capital Fund, a "donor advised" fund that channels individual contributions to specific causes while allowing contributors—like the Koch brothers and the DeVos family— to remain anonymous, shelled out more than $67 million in 2015. Much of it went to fund an infrastructure of right-wing think tanks and activist groups, including nearly $4 million to the SPN (where Rebecca Friedrichs is now a fellow) and its state affiliates. Donors Capital Fund and its sister fund, Donors Trust, have been conduits for contributors like the Kochs to fund attacks on unions, notably the fight against collective bargaining for public employees in Wisconsin, as Mother Jones reported in 2013.
California groups have yet to attract much of these donors’ largesse, but the opportunity for a big win against labor could change the equation. In Orange County, two SPN affiliates share a Tustin office — the Washington state-based Freedom Foundation and the California Policy Center — and aim to be at the heart of attempts to convince union members to quit paying dues, and to bleed labor treasuries through litigation.
The California Policy Center, founded in 2010, is still small, with more than $800,000 in revenue in 2016, the last year for which its tax return is available. Nonetheless, the organization doubled its revenue in both 2014 and 2015. In 2015, it scored a $120,000 grant from Donors Capital Fund, and a $50,000 assist from the center's parent organization, the State Policy Network.
Robert Loewen, a retired corporate attorney with Gibson Dunn, became chairman of the California Policy Center board four years ago because, he said, he wanted to combat the idea that “people on the left were champions of the little guy. They’re actually hurting the little guy, so it was all a big lie.”
Loewen argued that money from public-sector unions drives the liberal narrative. Politicians are in lock step with labor, Loewen claimed, because of the latter's campaign cash.
But it's not only politicians who Loewen believes are controlled by organized labor.
"The PTA has been corrupted by the unions,” he said. “Somehow or other, they have to find out they’ve been set free,” Loewen said of the teachers he hopes will be emancipated by Janus .
“Someone has to show them – this is how you leave the union.” That someone would be Loewen and his group.
Loewen’s plans to target education unions may seem cribbed from SPN’s playbook, but he denies SPN is involved with his organization.
“That network has nothing meaningful to do with my operations,” Loewen claimed, adding that he was unaware of its $50,000 donation. “If they would come and dump $10 million in my bank account, I would love that.”
Defender of the Little Guy may be an awkward mantle for Loewen and the California Policy Center leaders to take up, given their wealth and backgrounds. But Loewen said his organization has reached beyond its traditional base – in part to combat what he calls "the left’s narrative" that it stands with working people.
Loewen and his board are longtime backers of Republican causes, and the move comes as Orange County voters increasingly turn to the Democratic Party, partly because of a growing Latino electorate. The California Policy Center is a tax-exempt non-profit, despite its desire to affect political change. So far, no one has suggested that the center has violated its tax-exempt status by engaging in overtly political activity, but the Freedom Foundation has recently been accused of doing so in complaints to the IRS and the attorneys general of Oregon and Washington.
Loewen’s organization backs a parent union led by Santa Ana school board member Cecilia Iglesias, who is also community relations director at the California Policy Center. The group joined Anaheim parents at Palm Lane Elementary in a three-year battle to convert their school to a charter.
Last July the group screened the anti-teachers-union documentary Waiting for “Superman” at a Santa Ana restaurant. Afterward, parent-union activist Celia Robles said she participates because her son’s school hasn’t been responsive to her. She joined a school advisory committee, but felt ignored when she questioned budget figures. She said her son’s teacher brushed off her concerns that he’s not sufficiently challenged in the classroom, saying, “He’s doing well enough.”
In reaching out to the grassroots, the California Policy Center may have borrowed from the approach of its fellow SPN affiliate, the Freedom Foundation, which targets individual union members by visiting them at home.
The foundation began the project three years ago when the Supreme Court ruled, in Harris v. Quinn, that nearly a million workers nationwide who care for the elderly and disabled in their homes couldn’t be forced to pay so-called agency fees for union representation if they chose not to join the union.
Following the court’s decision, the Freedom Foundation launched a campaign modeled on union organizing to strip home-care and in-home child care workers’ unions of their memberships in Washington and Oregon, and this year in Orange County, California.
The foundation sought to obtain lists of workers, and set off to connect with them. The group created cable TV ads and a website, optouttoday.com, that encourages home health aides and child care providers to quit paying dues, and instructs them how to do so. It’s also filed lawsuits against unions and launched a failed effort to establish its own union for child care workers to compete against the Service Employees International Union in Washington.
The Freedom Foundation trumpets its own achievements, but payroll records from state agencies in Washington and Oregon show mixed results. In Oregon, union membership among home-care workers had fallen by 40 percent. However, 88 percent of Washington state home-care workers still belonged to the SEIU, while 78 percent of licensed child care workers remained dues-paying members. In Orange County, local Freedom Foundation director Sam Han said it was difficult to track progress because he’s been unable to obtain lists of home-care workers from the state.
“They haven’t changed our ability to win significant wage and benefit improvements,” said Adam Glickman, secretary-treasurer of SEIU Local 775 in Washington. “They haven’t changed our ability to engage in politics and advocate for our members. It’s been a legal nuisance, frankly.”
At SEIU’s Local 925 in Seattle, which represents child care providers, executive vice president Tricia Schroeder agrees. The Freedom Foundation is far from destroying the union in the short term, but her union has had to respond to its attacks, which costs money.
“It’s disheartening as a union leader that that’s the way you spend union dues. I would much rather run stronger contract campaigns and organize.”
That may well be part of the Freedom Foundation's strategy. When it forces unions to fight back, it drains their resources. Its funders certainly seem persuaded that the Freedom Foundation is hitting its mark. The group reported a million-dollar increase in its total revenue in 2015 —  a 50 percent jump from the year before, according to its latest publicly available tax return.
Whether anti-union groups can do as well or better than the Freedom Foundation if Mark Janus wins his case is an open question.
They'd face a very tough sell with teachers, firefighters and police officers, whose unions have achieved middle-class wages, health care and pension plans for their members that are rare outside of the public sector. What’s more, the political muscle that labor has built in California could cause the same right-wing forces that bemoan it to think twice before making a major investment in the state, at least in the immediate aftermath of a pro-Janus  decision.
Several of the unions cited or quoted in this series are financial contributors to Capital & Main.


Famous Barbie doll manufacturer Mattel unveiled their first hijab-wearing Barbie, which was modeled after American fencer Ibtihaj Muhammad, who competed in the 2016 Olympics held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, donning the headscarf.
Apart from the cultural attire, the doll itself is designed after Muhammad, which means the Barbie is dark-skinned, instead of porcelain. Also the doll’s signature miniature waistline, which has often been criticized for being a sex-symbol, has been traded for a curvier figure. The doll comes complete with fencing gear, including a mask, a sabre and training shoes.

"When I think about my own journey, me being a Muslim girl involved in the sport of fencing, there were people who made me feel like I didn't belong," Muhammad said, the Guardian reported. "For all those people who didn't believe in me, this Barbie doll is for you."
“Today, I’m proud to know that little girls who wear a hijab and, just as powerfully, those who don’t, can play with Barbie in a headscarf,” Muhammad added. "She's a Barbie who is strong enough to wield a giant sabre and dedicated enough to spend years working her way to an Olympic medal. I know that the more diverse dolls are offered, the many more inspiring stories girls will be able to tell.”
The Barbie was unveiled by the company at the Glamour's Women of the Year summit. The hijabi Barbie was number 10 in Mattel’s long line up of “Shero Barbies.” Other Barbies in this line up were modeled after inspirational people, who dared to be unique, such as singer Zendaya Coleman, actress Emmy Rossum, singer Kristin Chenoweth and director Ava DuVernay.
So how did Mattel choose their “Sheroes”? According to the Barbie-making company, in order to qualify, a woman should have broken boundaries, be an inspiration for women and, of course, played with Barbie dolls when they were young. Just like Muhammad's, Barbie dolls inspired by Olympic gymnast Gabby Douglas, ballet dancer Misty Copeland and model Ashley Graham, went into production in 2016.
At the time, Mattel had delivered on Copeland’s request that the dolls designed after her should “really reflect a dancer’s body and also not shy away from the fact that I have muscular calves, hips, a bust, and brown skin,” the New Yorker reported. 
Graham also had her specific instructions: “There’s no such thing as a thigh gap on my body. I wanted it to have cellulite, but they said it would look like a mistake.”
When news of the first hijabi Barbie hit the social media, many people were thrilled to find that their favorite childhood dolls were no longer limited to white-skinned, western clothes-wearing versions.







However, there were a few negative reactions to the Barbie, with people rebuking Mattel for designing dolls that teach kids about traditional outfits, which have often been perceived as a sign of oppression.





 


Airbus seems to have edged out its rival Boeing at the ongoing Dubai Airshow, where the European aerospace company signed a deal Wednesday to supply 430 A320neo aircraft to Indigo Partners. The deal between the French aircraft manufacturer and the U.S. group is valued at $49.5 billion, if considering the planes’ list price, Airbus said.

The deal is not final yet, and is only a non-binding memorandum of understanding, but it is still one of the biggest ever in aviation history. The 430 aircraft will be spread across Indigo Partners’ four airlines — Frontier Airlines in the U.S., Volaris in Mexico, Wizz Air of Hungary and JetSmart of Chile. If a single airline were to get all those planes, it would become one of the 10 largest carriers globally.
Also, the list price of aircraft is rarely what they are actually sold at. Usually, airlines get anything between a 40 and 60 percent discount, which could be even more in case of very large orders, like the one announced Wednesday. So even if Airbus was to deliver all 430 aircraft to Indigo, its balance sheet would reflect a number much smaller than the $49.5 billion announced today.
The first A320neo in flight, seen from inside a chase plane on Sept. 25, 2014. Photo: Airbus
The French company has been severely lagging behind its U.S. rival Boeing so far this year, in terms of annual order book tally. During President Donald Trump’s visit to China earlier in November, Boeing signed agreements with China Aviation Suppliers Holding Company to sell 300 aircraft, valued at $37 billion at list prices.
However, if all the deals both the aircraft manufacturers are making in Dubai are confirmed before the end of the year, it would be difficult to predict which of the two would emerge with a bigger order book for 2017, CNN reported.
Airbus also won an order for five of its C-295 MW military transport aircraft at the Dubai Airshow. The UAE armed forces announced the purchase from Airbus Defence And Space.

The Dubai Airshow began Monday and ends Thursday.


Late Tuesday, electric car manufacturer Tesla posted its response to a class-action lawsuit filed against the company a day earlier that accused its production plant in Fremont, California, of being a “hotbed for racist behavior.” Tesla titled its response, posted on its website, “Hotbed of Misinformation.”
Monday’s lawsuit — the most recent against the Elon Musk company by black employees accusing it of ignoring complaints of racist behavior at the workplace — was brought on behalf 100 black workers by Marcus Vaughn, a former employee of the company. In the lawsuit, Vaughn said he was frequently called the n-word by coworkers and superiors since he started working at the Fremont facility in April, and after months of his complaints being ignored (including one in an email to Musk), he was fired in October for “not having a positive attitude.”
Tesla had no comment on the lawsuit Monday, but said Tuesday: “Regarding yesterday’s lawsuit, several months ago we had already investigated disappointing behavior involving a group of individuals who worked on or near Marcus Vaughn’s team. At the time, our investigation identified a number of conflicting accusations and counter-accusations between several African-American and Hispanic individuals, alleging use of racial language, including the ‘n-word’ and ‘w-word,’ towards each other and a threat of violence. After a thorough investigation, immediate action was taken, which included terminating the employment of three of the individuals.”
The company’s statement added it considered its action “fair and just response” to the facts the company knew at the time, and that it would initiate further action if needed.
Signage is displayed outside Tesla Motors before the Tesla Energy Powerwall Home Battery event in Hawthorne, California, April 30, 2015. Photo: Reuters/Patrick T. Fallon
In addition, the Tesla post pointed to a number of “false statements” in the lawsuit against it. First, it said, the reference to 100 workers in Vaughn’s suit was a fabrication, and called him the sole plaintiff. It also clarified Vaughn was not, in fact, fired, but that he was on a six-month contract which expired at the end of October. His email to Musk did not mention any racial discrimination but only concerned Vaughn’s commute and Tesla shuttles, which the company said was “addressed as requested.”
The lawsuit also refers to an email Musk sent to Tesla employees on May 31, in which he wrote: “Part of not being a huge jerk is considering how someone might feel who is part of an historically less represented group. … Don’t ever intentionally allow someone to feel excluded, uncomfortable or unfairly treated. Sometimes these things happen unintentionally, in which case you should apologize. In fairness, if someone is a jerk to you, but sincerely apologizes, it is important to be thick-skinned and accept that apology.”
Vaughn’s lawyer Larry Organ told Bloomberg on Monday: “The law doesn’t require you to have a thick skin. Tesla is not doing enough. It’s somewhat akin to saying ‘stop being politically correct.’ When you have a diverse workforce, you need to take steps to make sure everyone feels welcome in that workforce.”
Tesla released Musk’s email, titled “Doing the right thing,” in its entirety to provide context for his comments the lawsuit refers to. It also referred to Organ as having “a long track record of extorting money for meritless claims.” The company would rather spend more on a trial and clear its name than settle with the plaintiff, it said.
“Our company has more than 33,000 employees, with over 10,000 in the Fremont factory alone, so it is not humanly possible to stop all bad conduct, but we will do our best to make it is as close to zero as possible,” the Tesla statement added.
Shares of Tesla fell 2.12 percent during Tuesday trade on Nasdaq, but had recovered very slightly (up 0.06 percent) during after-hours trade.


Stove Top unveiled on Monday its solution to providing people with an easier way to enjoy more of their Thanksgiving dinner through its "Thanksgiving Dinner Pants." The holiday-inspired pants boast a "Stuffin'-Stretch" waistband that will give wearers the ability to "eat in comfort." 
The food-focused holiday can be known to lead to overeating, despite the average stomach capacity being about 8 cups. Stove Top desires to help alleviate the problem of feeling stuffed through its limited-edition pants. The pants retailed at $19.98, but they sold out moments after becoming available online. 
"Stove Top has created Thanksgiving Dinner Pants: comfortable, stretch-waisted pants with a little bit of Stove Top style," Stove Top said in a Nov. 13 press release. "Family and friends will be envious of your level of comfort at the Thanksgiving table. The unisex, maroon pants feature an over the belly waistband, embellished with iconic Stove Top stuffing imagery and complimented by XXL stuffing print pockets."

Stove Top released a parody video to its YouTube page Monday to help promote the "Thanksgiving Dinner Pants." The video depicts a family that is struggling to regain comfort after feeling "stuck and restricted" from their "delicious, home-cooked meal." The family's frustration appeared to be diminished by the stretchy pants.
"You love having Thanksgiving dinner with your family and enjoying a second serving of a delicious, home-cooked meal," the video's narrator said. "But afterwards, you feel stuck and restricted in your uncomfortable jeans, khakis or slacks. You try to unbutton your pants for relief, but they're too tight. You're trapped!"

The spoofed infomercial video featured a variety of disclaimers but claims: "This is the stuff Thanksgiving is made of and the perfect way to enjoy Thanksgiving dinner in comfort and style."
Stove Top has created stretchable pants that will provide people with more comfort after eating their Thanksgiving meal, pictured are boxes of Stove Top stuffing on November 23, 2009 in San Francisco. Photo: Getty Images


This story is being co-published with MapLight.
Republican state law enforcement chiefs dined with their top donors at President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort last weekend, according to an agenda obtained by MapLight through a public records request.
An agenda for the Republican Attorneys General Association’s fall meeting in Palm Beach, Fla., lists a dinner on Friday at Mar-a-Lago’s Teahouse restaurant for “Edmund Randolph Club” members. The club, named for the nation’s first attorney general, includes donors who give RAGA  at least $125,000 per year.
The reception at Mar-a-Lago was not publicized, and privacy was apparently a priority, despite the resort’s  blurring of lines between private events and White House business. "Cell phone use and picture taking is prohibited in all areas,” the agenda said. “If guests need to take a phone call, they may do so in the guest reception area or outside."
Since Trump was elected,  corporate lobbyists and  foreign leaders have made frequent use of his family’s hotels. While Trump has publicly handed off his private business enterprise to his adult sons, he hasn’t divested from it. The assets  are being held in trust for him, raising questions about whether the president is violating the emoluments clause of the U.S. Constitution, designed to prevent the nation’s leaders from financial gains during their time in the White House.
Though Trump  has spent at least 25 days at Mar-a-Lago since becoming president, he was traveling in Asia on a 12-day tour during the RAGA reception at the club. The agenda was obtained by MapLight through a public records request to Nebraska Attorney General Doug Peterson, one of 29 Republican attorneys general.
The White House and RAGA did not immediately respond to questions from MapLight.
The association, a 527 organization that can raise unlimited amounts from individuals and corporations, has enjoyed  a surge in funding during the Obama administration, as attorneys general  banded together to challenge new environmental, healthcare and immigration regulations. After he was elected, Trump chose a previous RAGA chairman, former Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt, to lead the Environmental Protection Agency.
RAGA donors have included the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest lobbying group; Koch Industries, the global conglomerate run by libertarian billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch; and the Judicial Crisis Network, a conservative “dark money” organization that  is helping Trump remake the federal court system.
State officials attending the meeting were invited to participate in a wide range of excursions, from golf outings or trips to local museums, to catamaran tours on Florida’s Intracoastal Waterway. The attorneys general were scheduled to hold 45-minute fundraisers together in groups of three or four officials. RAGA pulled in $7.3 million in donations during the first six months of 2017, after  raising $19.3 million between 2015 and 2016.
The attorneys general were also treated to a high-profile slate of conservative speakers. A day after the Mar-a-Lago event, RAGA was scheduled to hold a dinner for top donors at The Breakers, a luxury Palm Beach hotel that’s on the National Register of Historic Places, with U.S. Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta. Last year, Republican attorneys general  sued the Labor Department over an Obama administration rule that would have made 4 million workers eligible for mandatory overtime pay. Acosta  moved to undo the rule before it was  struck down by a district court.
Top RAGA donors were invited on Sunday to a lunch event moderated by National Review editor Rich Lowry. Later that day, there was a reception featuring U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla. On Monday, recently retired Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, now a Fox News contributor, moderated a panel on "rule of law restoration" under Trump.
View RAGA Fall Meeting on Scribd



A recent listeria outbreak traced to a kitchen at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) has led a handful of airlines to suspend using an on-site catering company for flight meals. American Airlines, Virgin Australia and Delta Air Lines all reported they have temporarily stopped using Gate Gourmet after a recent inspection found traces of listeria at its facilities.
Listeriosis is typically caused by ingesting contaminated food, according to the CDC. An estimated 1,600 cases of listeriosis in the U.S. are reported annually, and pregnant women, newborns, older adults and people with weakened immune systems are most susceptible. Symptoms include muscle aches, stiff neck, fever and confusion. They can appear similar to those of the flu in women who are pregnant.
American Airlines told International Business Times in a statement that it “ceased using” Gate Gourmet for its onboard catering on Nov. 1. However, the airline clarified that signs of listeria were found neither on food nor in food preparation surfaces during the inspection.
“Based on our concerns over the progress of the action plan, we made the decision to suspend the use of catering from this location,” American Airlines said. “While no reports of illness related to the LAX Gate Gourmet catering operation have been reported to American, out of an abundance of caution, we made this decision because we felt it was the right thing to do for our customers and team members. Although we use Gate Gourmet as a caterer in other locations, we currently do not have any information that suggests that Listeria has been detected at any other facility.”
The carrier added that those who do not “receive their standard catering service will receive an electronic travel voucher for use on a future flight.”
A passengers waits for a Delta Airlines flight in Terminal 5 at Los Angeles International Airport, May 4, 2017 in Los Angeles, California. Photo: ROBYN BECK/AFP/Getty Images
Delta Air Lines announced last week that it “has temporarily adjusted catering operations so Gate Gourmet can take more aggressive actions to further improve food safety,” according to Forbes.
“This move is out of an abundance of caution for the health and safety of our customers,” Delta Air Lines said in a statement. “Delta has made alternate catering arrangements so there is no interruption to its on-board food offerings.”
Virgin Australia alerted its passengers to the incident last week, Forbes reported. The airline — which runs between Sydney and LAX — said in a statement that “there will be limited catering available on flights from Los Angeles.” As the result, the carrier is reportedly providing customers with food vouchers.
American Airlines said in its statement that Gate Gourmet was cooperating with state and federal officials and “immediately implemented a comprehensive corrective action plan to address this issue.” The airline added that it brought in its own outside experts to review and monitor the incident.
“While no reports of illness related to the LAX Gate Gourmet catering operation have been reported to American, out of an abundance of caution, we made this decision because we felt it was the right thing to do for our customers and team members,” the airline told IBT. “Although we use Gate Gourmet as a caterer in other locations, we currently do not have any information that suggests that Listeria has been detected at any other facility.”
Gate Gourmet spokeswoman Catherine Nugent told Forbes that Gate Gourmet remains “committed to delivering a safe and efficient service.”
“We reaffirm that our LAX facility is operating without restriction and continues to comply with all local and federal regulations,” Nugent said. “When we identified the issue on non-food contact areas at our LAX catering kitchen, we immediately enacted our remediation cleaning protocols with an aggressive treatment and comprehensive testing plan.”


Gym lovers will no longer need to have joined a particular fitness club to access it. POPiN, a new app that removes the barriers to accessing fitness spaces, offers a flexible pay-per-minute method as a supplement to any user's regular workout plan.
A variety of fitness apps have emerged with aims to enhance how individuals workout. While not a direct competitor to subscription-based apps like ClassPass, POPiN offers a cheaper alternative for those looking to get the most out of their workout experience. 
"POPiN isn't a replacement for a regularly used gym membership. It's really more of a supplement," Dani Richmand, a marketing and media relations representative for POPiN, told International Business Times Tuesday. "Most of our users have gym memberships they are happy with. They use POPiN when their gym isn't convenient. For example, while traveling or commuting for work.  Some POPiN users have even selected to join gyms on our platform."
Popping into one of our favorite locations for an afternoon workout. @mercedesclubnyc has INCREDIBLE facilities, but don't just take our word for it. Download POPiN to access to this exclusive club and see for yourself!
A post shared by Popin (@popinnyc) on Jul 20, 2017 at 1:19pm PDT
Many POPiN users may possess gym memberships, but this isn't a requirement to access the app. POPiN allows its users to find premium gyms nearby that accommodate an individual's schedule and wallet. With per-minute rates between $0.14 and $0.26, a 45-minute workout would cost anywhere between $6.30 and $11.70. It also allows users to mix up their regular regimen. 
POPiN users check into a participating gym by scanning a QR code. The app keeps track of the user's time at the facility until they return to the front desk to check out. POPiN will then calculate the total an individual owes for their workout in the app. 
The app's features are only accessible at six New York City gyms at this time, but two additional gyms will be available through the app soon. There are also potential plans to expand to other metropolitan cities, including the on the West Coast. 
"POPiN is looking at the west coast as a possible next destination," Richmand told IBT. "Until then, the focus is on perfecting the model in New York and expanding to additional locations in all five boroughs."
CompleteBody Chelsea,  Limelight Fitness and Mercedes Club are among the growing list of gyms that are included in the POPiN network. 
Founded in July 2017, POPiN's CEO wanted to find a way to benefit from the money-making side of the fitness industry.  
"I said to myself, 'What would something like that in the fitness industry look like?'" POPiN CEO Dalton Han said on Nov. 1 to Fast Company. "With technology, we can really make it frictionless to walk into a health club. I knew there has to be a better design, a better way to do this."
POPiN is available in Apple's App Store and Android's Google Play. 
New app allows users to pay by the minute to access premium gyms in NYC, pictured is a fitness studio in Austria May 15, 2008. Photo: Getty Images


It’s no secret that climate change has disastrous consequences for  coastal real estate and  drought-stricken farmland, but the rise in global temperatures harbors potentially serious implications for a sector thrust into political focus in recent decades: manufacturing.
In a new  study examining the impact of hotter weather on half a million Chinese manufacturers over the decade spanning 1998 to 2007, researchers found that an extra day of extreme heat, defined as exhibiting temperatures above 90 degrees Fahrenheit, leads to roughly half a percentage point drop in output, or nearly $10,000 for the average firm,  in 2017 dollars.
That may seem miniscule, but that’s just one firm, and one day. In aggregate, the study authors note, rising temperatures could cost the global market for manufacturing products billions by the middle of the 21st century. In China — which  became the world’s largest manufacturing nation, a title long held by the U.S., in 2010 — an annual one-degree shift in temperatures would lower the country’s manufacturing sector’s gross domestic product by close to a full percentage point, the study estimated.
Given China’s position as “essentially the factory of the world,” with its manufacturing products constituting 12 percent of global exports, there are sure to be ripple effects in the form of higher prices for products purchased by the U.S. and other nations, said Kyle Meng, an assistant professor at the University of California at Santa Barbara and one of the study’s authors. More specifically, the $47 billion loss (  in 2017 dollars ) to Chinese manufacturers’ output as a result of climate change projected by the study could lead those firms to raise their prices to compensate.
“We all know China is the world’s  biggest emitter” of carbon dioxide, Meng said. “Our hope is that this would potentially lead to greater urgency on the part of both businesses in China and the government in China to greatly reduce their emissions.”
However disastrous for manufacturers on average, a temperature increase wouldn’t damage the productivity of all industries under that umbrella in equal measure, the authors noted.
Meng said he and his fellow researchers — from the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Duke Kunshan University in China’s Jiangsu province and his own department at UCSB — had expected that higher-technology sectors, those least likely to involve laborers working outside, would see little impact. But, to their surprise, the effects of hotter weather were evenly spread between high- and low-technology producers, as well as between those relying predominantly on labor and those relying predominantly on capital, such as machinery and other equipment.
But certain industries, such as coal and iron mining, fared far better than others; in fact, those sectors saw slight increases in production, though those increases both amounted to less than 7 percent by mid-century. For plastics, textiles, and nonmetal mining, however, the results were more worrisome, with output declining by close to 20 percent roughly over the same period. For rubber and timber industries, production was projected to fall by roughly a quarter. The drop in output from China’s textile industry, in light of its sheer size, would prove most costly, with a $4.3 billion loss by the middle of the 21st century as a result of climate change.
While China ratified the  Paris Climate agreement, a landmark accord of nearly 200 parties working to avoid a rise in global temperatures of two degrees Celcius, in September, President Donald Trump, a vocal supporter of American manufacturing on the campaign trail,  announced in June that the U.S. would withdraw.

Whatever the impact of rising temperatures on manufacturers, the private sector appeared to foresee the costs. The chief executive of Dow Chemical Co., which  lobbied Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency on the Climate Accord during the second quarter of 2017,  publicly bashed Trump in the wake of the decision. The CEO of manufacturing behemoth Unilever Inc., which explicitly advocated for its “support for climate change & Paris Climate Agreement,” according to federal lobbying forms, said the “enormous outcry” over the decision was likely pushing companies to reduce their carbon footprints by innovating their technologies with a new sense of urgency.


This report is being co-published with Capital & Main.
Mark Janus, an Illinois child-support worker, will soon argue before the U.S. Supreme Court that his free speech rights have been violated because he must pay “agency fees” to a union that, inter alia, negotiates contracts on his behalf. Last year California elementary school teacher Rebecca Friedrichs made the same First Amendment arguments at the high court against the teachers association to which she paid agency fees. The court deadlocked on Friedrichs’ complaint following the death of conservative Justice Antonin Scalia, but his replacement, Justice Neil Gorsuch, is widely expected to cast a decisive vote in favor of Janus and against public-sector unions.
A conservative U.S. Supreme Court may be preparing to drop a bomb on the country’s public sector unions, but California has heard it ticking for years. When the court agreed to hear Janus v. American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 31 , Joshua Pechthalt, president of the California Federation of Teachers (CFT), said his union and others in the state had already been working to absorb the blow. The case could strip public agency unions of much of their funding, and he admitted the effects on California’s labor movement could be devastating. Or, for some of the same reasons, they could be reinvigorating.
“I think [Janus] is going to hurt, but it need not be the end of the world,” said Pechthalt. “Frankly, we’re going to have to do the kind of organizing that we should have been doing all these many years. I think the labor movement got a little bit complacent.”
In states like Wisconsin, Kentucky, Iowa and Michigan, where Republican state administrations have slashed union power in recent years, the Janus case looks to be a crippling blow in a national turn against unions. But California is going the other way, passing pro-union legislation such as a 2017 bill guaranteeing union access to government employees during job orientations. The Golden State is an exception in the national labor movement's fortunes, and Janus will put that status to the test.
While non-union workers in a unionized department are not required to pay full union dues,  under a unanimous 1977 U.S. Supreme Court case called   Abood v. Detroit Board of Education, they must pay lesser fees to support contract bargaining, from which they benefit.
In a statement to Capital & Main, Diana Rickert of the Illinois-based Liberty Justice Center, which is representing Janus, wrote: “Today, Mark Janus and more than 5.5 million other government employees in America are forced to pay money to a union in order to keep their jobs . . . The First Amendment gives everyone the right to choose which organizations they will and won’t join or support financially.”
Momentum for this argument has been building for years. In the 2014 U.S. Supreme Court case Harris v. Quinn, the court ruled that homecare workers in Illinois did not have to pay agency fees because they were not truly public employees, and Justice Samuel Alito, writing for the majority, basically   invited  more challenges to Abood.
The two organizations representing Janus, including the National Right to Work Legal Defense Foundation, seem poised for a victory. Nelson Lichtenstein, a labor historian at the University of California, Santa Barbara, pointed out the potential danger for organized labor, noting that from one-third to about one-half of all people represented by a union are not members of that union, and may choose not to pay agency fees.
“If unions play things wonderfully, it will just make life more difficult for them. And if they don’t, it’ll just be a disaster,” Lichtenstein added.
And so all eyes turn to California. Though it does not have the high percentages of union members found in New York, Alaska and a few other states, California’s labor movement has a reputation as the most innovative in the country.
Ruth Milkman, a labor expert at the City University of New York and a former longtime professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, points out that the state earned this reputation, paradoxically, by having a relatively backwater movement during the height of industrial unionization. With less heavy industry than states like Michigan, Ohio or Pennsylvania had earlier in the 20th century, the labor movement in California – and particularly the Service Employees International Union, or SEIU – would later focus sharply on organizing the service sector, with its hospital and government workers, and even the entertainment industry.
When globalization shifted heavy manufacturing to Mexico, South America and Asia toward the end of the last century, gutting powerful unions like the United Auto Workers and the United Steelworkers, service unions were poised to grow and California knew better than anyone how to do it.
“In the late 20th century and continuing into the new century, the SEIU became the engine of growth for organized labor,” said Milkman.
Justice Neil Gorsuch joins the Supreme Court, 2017 Photo: Alex Wong / Getty Images
California is the place, Milkman notes, where new classes of workers are created. She points to the late-1990s SEIU campaign to recruit home health-care workers. They were categorized as independent contractors paid by Medi-Cal and thus not eligible for unionization, but the SEIU and others prevailed on the administration of Gov. Gray Davis and the state legislature and passed a 1999 law making these workers public employees and changing their eligibility. This precipitated what Milkman called the biggest National Labor Relations Board election in American history, adding that it brought nearly 100,000 homecare workers into the SEIU – a move that has since been replicated around the country, and then with publicly funded childcare workers, as well.
Similarly, California unions have a legacy of organizing immigrant labor, building off the pioneering efforts of Cesar Chavez and the United Farm Workers. This work is still evident in the SEIU’s Justice for Janitors campaign that began in the late 1980s and continues today. California unions have also been firmly behind the campaign for a $15 hourly minimum wage, which many see as a first step to organizing fast-food workers.
“A lot of the success that [California unions have] had over the past two decades can be attributed to their success in the political arena, and that has created a more stable environment, particularly for public sector unionism, but also for unionism generally,” said John Logan, a labor historian at San Francisco State University. “While in the rest of the country, at the state level, there’s been a number of very brazen attacks on unionism, particularly after [Republican electoral gains in] 2010.”
Post-Janus, California unions will certainly lose some of the money that gave them that political clout, but they still have the benefit of a pro-union state government.
California bucks national trends by still creating quite a bit of pro-union legislation. Logan noted there have been proposals about changes to the right of fair representation, so that non-union members in a post-  Janus  era would have to either pay for the union to represent them in a grievance or have the option of hiring a private attorney. But California, like every other state, is restricted by the National Labor Relations Act, so there are only so many legislative responses possible. The principal response to Janus is a call for old-school grassroots organizing.
“A number of our unions and our affiliates are using this as a time to go back to basics,” said Angie Wei, chief of staff at the California Labor Federation. “Which is one-on-one conversations, member-to-member, at the worksites. And building a permanent structure for the union … building power from the ground up.”
“Some of the [agency fee] people have just never been talked to about the union and don’t understand it,” said Bob Schoonover, President of SEIU Local 721 in Southern California. Like the public in general, he said, these workers are largely unaware of union influence in matters beyond members’ wages and benefits. For instance, California unions are also solidly behind single-payer health care, and property tax reform and increased school budgets.
Schoonover pointed out that his local was part of a health-care reorganization under the Affordable Care Act in Los Angeles County, which brought public health, mental health and the hospital system under one umbrella, making it more efficient for everyone. This is how unions can demonstrate their importance to all working people.
“The thing about a union, [like] the NRA or the Chamber of Commerce, is they’re there all the time,” said Nelson Lichtenstein. “In contrast to Democratic Party campaigns or Bernie Sanders rallies, they don’t go away. They have their people in there lobbying. That is important.”
Planned Parenthood is another one of these permanent institutions, Lichtenstein noted, but he added that progressives have very few others. The Right has more: mega-churches, business groups, phalanxes of think tanks. So both unions and Planned Parenthood are under attack all the time. “I link the two because both are kind of organizational, social institutions that are widespread and have constituencies. The Right understands that’s a threat.”
The CFT's Joshua Pechthalt said it’s a defining moment for labor. “This is sort of a new period of American history: When people don’t see a collective response as being valuable, or possible, they opt for individual answers,” he said. “We have to win people over to the fact that we’re stronger when we stick together in a union.”
Several of the unions cited or quoted in this series are financial contributors to Capital & Main.


Presidential candidate Donald Trump was an outspoken critic of pharmaceutical companies and high drug prices. He told prospective voters that he’d allow Medicare to negotiate with drug companies. President-elect Trump said Big Pharma was “getting away with murder” with its exorbitant prices for drugs and said he would bring those costs down.
On Monday, roughly 10 months later, Trump formally nominated Alex Azar, the former president of Eli Lilly’s U.S. operation, to run the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), which oversees the Food and Drug Administration. A Senate committee plans to hold a hearing very soon.
As a former Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services and private sector executive, Alex Azar has the qualifications and experience to get results. The Senate HELP committee will promptly schedule a hearing on his nomination.
— Sen. Lamar Alexander (@SenAlexander) November 13, 2017
Not only did Azar  work at Eli Lilly for 10 years, the final five of which he was president, he was a board member of the Biotechnology Innovation Organization (BIO), the primary lobbying group for the biotech industry, of which Eli Lilly is a  member. Azar left both positions in January to launch a biopharmaceutical and health care consulting firm, Seraphim Strategies LLC. Should he become HHS secretary, he’d be overseeing Eli Lilly and his former clients. Prior to joining Eli Lilly, Azar was deputy HHS secretary under President George W. Bush.
The political strategies of Eli Lilly, BIO and another industry lobbying group, including efforts to fight drug pricing transparency and defend their patents in order to keep prices high, shed light on the pro-industry approach that Azar is likely to take as HHS director, should he be confirmed.
Pharma Giants Fight Nevada Over Transparency
In June, the Nevada state legislature passed a law to increase transparency in drug pricing, requiring companies to disclose information on manufacturing, marketing and advertising costs and profits for essential diabetes drugs. It also targets pharmacy benefit managers and aims to obtain information about confidential rebates.
Eli Lilly is one of the biggest manufacturers of diabetes drugs and has come under intense criticism for consistently increasing the price of these drugs. The cost of two key insulin drugs rose quickly while Azar was president of the company; Humalog and Humulin increased in price by approximately 21 percent in 2014, 17 percent in 2015, 7.5 percent in 2016, and 8 percent in the first quarter of 2017, according to an October  letter to Trump from three Democratic members of Congress opposing the Azar nomination.
Re Trump's new HHS pick, a former exec at Eli Lilly, here's a chart of insulin prices set by Lilly and its primary competitor Novo Nordisk pic.twitter.com/C2W4PLe5vN
— Owen Davis (@odavis_) November 13, 2017
BIO and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), a major drug industry trade group of which Eli Lilly is  a member, filed a  lawsuit on Sep. 1 against Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval and the state’s Health and Human Services director, alleging the law violates the Constitution and risks their member companies’ important trade secrets and patents.
Azar has  acknowledged that drug prices are too high, but his professional pedigree does not indicate that significantly lowering drug prices — and, thus, drug company profits — will be at the top of his agenda. According to the three members of Congress who wrote the letter to Trump — Raul Grijalva (D-Arizona), Mark Pocan (D-Wisconsin) and Jan Schakowsky (D-Illinois) — Azar “played a key role in creating the very pharmaceutical industry practices that [Trump has] pledged to end.”
Will Azar Exercise His Department’s ‘March-in’ Rights?
Because a substantial amount of funding for pharmaceutical research comes from federal government agencies such as the National Institutes of Health (NIH), regulators reserve the right to license drug patents as a means of reining in skyrocketing prices. The federal government has faced mounting pressure to use those so-called “march-in” rights, established by the 1980  Bayh-Dole Act, in recent years, but hasn’t done so.
In September, for instance, the nongovernmental organization Knowledge Ecology International wrote a  letter to Trump’s Domestic Policy Council director and a senior adviser to then-HHS Secretary Tom Price, asking the agency to use its march-in rights to lower the “excessive” price of a multiple sclerosis (MS) medication known as Zinbryta, which is marketed by both AbbVie Inc. and Biogen Inc. The price of 150 milligrams of the drug in the U.S., $7,390, towered above the cost for the same amount in similarly developed countries; in Sweden, for example, 150 mg of Zinbryta cost $1,737, the group wrote.
A month earlier, Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD) and Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT),  sent letters to  Biogen and six other companies asking them to describe their MS treatment drug pricing strategies, citing a 2015  study on such medications in the journal Neurology. The paper found that MS treatment “costs have accelerated at rates well beyond inflation and substantially above rates observed for drugs in a similar biologic class,” and urged “clinicians, payers, and manufacturers in the United States to confront the soaring costs.”
Companies, consumer protection groups and members of Congress have unsuccessfully pushed the NIH to exercise these rights  six other times in the past two decades.
Azar’s former employer makes clear its stance on patent privileges,  stating on its website that it “supports strong and effective protection of intellectual property rights, including patent protection for pharmaceutical products.” In the post, Eli Lilly warns that threats to such protections could have a “chilling effect on the industry’s ability to bring new lifesaving medicines to patients around the world.”
Several months before Azar  was promoted to president of the firm’s U.S. affiliate, Eli Lilly helped another company fight to protect private control of patents in a 2011 lawsuit over the extent to which Bayh-Dole protected private ownership of inventions, even when the invention was partially funded by the government at a university.  
In the 2011 Supreme Court case, Eli Lilly was among half a dozen companies that jointly filed an  amicus curiae brief supporting the defendant, a diagnostic products firm accused by Stanford University of unauthorized use of an HIV testing patent developed by a Stanford faculty member both while he worked at the school and later during his employment by the company. Although part of the researcher’s funding came from the NIH, the defendant, Roche Molecular Systems Inc.,  was ultimately victorious.    
“The Bayh-Dole Act does not diminish inventors’ rights in their inventions,” the firms wrote. “Congress could not have intended the Bayh-Dole Act to generate such unsettling and disquieting results.”
James Love, the director of KEI, the organization pressing the federal government to exercise its march-in rights, told International Business Times that “we’ll have to wait and see” how the former Eli Lilly executive reacts to calls for the invocation of Bayh-Dole, especially as Trump himself has been silent on the issue.
“Azar has got to figure out what his job is — if it’s protecting drug companies or if it’s protecting American consumers,” Love said. “I’m sure that Azar will be questioned about it in his confirmation hearing.”
A Lobbying Blitz During Trump Presidency
In late January, Trump  met with a collection of CEOs from the top pharmaceutical companies, including David Ricks, the former CEO and current chairman of the Indiana-based Eli Lilly and Company. Drug companies have increased their lobbying presence this year to ward off legislation that would hurt their profits.
Eli Lilly has been active on the lobbying front, advocating for its interests in intellectual property issues over much of the past decade — including,  most recently, negotiations of the North Atlantic Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which contains measures for strict patent protections — according to the  federal lobbying database. The lobbying group PhRMA  lobbied  Congress on “Bayh-Dole march-in rights policy issues” as recently as the third quarter of this year.
The drugmaker has additionally lobbied the department Azar was selected to lead on  drug importation and online sales,  trade issues,  health care reform implementation,  drug pricing,  patent reform and  promotion of public-private partnerships over the last year, federal lobbying records show. In total, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics, Eli Lilly has reported spending $5.7 million on lobbying efforts so far in 2017.
The two major trade groups that Eli Lilly is part of have been lobbying furiously this year as the Trump administration works out its position on drug pricing and regulations. PhRMA had a  big increase in lobbying in 2017’s first quarter, spending about one-third more than it had during that period in 2016 and making it the country’s third-largest federal lobbying organization. So far this year, PhRMA has reported spending nearly  $20 million on federal lobbying. In addition to march-in rights, PhRMA has lobbied HHS, the Food and Drug Agency and/or the Centers For Medicare and Medicaid Services on  drug  pricing,  Medicaid prescription drug benefits,  several bills aimed to increasing transparency and reducing costs of medications, and pharmacy benefit manager  disclosure requirements.
BIO has spent  $7 million on lobbying this year, already more than in 2016, and has lobbied Congress, HHS and other agencies on  drug pricing,  renegotiating NAFTA,  march-in rights,  patents and  drug importation bills, among other issues.
A Friend To Pence
Azar has connections to a pivotal member of the White House administration. Eli Lilly is headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana, where Vice President Mike Pence was governor from 2013 to 2017. In 2010, Azar personally  contributed $500 to Pence’s U.S. House campaign, records compiled by the National Institute on Money in State Politics show. Then, in 2012, he gave Pence’s Indiana gubernatorial campaign nearly $3,000. In 2016, before Pence withdrew his candidacy for governor, Azar donated $1,000.
Eli Lilly has been a  major supporter of Pence’s political career. Its political action committee gave $8,700 to Pence’s 2010 House campaign, $21,550 to his 2012 run for governor, and $25,000 to his 2016 gubernatorial campaign.
Azar’s numerous conflicts-of-interest have led the three U.S. representatives to sharply criticize his nomination, “Mr. Azar’s appointment would send a very clear signal that your Administration is happy to put the pharmaceutical fox in charge of the health care henhouse,” reads their letter to Trump. “It would also be a perfect example of revolving door practices that are undermining the public’s trust in their federal government.”
Correction (11/14/17 at 10 AM): A previous version of this article stated that Trump, during his campaign, pledged to allow Medicaid to negotiate drug prices. He promised to allow Medicare to do so.


The nation’s largest student loan servicer systematically helped hike interest rates on borrowers and saddle them with crushing debts, according to a lawsuit filed by Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro. The suit comes just as President Trump and Education Secretary Betsy DeVos have  delayed new rules designed to protect student borrowers.
The case against Navient is a politically bold — and some might say risky — move for Shapiro, a first-term Democrat who has been considered a rising political star. The company is a corporate powerhouse that employs roughly 1,000 people in Pennsylvania. But in a podcast interview with International Business Times, Shapiro said he felt obligated to challenge the company in court after his office reviewed a flood of borrowers’ complaints to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Subscribers can click here to listen to the entire podcast interview.  
“The allegations are completely unfounded and the case was filed without any review of Pennsylvania residents' customer accounts,” said Navient spokeswoman Patricia Christel in a statement emailed to IBT. “We comply with the rules that govern the student loan program as set by Congress and the U.S. Department of Education, and there are no allegations that we have violated these rules. Navient is a leader in helping student loan borrowers succeed; in fact, 49 percent of balances serviced by Navient for the government are enrolled in income-driven repayment plans and Navient-serviced borrowers are 37 percent less likely to default than those serviced by others. We will vigorously defend our record in court, and are confident we will prevail following an impartial review of the facts.”
During a wide-ranging discussion with IBT, Shapiro explained the details of his case against Navient, and argued that the company’s behavior harmed not only student borrowers, but the entire American economy. He also slammed the Trump administration for its attempts to neuter the CFPB, and he talked about how as a progressive Democrat he was able to win office in 2016 in Pennsylvania, the same year Trump won the state. 
What follows is a lightly edited excerpt of the interview with Shapiro. 
Your lawsuit is against one company, Navient — but that company is not just any company. It is the largest student loan servicer in the entire country. Why did you file this suit?
Navient had preferred status by many colleges. They were literally touching the lives of millions of college students and their families. In a nutshell, they did a number of things wrong…
Number one, they were charging people excessively high interest rates, and number two, these companies have a responsibility to work with the student, to work with their families, and put them in a proper repayment plan for them. By putting them in the wrong repayment plan, sometimes the effect is a student would have to pay off their loan for more years than they otherwise should have. Sometimes they were put into a repayment plan that spiked the interest rates. Sometimes they were put in a repayment plan that ended up costing them more in interest than principal.
There is one example, by putting folks who would have qualified for a different repayment plan, they put them into something that ultimately cost nearly $4 billion in interest charges to the principal balances of 1.5 million student borrowers who were in forbearance. That's $4 billion. Just to be clear, that doesn't mean that the students have paid the full $4 billion, but they were in the process of paying that. If they were forced to take these loans to the end, it would have totaled about $4 billion. That is absolutely abhorrent behavior, and it's behavior that we simply can't let stand. That's why we took this action of filing a lawsuit to try and hold Navient accountable.
You note in the complaint that Navient saw "extremely rapid growth in the riskiest category of subprime lending.” Do you think there is a parallel to what happened in the housing crisis with lending to subprime borrowers and offering high-interest mortgage rates? 
I think that the parallel here is that both the housing crisis and what we're alleging Navient did wrong with their student loan business, it involved economics and ethics. Economics in that the company was trying to jack up the amount of money they could make, in this case on the back of students, and ethics, in that in both instances, ethical leadership would have steered them away from these kinds of predatory practices, steered them away from these kinds of widespread abuses.
I think the parallels also demonstrate that we need tougher regulations. Some of that we can do at the state level, here in Pennsylvania and other states. Some of that is going to have to come from Congress. What I have seen from this Congress and this president is that they seem to be walking away from regulation in this area, making it easier for these kinds of predatory practices to continue. That to me is very dangerous. It's dangerous for consumers, for students, for families. Before it was the housing crisis. 
Now it's preying on student loan holders. Who knows what's next? We've got to get this right, and it's going to require more action in Washington, and action by attorneys general like me in the states.
Navient could argue that it has to charge less creditworthy borrowers a higher interest rate to make sure the lenders don’t lose money. What do you say to that? 
[Navient] failed to put struggling borrowers into repayment plans that that borrower could afford. That is their requirement, Navient's, to put them in that proper repayment plan. When borrowers like you're describing have trouble repaying their student loans, they have a right to apply for income-driven repayment plans that would bring with it lower monthly premiums, lower monthly payments.
They're not allowed, because some student is struggling, and there's maybe more of a risk to Navient, to just jack up the interest rates, to extend the payment plans, to really take advantage of this person who is maybe lower income, has fallen on tough times, whatever the case may be. In fact, they have an ethical and legal responsibility to work with that student, to work with that family, to help them be in a position where they can in fact pay off their loan, but do it under terms that are responsible and reasonable. 
These income-driven repayment plans spell that out. We believe Navient did not follow that. We believe Navient instead took advantage of this class of individuals.
You argue that Navient was moving struggling borrowers into forebearance, rather than income-driven repayment plans. Explain the difference between those two options. 
In its basic terms, an income-driven repayment plan says, "You've fallen on tough times. Your income went down, whatever the case may be. We're going to proportionally adjust your repayment plan so that you can pay back your loan and also still be able to afford your mortgage, and food, and taking of your children, whatever the case may be." 
Forbearance, where they were steering a lot of people toward, they say, "We're going to forgive your payment for now," but in exchange for that, what they really don't tell you but they are doing, they're jacking up the interest rates, and essentially extending the loan on the back end and dramatically increasing the cost of the loan for the student, for the individual. While at first glance, at first blush it might sound like, "Boy, we're doing them a favor by putting them into forbearance," you're actually just increasing the cost at the end of the day.
We believe Navient engaged in a scheme where they ultimately pushed people into this forbearance so that they could increase the ultimate payments and the money back in their pockets. We think that's wrong. That's why we sued them, not just on behalf of students and families in Pennsylvania but because they have a significant operation in my home state of Pennsylvania, in Wilkes-Barre, and these practices touched on students, families across the country, we believe we have an opportunity to recover for all Americans affected by this. That's something we take very seriously.
Do you believe Navient’s behavior affects more than just student borrowers?
For those people listening right now who say, "Boy, I don't have a loan, so it doesn't really apply to me. This doesn't affect me," the truth is, Navient's conduct affected all Pennsylvanians, affected all Americans, because what you've done is you've taken millions of people across our country, and made it harder for them to buy a home, made it harder for them to invest in their startup business, made it harder for them to go to the grocery store, go to the mall, and purchase goods and services and things in their area that they need. 
That affects the economy for all of us. It affects communities for all of us. It stopped that really bright college graduate from starting a company in Denver, Colorado, and developing a new widget, or providing a new service. These are things that ultimately harmed all of us as Americans, held all of us back, because of the corporate malfeasance that we witnessed here from Navient.
Your office reviewed hundreds of complaints about these loans that were filed with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau — an agency that Republican lawmakers have tried to defang. How much harder would it be to do your job if there was no CFPB?
The CFPB is a critical partner for us in protecting consumers around the country. I think if you ask any attorney general that, they would agree. Some of them may have more of a partisan bent, and so they might be a little bit less forthcoming with you, but make no mistake, every attorney general office around the country works with and depends on the data and assistance that comes from the CFPB. They are valued partners with us…
I've engaged with my colleagues, other attorneys general around the country, in trying to urge Congress to keep the CFPB in place and make sure that they have teeth…While we're lobbying to keep the CFPB in place because they're valuable partners, we're also taking more of this on our own shoulders in Pennsylvania so that we can protect our consumers, protect seniors, protect student loan holders, and others who are consistently impacted by these kinds of abuses and scams.
What I don't get, I'll just say this final point, what I don't get is, this president, the coalition that helped elect him, these are people who day in and day out are getting scammed, and getting screwed. They need government to look out for them, not look out for the special interests. Why they try and do away with the CFPB and make it easier for the special interests, and make it harder for average Pennsylvanians, is something to me that is absolutely unconscionable and just doesn't make sense.
Navient is a company that employs roughly 1,000 people in your own state. What's the company saying? Have you felt any political pushback from what you're doing? 
My job is to apply the law without fear and without favor. My job is to hold people accountable who violate the interests and rights of Pennsylvanians or violate the law. My job is not to distinguish between who's doing that, whether they're connected or not, whether they're from my home state or not. My job is to protect the people of Pennsylvania, and I am the one constitutional officer in my state that has the ability and the responsibility to do that...
In terms of their response, yeah, I find it curious that their response in letters to the editor and stuff like that has been to attack me personally. That tells me a lot about an opponent, if you will, that if they start attacking you personally, it means they don't have the law on their side and they don't have the facts on their side. I'm a big boy. I can take that. I recognize that's part of the job. At the end of the day, I'll be judged based upon my ability to stand up for the people of Pennsylvania and deliver real results. 
When it comes to this Navient lawsuit, my goal is really threefold. Number one, to get restitution, and debt forgiveness, and other things for people who have been impacted. Number two, monetary payments to deter future violations like this from Navient or others. Number three, most importantly, to change corporate behavior, to make sure that a big corporation like this can't continue to prey on students and their families in the way that they have.
You and President Trump have very different political views, but you both won Pennsylvania in the same election year. What do you think that means?
It's interesting. I got over three million votes. I was the highest vote-getter in Pennsylvania. Donald Trump, I think, was second to me. We figured this out. There were probably about 250,000 people that voted for him and voted for me. The question is, why? 
I think what we've been able to deduce from this is there's anger out there. There's real frustration. They want people in government who are going to go to battle for them, to fight for them, who are going to stand up to the interests that have stopped progress. These are individuals who I find to be less ideologically centered and just more focused on trying to improve their communities, trying to improve their opportunities in life.
For as diverse and different as our state is, the truth is people basically want the same thing. They want safe communities, good schools, and economic opportunity for them and others. In this case, I think what I was able to do was go out and explain that. "I'm going to make your community safer by dealing with the heroin epidemic. I'm going to stand up to those people who are scamming you. I'm going to make sure that your kids have safe schools to go to." These are the things we talked about day in and day out. We took it from a hopeful, positive perspective. 
Candidate Trump, on the other hand, tapped into that anger. He didn't do it in a hopeful, optimistic way, but what he did, and he did this unfortunately very successfully, he divided people and made folks in Pennsylvania and other states feel as though there were others to blame for their anger, for their frustration, by the way, very real anger and very real frustration. I'm not criticizing people that felt that way. By tapping into it in that angry way, he was able to get that message through.
Fast forward a year later, and you realize that all of these things he said and these commitments he made were really empty...he was able to manipulate the system through anger, through negativity, to be able to gather in three states 80,000 more votes than Hillary Clinton, but what he's done governing-wise has done nothing to help these individuals that he claims to want to help. These are people I see every day. These are people I work with every day who are desperate for help from Washington, and it's just simply not coming.


A woman has accused three members of an AirAsia flight of sexual harassment days after the airline filed a complaint against the woman for verbally abusing a crew member, according to Press Trust of India Saturday.
The woman alleges that a flight attendant made “unwelcome physical advances” on a Nov. 3 flight from Ranchi, India, to Bengaluru, India. In a Nov. 7 police report, the woman accused three crew members of “molestation, misbehavior, threatening and rowdyism.” The woman alleges that a crew member cornered her near a bathroom.
“He was trying to be touchy while there was no one around near the washroom. I found that awkward but did not say much as I was not sure about his behavior,” she said in a statement to police.
She also said that flight crew insulted her after she complained about the dirty bathroom and alleged she was detained on the runway by crew members and not allowed to go to her gate until all other passengers left.
AirAsia denies the woman’s claims and filed a complaint about the woman with the Indian Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) immediately after the flight. The airline alleges the woman verbally abused one of its staff.
“The senior cabin crew who was operating the flight, following the pre-take off safety and security procedures, noticed the [woman] speaking on the phone and requested her to switch off her mobile phone as this is against prescribed safety procedures... The passenger resorted to verbal abuse against the senior cabin crew,” said AirAsia in a statement to Press Trust of India.
The airlines called the woman a “disruptive passenger” and said she was detained on the runway because she was brought to the airport police station.
Passengers can be banned from flying for three months to a lifetime by the DGCA for causing issues on a flight. 
An Indian woman has accused AirAsia of sexual harassment.  Photo: Beawiharta/REUTERS


In a round of on-stage interviews at a New York Times conference Thursday, big-name chief executives weren’t shy in their criticism of President Donald Trump, and more generally, of Washington. One CEO even hinted that he may still be interested in taking Trump’s job in 2020.
Joined by interviewer and New York Times columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin on a Jazz at Lincoln Center stage, billionaire and Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban said the president — whom he once vocally supported — “has no common sense.”
“I’ve supported him briefly; then I got to know him,” Cuban said of Trump. He added later, in a play on the reality TV star’s own words, “The only thing he’s ‘winning’ is least popular president in history.”

Asked whether he would run for president in the 2020 election, something he’s suggested before, Cuban cited reservations about his family’s public exposure. The idea of what his eldest daughter would face on social media during his hypothetical campaign was “not a comforting thought,” he said.
Still, moving away from recent remarks to Fox News that he would run as a Republican if he launched a bid, Cuban told Sorkin he’d “potentially” run as an independent candidate. It’s a designation he explicitly placed above Republican and Democrat — in that order.
Starbucks Corp. CEO Howard Schultz was more forthright in his dismissal of a possible presidential run but pulled no punches when describing the incumbent administration, if not by name.
While “every American should respect the office of the president,” Schultz said, “teenagers and college students have been imprinted with an America I am not familiar with. He recalled an American couple he’d met during travels in Normandy, who told him they’d visited the region of northern France “to be reminded of who we once were.”
“We are living in a world where, every day, some episodic event affects how we live,” he said of the political and media environment.
On business-related matters, Schultz also didn’t hold back when criticizing Congress for its recent hasty attempt to pass landmark reform of the U.S. tax code.
“This is not tax reform. This is a tax cut,” he said. “This is fool’s gold.”
Also alluding to the rush to push bills through Congress without much debate — as well as the year’s chaotic political news cycle — was BlackRock Inc. CEO Larry Fink, who took the stage with outgoing American Express Co. CEO Kenneth Chenault.
When Chenault remarked that private sector mentality had “devolved into thinking that ‘short-term’ is two weeks and ‘long-term’ is two years,” Fink quipped that “‘long-term’ in Washington is about six weeks.”
Fink also lightly took aim at Trump’s habit of attributing economic health to himself, primarily by pointing to stock market figures.
“China is right, Japan is right, Europe is right, the private sector of America is right,” he said, adding that confidence in Trump’s promises of deregulation certainly played a significant role in the market’s surge.
Other CEOs defended the protection for young immigrants established by the administration of former President Barack Obama, a policy known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA), which the Department of Homeland Security announced in early September it had begun phasing out.
“It’s always a delicate point for anyone,” said United Airlines CEO Oscar Munoz, who was born and raised in Mexico before emigrating to the U.S. Having met with Trump on at least one occasion since the president’s inauguration, he highlighted his own advocacy for so-called “Dreamers,” adding that he “can say things that others can’t say.”
Laurene Powell Jobs — the founder and president of the for-profit charity Emerson Collective, which aired pro-DACA ads in September — recalled her own encounter with Trump.
Despite ultimately deciding to end the program, Powell Jobs said the president was sympathetic to the situation of the Dreamers in private and appeared to acknowledge the negative effects the program’s withdrawal would have on young people.
“He said the same thing to us that he said publicly, that they were brought here through no fault of their own,” Powell Jobs said of the children and young adults affected. She laughingly recalled him telling her, “I have a bigger heart than you would imagine.”


Proving identity is a routine part of modern daily life. Many people must show a driver’s license to buy alcohol at a store, flash an ID card to security guards at work, enter passwords and passcodes to retrieve email and other private information, and answer security validation questions when calling banks or credit card companies for customer service.
Authentication is also getting easier for people: Take the iPhone, for example. Unlocking the early versions required a multi-digit passcode. Then Apple introduced Touch ID, which would unlock the phone with a fingerprint reader. The latest version, just out, is the iPhone X, which can use its camera to perform facial recognition to authenticate a user.
As a software security researcher looking at authentication technologies for hand-held devices, I am fully aware that the technologies change, but the challenge remains the same: How can a digital system authenticate an analog human’s identity?
There are three main ways of proving an identity. One involves something you know – like a password or your mother’s maiden name. This method assumes the authorized user will have information no unauthorized user does. But that’s not always the case: For 145.5 million Americans affected by the Equifax security breach revealed in September 2017, reams of previously private information may now be known to criminals.
A second method of authentication is with something you have – such as a key to your home’s front door or a smart card to swipe at work. This assumes a limited number of people – possibly as few as one, but it could be a small group of users, like a family or co-workers – are allowed to enter a physical space or use a digital service.
A third way is by authenticating the individual human being – who you are – with some aspect of your biology. There are various type of these biometrics, such as fingerprints, facial recognition, iris scanning and voiceprints. This strategy, of course, assumes that the bodily feature is unique to the particular individual – and, crucially, that the digital system involved can tell the difference between people.
Using two or more methods together can improve security and is called two-factor, or multi-factor, authentication.
This increasing dependence on digital authentication may actually result in less security. While cameras, sensors and other devices can make authentication easier for people to accomplish, they carry their own weaknesses.
When a system seeks to authenticate an individual, it must compare the information the person is presenting – what they know, what they have or who they are – against a previously stored database of authorized users. As the Equifax security breach makes clear, those databases are themselves vulnerable to attack. Information stolen from there could be used somewhere else – for instance, to identify which bank a particular person uses and answer security questions when calling to transfer money. Or the database itself could be corrupted, altering information so an attacker would be able to fake his way into a physical space or system.
Another potential security threat inherent in biometrics in particular is that criminals don’t need to guess a password, or force someone to reveal it: The simple presence of the victim – even at gunpoint – can supply the fingerprint or face to authenticate and unlock a system.
As authentication becomes more complicated, using multiple factors and secure communications between sensors and databases, users become less willing to jump through all the hoops. So security managers try to make the process easier for them without weakening the protections. This commonly happens on websites that urge users to log in using their Facebook or Google accounts; those sites rely on the advanced security of the tech giants rather than creating their own authentication systems.
In one futuristic scenario, authentication could occur without a user even noticing: When you walk into a store, facial recognition could identify and authenticate you. Then, at checkout, you’d need only to scan your purchases and leave – the store will automatically charge the credit card of your choice. This isn’t science fiction: Amazon has patented a systemfor doing exactly this in its Amazon Go cashier-less convenience stores.
This is possible in part because of the increasingly common practice of computer systems authenticating each other – so the store’s system would recognize you, connect to the credit card company and authorize your purchase all on its own.
It may be more convenient, and even more secure, than a magnetic strip on a plastic card in your wallet. But the potential dangers will require much higher security for private information, particularly biometric data. A real identity still comes down to flesh and blood.
Jungwoo Ryoo is Professor of Information Sciences and Technology at Altoona campus at Pennsylvania State University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.


In the last 90 years, three catastrophic hurricanes have struck Puerto Rico.
San Felipe II in 1928 and San Ciprían in 1932 triggered political and economic changes in America’s largest colony that endured for generations. However, Puerto Rico remains an  unincorporated territorial possession of the United States, subject to the plenary powers of Congress. The Puerto Rican government exercises only those powers that the Congress allows. In other words, it is still a colony.
As a political economist who has studied Puerto Rican political and economic change, I believe Hurricane Maria could be another watershed moment that redefines U.S. treatment of Puerto Rico.
In 1928, things were not well in Puerto Rico.
Three decades of U.S. colonial rule had transformed Puerto Rico into a vast sugar plantation controlled by absentee corporations and a prized military base for protecting the Panama Canal. A classic study of Puerto Rico noted that “thousands are undernourished, or actually starving, while the products of the Island bring more than $100 million a year. Disease is present everywhere.”
Luis Muñoz Marín, arguably one of Puerto Rico’s most famous political figures, wrote that Puerto Rico had been converted into a “land of beggars and millionaires… It is Uncle Sam’s second largest sweat-shop.”
Puerto Ricans wanted to reform the colonial system that was responsible for these woes. In April 1928, Félix Córdoba Dávila, Puerto Rico’s resident commissioner in Washington at the time, complained that Puerto Ricans “are not asking for charity, but for rights.”
Then came Hurricane San Felipe II, a Category 5 hurricane.
The War Department reported that on Sept. 13, 1928, Puerto Rico “was struck by the most devastating hurricane in its history, and the results of years of private and public enterprise were obliterated in a few hours.”
San Felipe II killed 312 people. It left a half a million Puerto Ricans homeless and destitute, almost one-third of the island’s population. Property damage, estimated at US$85 million – about $1.57 billion in 2017 dollars – was unprecedented. According to the Red Cross, no sector of the economy was “left in a worse plight” than the coffee farms. Plantations lost almost their entire crop, and Puerto Rico never regained its prominence as a coffee exporter.
President Calvin Coolidge’s call for Americans to contribute to the American Red Cross generated $3.1 million in donations. The War Department dispersed more than $500,000 worth of supplies and reassigned Army officers, including medical staff, to Puerto Rico. Congress established the Puerto Rican Hurricane Relief Commission in 1928 with $8,150,000 to provide loans for rehabilitating coffee plantations, reconstruction and jobs. U.S. authorities reported that Puerto Ricans were “undismayed and undiscouraged,” and as “bending every effort to create from the ruins a greater Puerto Rico.”
At the same time, San Felipe II led to increased opposition to U.S. colonial rule. The Nationalists and the Union Party emerged as vocal critics of U.S. colonial policy. Many Puerto Ricans portrayed the federal government’s response to San Felipe II as charity that failed to alter the regime of colonial rule and absentee capital – the root of Puerto Rico’s misery.
Four years later, in September 1932, San Ciprían, a Category 4 hurricane, struck Puerto Rico.
It left 225 dead and caused $35 million damage (about $644 million in 2017). The Red Cross director reported: “The acute and intense hurricane surpasses anything he has seen in his career.” San Ciprían intensified the misery that afflicted Puerto Rico. The majority of Puerto Ricans lived a precarious existence. They lacked reserves to survive the ravages of any hurricane for long.
The Army, private relief organizations, Red Cross, colonial administration and federal government took action to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe. In August 1933, President Franklin Roosevelt created the Puerto Rican Emergency Relief Administration and charged it with providing “relief for the destitute unemployed of the island.” The agency’s director acknowledged the desperate need for aid, but noted that it should be temporary. Puerto Ricans, he wrote, “were an industrious people with a real desire to work and distinct aversion to charity and relief.”
The creation of the Puerto Rican Emergency Relief Administration was an important change in U.S. colonial policy. The scale and severity of Puerto Rico’s humanitarian crisis was beyond the capacity of the charity-focused, volunteer approach of the Red Cross and other organizations. A federal agency had stepped in.
Although the agency saved lives, it was not well-funded. Governor of Puerto Rico Blanton Winship complained in 1935 that “Puerto Rico continues to receive only a small portion of the funds to which the island is rightfully entitled.” These relief efforts did little to mitigate political discontent.
Calls for independence escalated. Puerto Ricans denounced the corrupt colonial administration that opposed the federal agency, blocked land reform and was solidly in the pocket of the absentee corporations. Labor strikes broke out throughout the island, and often turned violent. The colony was on the verge of collapse.
The two hurricanes were a wake-up call for federal authorities to the failures of colonialism. San Felipe II and San Ciprían set in motion a process of reform that culminated in the Commonwealth of Puerto Ricoin 1952. The government of Puerto Rico was unofficially given autonomy to manage domestic affairs, including the economy.
The magnitude of human loss that Hurricane Maria has inflicted is still unknown. As of this writing, the official number of Puerto Ricans killed by Maria stands at 51, but journalists have been investigating the accuracyof these figures. Moody’s Analytics estimated property damage at $55 billion, and projected a $40 billion loss in economic output.
But the physical devastation, upheaval and trauma inflicted on daily life in Puerto Rico add up to much more. San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz went so far as to say that if not resolved, the situation could lead to “something close to a genocide.”
The Donald Trump administration’s response to the crisis reveals that Puerto Ricans are racialized as subordinate, despite their U.S. citizenship. Trump’s racially charged statements resurrected long dormant, degrading characterizations of Puerto Ricans as lacking the capacity and will to fend for themselves.
Maria has also exposed the crisis within Puerto Rico’s divided politics. The Statehood and Commonwealth parties have campaigned for decades on resolving Puerto Rico’s political status. Yet, both parties share responsibility for the island’s escalating debt, and neither has been able to stop Puerto Rico’s economic decline. The entrenched poverty, crisis in political leadership and the federal government’s continued treatment of Puerto Rico as “foreign to the United States in a domestic sense” have an uncanny resemblance to the situation in 1932.
A major difference, however, is that Puerto Rico does not figure as prominently in U.S. national security as it did before the collapse of the Soviet Union and demise of Cuba as a regional threat. This partially explains the federal government’s seemingly untroubled response to the unfolding crisis in Puerto Rico.
Another critical difference is that the Puerto Rican diaspora has emergedas a powerful, if unexpected, economic and political force. They have come to the aid of their island, and are actively lobbying against some of the most restrictive colonial policies – the Jones Act, PROMESA board and inequity in federal programs.
Puerto Ricans living across the U.S. are putting pressure on their local officials and the federal government for more assistance, and have organized a nationwide campaign to raise funding and collect donations for Puerto Rico. As a recent editorial in Puerto Rico’s leading newspaper put it, “the diaspora is key to the reconstruction of the country.” It may also be key in moving the federal government to finally resolve Puerto Rico’s political status.
Editor’s Note: This article has been corrected to state that Carmen Yulín Cruz is mayor of San Juan.
Pedro Caban is Professor of Latin American, Caribbean and U.S. Latino Studies, at University at Albany at State University of New York.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Instagram is projected to reach 1 billion users by the first week of January, outdoing Twitter and Snapchat. The photo-sharing app is fast gaining users because of features such as Stories and improved messaging functionality.
Influencer marketing company Mediakix projects that Instagram will reach a billion users by Jan. 5 or even earlier. According to its forecast, the photo-sharing app has added 653,595 users per day in the past 5 months.
The forecast was done by analyzing Instagram's user growth patterns using a logarithmic function for the projection. The researchers did not take into consideration, the data before Facebook’s acquisition of Instagram, but only the data from July 2012 to September 2017. According to the prediction, Instagram will be growing at an increasing rate in the coming months. While the growth from 300 million to 400 million users took 286 days, the growth from 600 million to 700 million users took only 126 days. The analysts predict that it will take about 100 days for Instagram to grow from 800 million to 1 billion users.
The platform is massively outperforming its rivals — Twitter and Snapchat. While Instagram currently stands at more than 800 million users, Snapchat is at 178 million and Twitter is at 330 million users. While Instagram is expected to cross 1 billion users soon, Snapchat, according to Goldman Sachs is projected to reach 221 million users by the end of 2018 and Twitter is expected to cross only 400 million users in the same period, according to Mashable.
If everything goes as predicted, Instagram will become Facebook’s fourth social media application after the Facebook app, Messenger app and WhatsApp.
One of the reasons cited for the growth of the photo-sharing platform is that it acts as a complement to Facebook’s 2 billion users-strong network. You can connect Instagram to Facebook and share photos and posts from the photo-sharing site to Facebook. This cross-posting of Stories and posts exposes even users who use only Facebook to using Instagram.
Instagram has also grown as an advertising platform and currently services 2 million advertisers. Unlike Facebook, in which ads run on the sidelines of the main news feed, Instagram provides brands a platform where they can target users more specifically using techniques such as native advertising i.e. sponsored ads and influencer marketing — advertising using Instagrammers with large fan bases.
In these ways, Instagram gives brands a different advertising platform as well as a platform for implementing innovative social media strategies as an alternative to traditional ways and avenues of marketing.
It also gives users more engaging content to look at, but not devote as much attention to as Snapchat — users can quickly scroll through images and stop at the one they like. This makes it more appealing to users.
Instagram seems to have paid out its price to Facebook — it was acquired for a billion dollars and now it is reaching a billion users.


After failing to repeal Obamacare and a disastrous general election for their party on Tuesday, Republican members of Congress are feeling intense pressure from major donors to agree on and pass a tax cut bill for President Donald Trump to sign into law. Two GOP lawmakers made headlines in recent days for their unusually candid statements about the power that donors hold over them and their policy decisions.
Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina reportedly said on Thursday that “the financial contributions will stop” if tax reform fails.
Lindsey Graham says “the financial contributions will stop” if tax reform fails.
— Alan Rappeport (@arappeport) November 9, 2017
New York Rep. Chris Collins told reporters on Tuesday that his donors were “basically saying, ‘Get it done or don't ever call me again.’”
A review of these legislators’ campaign finance records shows which kinds of donors they appear to be scared of irritating. Both Graham and Collins are dependent on donors who can contribute large sums to their campaigns — those who also are likely to gain from the GOP tax cut plan, which heavily favors the wealthy and large corporations — and take in relatively few small contributions.
According to the Federal Elections Commission data analyzed by International Business Times, only 1.4 percent of the money this year from individual donors to Graham — a member of the Senate Budget Committee — came in the form of “small donations,” or contributions of $200 or less. The vast majority (70 percent) came from donations of $2,000 or more.
Among the top corporations that have donated to Graham’s campaigns from 2013 to the present are several that are sponsoring a “Tax Prom” event next week in hopes of the GOP passing a tax reform bill that will drastically cut their corporate tax rates from 35 percent down to 20 percent. PACs and individuals associated with companies such as  Tax Prom sponsors Altria, Boeing, ExxonMobil, and Raytheon have lavished Graham with donations over the past five years. Of Graham’s  donor industries, the securities and investment industry ($814,000 since 2013) is second only to lawyers and law firms, according to data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics.
Graham has  introduced modest campaign finance reform legislation and has  criticized the influence of super PACs.
For Collins, 8.1 percent of the money from individual donations to Collins this year were small. Nearly 70 percent were donations of $2,000 or more. During the 2016 election cycle, small donations made up 9.2 percent of Collins’ total individual contributions.
The wealthy will also benefit from income tax cuts; the latest Tax Policy Center  analysis of the regressive tax plan concluded that by 2027, those in the top 0.1 percent of Americans in terms of income will see an average tax cut of over $278,000, while those in the bottom 20 percent will get a tax cut of only $10.
The New York Times  estimates that nearly half of middle-class families would end up paying more in taxes in 2026 as a result of the plan.
Outside Groups Lay On The Pressure
In a recent CBS interview, Trump’s top economic adviser and former Goldman Sachs CEO Gary Cohn made it clear that CEOs will benefit the most from the GOP tax cut plan.
This quote from Gary Cohn is just too perfect: "The most excited group out there are big CEOs, about our tax plan." pic.twitter.com/1a5u1EoJVQ
— Jeremy Slevin (@jeremyslevin) November 9, 2017
“We see the whole trickle-down through the economy, and that's good for the economy,” Cohn said.
Campaign contributions aren’t the only way that wealthy donors pressure politicians. Independent groups, funded in large part by wealthy, conservative business executives and their companies, are telling politicians that they’re fed up and want tax cuts now. Americans for Prosperity — a “social welfare” nonprofit founded and largely funded by the billionaire industrialists and far-right political mega-donors Charles and David Koch — has spent millions on a tax cut campaign, including  ads pressuring centrist Democrats to work with the GOP to pass the plan.
Other groups are turning up the heat as well. The  Job Creators Network, which counts Americans for Prosperity and the Koch-backed Libre Initiative as partners, is spending millions of dollars on its campaign for tax cuts, which included a rally outside the Internal Revenue Service. A slew of other conservative political organizations such as FreedomWorks and Heritage Action are reportedly  rallying behind the House GOP tax bill.
Current Campaign Finance System Reinforces Inequality
The Equal Protection Clause of the U.S. Constitution outlines a core principle of American democracy: that of “one person, one vote.” With weak campaign finance laws, lax enforcement and high — sometimes nonexistent — contribution limits, the current election system allows those with more money more of a say in elections, and thus, more influence once their preferred candidates take office.
Studies have shown that policy most reflects the preferences of the most wealthy members of society and that those preferences do not reflect the greater public opinion on issues including the economy. A Demos  study found that less than half of donors making contributions of $1,000 or higher “supported the Dodd-Frank financial reform bill, which established a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and helped restore stability to the financial system [after the 2008 financial crash], compared with 74 percent of non-donors.”
Other  research finds that in the U.S. Senate, “there is a dearth of congruence [on policy] between constituents and senators — unless these constituents are those who write checks and attend fundraiser.”
“The wealthy disproportionately affect the policy agenda because money buy access and voice,” Sean McElwee, a researcher who studies campaign finance and inequality, told IBT. 
“Politicians rarely engage in a direct quid-pro-quo, but their views on the ills in our society are deeply shaped by who has access to their ears, and more often than not, those individuals are affluent white men... For decades we had to learn about the influence of the donor class through careful research, but these days Republicans are openly touting that reality to reporters, which admittedly makes my job easier.”


Should Democrats present a moderate corporate-friendly agenda to try to win suburban swing voters, or should they instead embrace the populist politics of Bernie Sanders? Lee Carter, the self-described socialist who won a pivotal election in Virginia this week, says the latter path is the only way forward. 
In a podcast interview with International Business Times, Carter discussed how his candidacy encapsulated the larger battle now roiling the Democratic Party — and how Sanders’ 2016 presidential campaign may have created a legacy fundamentally reshaping the party from the ground up.
Carter is a 30-year-old Marine veteran. During the campaign, he declared that he was a democratic socialist and was met with skepticism by his state’s Democratic Party. That is because his populist campaign message was the opposite of what Democratic operatives have been telling candidates to run on in suburban districts like the one where he was competing. But Carter campaigned in support of a state-based single-payer health care system and union rights. At one point, he tweeted out himself putting a letter from an anti-union group into a paper shredder.
Carter’s opponent, the House of Delegates’ Majority Whip, sent out mailers likening him to Marx and Stalin. But on election night, Carter shocked Republicans and Democratic Party elites alike, winning by 9 points. It was one of the key victories that helped Democrats rack up historic gains in Virginia.
Subscribers can listen to the full podcast by clicking here. What follows is a lightly edited excerpt of the discussion. 
What prompted you to jump into this particular race?
I was motivated to run for office after I got hurt at work in the summer of 2015. I was treated so horribly by my former employer and by the Virginia Workers Compensation Commission that I thought, I have to run for something, I have to fix this, because I can't allow anyone else to go through what I've been through...
I've been interested in politics my whole life, but the thought of running for office was sort of in the same place in my mind as the thought of winning the lottery. You know, it's that thing that you dream about when you're spacing out, instead of paying attention to what you should be paying attention to. But, yeah, it was the injury that really made me step forward and run for office. 
I was installing lighting controls. I was a Virginia employee of a Georgia company and I got hurt in Illinois. I couldn't walk for about three months and came back to Virginia and took up the legal fight to get the compensation that I was owed… It highlighted to me the glaring loopholes and problems that have been intentionally inserted into worker protections over the last 40 years by corporate special interests.
Did the 2016 election play a formative role in your political outlook? 
I've always been somewhat dissatisfied with the way that the Democratic Party acts when it gets into power, but I could never reconcile the two until 2016. 
What we saw in the presidential race in 2016 was, we saw a formerly unknown independent senator from Vermont come out and say, “I'm a democratic socialist and this is what this means,” and he got 13 million votes in the Democratic primary. And then on the right we saw obviously the rise of Donald Trump as this sort of, you know, this anger that didn't really have a direction, that didn't really have a form, but his candidacy gave voice to that. 
It really just showed me that the center of American politics, we've known it for a very long time, no longer holds. The common knowledge of the 1980s, 1990s, belongs in the 1980s and the 1990s, because people, especially in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, people are hungry for a change from the status quo. The vast majority of people don't necessarily know what direction they want that change to go in, but they know that they want something different. 
That's what the 2016 election showed me. It really gave me the example that I needed to actually pursue the politics of conviction and righteous indignation, and the politics of going out there and saying, “We need to rework our economy and make it an economy and a political system that works for working people first, and doesn't worry about how much large corporations can make in the process.”
For years, Democratic strategists have said that their party needs to run moderates in suburban districts. But you ran as a democratic socialist in one of those districts. What do you think your victory says about the party’s strategy? 
My district, even thought it is a suburb of Washington D.C., it's the suburb where most of the blue-collar workers live. It's one of the more affordable places. We have a lot of people that are in the building trades. We have a lot of carpenters, painters, electricians, and so on and so forth, that live here and work throughout the rest of the D.C. area. 
It's also one of the more diverse places in Virginia. Our population is about 13 percent African-American, about 23 percent Hispanic and Latino here in the 50th district, so when the conventional wisdom says that the sort of politics of working people can't work in the suburbs, they really discount the fact that 99 percent of people are working people. 
There's only two ways to make a living. You either make a living through the work that you do, whether that be through brain or through muscle, or you make a living off of the money that you've already got. Those are your only two choices. And so when we go out there and talk about making life better for working people, there are a lot of blue-collar workers in my district who reacted to that, who said, “Yeah, I have heard the phrase, ‘If you fall off a ladder you're fired before you hit the ground.’” There are a lot of people who work for less than $15 an hour who we go out there and we say we're going to make sure that every job provides a living wage, and they know that their lives will actually improve immediately when we implement that.
This just goes to show that this sort of message of making life better for working people connects with working people, it connects with 99 percent of the population. It's sort of hard to get through a lot of people's pre-formed notion of their partisan identification. The Republican performance was fairly consistent with previous years, but we were able to go out there and target people who have been disaffected with the local process entirely. 
We won on the back of thousands of votes of people who typically don't vote, or maybe only vote in presidential years. And because we were able to go out there with the help of hundreds of grassroots supporters knocking on doors for us, we were able to go out there and talk to people and give them a reason to be excited about a House of Delegates race that they would've otherwise ignored.
How do you define socialism, and did the label become a political liability for you in the campaign?
My opponent actually sent a mailer to about 11,000 homes in the district that featured pictures of Karl Marx, Engels, Lenin, Stalin, and Lee Carter. So clearly the old Red Scare tactics of 40 and 50 years ago, they just don't work, because what democratic socialism is, is an economic philosophy that potentially says, “Worker-owned businesses are better than investor-owned businesses.” That's all it comes down to. 
When you have a business that's owned by the employees where the decisions are made democratically in the workplace, that company is not going to ship its own jobs to China, that company is not going to downsize, it's not going to force people to work 80, 90 hours a week on starvation wages. These are things that just aren't going to happen if the people that are affected by the decisions are the people making the decisions. 
And obviously it worked out. We were able to go out there and say, “Yes, I am a democratic socialist,” much like Bernie Sanders. We were able to go out there and say, “We want to empower working people both economically and politically. We want to bring democracy to the workplace and we want to bring healthcare to all Virginians as a human right,” and people responded to that.
Did you labeling yourself a socialist generate pushback from the Democratic Party establishment in Virginia? 
Not over that specific label, but about my policy position, absolutely. Even before the presidential primaries of last year, the very first conversation that I had with the Democratic Party of Virginia, they told me, “You can run as far left as you want, but you're going to lose.”
Do you think the election in your district should be looked at  as an example of how that notion, that conventional wisdom, should be rejected?
Absolutely. In the wake, particularly in the wake of last year's election, there's been a lot of hand-wringing within the Democratic Party and sort of the pundits out there about how did the Democrats lose white working class voters and how did the Democrats lose the enthusiasm among black voters, and all these various things that led to our loss in the presidential election last year to Donald Trump.
The fact that I was able to go out in a very diverse working class district and I was able to garner support across racial and ethnic lines on a platform of inclusion and a pro-worker stance, should show people in districts like that, in places like the Rust Belt and working class suburbs throughout the country, it's to show people that this is the message that you have to have if you want to excite a broad coalition of voters, and actually start winning elections again… I certainly hope it will provide a concrete example for candidates like me throughout the country to look to and to say, “This is a winning electoral strategy.”
The Richmond Times-Dispatch reported “the Democratic Party establishment is aligned with Dominion Energy, a regulated monopoly and supportive of Dominion's desire to build the Atlantic Coast Natural Gas Pipeline across Virginia.” The paper went on to note that during the campaign, you opposed that plan. What kind of pushback did you get from your position on that issue? 
[Dominion is] the largest single source of funding for both major political parties here in Virginia, and so whatever Dominion wants, Dominion gets. Things like this, the tight relationship between a lot of elected Democrats and the large corporate interests — you know, on the state level it's usually power utilities, on the federal level it's usually Wall Street — this tight relationship that they have allows the corporate interests to water down the Democratic Party's message, to make it wishy-washy and weak and something that you can't really convey to the voters, because it's confused about what exactly it is.
When you forego the funding from those corporate interests, it allows you to go out there and say, unabashedly, “If you work for a living, I'm going to make your life better,” because you're not taking money from the people that are going to have to pay for that. It strained the relationship a little bit between myself and particularly the state party. I had good relationships with the local parties and good relationships actually with the staff on the gubernatorial campaign in the regional office, but with the house caucus in Richmond, it was difficult because there are a lot of members in the house caucus who do take money from these large donors that I was actively attacking. 
How do you think you're going to be received by your fellow Democratic legislators? Some of them have taken big donations from the very corporate interests that you were elected to challenge.
I see this as being on a bill-by-bill basis. Anytime somebody wants to work on a bill that'll make life better for people, I'll work with them on it. If they want to work on a bill that will make it easier for corporations to take advantage of working people, I'm going to fight them tooth and nail.
I'm going to be in an interesting position to both be an ally on some issues, and be a thorn in the side on others. I really feel like it's important for me to do that because the Democratic Party cannot just rest on opposition to Trump as the strategy going forward, because eventually Donald Trump's going to be gone and Donald Trump has the lowest approval rating of anything in American politics, and the second lowest is the Democratic Party. 
We need to work on making the Democratic Party the kind of organization that people can be proud of, the kind of organization that people will gladly claim the name of and work to elect. Thankfully, we have a few years of grace period now to do that while Donald Trump is in the White House, and we can use that opposition to him for electoral advantage. But yeah, like I said, when he's gone, if we haven't fixed our own house by then, we're in for a world of hurt. 


Facebook’s first president, Sean Parker, is now worried about the ramifications of the social media platform he helped usher into the world.
“I don't know if I really understood the consequences of what I was saying, because [of] the unintended consequences of a network when it grows to a billion or two billion people and ... it literally changes your relationship with society, with each other,” said Parker. “It probably interferes with productivity in weird ways. God only knows what it's doing to our children's brains.”
Parker spoke Wednesday at an event hosted by news site Axios in Philadelphia. The entrepreneur and philanthropist now runs the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy, an organization he founded. He said that he has become a “conscientious objector” to social media and is trying to warn people about the dangers of sites like Facebook. 
“The thought process that went into building these applications, Facebook being the first of them, ... was all about: 'How do we consume as much of your time and conscious attention as possible?'” said Parker.
The site, as originally designed, was meant to get you hooked. 
“That means that we needed to sort of give you a little dopamine hit every once in a while because someone liked or commented on a photo or a post or whatever ... It's a social validation feedback loop ... You're exploiting a vulnerability in human psychology ... [The inventors] understood this, consciously, and we did it anyway,” said Parker. 
Legislators now too are beginning to grapple with the influence of social media. With A bevy of foreign ads, especially from Russia, Congress is trying to determine what role these sites played in the 2016 presidential election. 
Parker, 37, co-founded music sharing site Napster at 19 and joined on to Facebook at 24. Parker served as president for Facebook from 2004 to 2005, but was pushed out after he was arrested for possession of cocaine, though he was never charged with a crime. He continued to advise Facebook after his ouster.
Parker was played by actor and singer Justin Timberlake in a movie about Facebook, 2010’s “The Social Network.” Parker, however, was upset by his portrayal as a party animal. He called the movie “a complete work of fiction,” according to Business Insider.
 
Entrepreneur and philanthropist Sean Parker. Photo: Theo Warger/GETTY


Facebook’s first president had some choice words Wednesday for the social media giant he helped to found. Sean Parker, 37, criticized the potential effects of social networks and said he was concerned about their effect on human psychology.
Parker made his mark as an entrepreneur early: at 19, he founded the music-sharing service Napster. At 24, he became the founding president of Facebook. Parker is now worth some $2.6 billion, making him the 93rd richest person in tech and the ninth richest entrepreneur in America, according to Forbes.
Now the founder and chair of the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy, Parker recently put $250 million of his money behind cancer research, making him the largest donor ever to immunotherapy treatment research. While speaking Wednesday about cancer research during an Axios event at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia, Parker said he has become “something of a conscientious objector” regarding social media.
“It’s a social validation feedback loop,” Parker said. “It’s exactly the kind of thing that a hacker like myself would come up with because you’re exploiting vulnerability in human psychology.”
Parker also said he was concerned about the potential impacts on kids.
“It literally changes your relationship with society, with each other,” he said. “It probably interferes with productivity in weird ways. God only knows what it’s doing to our children’s brains.”
Sean Parker attends a benefit gala in Beverly Hills, California, Jan. 9, 2016. Photo: Getty Images


Tucked away in the recently announced GOP tax bill is a small item you may have missed: a new tax on university endowments. As I have spent decades working in higher education, the proposal immediately piqued my interest.
Colleges create endowments by raising funds from alumni, companies and other donors, invest the money in stocks, bonds and other assets, and use the returns to fund student aid programs, professors’ salaries and any other expenses needed to run a college. Republicans want to slap a 1.4 percent tax on certain endowments’ investment income, also known as their returns.
Some college leaders are already howling at the proposal – and at several others in the tax bill targeting higher education – arguing it would threaten their autonomy and reduce support for poorer students.
Since tax revenue to run the government has to come from somewhere, I believe colleges and universities are fair game. To me, the questions that matter are simple: Is the tax itself fair? And would it be effective?
Republicans have expressed concern about the tax-exempt status of college endowments for several years, arguing the largest ones aren’t spending enough on tuition assistance and questioning how the funds are managed.
Such endowments have grown dramatically recently, presenting a juicy target for GOP lawmakers looking for revenue to offset nearly $1.5 trillion in tax cuts for companies and individuals.
Post-secondary institutions reported a total of $547 billion in endowment assets as of 2016, up 54 percent from five years earlier, shortly after they got whacked by the financial crisis. And in the preceding academic year, from 2014 to 2015, schools earned a total of $26 billion off their endowment assets.
Currently, Harvard University boasts the largest endowment, at $37.6 billion – more than neighboring state Vermont’s entire annual GDP.
Harvard, however, is not alone in having a hefty endowment. Fellow private universities Yale, Stanford and Princeton all have more than $20 billion each, as does the public University of Texas. The 10 biggest endowments combined were worth more than $183 billion in 2016, about a third of the total.
Republicans aren’t targeting all schools with an endowment, however, or even only large ones.
Their plan has three criteria: To be taxed, a school must be private, enroll at least 500 students and have an endowment that amounts to at least $250,000 per student – up from an earlier proposal of $100,000. This means all public colleges are exempt, as are private schools with an endowment smaller than $125 million or a disproportionately large or small student body.
One other requirement is that an endowment must actually earn a return on its investments to be taxed. Many do not in any given year.
Some of the largest endowments generate quite a bit of money. During the 2014 to 2015 academic year, Yale earned the most of any university, returning $2.55 billion – or more than $200,000 for every one of its 12,385 students. Princeton came second at $2.51 billion, while Harvard’s endowment returned $2.23 billion.
The earlier proposal, which was detailed only last week, would have affected about 150 of the 3,922 colleges that have an endowment, yielding what I estimated would have amounted to just under $270 million based on the 2014-15 academic year. Republicans said the tax would reap $3 billion over a decade.
The latest version, with the much higher threshold, would affect fewer than half that, or roughly 60 to 70 schools. That would probably not lower the amount raised that much since only a handful of primarily elite schools will pay almost all of the tax.
Most colleges, on the other hand, would not pay very much. For example, Carleton College in Minnesota, which ranks in the middle of the tax list, would owe about $250,000. Some colleges, such as Emory in Atlanta, whose endowment lost almost $160 million in the period, most likely would receive a tax credit, useful for deferring this tax in the future.
Fair tax systems do not punish select groups. The bill as currently written fails this criterion.
The bill primarily punishes the Ivy League and a small number of other elite private universities like Stanford, MIT, Notre Dame and Duke. These four schools, along with seven of the eight Ivy League colleges, would have paid about $200 million of the total tax, according to my calculations.
While lawmakers have expressed concern over large endowments, the tax does not punish universities just for amassing a huge amount of money. I work for The Ohio State University, which has a $3.6 billion endowment, but it is exempt since it’s a public college.
Regional rival the University of Michigan, with an endowment of almost $10 billion, is similarly exempt, as is the University of Texas system, which has the third-largest endowment, at $22.5 billion.
The tax is also unfair even among private universities, since those with large endowments but very small or large student bodies would not be taxed.
For example, Rockefeller University in New York City has a $2 billion endowment, which returned $111 million in 2014-2015. But it does not have enough students to be taxed under the present plan. On the other end, Brigham Young University in Utah has a $1.58 billion endowment and earned $202 million in investment income during that period, yet its large student body means it wouldn’t pay a tax either.
If the goal is to raise revenue from colleges that collect large amounts of tax-free donations, limiting the tax to just a few private institutions is simply punitive.
Another problem is that the proposal uses the number of students to determine whether to apply the tax.
The bill states the count of students “shall be based on the daily average number of full-time students attending such intuitions (with part-time students taken into account on a full-time student equivalent basis).”
I believe this would allow schools to find creative ways to avoid paying the tax, just as Fortune 500 companies do. The student body figures reported to the Department of Education count part-time students the same as those matriculating full-time. So schools would have to compute a new number based on the “full-time equivalent” calculation, which creates ample room for creative accounting.
For example, many schools provide executive education and extension programs for individuals who are generally not considered students. But you can expect many schools to turn them into students, and the same goes for people enrolled in massive open online courses, or MOOCs. Given that 58 million people signed up for MOOCs in 2016, this would not be a particularly high hurdle.
An effective tax is one that is not easy to evade. The proposed bill is not very effective because it is easy to evade.
Republicans presented their plan as a method of simplifying the tax code. The tax on private colleges’ investment income does not accomplish this but rather makes things even more complicated.
If endowment earnings are going to be taxed, a fair approach would be to keep things simple. Just institute a tax on endowment income from all colleges and universities, regardless of number of students or whether it’s public or private. This would have raised about $359 billion – not a lot more, but it would do it a lot more simply, fairly and effectively.
In general, I am not against taxing university endowments or investments. However, if we are going to do it, the tax needs to be fair and not have giant loopholes. The current bill is a punitive mess that is extremely suspect in its long-term ability to raise money.
Jay L. Zagorsky is Economist and Research Scientist at The Ohio State University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Republicans in Congress recently released more details of their tax plan, which they say would boost economic growth and lower the burden on middle-income households. They hope to pass a bill into law by Christmas.
The reality is that the proposed cuts, which carry a price tag as high as US$1.5 trillion over a decade, would offer the greatest relief to corporations and the wealthy.
Simply put, the plan reflects the thinking of supply-side economics, whereby tax cuts to top earners are said to result in more business investment. Lowering taxes for the wealthy and companies, the theory goes, fuels a benevolent cycle that ultimately leads to higher wages and a stronger economy.
I have worked on a wide range of economic policy topics, including taxes, for two decades now. Evidence from past changes suggests that the tax plan would do little to increase business investment or help workers. Instead, it would increase the gap between rich and poor, while leaving massive budget deficits in its wake.
House Speaker Paul Ryan and President Donald Trump promote their new tax plan. Photo: REUTERS
Republicans these days don’t often use the term “supply-side economics,” which has been pejoratively dubbed “trickle-down” or even “voodoo” economics – the latter by none other than former President George H. W. Bush.
Instead, Republicans and President Donald Trump continue to make the false claim that their plan would mostly benefit middle-class Americans. In contrast, an economic analysis of the tax plan framework released last month showed that half of the proposed cuts would go to the top 1 percent.
The latest version is unlikely to significantly change that result. While the 39.6 percent tax rate will remain, the threshold has been more than doubled to US$1 million from less than $500,000, meaning earnings up to that point will be subject to less tax, and the plan would still get rid of the estate tax, which is mostly paid by wealth families. In addition, two-thirds of the benefits – about $1 trillion – will go to companies, which, as I’ll explain, primarily benefit the rich as well.
In any case, here’s the theory of how cutting taxes for the wealthy leads to more growth and jobs. The wealthy would use the lion’s share of their tax savings to invest in new and existing businesses. This would drive more economic growth, leading to increased levels of productivity, more jobs and higher wages.
Tax cuts to companies would also give the economy a kick. Companies could in theory use some of their increased profits to finance new plants, office space and equipment, and the lower rates would induce more foreign businesses to invest in the United States, altogether boosting jobs, productivity and wages.
President Trump’s Council of Economic Advisers claims that the corporate tax cuts alone would boost economic growth to 3 percent to 5 percent a year.
Research on past tax changes suggests that the Republican tax plan will not have the impact its backers claim.
Four large-scale tax changes in the past four decades help to illustrate these points: tax cuts in 1981 and 2001 and tax increases in 1993 and 2012. I compared what happened to business investment, employment, wages and economic growth before and after each tax change.
In August 1981, Congress lowered personal income tax rates – especially for high-income earners, who saw a drop in the top tax rate from 70 percent to 50 percent – as well as the corporate rate. Similarly, two decades later Congress cut personal income tax rates and the estate tax.
So what happened? Business investment, clearly a key metric in evaluating the success of the supply-side tax cut argument, was virtually flat as a share of gross domestic product after the 1981 cuts. Following the June 2001 cuts, it actually fell, from 13.8 percent in the month the bill passed to under 12 percent three years later.
As for jobs and wages, their growth increased only a little after the 1981 tax cuts and actually slowed in the three years after the 2001 tax cuts were passed.
The flip side of the supply-side argument is that any increase in taxes should have the opposite effect: less investment, slower growth, fewer jobs and stagnant wages. Empirical evidence suggests otherwise.
In August 1993, Congress raised the top marginal tax rate to 39.6 percent from 35 percent on high-income earners. Lawmakers raised the top rate again at the end of 2012, while also increasing the estate tax.
Business investment grew after the 1993 tax increase, from 11.6 percent of GDP to 13 percent three years later. And it grew after the 2012 one as well, albeit more slowly, from 12.5 percent in December that year to 12.7 percent in 2015 (though it reached 13.1 percent a year earlier).
Jobs and wages tell a similar tale, both of which grew at a faster pace after the tax changes.
As for economic growth, supply-side policies do not tend to result in a stronger economy. While growth jumped immediately after the 1981 cuts, the economy quickly lost steam. And in 2001, GDP barely budged. Meanwhile, growth accelerated modestly in the years after the tax increases in both 1993 and 2012.
Proponents of such policies think that by giving more money to the “supply side” of the economy, the wealthy and investors who manage the capital necessary for productive investments such as manufacturing plants or new trucks and computers, they can spur long-term economic growth.
The data show this is not the case. Long-term economic performance is little different whether you cut or raise taxes on the richest Americans. Other research on the impact of corporate cuts also shows this.
Rather than wasting money on supply-side tax cuts that line the pockets of the wealthy and corporations that have already seen  outsized gains  in income, the money could be  much better spent  on more infrastructure – bridges, roads and canals – and on education. Over the long term, this is what drives productivity and economic growth – not more money to the wealthy – because this leads to more business investment, higher wages and more jobs.
So why do investors appear so ecstatic over the prospect of tax cuts and continue to drive major stock indexes to fresh highs?
Because they’re the ones who would get most of the gains from the cuts, whether because they’re already wealthy or because a growing share of corporate after-tax profits are used to keep shareholders happy through share repurchases and dividend payouts. In fact, virtually all profits have been spent on shareholders in the past two decades, compared with around a third or less in the decades before the 1980s.
Another part of the supply-siders’ argument in favor of a lower corporate tax rate is that it would make the U.S. a more attractive place for foreign companies to invest. Yet overseas businesses are already investing a growing amount of money in the United States, regardless of the relatively high statutory tax rate. This suggests that their investments are likely driven by considerations other than the tax rate, such as by skill level of the local labor force, access to markets, a sound legal system and good infrastructure.
In sum, there’s little if any evidence to support the notion that tax cuts for high-income earners and companies will trickle down to average Americans.
The government would lose revenue by passing these tax cuts without any clear offsetting economic benefits. To make budgets add up, Congress would have to accept larger deficits or force spending cuts on vital programs in health care, education, retirement and social services.
All told, this would further exacerbate already very high income inequality. That is clearly the 21st century’s definition of “voodoo economics.”
Christian Weller is Professor of Public Policy and Public Affairs at University of Massachusetts Boston.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Boeing Co. announced Thursday it had signed a deal with the China Aviation Suppliers Holding Company to sell 300 airplanes. The agreement was signed in Beijing in the presence of President Donald Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping, where Boeing's representatives were present as part of the U.S. mission to China.

The orders and commitments for single aisle and twin aisle aircraft are valued at $37 billion at list prices, according to the company’s announcement of the agreement. China is expected to require 7,240 aircraft over the next 20 years, by when it will likely account for 18 percent of global aviation trade. The majority of these airplanes are expected to be single aisle.
“China is a valued customer and key partner, and we're proud that Boeing airplanes will be a part of its fleet growth for years to come. Boeing and China have a strong history of working together based on great mutual respect, and these orders build on that foundation," Kevin McAllister, Boeing Commercial Airplanes president and CEO, said in the statement.
The company also said it would work with China to reduce the environmental impact of aviation and make the Chinese air transport system more efficient.
Bloomberg reported the purchase will include 260 Boeing 737 narrow-body airplanes and 40 Boeing 787 and Boeing 777 wide-body aircraft.  According to Flight Fleets Analyzer, Boeing has received 1,074 passenger aircraft orders from unannounced commercial customers, a majority of which are likely Chinese airlines.
China has now become the biggest commercial customer for the aviation company — one of every four airplanes is being sold to Chinese customers. One in every three Boeing 737s — the company’s most demanded passenger plane — is being sold to Chinese customers.
The total value of new airplanes needed by China over the next 20 years is estimated to be over $1.1 trillion.
Chinese airlines have been signing deals with Aviation companies to fulfill their requirement. During President Jinping’s visit to Berlin this year, French aviation company Airbus SE said it had won a $22 billion order to supply 140 planes to China for 20 wide-body Airbus A350s and 100 narrow-body Airbus A320 aircraft. The company is expected to be in talks to sell A380 superjumbo jets to Chinese airlines.
Boeing itself had signed a $38 billion deal with Chinese carriers in September 2015 to sell 190 single-aisle Boeing 737 airplanes and 50 wide-body jetliners.
The Thursday deal is a part of a larger endeavor on part of President Trump to address the U.S.-China trade deficit. Trump called on China to address unfair trade practices, which have led to a mismatch of benefits from trade between the two nations.
"This relationship is something which we are working very hard to make a fair and reciprocal one. Trade between China and the United States has not been — over the last many many years — a very fair one for us," he reportedly said in Beijing.
In addition to the Boeing deal, General Electronics Co. also reached an agreement Thursday to sell $3.5 billion worth of parts to Chinese companies, including airplane engines.


Washington D.C. is now singularly focused on tax reform. Lobbyists are in a “frenzy” over the GOP-led effort to rewrite the nation’s tax code. Republican lawmakers, desperate to pass at least one major piece of legislation before the end of the year, have put all their eggs in the tax reform basket: one congressman said this week that donors told him he should never call them again if the  legislation isn’t passed. The effort to bring to fruition the GOP’s promise of a $1.5 trillion tax cut is now an around-the-clock effort on Capitol Hill. Even the parties are tax-themed.
Next week, 600 congressional staffers, lobbyists and think tank employees, as well as Vice President Mike Pence himself, will get together for an annual tradition that is imbued with extra significance this year: the Tax Foundation’s annual gala, known as “Tax Prom,” brought to you by 61 corporations very interested in seeing their tax bills reduced.  
The Tax Foundation, a non-profit tax policy think tank founded by Depression-era industrialists, has been holding its annual dinner since 1937, which it calls "tax world’s most celebrated event of the year," on its website. This year's Tax Prom, scheduled for Nov. 16, will honor Pence with a Distinguished Service Award. Last year, the event drew 196 congressional staffers and nine members of Congress, according to the Tax Foundation.
A single general admission ticket to Tax Prom costs $750. A table can run from $18,000 to $35,000. Of course, these prices are pocket money for the event’s corporate sponsors, which include some of the biggest companies in the world and some of the biggest spenders in Washington, including ExxonMobil, United Technologies, Verizon, Pfizer and Boeing, to name just a few.   
Sixty-one companies spent a total of $1.1 million sponsoring Tax Prom, and many of them have huge off-shore holdings, according to the Institute on Taxation And Economic Policy, another non-profit tax policy think tank. Twenty-three Tax Prom corporate sponsors have a combined $800 billion parked offshore in at least 1,075 tax haven subsidiaries, according to an ITEP analysis provided to International Business Times. Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation has estimated that U.S. companies are currently holding a total of  $2.6 trillion offshore to avoid paying taxes to Uncle Sam.
The  House’s tax bill includes a provision that would offer a one time reduced tax rate, called a repatriation tax, for companies bringing that cash home. (The Senate’s companion bill is  scheduled to be introduced Thursday.) While the current corporate tax rate is 35 percent, a number Republicans want to lower to 20 percent, the one-time repatriation rate would be just 12 percent for cash brought stateside, and five percent for non-cash holdings transferred home. The goal of such a tax rate is to encourage companies to bring their cash home and invest in the U.S. But it would also amount to a huge tax break for those companies.
“The repatriation tax break in the House tax plan would be a major windfall for companies," Richard Phillips, a senior policy analyst at ITEP, told IBT in an email. "Pfizer alone could see a tax break of at least $26.7 billion from just this provision. It is outrageous that lawmakers are proposing to reward precisely those companies that have been the biggest offshore tax dodgers.”
If the 12 percent tax rate is applied only to the $800 billion held offshore by Tax Prom sponsors, those companies would receive a $150 billion tax cut against current corporate rates, according to ITEP, which included an exemption on foreign tax credits when making its calculation.
The repatriation tax break is not a new idea. In fact, one was enacted a little over a decade ago. In 2004, Congress allowed companies to bring back their profits to the U.S. under a tax rate of roughly five percent. The IRS calculated 843 companies took advantage of the tax break and brought $312 billion to the U.S.
But while that $312 billion  did enter the U.S. economy, it didn’t spur hiring at the companies that took advantage of the temporary low rate. According  to a congressional report, the 15 companies that benefited most from the tax break cut more than 20,000 jobs between 2004 and 2007, an era of economic expansion. Of the five companies that benefitted the most from the 2004 repatriation rate, two of them, Merck & Co and Pfizer, are Tax Prom sponsors.
The Tax Prom’s 61 corporate sponsors are not new to mixing with the K-street crowd. Together, they handed out $110 million in campaign contributions during the 2016 election cycle and spent $290 million on lobbying in 2016, a total they are poised to surpass this year: through three quarters in 2017, they have already spent $272 million on lobbying, according to ITEP calculations.   


During the 2016 presidential campaign, Hillary Clinton’s critics suggested that donors to her family’s foundation were seeking access or political influence from her family — and her prospective White House. A year after the election, Donald Trump is president, the Clinton Foundation has only a handful of new corporate donors — and many of its previous sponsors have not made new contributions.
Most of the companies that have previously donated to the Clinton Foundation didn’t contribute in the second quarter of 2017, according to the organization’s website, although some, including Acxiom Corporation, BTIG LLC, Google and Starkey Hearing Technologies, have. Cities, countries, foundations and other nonprofits also donate to the foundation, and some contributed in 2017.
It’s impossible to know precisely what’s happened to Clinton Foundation fundraising in the year since Secretary Clinton lost. As a 501(c)(3) nonprofit, the foundation submits financial information to the Internal Revenue Service once per year, and information on both 2016 and 2017 is not yet publicly available. But International Business Times contacted nearly 50 major corporations that had previously donated to the foundation, asking if they had made new contributions after the 2016 presidential campaign. Thirty of them did not respond or declined to comment on the questions. Of the 18 that did, all said they had not made new donations.
Previous Clinton Foundation donations from many companies came in the form of membership, sponsorship and conference fees for the annual Clinton Global Initiative event, which the foundation discontinued roughly a year ago. Nearly half of the major companies contacted by IBT gave money only for the Global Initiative, according to the foundation’s website. “We donated a total of $45,000 between 2010-14 for membership in the Clinton Global Initiative,” Verizon told IBT. “We haven’t given anything since ‘14 and have no plans to do so.”
Other companies donated to specific foundation projects in the past but haven’t given this year and don’t plan on doing so in the near future. American manufacturing company Corning “contributed $150,000 to the Clinton Foundation [in 2013] to support an initiative to inspire and advance the full participation of women in society,” a company spokesperson told IBT. The company has not contributed since before the 2016 election and has no plans to donate in 2017.
Some companies consulted by IBT have programs that match charitable donations given by their employees, who can choose from many charities, and a few have given small amounts to the Clinton Foundation in recent years for this reason. In addition, companies can donate goods and services, as opposed to cash, which aren’t reflected in the foundation’s list of contributors.
Companies that told IBT they have not donated since the 2016 election include Boeing, Chevron, Daimler Trucks North America, Dell, Duke Energy, General Electric, Humana, Lockheed Martin and UPS (via its foundation).
In February, then-president of the foundation Donna Shalala  said that 2016 revenues were down “because of voluntary restrictions” and because Bill Clinton and his daughter Chelsea were busy campaigning for Mrs. Clinton instead of fundraising for the foundation. It took in around  $300 million in 2015, down from  $338 million in 2014.
During the Clinton campaign, the foundation began a process of reevaluation — at least partly in response to criticism about perceived conflicts of interest.  In August 2016, during the general election, President Clinton  announced that the Clinton Global Initiative was shutting down, and he laid out changes that the foundation would make should Secretary Clinton become president, including a commitment to accept donations only from U.S. citizens, foundations and permanent residents. The foundation has now  resumed applying for foreign grants, according to BuzzFeed News.
Instead of stepping down from the Clinton Foundation board, as Bill Clinton planned to do if his wife became president, he moved up from director to chair of the board. Chelsea remained vice chair, and Shalala joined the board while stepping down as president and CEO. Hillary Clinton returned to fundraising for the foundation in August 2017.
In early 2017, the foundation finished  shutting down the Clinton Global Initiative and laid off the majority of the initiative’s roughly 100 staff members. While the foundation is spinning off some programs, it’s “scaling up” others. Raising money is a big priority after two years of reduced fundraising.
A Clinton Foundation spokesperson provided the following statement to IBT:
“The Clinton Foundation has continued to make important progress in 2017 on some of the biggest challenges facing the U.S. and the world. We’re engaging with a wide range of partners across business, government, and civil society who help make our life-changing work possible. We’ve received support from solar companies who are helping us  promote renewable energy and provide relief supplies to the Caribbean; corporations that are working with us in the U.S. to  fight the opioid epidemic and childhood obesity; and publishing companies who support our work to promote early childhood development.”


Once upon a time, the world suffered.
In 1987, 20 million people across the world were plagued by a debilitating, painful and potentially blinding disease called river blindness. This parasitic infection caused pain, discomfort, severe itching, skin irritation and, ultimately, irreversible blindness, leaving men, women and children across Africa unable to work, care for their families and lead normal lives.
But the recent discovery of a drug called ivermectin was about to change it all. Not only was ivermectin cheap and easily synthesized, but it was also a powerful cure: With only one dose a year, it was possible to completely rid patients of disease and even halt the progression toward blindness. In short, ivermectin was a miracle drug – one whose discovery would lead to Satoshi Omura and William Campbell winning the Nobel Prize in medicine in 2015.
There was no time to be wasted. Recognizing that the populations most at risk of disease were those least able to afford treatment, Merck & Co. pledged to join the fight to end river blindness. Thirty years ago this October, the pharmaceutical company vowed that it would immediately begin distributing the drug free of charge, to any country that requested it, “for as long as needed.” It was the final piece of the puzzle: an effective drug for a tragic and completely preventable disease. And we all lived happily ever after.
Only… we didn’t.
Merck’s generous offer should have been the final chapter of a brief story with an upbeat ending – the eradication of a tragic and preventable disease that had plagued humankind for centuries. But such was not the case: 30 years later, in 2017, river blindness rages on across the world, afflicting as many as 37 million people, 270,000 of whom have been left permanently blind.
Neglected tropical diseases like river blindness stand in stark contrast to those like tuberculosis, which is estimated to affect a third of the world’s population due to the increasing prevalence of highly antibiotic resistant strains.
In short, tuberculosis has stuck around because medicine has run out of drugs with which to treat it – which is why, as a molecular biologist, I am researching new ways we can finally defeat this stubborn disease.
But this only increases the urgency for river blindness and other widespread diseases for which, unlike tuberculosis, science does have effective cures – and inexpensive ones at that. Even with all the necessary tools, the world has failed to cure the curable.
One-and-a-half billion people across the world suffer from neglected tropical diseases, a group of infectious diseases that prevail in tropical and subtropical countries lacking good health care infrastructure and medical resources. These diseases typically do not kill immediately but instead blind and disable, leading to terrible suffering, creating losses of capital, worker productivity and economic growth.
Thirteen diseases are universally recognized as neglected tropical diseases. At least eight of these diseases, including river blindness, already have inexpensive, safe and effective treatments or interventions.
For less than 50 cents per person, the United States could cure a fifth of the world’s population of these severely debilitating and unnecessary diseases. In spite of this, the United States allocates nearly as little to treating and preventing neglected tropical diseases around the world as it does to drugs for erectile dysfunction.
Consider dracunculiasis, or Guinea worm infection, which occurs when people consume water contaminated with fleas carrying parasitic worms. The worms mature and mate inside the human body, where they can grow to be  two to three feet long.
Adult females eventually emerge from painful blisters at the extremities to lay eggs in stagnant water, where offspring will infect water fleas and begin the cycle anew.
No drug exists that can cure Guinea worm, but because of a cohort of mostly privately funded public health efforts, the number of Guinea worm infections worldwide has dropped from 3.5 million in the 1980s to only 25 in 2016.
Funding from the U.S. and other countries could help in the final push to eradication, and some argue that funding from the individual countriesthemselves could help.
Another example, albeit more grim, is the group of soil-transmitted helminths, or worms. Roundworm, hookworm and whipworm collectively affect over a billion people across the world, all in the poorest areas of the poorest countries. All these worms infect the human intestines and can cause severe iron deficiency, leading to increased mortality in pregnant women, infants and children. Furthermore, hookworm infections in children retard growth and mental development, leading to absences from school and dramatically reduced labor productivity.
However, soil-transmitted helminths can be expelled from the body with a single pill, each of which costs only one penny. What’s more, preventing infection in the first place is completely achievable through increased awareness and sanitation.
Without drastic increases in funding and public awareness, the plight of people affected by the neglected tropical diseases is unlikely to budge anytime soon.
The U.S. spends over US$8,000 per person per year on health expenditures, compared to countries in Africa that spend around $10. While this opens the door to a critique on efficiency, it’s far more indicative of the disparities in health resources.
Less than 20 percent of the world’s population lives in some of the most developed and economically high-functioning countries, including the United States – and nearly 90 percent of the world’s total financial resources are devoted to the citizens of these nations. And yet, low-income countries bear the majority of the world’s infectious disease burden. In short, the rest of the world does not suffer the same diseases the United States does, and Americans are doing little to nothing about it.
At first glance, this is not so surprising. As a whole, the world suffers – but how many neglected tropical diseases currently penetrate American borders?
Some experts predict that eliminating or controlling the neglected tropical diseases in sub-Saharan Africa alone, which shoulders over 40 percent of the global burden of neglected tropical diseases, could save the world $52 billion and over 100 million years of life otherwise lost to disease.
Conversely, some global health experts estimate that for every dollar spent on neglected tropical disease control, we get back over $50 in increased economic productivity. By increasing awareness and funding of neglected tropical disease eradication, the United States will be making one of the best global investments possible. The rest of the world has waited long enough.
Katherine J. Wu is Ph.D. Candidate in Microbiology at Harvard University.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


While still struggling to remedy widespread power outages and destruction wrought by Hurricane Maria, the Puerto Rican government is working to restructure its debt. Insurers of those debt bonds, on the other hand, are at risk of having to pay out billions, and potentially taking a hit to their bottom lines — an outcome they’re seeking to avoid through a campaign of lobbying and litigation.
Ambac Financial Group, Assured Guaranty LTD and MBIA Inc., through its subsidiary National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation — all of which, for a premium, guarantee repayments to debt holders in the event of an issuer default — are collectively on the hook for upwards of $26 billion in Puerto Rican debt over the long term. In late September, as those on the island were just beginning to rebuild, the bond rating agency Moody’s Investors Service  called the storm a “credit negative for financial guarantors that guarantee the interest and principal payments on a significant portion of Puerto Rico’s outstanding debt obligations,” naming the latter two insurers as the most vulnerable.  
Following the approval of a $36.5 billion disaster relief package by the  House and then the  Senate, Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) told the Intercept he was working on a proposal that would  include forgiveness for Puerto Rico's obligations, which would leave it to the insurers to pay back a substantial portion of Puerto Rico’s debt and interest payments. Less than two weeks earlier, President Donald Trump’s  ultimately empty promise to simply cancel all of Puerto Rico’s debts caused the three firms’ share prices to decline markedly, with MBIA’s taking the greatest drop, of  8.4 percent.



Assured Guaranty, which released its third-quarter results Friday, with Puerto Rican debt service exposure of $8.2 billion, warned shareholders in a  filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that “economic activity in general and tourism in particular, as well as tax collections, are all expected to decline in the short term” in the U.S. territory, while “migration to the mainland is also expected to increase.” The company’s $431 million in losses for the first nine months of 2017, the filing said, “was primarily attributable to Puerto Rico exposures.”
Assured Guaranty said in an emailed statement that the company's “liquidity and capital position are very strong,” and drew a line between debt service exposure, or “issuers’ scheduled principal and interest coming due over the next 30 years,” and net par exposure, which stood at $4.9 billion as of Sept. 30.
“Although the hurricanes have been a setback for near-term economic activity, very substantial Federal resources for relief and rebuilding are expected over the intermediate and longer term to stimulate economic activity and help to revive the Puerto Rico economy,” the company said, adding that “we unconditionally cover any shortfalls in scheduled payments by issuers.”
In its second- and third-quarter filings, released Tuesday, MBIA specifically named the island's debt problems as a likely cause of “losses or impairments on a greater number of the Company’s insured transactions.” Ambac, in its second-quarter report, bluntly informed shareholders that its Puerto Rico losses could exceed $1.6 billion.
Under Title III of the  Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA), the Commonwealth already filed for bankruptcy in May, but the storm forced the board created by the law to revise its budget to accommodate for larger expenses and smaller revenues, which is bad for the bond insurers. As the capital markets research firm Height Securities LLC put it in an Oct. 31  report on Puerto Rico’s fiscal situation, “a 23 percent reduction in expected budgetary improvements would effectively erase PR’s ability to service any debt.”
“The interests of the government and the creditors and the monolines are not aligned,” Ed Groshans, of Height, told International Business Times. “The goal of the financial control board is not to enrich predators.”
Groshans said complete debt forgiveness was highly unlikely, but the bond insurers are not going to let their shareholders suffer losses from the island’s debt restructuring without a fight.
Immediately after the end of a freeze on creditor litigation under PROMESA, the Commonwealth faced  a spate of lawsuits over its debt and budget restructuring, including two suits from Ambac, which also  sued Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. In total, Ambac racked up nine Puerto Rican debt-related litigation efforts by June 30, according to its second-quarter SEC  filing.
The conflict stemmed in part from the Puerto Rican government’s plan to funnel sales taxes, meant to back so-called COFINA bonds, to its general obligation debt. MBIA — which, along with Ambac, Height named as especially in danger of substantial losses because of relatively larger COFINA exposures — and Assured Guaranty were also among the litigators, but  withdrew their suit in the wake of Maria’s devastation. Holders of COFINA debt known as the COFINA Seniors Coalition, led by the Tilden Park Capital Management LP, GoldenTree Asset Management LP and investment advisory firm Whitebox Advisors LLC, have been locked in its own legal battle with officials and general obligation debtholders.
Streets are flooded street around damaged houses in Juana Matos, Catano, Puerto Rico, pictured September 21, 2017, following Hurricane Maria's arrival. Photo: Getty Images
According to Tom Sanzillo, director of finance at the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, who also didn’t see a full cancellation of Puerto Rico’s debt as a possibility, the legal fight is bound to continue.
“There’s going to be a lot of lawsuits going back and forth; it’s going to be a lot of fun for the lawyers,” he told IBT. “The optimal outcome for the insurers is a kind of grand settlement where everybody agrees to take less and the insurers take out a little less.”
The insurers aren’t just taking their concerns to court, but to Congress as well.
The Financial Guaranty Insurance Co., through the firm BGR Government Affairs, provided Congress with “strategic advice and counsel on issues regarding Puerto Rico's economy” during the third quarter, according to federal  lobbying forms. Through the lobbying firm Mercury, the National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., a subsidiary of MBIA that handles the country’s Puerto Rico exposures, lobbied Congress on “Puerto Rico Debt Reform” and laws affecting the island’s debt restructuring over the same period, federal lobbying  documents show.
In the second quarter, Assured Guaranty paid the firm Steptoe & Johnson LLP $300,000 to lobby Congress and the Treasury Department on “legislative proposals impacting Puerto Rico,” while the COFINA Seniors Coalition, via two lobbying firms during the first quarter,  advocated for its interests related to the “Puerto Rico economic crisis” before Congress and the Treasury.  
The law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, on behalf of Ambac, enlisted Harbinger Strategies LLC — and its team of  four  former  GOP  staffers, including two previous chiefs of staff to Republican Whips — to lobby on “issues related to Puerto Ricos economy and debt” and the implimentation of PROMESA during the last quarter, federal lobbying  files show.
The firms and COFINA Seniors all either declined or did not respond to requests from IBT for clarification of their desired outcomes.
Whatever their objectives, they ought to have seen the crisis coming, Sanzillo said, flagging a Moody’s report that showed all four of the rating agency’s municipal defaults in 2016 were related to the Commonwealth.
“This makes Puerto Rico an extreme example of correlated risk within a single credit family that not only includes [general obligation bonds] but extends to lease and revenue debt,” said the report, from late June of this year. “The number of rated municipal defaults will more than double in 2017 if the various Puerto Rico credits now entering court-ordered resolution are restructured with bondholder losses or otherwise default.”
Sanzillo also pointed out that, amid the legal and lobbying fracas, lower-income residents of Puerto Rico who depend on funding for pensions, schools and hospitals have found themselves caught in the middle.
“The bondholders, they want 100 percent on their bonds, but they’re not getting it. The workers, they don’t want to take hits; they don’t deserve it,” he said. “The smaller people whose retirements got wiped out — those are the real victims.”
Correction (11/08/2017 at 4:25 PM): Both MBIA and Ambac, not Assured Guaranty, have relatively high exposures to COFINA debt. 
Update (11/10/2017 at 8:50 AM): This post has been updated to include a statement from Assured Guaranty.


IndiGo airline issued an apology Tuesday following what it called an "unacceptable" incident with a passenger and airline employees. The month-old video footage was taken of the passenger as he was manhandled by ground workers for the India-based airline on the tarmac of Delhi Airport. 
The video made waves on social media, but the airline didn't make an official apology until three weeks after the incident. Two IndiGo staffers appeared to pin the male passenger, Rajiv Katiyal, to the ground and tackle him Oct. 15 after the customer allegedly grabbed one of the airline workers. The passenger seemingly attempted to fight his way out from underneath the employee holding him down. 
The incident apparently stemmed from a verbal argument, which led the staffers to prevent the passenger from boarding. The customer was said to be taken into police custody, according to reports. The employees were suspended during the investigation period but were later terminated.
#indigoairlines most idiots are hired by indigo airlines. Never travel from this. Shame! Shame ! Shame ! pic.twitter.com/L7MGdCOlTv
— Upendra Singh (@theupensingh) November 8, 2017
"We truly apologize for the treatment shown towards Mr. Rajiv Katiyal by one of our employees. At IndiGo, [the] dignity of our passengers and staff is of utmost importance," IndiGo wrote Tuesday on Twitter. "Any act that comprises the dignity of either is of serious concern to us. Under the code of conduct violation, this incident was investigated and stern action was taken against the staff."  
We truly apologise to Mr. Rajiv Katiyal for this incident & assure him that the employee has been terminated. pic.twitter.com/9xZcSftgit
— IndiGo (@IndiGo6E) November 7, 2017
IndiGo President Aditya Ghosh claimed Tuesday to have "personally spoken" to Katiyal about the situation. Ghosh said he discovered that the customer was responsible for instigating the physical altercation with airline staffers. One of the employees involved, who was determined to be the main culprit, was terminated for his involvement because Ghosh claims "he's the exact opposite" of what IndiGo's customer experience aims to be. 
"I acknowledge the unpleasant experience our passenger went through while engaging with our staff at Delhi airport," Ghosh wrote on Twitter. "My personal apologies as this do not reflect our culture." 
We condemn the actions of our staff & have taken stern action. We truly apologize for this. Such behavior is unacceptable - @AdityaGhosh6E pic.twitter.com/lGNT8An7rQ
— IndiGo (@IndiGo6E) November 7, 2017
The Ministry of Civil Aviation of Government of India (MoCA), an organization that regulates airline policies, requested a detailed report on the incident. MoCA also encouraged the passenger to file a complaint against the employees that ignited the altercation. 
"IndiGo passenger incident from Oct 15 is deplorable and unfortunate. Passenger safety and security is our top-most priority," Jayant Sinha, Minister of State for Civil Aviation, wrote Tuesday on Twitter. "MoCA has already asked for a detailed report from Indigo by tomorrow. IndiGo has issued a news release stating that the culprit has been terminated."
"We hope that the passenger will file a criminal complaint. This will enable us to take appropriate action," Sinha added. 
Indigo passenger incident from Oct 15 is deplorable and unfortunate. Passenger safety and security is our top-most priority. 1/n
— Jayant Sinha (@jayantsinha) November 7, 2017
MoCA has already asked for a detailed report from Indigo by tomorrow. Indigo has issued a news release stating that the culprit 2/n
— Jayant Sinha (@jayantsinha) November 7, 2017
has been terminated. Indigo senior executives have personally apologised to the passenger. We hope that the passenger will file 3/n
— Jayant Sinha (@jayantsinha) November 7, 2017
a criminal complaint. This will enable us to take appropriate action. I will meet Shri Kalra to address his concerns. 4/n
— Jayant Sinha (@jayantsinha) November 7, 2017
This isn't the first time IndiGo has come under fire for its customer service. A passenger tweeted Saturday about airline workers that allegedly behaved "rudely" to her, which resulted in the airline issuing an apology on the employees' behalf. Aditya Narayan, son of Bollywood singer Udit Narayan, also got into a verbal altercation in October with IndiGo employees.
There was an manhandling altercation between airline employees and a passenger on IndiGo Airlines, pictured on December 27, 2010. Photo: Getty Images


Lawyers representing Renaissance Technologies, the  $97 billion hedge fund that until last week was run by conservative mega-donor and Trump-backer Robert Mercer, were scheduled to meet with the IRS Tuesday in New York to discuss the estimated $7 billion the fund owes the U.S. government. That meeting,  first reported by Bloomberg, came just days before President Trump is scheduled to install an interim head at the IRS who spent a decade as a senior executive at an accounting firm that paid $123 million to avoid criminal prosecution for devising tax avoidance schemes.
Mercer spent at least $22.5 million supporting conservative candidates in the 2016, while backing  analytics company Cambridge Analytica, which helped the Trump campaign target voters. He also reportedly  invested $10 million in Breitbart News, is helping the  president with his legal bills, bankrolled alt-right provocateur  Milo Yiannopoulos and advised the Trump campaign, which included using his influence to install Steve Bannon and Kellyanne Conway, Mercer family favorites, in important campaign posts. Last week, Mercer  stepped down as co-CEO of Renaissance, which runs a fund that has been called the “perhaps the world’s  greatest money making machine.”  In a resignation letter to Renaissance employees, Mercer said he would continue working at the firm as a member of the technical staff. He also said he had sold his stake in Breitbart to his daughters for “personal reasons.”
Renaissance has been engaged in a longstanding dispute with the IRS over the use of what are called “basket options”: complicated financial structures that allow hedge funds to treat, or critics say, disguise, short-term financial transactions as long-term investments. This allows funds like Renaissance to pay the capital gains rate (20 percent) on those transactions, instead of treating them as income, and subjecting them to the corresponding income tax rate, which is nearly 40 percent. 
The IRS has not commented on how much in unpaid taxes it is seeking from Renaissance, but in 2014 the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued  a report that called Renaissance “the largest basket option user,” and estimated the firm avoided $6.8 billion in taxes.

While it’s unclear just how much help Mercer,  a computer scientist and staunch libertarian, can expect from the administration in his company’s dispute with the IRS, Trump’s pick to run the agency,  David Kautter, will assume the role of acting IRS commissioner next week without Senate confirmation. Kautter worked at accounting giant Ernst & Young for 18 years, a stint that included serving as the firm’s director of national tax from 2000 to 2010.
While Kautter was at Ernst, the firm developed schemes to help clients avoid paying the amount they owed to the IRS. Between 1999 and 2002, Ernst developed tax shelter products for 200 wealthy clients that helped hide $2 billion in tax liabilities, according to a 2013 Justice Department press release describing the department’s  $123 million agreement with Ernst. Kautter was not implicated in the tax dodge schemes. Four of those involved were sentenced to between 20 and 36 months in prison, before two of the  sentences were overturned.
In August, the Senate Finance Committee confirmed Kautter as assistant treasury secretary for tax policy in a  26-0 vote. During his confirmation hearings, Kautter said he “should have been more active” in uncovering the illegal schemes,  the Intercept reported. Kautter was included in email chains at Ernst regarding the tax avoidance efforts, according to The Intercept, but told the Senate committee that the “the firm set up a separate reporting structure with respect to tax shelters” that did not include his office.
Since Mercer became co-CEO in 2010, the same year the IRS issued its initial warning on “basket options,” Renaissance spent $3.5 million lobbying Congress and the treasury department on tax issues. Before 2010, Renaissance spent a total of just $780,000 on lobbying dating back to 2001, according to federal lobbying records.
Renaissance founder James Simons was a major Hillary Clinton donor in 2016. Simons  stepped down as CEO in 2010, but  Bloomberg reported Tuesday that Simons pressured Mercer to step back from a leadership role at the firm, citing sources that said Simons believed Mercer’s political association with alt-right figures like Bannon and Yiannopoulos was hurting morale at the hedge fund.


Snap Inc. (NYSE: SNAP) saw its share price plummet Tuesday after the company’s third quarter 2017 financial release showed it added only 4.5 million users and nearly quadrupled its losses from 2016. The company expected $236.9 million in revenue but reported $207.9 million. 
Snap's earnings saw a loss of 14 cents per share versus a loss of 15 cents per share that was expected.
In after-hours trading, the share price dipped to $12.37 after closing at $15.12. After the poor earnings were announced, the share price had fallen roughly 17 percent.
Snap brought in $207 million in revenue for Q3, which is up 62 percent from this same period last year. But losses were staggeringly higher with a net loss coming in at $443 million. The company nearly quadrupled the amount of money it went through during this same period in 2016, $124 million. Unsold Spectacles, the camera sunglasses the company’s CEO Evan Spiegel touted as its future in hardware sales, accounted for $40 million of the losses. 
Expectations were down pretty much across the board for the third quarter. Daily active users (DAUs) was at 178 million versus the 181.8 million users that were expected. 
Snap reports it has 178 million daily active users, which is an increase of 17 percent year over year. Competition from Facebook has also reportedly hurt the company as Facebook Camera, Instagram Stories and WhatsApp Status have all directly aimed stepped up their efforts to take on Snapchat's market share.


Colombian pop singer Shakira resides in Spain, but “lives” in the Bahamas for tax purposes, her lawyer told Univision News Tuesday.
The information comes as part of the “Paradise Papers” leak, a set of 13.4 million documents from two offshore legal and financial service providers in Bermuda and Singapore. The documents come primarily from Bermuda-based Appleby. The investigation was headed by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), whose members include the New York Times, BBC and Univision News.
The Bahamas, Bermuda, the Cayman Islands and the British Virgin Islands — where the papers show several famous people’s money being parked — are all notorious tax havens.
The singer, whose full name is Shakira Isabel Mebarak Ripoll, lives in Barcelona, Spain, with her husband, soccer player Gerard Piqué, said Ezequiel Camerini,  Shakira’s attorney. Shakira does own a house in the Bahamas and once physically lived there, he said.
“Our client has been a resident of the Bahamas since 2004 and owns a house in said country from that date,” said Camerini. “As an international artist she has resided at different locations throughout her professional career and, in every case, has fully met the laws of all the jurisdictions where she has resided.”
In addition to “living” in the Bahamas, Shakira has also parked $35 million worth of assets in the form of musical rights in two other notorious tax havens, Malta and Luxembourg. Shakira runs a company in each of the countries that retain the rights to her songs and intellectual property.
“ICIJ does not intend to suggest or imply that any persons, companies or other entities have broken the law or otherwise acted improperly,” the group said in a disclaimer posted online. The leak shed light on dozens of people and companies who have offshore accounts and investments hidden from the public eye.
German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung, which is part of the ICIJ, first acquired the leak before sharing it with the rest of the consortium, which began publishing reports on the information Sunday.


The government roundup of royal family members and prominent businessmen continued in Saudi Arabia Monday, ensnaring Nasser bin Aqeel al-Tayyar, the founder of the kingdom’s largest travel company Al Tayyar Travel.
Arrests of prominent Saudi figures began Saturday just hours after Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salma, adviser and favored son of King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, commissioned a powerful “anti-corruption” committee. Outside observers believe the arrests are targeted at consolidating power for the young prince, who at age 32 has caused a stir for ascending to power so quickly.
Another person trapped in the arrest was international billionaire investor Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal.
Saudi columnist Jamal Khashoggi wrote in the Washington Post Sunday that he applauds the idea of anti-corruption, but that the Crown Prince is acting like Russian leader Vladimir Putin with the mass arrests.
“As of now, I would say Mohammed bin Salman is acting like Putin. He is imposing very selective justice. The crackdown on even the most constructive criticism — the demand for complete loyalty with a significant “or else” — remains a serious challenge to the crown prince’s desire to be seen as a modern, enlightened leader,” wrote Khashoggi. “The buck stops at the leader’s door. He is not above the standard he is now setting for the rest of his family, and for the country.”
It appears as if the detainees are being held at the Ritz-Carlton in Riyadh, the Saudi capital. U.S. officials estimated that as many as 500 people could have been rounded up in the arrests, including 11 princes, four ministers and over a dozen former ministers.
The Ritz-Carlton Hotel in Riyadh where the detained princes are thought to be held.  Photo: Faisal Al Nasser/REUTERS
The new anti-corruption committee can seize assets, and a no-fly list has been created with a number of prominent names on it, according to Reuters Monday. Owners of private jets now need a permit to take off.
The shakeup of the country’s elite comes at a tumultuous time for the kingdom. A ballistic missile launched from Yemen was intercepted over Riyadh on Saturday, and ​Prince Mansour bin Muqrin was killed in a helicopter crash on Sunday.
Saudi Arabia said Monday that Lebanon has declared war against its country because of the aggressive actions of Hezbollah, deepening an ongoing conflict with Iran.


In an interview with Fox News’ Tucker Carlson on Monday, Ivanka Trump discussed tax reform and how it will benefit the middle-income families. When the first daughter listed food as one of the investments stay-at-home parents have to make, many Twitter users pointed out the weirdness of the statement.

During the particular segment of the interview, Trump went onto discuss how the government does not offer enough support to middle-income parents for children who have not yet entered their schooling age. 
She talked about how expensive a stay-at-home parent finds it to raise their children, especially with the global economy becoming so competitive. The aspects of a child’s upbringing, such a parent invests in, include enrolling for “Mommy and Me” classes, afterschool activities and food, according to Trump.
Trump’s statement equating a basic necessity like food with optional childcare choices became an instant source of mockery on Twitter. Here are some of the hilarious tweets posted by Twitterati in response to Trump’s statement:








Some of the Twitter users also noticed Trump started her statement with the word “indeniably” when she actually meant to say “undeniably,” which gave them another reason to criticize her vocabulary which has been a subject of mockery in the past.




Trump and Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin were joined by an array of business leaders to discuss tax reforms in a roundtable conference in Newport Beach, California, Monday. During the meeting, Republican’s proposed tax plan was extensively discussed, which reportedly lowers corporate taxes from 35 percent to 20 percent, reduces tax brackets from seven to four, doubles the standard deduction for families, scraps the estate tax and decreases the overall tax burden on the middle class.
According to Los Angeles Times, Trump promised under the new “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (which is what the new tax plan will be called), child tax credit would expand from $1,000 to $1,600 per child for married couples earning up to $230,000.
“Something that I feel very strongly about, and the administration is deeply committed to, is ensuring that hard-working Americans have more of their hard-earned money in their pockets at the time when they need it the most, and that’s often when they’re raising children or they’re caring for adult dependents,” she said.
During her interview with Fox News, Trump reemphasized the proposed benefits of the new tax plan.
“Really it’s the central theme, middle-income Americans and supporting them,” she said, Politico reported. “We spend less than any country in the developed world on children between the ages of zero and 5. It’s just a fact. We don’t invest enough resources.”
Although critics have argued the new tax plan will end up benefitting the wealthy businessmen of U.S. more than middle-income families, Mnuchin, who also gave an interview on Fox News, disagreed this notion.
“This is not about tax cuts for rich people,” Mnuchin said. “It’s about tax cuts for the middle class.”


Tiffany & Co. on Monday announced the debut of its luxury Home & Accessories Collection, and it wasn’t long before the internet zeroed in on the price tags of what the company described as “everyday objects.” Among those products introduced by the line was a $9,000 ball of yarn and a $1,000 tin can.
The yarn ball is one of a limited edition of five and is crafted of “handspun strands of textured sterling silver,” according to the  company’s website. Potential buyers may be interested to know the nearly $10,000 silver object will be shipped free of charge.
The internet was quick to move on the company’s line of “extraordinary” ordinary objects, which include a protractor, ruler, crazy straw, paint can, first aid box and faux paper cup — all wildly more expensive than their utilitarian equivalents.
Should I buy a new iPhone or get a tin can from Tiffanys pic.twitter.com/MVe0RnKOxn
&mdash; Joan La Croix-ford (@ITSMYKOL) October 27, 2017

Tiffany &amp; Co&#39;s latest collection, Everyday Objects, is here to troll us all pic.twitter.com/LDP95h0ZVd
&mdash; Kate Rabinowitz (@dataKateR) November 3, 2017

tiffany&#39;s selling a ball of yarn for $9000 is why we can&#39;t have nice things
&mdash; Hannah Cohen (@hannahgcohen) November 6, 2017

Tiffany and co is really out here trying to sell a ball of yarn for $9000 pic.twitter.com/7V8IOUMUfp
&mdash; . (@laichronicles) November 4, 2017

Can Tiffany interest anyone in a $9,000 ball of yarn? (h/t @TIME) pic.twitter.com/lgpKu8ioYI
&mdash; Sarah Halzack (@sarahhalzack) November 3, 2017

I&#39;ll take a birds nest for ten THOUSAND dollars pic.twitter.com/5UlLcs9Fdh
&mdash; Melanie Newman (@MelanieLynneN) November 6, 2017

“Should I buy a new iPhone or get a tin can from Tiffanys,” one social media user remarked. Another tweeted: “Tiffany & Co's latest collection, Everyday Objects, is here to troll us all.”
“I think what makes the collection unique is that it incorporates the best quality, craftsmanship and design with a level of functionality that allows you to use these things every day,” Reed Krakoff, chief artistic officer at Tiffany & Co., said in a statement. It was unclear, however, precisely how one might “use” a solid ball of silver.
The company described the line as possessing “a whimsical wink that is quintessentially Tiffany.”
“The luxury house is known for its tongue-in-cheek approach to design, and the Tiffany Archives serve as a wellspring of inspiration for a series of objects in this collection, many of which can be engraved to make them uniquely personal,” the company said in a  press release. 


It’s been estimated that Kim Kardashian makes hundreds of thousands of dollars for a coveted promotion on her social media, but the number may be higher than previously thought. According to a new projection, the 37-year-old reality star could be pulling in as much as $588,000 per post to her Instagram account, which boasts more than 1 million followers.
Website  Inkifi, which has a tool that can be used to check how much a post on individual accounts is worth, claims the star’s branded content posts could be worth nearly $100,000 more than previously estimated.
“We've taken data based upon ‘The State Of Influencer Marketing 2017’ report and calculated that, on average, each follower on your Instagram channel is worth [$0.01],” Inkifi told Mirror Online. “All deals and sponsorships will be different depending on the influencer/celebrities status, however this calculator aims to give an estimate of worth based off how many followers someone has.”
The figure tops the $500,000 estimation Michael Heller, CEO of digital marketing firm Talent Resources, previously gave to  Us Weekly in March. Heller, who reportedly arranges many of deals the Kardashians promote on social media, said at the time that a Kardashian plug can lead to a product selling out “immediately.”
Current Obsessions @kkwbeauty _ @marianna_hewitt kkwbeauty.com
A post shared by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Nov 4, 2017 at 2:22pm PDT
Heller also told Us Weekly that Kourtney Kardashian, 38, and Khloé Kardashian, 33, made up to $250,000 respectively for an Instagram promotion. But Inkifi estimates that the eldest Kardashian sister banks closer to $334,000, while Khloé Kardashian may bring in around $393,000 for a social media push. With major price tags attached to potential promotions, Heller said the women can be incredibly selective with their brand alignment.
“They only endorse what aligns with their lifestyle,” Heller said. “They turn a lot down.”
Social posts make up about 25 percent of their total income, Heller said, so the selection process for promotions is not likely something that the reality stars take lightly. But if there was any question about Kim Kardashian’s capability as a businesswoman, she has confirmed that she runs her own verified social media accounts. She  told Vanity Fair last year that she could never see herself hiring someone to manage her accounts.
“I could never see me hiring someone,” she told the magazine. “For me, it wouldn’t seem authentic. Because it’s all about me, I couldn’t imagine trying to find someone to do that for me.”
But she did clarify that she’ll occasionally consult friends or her assistant Stephanie Shepherd for advice on a caption or photo.
“I will send two pictures to my friends or assistant and ask which they like better,” she said. “Just tonight, I posted a pic of my friend Larsa [Pippen] for her birthday and sent three pictures to my assistant and asked which she liked best because I couldn’t decide. I love asking caption advice too—sometimes I draw a blank.”
KKW FRAGRANCE campaign by Mert &amp; Marcus launching November 15 kkwfragrance.com
A post shared by Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Oct 25, 2017 at 9:07am PDT


Republican Ed Gillespie will have many reasons to be grateful to the Koch brothers if he wins the Virginia governor’s race Tuesday — almost three million reasons, in fact. Charles and David Koch, the billionaire libertarians who run the giant materials and chemicals conglomerate Koch Industries, lead a powerful network of conservative political donors and have come to Gillespie’s aid in the race. How do you say thank you for that kind of help? Should he emerge victorious, Gillespie is poised to enact policies that benefit the Kochs and their business.
The Kochs, whose conglomerate operates oil refineries and gas pipelines, are spending big to support their one-time political consultant, Gillespie, while also ensuring that his Democratic opponent Ralph Northam does not take office. Northam has made protecting the environment a  touchstone of his campaign, with strong stances on curbing carbon emissions and supporting development of Virginia’s renewable energy sector. He received $2.5 million from the Virginia League of Conservation Voters. Gillespie’s campaign website has no sections on the environment, but his “all-of-the-above”  energy plan begins with a commitment to construct two natural gas pipelines, and continues with promises to repeal carbon regulations, reinstate a coal tax credit and support offshore oil and gas drilling.
Gillespie’s campaign  released a seven-page plan for addressing rising sea levels and increased flooding on Virginia’s coast. But the plan didn’t contain the term “climate change” and didn’t address the reason why sea levels are rising. By addressing the dangers posed by climate change without acknowledging its existence, Gillespie is walking a fine line: demonstrating  concern for state voters in flood-prone areas, while not crossing fossil-fuel backers like the Koch brothers, whose Koch Industries has given $20,000 directly to his campaign and whose Americans for Prosperity is supporting him with $2.6 million worth of ads.
Gillespie is a longtime lobbyist and political consultant, having worked for the likes of health insurance giant Anthem and fraudulent energy conglomerate Enron. After  hounding from local Virginia press, Gillespie disclosed that he also consulted on behalf of the Koch-backed Institute for Energy Research (IER), as well as its advocacy arm the American Energy Alliance (AEA), in 2016. IER produces research in support of nearly every conservative environmental policy position: questioning the dangers of climate change, opposing government-created green jobs, critiquing cap and trade, arguing against solar and wind power tax credits, and supporting the Keystone XL Pipeline.
Two Energy Groups Made Possible By The Kochs
Founded in 1989, the Institute for Energy Research is a non-profit dedicated to “freely-functioning energy markets.” In 2008, it created the American Energy Alliance to act as its advocacy arm. On its website, AEA currently has tools users can use to send form emails to their elected officials urging them to “withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement as soon as possible” and end a “wasteful” clean energy subsidy that “lines pockets of wind energy corporations.”
Both groups are headed by Thomas Pyle, a former Koch Industries lobbyist who also lobbied on behalf of the National Petrochemical and Refiners Association. Pyle led the Trump administration’s transition team at the Department of Energy.
Billionaire Charles Koch is head of Koch Industries, which he runs with his younger brother, David. The Kochs are some of the wealthiest people in the world, and they spend large amounts of their money on conservative politics and free-market academic programs. Photo: Getty Images/Bo Rader/Wichita Eagle/MCT
Gillespie has been  cast in the media as being from the establishment wing of the GOP, narrowly beating out Corey Stewart, a Trump-aligned populist who campaigned on preserving Confederate monuments, to secure the Republican nomination in the governor’s race. However, the deep connections between the Koch-backed IER and both Gillespie and Trump show overlapping consensus within the GOP. Gillespie’s campaign is now engaged in a balancing act, as Trump’s approval is at a low  33 percent in Virginia, and the president is not campaigning for Gillespie.
Because they are nonprofits, neither the IEA or the AEA are legally required to disclose their donors, meaning both organizations are considered “dark money” groups. But research has shown that the vast network of Koch-funded entities, which together employ  three and a half times more people than the Republican National Committee, are their main funders. The Koch network gave $3 million to Pyle’s groups in 2015, according to  The Los Angeles Times.
Data compiled by Conservative Transparency shows that Koch family foundations and other nonprofits to which the Kochs donate have contributed to IER for years. In the late 1990s and 2000s, the Claude R. Lambe Charitable Foundation, a now-defunct foundation operated by the Kochs, gave a total of  $235,000 to IER, and the Charles Koch Foundation gave over $30,000 total through 2014. The American Petroleum Institute and Exxon Mobil have combined to give IER almost $500,000.
AEA appears to be  almost entirely funded by Koch-backed political groups. Freedom Partners was AEA’s biggest donor from 2008 to 2014 at nearly $3.9 million, and the Center to Protect Patient Rights — another major conduit of donations from the Koch political network now called American Encore — gave over $1.1 million.
AEA raised $4.67 million in 2015, the last year for which data is available. IER, despite calling itself a research organization, gave most of the $2.9 million it raised that year directly to its advocacy arm. In total, the groups raised $5.37 million in 2015 — and more than half of that came from the Koch network.
Koch connections abound among the leaders of the two groups.  Wayne Gable, who lobbied for  Koch Industries along with Pyle, is on the board of IER and, as of 2015,  chairman of AEA.  Nancy Pfotenhauer, the former president of Americans for Prosperity and former Koch Industries employee, was on the IER board in 2015.  Daniel Simmons, vice president of policy at both IER and AEA who now works for the U.S. Department of Energy, was a research fellow at the Koch-funded Mercatus Center at George Mason University. Scott Beaulier, who was a director at AEA as of 2015, has set up several Koch-funded free-market university centers and is on  the board of the Institute for Humane Studies, another Koch-backed free-market center at George Mason, along with Charles Koch and two Koch Foundation officials.
More Koch Cash Boosts Gillespie
Americans for Prosperity (AFP) has reported over  $2.6 million on TV and digital ads and mailers against Northam, according to data compiled by the Virginia Public Access Project. The group also claims to have done significant phone banking and canvassing. Large independent expenditures like these could have a major impact for Gillespie, who has trailed Northam considerably in campaign fundraising, although the two candidates’ combined haul has  broken records in Virginia. Through September, Northam raised twice as much money as had Gillespie, but a recent increase for Gillespie and more spending by Northam has nearly evened out their respective cash on hand. The Democratic Governors Association has backed Northam with more than $6 million.
As a 501(c)(4) “social welfare” nonprofit, AFP isn’t required to disclose its donors, but according to data compiled by Conservative Transparency, AFP has  received millions from Freedom Partners — the “central bank” of the greater Koch political operation, which also doesn’t disclose its contributors — as well numerous other Koch-backed political groups including AEA itself ($100,000 in 2011), the Charles Koch Foundation and the David Koch Foundation, and corporations such as tobacco giant Reynolds American.
Gillespie got to hobnob with donors in August at the  annual AFP summit, where he condemned white nationalism in a speech. However, many have  accused him of running a racist campaign, airing  ads that stoke fear of Latino gangs and lambast Northam for being “weak” on immigration. In response, the Latino Victory Fund ran a now-retracted  ad depicting a pickup truck with a confederate flag and a Gillespie bumper sticker chasing Latino, black, and Muslim children through Virginia streets.
Koch Industries donated $10,000 to the Gillespie campaign on May 5, and another $10,000 on Oct. 18, but the Kochs are also indirectly financing his run. Koch Industries gave $250,000 to the Republican Governors Association (RGA) in April, and Charles Koch added $25,000 in June, according to a mid-year IRS report. In turn, the RGA, a super PAC, has put millions into the race; according to data compiled by the Virginia Public Access Project, the RGA has donated over  $8.7 million directly to Gillespie’s campaign, but it also routed  $5 million to the campaign through a super PAC it controls and finances called A Stronger Virginia. It gave that group a total of $8 million, so more reported donations or spending are likely. A Stronger Virginia has disclosed roughly $20,000 it spent on digital ads, $21,000 on TV ads, over $150,000 on polling and robocalls, and a $150,000 donation to the Virginia Republican Party.
The RGA is funded largely by corporations such as 21st Century Fox, Exxon Mobil and Facebook and wealthy conservative executives like Koch, Kenneth Griffin and Bernard Marcus.


A bevy of leaked financial documents released Sunday unveil how the rich and powerful use offshore accounts to avoid taxes or to obscure investments and assets. The leak, dubbed the Paradise Papers, is a follow-up to last year’s Panama Papers and revealed some notable names in addition to state-run Russian corporations' investments in Facebook and Twitter.
Bermuda, the Cayman Islands, the Channel Island of Jersey and the British Virgin Islands — where the papers show several famous people’s money being parked — are all notorious tax havens.
The documents come largely from Bermuda-based Appleby, a law firm that provides offshore legal services. The investigation was headed by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) whose members include the New York Times, BBC and Vice News.
“ICIJ does not intend to suggest or imply that any persons, companies or other entities have broken the law or otherwise acted improperly,” the group said in a disclaimer posted online. Several noteworthy names include actors, musicians and politicians.
US Secretary of Commerce, Wilbur Ross kept investments in a shipping company with Russian ties after joining the Trump administration.  Photo: Daniel Leal-Olivas-AFP/GETTY
Ross, a banker before becoming part of President Donald Trump’s administration, retained investments in a shipping company with ties to Russia even after becoming commerce secretary, the New York Times reported Sunday. The shipper, Navigator Holdings, does a significant amount of business with a Russian energy company, Sibur, which is owned in part by a Russian oligarch currently under U.S. sanctions and Vladimir Putin’s son-in-law.
Queen of England's personal wealth had ties to the Cayman Islands. Photo: Stefan Wermuth/GETTY
Around $13 million of the Queen’s personal estate was invested in off-shore accounts in the Cayman Islands and Bermuda. While the Queen is not personally involved in investments, the off-shore funds could have been used to avoid taxes, according to the BBC Sunday.
“Our investment strategy is based on advice and recommendation from our investment consultants and appropriate asset allocation,” said Chris Adcock, the chief financial officer of the Duchy of Lancaster to the BBC. The Duchy provides the Queen with an income and manages her personal fortune.
Pop singer Madonna was shown in the papers to have been a shareholder in a Bermudan medical supply company which was shuttered in 2013, according to Business Insider Monday.
Bono, frontman of U2, invested in a company in Malta, a low tax country for foreign investors.  Photo: Chelsea Lauren/GETTY
The lead singer of rock band U2 was an investor in a Lithuanian shopping mall through a company based in Malta, which is also a country that foreign investors can use to avoid taxes, according to the Guardian Sunday.
“Bono was a passive, minority investor in…a company that was legally registered in Malta until it was voluntarily wound up in 2015. Malta is a well-established holding company jurisdiction within the EU,” said a spokeswoman for the singer to the Guardian.
The actress famous for roles in movies like “Love Actually,” “Bend It Like Beckham” and “Pirates of the Caribbean” appears to have invested money in a Jersey-based real estate firm, according to Business Insider.


The U.S.-based International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), the publishers of the high-profile Panama Papers leaks, published another database — The Paradise Papers — on Sunday revealing offshore of "some of the world’s most powerful people and companies."
The Paradise Papers include around 13.4 million leaked documents, including nearly 7 million loan agreements, financial statements, emails, trust deeds and other paperwork from the Bermuda law firm Appleby Group Services Ltd. Appleby was named offshore firm of the year by Legal 500 UK in 2015. The law firms branches are in Bermuda, Isle of Man, Jersey, Guernsey, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Mauritius and the Seychelles, and it has a presence in Hong Kong and Shanghai.
"The Paradise Papers reveal offshore interests and activities of more than 120 politicians and world leaders, including Queen Elizabeth II whose private estate indirectly invested in a rent-to-own loan company accused of predatory tactics. At least 13 allies, major donors and Cabinet members of U.S. President Donald Trump appear, including Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross’s interests in a shipping company that makes millions from an energy firm whose owners include Russian President Vladimir Putin’s son-in-law and a sanctioned Russian tycoon," the press release by ICIJ summarized.
Democrat Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut said Ross had misled Congress and the Americans by concealing his ongoing stake in the company, Navigator. 
“Only after a thorough investigation can Americans be sure Secretary Ross really has their best interests at heart,” Blumenthal said.
The leaked files from Appleby, the offshore law firm, include details of tax planning by nearly 100 multinational corporations, including Apple, Nike and Uber.
The offshore industry makes “the poor poorer” and is “deepening wealth inequality,” Brooke Harrington, a certified wealth manager and Copenhagen Business School professor said, adding: “There is this small group of people who are not equally subject to the laws as the rest of us, and that’s on purpose.”
These people “live the dream” of enjoying “the benefits of society without being subject to any of its constraints,” he said.
The leak has prompted Canadian tax authorities to review reports linking a key fundraiser for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to offshore trusts in the Caribbean. 
The papers also revealed Queen Elizabeth II has invested millions of dollars in medical and consumer loan companies.
"The records show that as of 2007, the queen’s private estate invested in a Cayman Islands fund that in turn invested in a private equity company that controlled BrightHouse, a U.K. rent-to-own firm criticized by consumer watchdogs and members of Parliament for selling household goods to cash-strapped Britons on payment plans with interest rates as high as 99.9 percent," ICIJ said in a blog post.
U.K. politician John McDonnell called for a public inquiry into tax avoidance, saying people will be “outraged” to hear of its scale.
"I think we want openness and transparency overall... Of course it will [raise some eyebrows that the queen is involved] and the Duchy of Lancaster that manages those funds has to be held to account," he told Sky News, adding: “But it’s not just them. The [disclosures] just demonstrate the scale of tax avoidance that’s going on. That’s why we published a call 18 months ago for a proper openness and transparency programme so that people can know what’s going on."
"I think we need now a full public inquiry because we’ve heard from the government time and time again that they’re tackling this issue, we now know they’re not tackling it effectively. What we need is a public inquiry on tax avoidance overall. We also need full publication of registers of beneficiaries of these trusts," McDonnell said.
According to a database compiled by The Lawyer magazine, Appleby's corporate clients include Barclays Group, Citibank, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs, HSBC Bank, ­JPMorgan Chase, KPMG, ­Lloyds Banking Group, PwC, Royal Bank of Scotland Group, Santander UK and Standard Chartered.
Below are some other reactions to the Paradise Papers leak.






The smartphone chipset industry has had an interesting year, and saw Nvidia moving into AI and Samsung starting large-scale semiconductor production.
And the clincher is being revealed as the year is about to end — Broadcom's  expected $100 billion takeover bid for Qualcomm.
This would be the biggest ever takeover bid in the chipset industry, whose total worth currently stands at $300 billion. Broadcom is reportedly set to offer a $70 per share deal in cash and stock soon.
While representatives from either company yet to comment, the share prices of both have risen since the rumor broke out Friday. While Qualcomm’s shares made their biggest ever gain since October 2008 of 19 percent, Broadcom’s shares rose 5.5 percent in intraday trading Friday.
The fact that Broadcom — itself valued at $112 billion — has put out a $100 billion bid for Qualcomm has taken many people by surprise. Since Qualcomm is currently valued at $44 billion, the deal might be irresistible for the company.
However, there seems to be a curious link between the two companies; while Qualcomm makes chipsets for mid-tier and premium smartphones, Broadcom makes chipsets for Apple’s iPhones such as the iPhone X. And, the fact that Qualcomm has been involved in a lengthy court battle against Apple and has accused the company of infringing its patents.
While Qualcomm had sought a ban on the sale of Apple iPhones in many countries, Apple had countersued Qualcomm for $1 billion in damages for charging hefty royalties on the use of its technology.
Qualcomm has maintained its stand that Apple is violating six of its patents and using the technology to extend the iPhone’s battery life.
“Qualcomm’s inventions are at the heart of every iPhone and extend well beyond modem technologies or cellular standards. Apple continues to use Qualcomm’s technology while refusing to pay for it” the company’s general counsel Don Rosenberg said in a statement on Oct. 13.
Qualcomm is currently in a vulnerable position. In December 2016, it was hit with a fine of $865 million for charging excessive licensing fees to phone makers by the Korean Free Trade Commission. Then, in October, it was fined $773 million for abusing its monopoly power by the Taiwan Free Trade Commission.
The United States Free Trade Commission has sided with Apple and is suing Qualcomm for forcing Apple to use its chipsets in some of its devices.
The buyout might save Qualcomm from the outcome of the judgment. If Broadcom buys out Qualcomm, chances are that it will ink a separate deal with Apple to settle the cases between the two companies, and end the Qualcomm-Apple feud once and for all.
While the terms of the deal haven’t been revealed, chances are that the company has the support of one of the industry’s behemoths, most probably Apple, since it has the most to gain from the deal.
For the consumer, the deal might not sound so sweet, as it could create a monopoly and drive up the prices of smartphones.


Pizza Hut executives claimed Thursday that sales haven't been affected by the NFL protests of police brutality during the national anthem — unlike one of its top competitors Papa John's. Pizza Hut, which is part of Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE: YUM), reported a 3 percent sales growth during its third-quarter earnings.
"We're not seeing impact on any of that on our business," Yum! Brands CEO Greg Creed said in a call with investors Thursday. 
Pizza Hut's remarks come after Papa John's has stated that the protests have "hurt" their sales and have forced the company to rethink their advertisements. The protests have been polarizing, with some supporting the players and owners for their stance, while others, like President Donald Trump, condemning them.
"I am proud of our accomplishments," Creed said in a press release Thursday. "I'm especially proud of our ability to leverage our culture to rapidly transform to a more focused, more franchised and more efficient company which delivers more growth to our shareholders."
Papa John's, which began its reign as the official pizza company of the NFL in 2010, only experienced 1 percent sales growth. Sales were below expectations, but the Kentucky-based company claims it expects the same results in the next quarter because of the protests.
"The NFL has hurt us, more importantly, by not resolving the current debacle to the players' and owners' satisfaction," John Schnatter, Papa John's founder and CEO, said in a press call Wednesday. "NFL leadership has hurt Papa John's shareholders."
Schnatter added: "This should have been nipped in the bud a year and a half ago. Like many sponsors, we're in touch with the NFL. Once the issue is resolved between the players and the owners, we're optimistic the NFL's best years are ahead."
It should be noted that while Papa John’s is an official NFL sponsor, Pizza Hut is not affiliated with the NFL and is an official sponsor of the NCAA.
Frozen pizza maker DiGiorno appeared to throw shade at Papa John's following its accusations against the NFL. DiGiorno's sales are below Papa John's, but Nestle brand compared the two company's third-quarterly sales by using emojis in a tweet.
Better Pizza.Better Sales.
— DiGiorno Pizza (@DiGiornoPizza) November 1, 2017
DiGiorno Pizza reeled in $1.014 billion in sales during the same timeframe that Papa John's garnered $1.71 billion. 
Pizza Hut, pictured on November 18, 2016 in Terre Haute, Indiana, claims to have not had sales impacted by NFL protests like its competitor Papa John's. Photo: Getty Images


A TUI Airways flight from Cancun, Mexico, to Manchester, England, made an emergency landing last week after a “disruptive passenger” attempted to “aggravate” other passengers, the airline said. The passenger was reportedly drunk prior to boarding the flight.
The Wednesday flight diverted to Gander International Airport in Newfoundland, Canada, and the man was reportedly escorted off the flight by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, as well as his partner, the  Manchester Evening News reported Wednesday. An unnamed passenger aboard the Dutch carrier said that the man “kept walking up and down the aisles, trying to aggravate passengers.”
“The flight crew did refuse to serve him alcohol. He kept saying, ‘You have given it to everyone else,’” the witness told the Evening News. “His partner tried to calm him down but in the end the flight crew had to separate them. Then we were told we were diverting to Gander Airport in Newfoundland to offload him.”
The passenger was not identified by name, though  CBC reported last week that he was a 24-year-old British man. He also reportedly faces charged under the Aeronautics Act and was held ahead of his court appearance last Thursday.
The Evening News reported that the man “had been disruptive during the bus transfer prior to the flight,” though it was unclear what exacerbated his behavior to the point that the flight was forced to land.
The plane reportedly spent two hours on the ground in Canada before continuing on Manchester.
“Once the passenger was offloaded and after a short delay we can confirm that the aircraft departed safely and continued its journey to Manchester,” a spokesperson for the airline told the Evening News. “We would like to again apologise to any passengers inconvenienced by this and would like to reassure customers that we take a zero tolerance approach to any behaviour of this kind.”
Passenger planes of German airliners Lufthansa and TUI pass one another at Tegel Airport on July 29, 2008 in Berlin, Germany. Photo: Photo by Sean Gallup/Getty Images


After the news broke that Joe Ricketts was shuttering media companies Gothamist and DNAinfo, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio had some choice words for the billionaire. Ricketts announced the organizations’ closure a week after employees voted to unionize.
“Joe Ricketts is a coward,” de Blasio tweeted Friday. “He wouldn’t last a minute under the intrepid scrutiny of the reporters he employed. What a loss for our city.”
More than 100 staff were informed via email Thursday they would lose their jobs in the wake of the abrupt closures.
“I’ve made the difficult decision to begin the orderly wind down of the DNAinfo/Gothamist business,” Ricketts wrote. “Reaching this decision wasn’t easy, and it wasn’t one I made lightly.”
Ricketts justified the decision by saying “businesses need to be economically successful if they are to endure.”

Social media users also railed against Ricketts’ decision.
“Journalism isn’t a hobby for rich people to experiment with and then abandon when it becomes inconvenient for them,” one person tweeted.
“Gothamist was the best NYC news for years,” wrote another. “Voice, character, real perspective. Gawker’s gone, Village Voice is a ghost. NYC media is f------.”

Adding fuel to the fire was Ricketts’ apparent decision to delete the archives from the website – removing all articles before the reporters who wrote them had a chance to save the clips.
“If only Joe Ricketts could have scraped together the money to keep Gothamist and DNAinfo up long enough for writers to save their clips,” one person tweeted, alongside a screenshot of Ricketts’ reported $2.1 billion net worth.

Ricketts, the former CEO and chairman of the brokerage firm Ameritade, founded DNAinfo in 2009 in an effort to “report unbiased neighborhood news and information,” he said.
“While we made important progress toward building DNAinfo into a successful business, in the end, that progress hasn’t been sufficient enough to support the tremendous effort and expense needed to produce the type of journalism on which the company was founded,” Ricketts wrote in a statement Thursday. “I want to thank our readers for their support and loyalty through the years. And I want to thank our employees for their tireless effort and dedication.”


Joe Ricketts, the former CEO and chairman of the brokerage firm Ameritrade, shut down the local media companies DNAinfo and Gothamist along with its affiliates, including DCist on Thursday. Ricketts informed 115 staff across Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Washington and New York, who got laid off as a result of the abrupt closure, via email of the decision.
“I’ve made the difficult decision to begin the orderly wind down of the DNAinfo/Gothamist business,” Ricketts wrote. “Reaching this decision wasn’t easy, and it wasn’t one I made lightly.”
Although the final decision to keep or liquidize Ricketts’ media companies came down to an all-important vote, the businessman’s statement put up on the sites of DNAinfo, Gothamist and all its other sister sites do not reflect how the fate of these media companies was decided.
"But DNAinfo is, at the end of the day, a business, and businesses need to be economically successful if they are to endure," Ricketts wrote in the long statement, which pops up every time one tries to access the domains belonging to his dissolved companies. "And while we made important progress toward building DNAinfo into a successful business, in the end, that progress hasn't been sufficient to support the tremendous effort and expense needed to produce the type of journalism on which the company was founded."

According to Washington Business Journal, the newsrooms of both Gothamist and DNAinfo voted to unionize less than a week ago. Ricketts opposed the move because he thought the process promotes “a corrosive us-against-them dynamic that destroys the esprit de corps businesses need to succeed.”
Ricketts' net worth is estimated by Forbes to be $2.1 billion and he ranks 388 in the magazine’s top 400. He is married to Marlene Ricketts, with whom he has four kids.
Ameritrade was founded by Ricketts in 1997. In 2011, he retired from the board of directors of TD Ameritrade. TD stands for Toronto-Dominion Bank, which is the largest shareholder. At present his son Todd Ricketts is a board member, while Ricketts owns 7 percent of stocks in the company. Joe's children are also majority owners of the Chicago Cubs, which won the World Series in 2016 for the first time in 108 years.

However, the Ricketts family did not always enjoy the kind of luxurious life they are able to afford today. According to Chicago Mag, Joe was born to a carpenter and small businessman and had to work as a janitor in college to pay for his tuition. He also went to school part time and took nine years to graduate from Creighton University after getting married and having children when he was in his early 20s. It was only after he worked as a credit analyst for Dun & Bradstreet, he went on to found his own business in 1975.
Joe’s son Todd was briefly considered to become the deputy commerce secretary for President Donald Trump. However, Todd fought against Trump’s nomination during the republican primaries, choosing to extend his support for Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker’s campaign instead, Heavy reported. 
The business mogul praised everyone’s hard work throughout the years in building the companies to the point where millions of people turned to these outlets for informative news every day.


The Federal Bureau of Investigation  probe notwithstanding, a quick read of the up-to-$300 million  contract the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority awarded to the  two-person Montana firm Whitefish Energy reveals a few problematic clauses. Along with requiring PREPA to waive any claims against Whitefish in the event of a delay in completing the electric grid renovations, the contract bars PREPA, FEMA, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the Comptroller General from auditing or reviewing Whitefish’s labor-related costs and profits.
While that might seem odd for such an ambitious project, such restrictions are far from unusual for procurement contracts with the federal government.

Since the enactment of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act in 1994, contracting industries have embraced the broadly-applicable “commercial item” contract designation,  defined as an item “of a type customarily used by the general public or by non-governmental entities” for non-governmental purposes.
Despite being termed “commercial,” many of the items the federal government purchases from the private sector, such as military transport aircraft and weapons systems, aren’t necessarily available on the commercial market, or once were but aren’t anymore, and are purchased through non-competitive bids. In the absence of similar goods on the market with which to make a viable comparison, the difficult burden of a reasonable price assessment is predominantly shouldered by the government agency. If the contracts are terminated, the contracting government entity doesn’t have the right, under  current law, to audit the contracting firm.
The issue was summed up in a March  report from the General Services Administration Inspector General, which found that, of 45 contracts sampled, 44 were awarded without a price analysis.
“As a result,” the report stated, “prices for these contracts, and others awarded without required price analysis, could remain unevaluated for up to 10 years, increasing the likelihood that customer agencies will overpay for services under these contracts and placing taxpayer dollars at risk.”
Scott Amey, general counsel at the watchdog group Project on Government Oversight, which has been pushing for commercial item contract reforms for  nearly two decades, described such procurement processes as an effort to “pin the tail on the donkey.”
“The burden has been placed on the government to determine whether these prices are fair and reasonable,” said Amey, who’s estimated the total dollar amount of commercial item contracts awarded by the federal government to be about $100 billion annually. (The Department of Defense gave out $47.6 billion in such contracts last year, according to a  report from the Government Accountability Office.)
After an item is determined to be “commercial,” Amey told International Business Times, the designation sticks.
“Once one person overpays, everyone overpays,” he said, pointing to the substantial waste of taxpayer money that can result.
That appeared to be the case after Bloomberg Businessweek  reported in 2014 that the Department of Defense agreed to pay Bell Helicopter $13.4 million for $4.4 million worth of parts. The Pentagon, Bloomberg  found, purchased $445 gears for more than $8,100. Boeing, meanwhile, overcharged the Pentagon by $13.7 million, of which it  reportedly refunded $3.2 million.
The Defense Department  has sought to limit the scope of the “commercial item” category and mandate better “determination of price reasonableness.” But Congress,  under pressure from industry lobbyists, has often pushed forward measures do the opposite, often in the form of amendments attached to annual National Defense Authorization Acts. The NDAAs Congress passed between 2013 and 2017, as detailed by the GAO  report on DoD procurement, bolstered the department’s ability to accurately determine how much it should pay, but also made it harder for Defense to price items differently from past purchases; kept the onus of price determination on the government’s shoulders, as opposed to those of the private seller; broadened the definition of “commercial item”; and established preference for commercial items and services at certain contract price levels.
Not unlike Whitefish, which recently  retained its own lobbyist, contracting firms have been active on Capitol Hill.
Along with the Project on Government Oversight — which has spent $10,000 to $20,000 annually on lobbying efforts that include commercial item procurement, among other issues — SAP America Inc., a subsidiary of the German software giant SAP SE, and the Cedar Rapids-based information technology and aircraft systems company Rockwell Collins Inc. make frequent appearances on the federal lobbying database.  
Rockwell, which said in its previous annual  report with the Securities and Exchange Commission that a third of its sales “were derived from U.S. Government contracts,” has been lobbying on the issue since 2009, spending upwards of $200,000 per quarter on its advocacy efforts. Last quarter, for example, it spent $169,429 on lobbying efforts that included a push “to strengthen commercial item procurement for DoD acquisition policy in the FY [20]18 National Defense Authorization Act… to include clarifying the definition of a commercial item,” its  third-quarter federal lobbying form said. Rockwell did not respond to IBT requests to elaborate on its position or desired outcome.
SAP America, according to the Government Service Administration’s  Federal Procurement Data System, has received hundreds of thousands of dollars annually through its subsidiaries for IT software products and services, training services and other forms of technical support. It also paid lobbyists hundreds of thousands to lobby Congress, the DoD and the GSA on, among other subjects, “commercial item contracting” over the  past  two  years,  federal  lobbying  forms  show. SAP also did not respond to requests to clarify its lobbying objectives.  


U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren warned Wednesday that the nation’s largest student loan servicer has positioned itself to stealthily strip consumer protections from unwitting borrowers across the country. In an interview with International Business Times, she also said the loan servicer, Navient, should not be permitted to be a government contractor handling student loans on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education.
The Massachusetts Democrat was sounding an alarm about Navient’s recent  acquisition of online lender Earnest. She said the transaction opened up the possibility that the company will try to boost its profits by selling debtors on refinancing their current federal student loans with the company’s own private loans — the kind that she said to do not necessarily permit income-based repayment options.
“The fear is that Navient will do this because Navient can make money off it, but the difficulty for the people who have been shifted over is that they lose many of the protections that federal law gives to them on federal loans,” said Warren, who has sponsored  legislation to let borrowers refinance their federal student loans. “So long as a student holds a loan that is a federal student loan, there is a public service loan forgiveness loan program available, there are income driven repayment options, there is a borrower defense if the college cheated the student — there are protections put in place. But those critical federal protections disappear if the loan is refinanced and taken private. That could matter to many students whose loans, if Navient is successful, are shifted from being federal loans to loans that are held privately.”
Navient fired back at Warren, asserting that the lawmaker was distorting its record.
“This continues a pattern that misrepresents the good work we do to help borrowers navigate a complex system and avoid default,” said Navient spokeswoman Patricia Christel in a statement to IBT. “Under contract rules, we may not use Department of Education customer data for any marketing purpose whatsoever. We have built compliance routines to ensure strict adherence to this requirement.”
As a contractor for the Department of Education, Navient services $300 billion worth of student loans for roughly 12 million Americans. In recent weeks, the company has been unabashed about the potential upside of moving beyond just servicing loans, and into originating private student loans.
“We will add over $1 billion in new refi loans to our balance sheet this year, and I expect we will add more than $1.5 billion in new loans in 2018,” Navient CEO Jack Remondi  told investors last month. “With Earnest, we’ll be a dominant originator of refi loans.”
In a letter to Remondi, Warren said the situation presents “a potentially serious conflict of interest: the company could be collecting monthly payments from federal student loan borrowers with one hand, and trying to get some of those same borrowers to trade in their federal loans for Navient/Earnest's private refinanced loans with the other hand.”
Navient — which had previously been part of Sallie Mae — has been under intensifying scrutiny after the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau filed a  lawsuit earlier this year against the company. The agency asserted that Navient “created obstacles to repayment by providing bad information, processing payments incorrectly, and failing to act when borrowers complained.” The suit was followed up by separate state suits filed by attorneys general — including one in Pennsylvania, where the company employs roughly 1,000 people.
“They were charging people excessively high interest rates…and they failed to put struggling borrowers into repayment plans that that borrower could afford,” Pennsylvania’s Democratic Attorney General Josh Shapiro told IBT. “[They’ve] taken millions of people across our country, and made it harder for them to buy a home, made it harder for them to invest in their startup business, made it harder for them to go to the grocery store, go to the mall, and purchase goods and services and things in their area that they need. These are things that ultimately harmed all of us as Americans, held all of us back, because of the corporate malfeasance that we witnessed here from Navient.”
Navient has denied those allegations,  declaring that they are “unfounded and are designed to get headlines rather than help student loan borrowers.” The company’s website asserts that “53 percent of student loan balances Navient services for the government are enrolled in income-driven repayment — more than any comparable servicer.” Christel told IBT that “we lead the way” in enrolling borrowers into income-driven repayment plans, and she said  government data show that federal student loans serviced by the company “produce  37 percent lower default rates.”
In her letter to Navient’s CEO, Warren challenged that statistic.
“The allegations in the CFPB's lawsuit raise questions about whether the company has managed default rates by simply encouraging borrowers to postpone payments by railroading them into forbearance periods that delay repayment in exchange for the accrual of interest,” she wrote.
Amid the CFPB suit, Navient has in recent months boosted its lobbying spending in Washington. An IBT review of federal records show that during the first three quarters of the year — as Republican lawmakers have sought to defang the CFPB — the company has spent more than $1.9 million on lobbying, which is a 21 percent increase over the same time period in 2016.  Federal records show Navient has sought to influence the policies governing the CFPB.
During the CFPB litigation, Navient said that its top priority is not necessarily safeguarding borrowers.  
“The servicer acts in the lender's interest,” the company declared in  court filings. “There is no expectation that the servicer will ‘act in the interest of the consumer.’”
Warren cited that statement — and Navient being fined  $97 million for overcharging service members on student loans — as reasons lawmakers should be concerned about the potential for abuse in the company’s acquisition of a private lender.
“In my view a company like that should not have hundreds of millions of dollars in federal contracts to handle student loans,” she told IBT.
Correction: This story has been corrected to note that Navient has spent $1.9 million in 2017, which is a 21 percent increase over 2016. 


If you died 200 years ago in America, your family would wash and dress your body and place it in a bed surrounded by candles to dampen the smell of decomposition.
Your immediate family and friends would visit your house over the course of the next week, few needing to travel very far, paying their respects at your bedside. Before the body’s putrefaction advanced too far, the local carpenter would make a simple pine casket, and everyone would gather at the cemetery (or your own backyard, if you were a landowner) for a few words before returning you to the earth.
You would be interred without any preservative chemicals, without being cosmetized with touch-ups like skin dyes, mouth formers or eye caps. No headstone, flowers or any of the other items we relate to a modern funeral. In essence, your demise would be respectful but without pomp.
Things have changed pretty substantially since America’s early days as funeral rites have moved out of the house and into the funeral home. How did we get here and how do American traditions compare with typical practices in other countries?
In doing research for “Memory Picture,” an interactive website I’m building that explains the pros and cons of our interment options, I’ve discovered many intriguing details about how we memorialize death. One of the most fascinating is how the founding of the modern funeral industry can essentially be traced back to President Abraham Lincoln and his embrace of embalming.
The simple home funeral described above was the standard since the founding of the Republic, but the U.S. Civil War upended this tradition.
During the war, most bodies were left where they fell, decomposing in fields and trenches all over the South, or rolled into mass graves. Some wealthy northern families were willing to pay to have the bodies of deceased soldiers returned to them. But before the invention of refrigeration, this often became a mess, as the heat and humidity would cause the body to decompose in a matter of a couple of days.
Updating an ancient preservation technique to solve this problem led to a seismic change in how we mourn the dead in America. Ancient Egyptian embalmings removed all internal organs and blood, leaving the body cavity to be filled with natural materials.
In 1838, the Frenchman Jean Gannal published “Histoire des Embaumements,” describing a process that kept the body more or less intact but replaced the body’s blood with a preservative – a technique now known as “arterial embalming.” The book was translated into English in 1840 and quickly became popular in America.
Catching wind of these medical advances, opportunistic Americans began performing rudimentary embalmings on the corpses of northern soldiers to preserve them for the train ride home. The most common technique involved replacing the body’s blood with arsenic and mercury (embalming eventually evolved to using variants of formaldehyde, which is still considered a carcinogen).
Results improved, but not on a grand scale. These were “field embalmings,” performed by nonprofessionals in makeshift tents set up next to the battlefield. Results were unpredictable, with issues involving circulation, length of preservation and overall consistency. It is estimated that of the 600,000 that died in the war, 40,000 were embalmed.
Business was doing so well that the War Department was forced to issue General Order 39 to ensure only properly licensed embalmers could offer their services to mourners. But the technique was limited to the war – to make embalming part of a traditional American funeral would require Abraham Lincoln, who you might say was an early adopter.
Many prominent Civil War officers were embalmed, including the first casualty of the war,  Colonel Elmer Elsworth, who was laid in state in the East Room of the White House at Lincoln’s request.
Upon the death of Lincoln’s 11-year-old son Willie in 1862, he had the boy’s body embalmed. When the president was assassinated three years later, the same doctor embalmed Lincoln in preparation for a “funeral train” that paraded his body back to his final resting place in Springfield, Illinois. Nothing like this had happened for any president previously, or since, and the funeral procession left an indelible effect on those who attended it. Most visitors waited in line for hours to parade by Lincoln’s open casket, usually set up in a State House or rotunda after being unloaded from the train.
Lincoln’s appearance early in the trip was apparently so lifelike that mourners often reached out to touch his face, but the quality of the preservation faded over the length of the three-week journey. William Cullen Bryant, editor of The New York Evening Post, remarked that after a lengthy viewing in Manhattan, “the genial, kindly face of Abraham Lincoln” became “a ghastly shadow.”
This was the first time most Americans saw an embalmed body, and it quickly became a national sensation.
The public was painfully aware of death, with an average life expectancy of around 45 years (almost entirely due to an infant mortality rate higher than anywhere on Earth today). Seeing a corpse that exhibited lifelike color and less rigid features made a strong impression.
While we do not have statistics on the increase in embalmings during this time, there is ample evidence that the Civil War had a profound effect on how Americans treated death. Victorian mourning traditions gave way to funeral homes and hearses. Local carpenters and taxi services began offering funerary services, and undertakers earned “certificates of training” from embalming fluid salesmen. Eventually, every American could be embalmed, as most are today.
There was one potent caveat: Families could no longer bury their own. More was needed than the assistance of friends and family to inter a corpse. Death was becoming professionalized, its mechanisms increasingly out of the hands of typical Americans. And as a result, the cost of burying the dead soared. The median cost of a funeral and burial, including a vault to enclose the casket, reached US$8,508 in 2014, up from about $2,700 three decades ago.
Thus was born the American funeral industry, with embalming as its cornerstone, as families ceded control of their loved ones’ bodies to a funeral director.
When people talk of a “traditional” American funeral today, they usually refer to a cosmetized, embalmed body, presented in a viewing before being interred in a cemetery.
This unique approach to interment is unlike death rites anywhere else in the world, and no other country in the world embalms their dead at a rate even approaching that of the U.S. Funeral tradition involves the intersection of culture, law and religion, a recipe that makes for very different outcomes across the globe.
In Japan, nearly everyone is cremated. The cultural traditions bound to the ceremony, which include family members passing cremated bone remains to each other using chopsticks, predate the Civil War.
In Germany, where cremations are also increasingly popular, the law requires that bodies be interred in the ground – even cremated remains –including the purchase of a coffin and a land plot. This has led to “corpse tourism,” in which cremation is outsourced to a neighboring country and the body shipped back to Germany.
Other European countries struggle to deal with limited land resources for burial, with countries such as Greece requiring that graves are “recycled” every three years.
In Tunisia, as with all majority Muslim countries, nearly everyone is interred in the ground within 24 hours, in a cloth shroud and without chemical embalming. This is in accordance with Islamic scripture. It also bears close resemblance to the original interment of Americans before the Civil War.
While American funerals are typically more expensive than in other countries, U.S. citizens enjoy many more options – and can even choose a simple Muslim-style interment. The key thing is to plan ahead by thinking critically about how you want yourself or your loved ones interred.
If you were to die in 2017, chances are you would meet your demise at the hospital. Your family would be asked if they had an “advanced directive” regarding “disposition of remains.” In the absence of clear guidelines, your next of kin would most likely sign away the rights to your body to a local funeral parlor that will encourage them to have the body embalmed for a viewing and burial.
You would be interred with the blood and organs of your body replaced with carcinogenic preservative liquids, heavily cosmetized to hide the signs of the the embalming surgery that rendered you this way. Your embalmed body would be placed in an airtight casket, itself placed inside a concrete vault in the ground.
And you may wish for it to be that way. But if you prefer anything else, you must make your wishes known. To say “I don’t care, I’ll be dead” places an undue burden on your family, which is already mourning your loss.
Brian Walsh is Assistant Professor of Communications at Elon University.
This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Samsung Electronics on Thursday announced major appointments to its board, including appointing a new corporate president. Tim Baxter, who is head of the company’s North America division, will now serve as corporate president of Samsung Electronics North America. He will remain CEO of the division.
Kwon Oh-Hyun will serve as the chairman of the Samsung Advanced Institute of Technology, which works on its semiconductor business. Inyup Kang will serve as the president of the company’s large-scale integration (LSI) division, which works on core components of smartphones. DJ Koh is president of the company’s mobile business, and Roh Hee-Chan will serve as president and chief financial officer at Samsung Display. Hwang Deuk-Kyu will serve as president and head of Samsung China. The full list of appointments can be found on the company’s website.
The appointments will fill a vacuum of leadership in the company following the indictment of its South Korean president and heir to chairman Lee Kun-Hee. Lee Jae-Yong’s arrest in a corruption case in January and CEO Kwon Oh-Hyuh’s resignation in November, in which he stated that the company was facing an unprecedented crisis, raised further questions about the electronic giant's future.
“As we are confronted with unprecedented crisis inside out, I believe that time has now come for the company start anew, with a new spirit and young leadership to better respond to challenges arising from the rapidly changing IT industry,” Kwon said in his resignation letter.
The board rejig seems to be a response to the Kwon resignation as it does put younger leaders in charge — all the appointments are promotions from within the company.
The company was facing a series of debacles around the same time last year, following the Galaxy Note 7 crisis, which took place when the device started exploding due to its battery overheating.
The Note 7 fiasco caused the company a loss of $17 billion in the third quarter of 2016. But the company recovered thereafter and announced record profits in the next quarter. The company has been on a roll since and has generated record profits all three quarters of 2017. The major credit for this goes to the company’s diversification — it has put more focus on its semiconductor and display business.
The company set up a new plant in China to make displays for Apple’s 2017 flagship — the iPhone X and with chipmaker Qualcomm, also developed the world’s first commercial 10nm processor — the Qualcomm Snapdragon 835. The processor has been adopted by most leading flagships, including the Google Pixel 2 and OnePlus 5, boosting Samsung’s profit in consecutive quarters.
Samsung has also moved on from the Note 7 and launched the Galaxy S8 in April and the Galaxy Note 8 in August. Both devices have had a successful run. The company has sold more than two million Galaxy S8 handsets globally and even though the numbers for the Note 8 are not yet available, according to the South Korean publication the Investor, the company expects to sell 12 million handsets in the October-December quarter.
The new announcement follows the company’s announcement of three new CEOs on Tuesday. Kim Ki-Nam now heads the components business, HS Kim heads consumer electronics and DJ Koh heads the mobile business. The former leaders BK Yoon and JK Shin have resigned from their posts, making this the biggest board rejig in the company’s history.


Ride-sharing app Uber banned far-right activist Laura Loomer after she complained about Muslim Uber drivers just after a terrorist attack in New York City allegedly involved a former Uber driver. The ride-sharing app has banned other far-right activists in the past.
In an email to Business Insider Wednesday, Uber said that Loomer, a former Project Veritas supporter with over 100,000 Twitter followers, was barred for violating the company’s ethics guidelines.
Loomer took to Twitter this week and fired off tweets against Muslims following Tuesday’s attack. According to reports, an Uzbek immigrant allegedly drove into a bike lane, killing eight people and injuring 12 others.
The far-right activist sparked online debate after she claimed she was late to a press conference because she couldn’t get an Uber driver who wasn't Muslim.
"I'm late to the NYPD press conference because I couldn't find a non Muslim cab or @Uber @lyft driver for over 30 min! This is insanity," Loomer wrote.
"Then let me be the first to say I never want another Muslim entering this country EVER AGAIN! #ProudIslamophobe," she tweeted.
Following August's racially charged events in Charlottesville, Virginia, that left one woman killed, Uber promised to continue to ban individuals involved in hate speech from its service.
"There is simply no place for this type of bigotry, discrimination, and hate," Regional General Manager Meghan Verena Joyce wrote in a statement.
Lyft did not immediately respond to International Business Times’ request for comment about whether Loomer was banned from its service too. 
Uber banned far-right activist Laura Loomer from its ride-sharing service. The company is pictured on July 1, 2014 in Barcelona, Spain. Photo: Gett Images


Pakistan International Airlines issued an apology Wednesday after leaving behind two corpse-filled coffins. The coffins were intended to be flown to Lahore, Pakistan, on Saturday, but they were mistakenly forgotten at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York.
The incident occurred on PIA's final New York-Lahore flight. The route was suspended due to financial losses, which means passengers would have to fly into London and take Etihad Airlines.
PIA said Wednesday it "regrets the inconvenience caused due to negligence on part of the airline's ground handling agency...and expresses its sympathies with the family members of the deceased persons," according to BBC News. 
The airline also placed blame on its ground-handling staff. Relatives of one of the dead men,  Nauman Badar, had asked for his body to be buried in Maryland. The family of the second dead man, Nasir Ali, had his body transported back to Lahore by Etihad Airlines.
All expenses will be covered by PIA as it continues to oversee the transfer operations of the corpse-filled coffins. The oversight was ordered by PIA Chairman Musharraf Rasool Cyan, Channel NewsAsia reported Wednesday.  
PIA is no stranger to controversy. In April, a pilot was caught taking a nap in business class on a flight to London. In May, Pakistani officials found 20 kilograms of heroin on a flight after reports of three similar incidents in 2016. The airline also came under fire for slaughtering a goat on a Pakistani airport tarmac in December 2016. 
PIA reportedly loses more than $340 million annually. The Pakistan government has looked to lawmakers for support in shutting down the seemingly "bankrupt" airline. 
"Such a recommendation from a parliamentary committee will help the government take the difficult decision that it is otherwise hesitating to take," Sardar Mehtab Abbasi, the Pakistan Prime Minister's adviser on aviation, said of PIA in May before a Senate Special Committee hearing. "We are trying to restructure PIA, but it is an extremely difficult task."
A representative of Pakistan International Airline did not immediately return International Business Times' request for comment. 
Pakistan International Airline, pictured in Islamabad on February 8, 2016, reportedly forgot about two corpses on its aircraft.  Photo: Getty Images


Department store JCPenney is getting ahead of the forthcoming Black Friday and Cyber Monday holidays by teasing out savings to potential shoppers. The big box retailer shared a  72-page ad on its website Wednesday, more than three weeks ahead of the post-Thanksgiving weekend of savings.
Shoppers can expect to save big on electronics, with $200 savings on a Samsung 55” Class 4K Ultra HD LED Smart TV. The PlayStation 4 console, which normally retails for $300, will be on sale for $200. Both are being offered at a limit of one per household.

Fine jewelry shoppers will see savings of up to 80 percent off already reduced prices. Sterling silver diamond studs and pendants that are normally offered at $125 will be on sale for $20 each. Half carat diamond earrings and diamond rings — normally $625 and up — will be priced at $147 each. For the big spenders, 1 carat diamond earrings in 14K gold will be offered at $377 (more than 76 percent off the normal price of $1,625).
Select major appliances will be up to 40 percent off. A 26-foot French Door Refrigerator from Samsung will retail at $995 — more than $1,000 off its original price. A Cooks convection air fryer regularly priced at $100 will be offered at $20 after a mail-in rebate.
Sales of clothing and linens will see massive savings, with boots normally priced up to $79 is instead being offered at $20. Select Nike styles for men, women, and kids will be offered at 25 percent off. Home Expressions towels will be a mere $3, whereas they normally retail for $10.
Early birds to JCPenney’s Thursday sale will also have the chance to win major savings coupons, including $500 off $500 valid through Christmas Eve, $100 off $100 or more, and $10 off $10 or more. For more details on Black Friday savings, head to  JCPenney’s website.
Signage is displayed at the entrance of a JC Penney department store inside the Manhattan Mall, May 15, 2017 in the Herald Square neighborhood in New York City.  Photo: Photo by Drew Angerer/Getty Images


Amid a cascade of political problems this fall, there could be a happy moment for Donald Trump. A trade case that will soon land on the president’s desk could give him an opportunity to boost American manufacturing and slam an Obama administration policy at the same time — while potentially winning praise from environmentalists for helping cut greenhouse gas emissions.
The U.S. International Trade Commission  recommended Tuesday that the president impose tariffs on imported solar panels in order to counter the financial harm caused by a mix of seemingly unrelated economic trends — and the unintended consequences of President Barack Obama’s economic stimulus package — which have pushed the U.S. solar manufacturing industry to the brink of extinction.
The cost of the solar energy has plummeted, finally making the renewable power source price-competitive with fossil fuels. Solar panels are no longer a specialty item — there are scores of installers throughout the nation who make the process almost as easy as adding an appliance to a home. And with more people looking to match their buying habits with their environmental politics, the demand for solar continues to rise.
That should be welcome news after a series of devastating hurricanes and wildfires, and at a moment when scientists say the world needs to embrace renewable energy in order to prevent catastrophic climate change. But just last April, Suniva, one of America’s two largest manufacturers of solar panels, declared bankruptcy.
Instead of increasing domestic manufacturing, America’s rush to solar fueled an import boom — one effectively subsidized by the U.S. government. While Beijing had already begun propping up its solar industry, President Obama’s 2009 stimulus delivered hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars to foreign companies.
“Unfortunately, the Obama administration stimulus funding for solar installations primarily benefited Chinese producers who were also receiving massive grants, loans, and other government subsidies, and then dumping their product in the U.S. market,” Tim Brightbill, a partner with the law firm Wiley Rein who is representing SolarWorld Americas, told International Business Times. “The stimulus had almost no benefit for U.S. producers of solar cells and modules.”
The result is a failing American solar manufacturing sector — and diminished environmental benefits. Recent science suggests that, for as long as nine years, the carbon cost of producing and importing an Asian-made solar panel is greater than the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions that the same panel will provide on the roof of a home.
The U.S. industry’s crisis led Suniva and SolarWorld Americas, the two largest U.S. solar manufacturing companies, to file a case in April with the ITC, asking it to declare that their industry has been seriously damaged by foreign imports.
On Sept. 22, the ITC  ruled unanimously that foreign imports have injured American manufacturers. On Tuesday, the commission released its “remedy recommendations” for President Trump, who has the power to accept or reject the recommendation by January. The four ITC commissioners laid out separate, yet similar, plans including tariffs of up to $0.35/watt on panels that would kick in after a yearly import quota had been reached and decrease over four years.
Possibly hinting at how the administration is leaning, the White House  said in a Sept. 22 statement, “The U.S. solar manufacturing sector contributes to our energy security and economic prosperity.” Axios  reported that Trump is likely to issue tariffs on solar imports.
“There is a strong economic justification and a strong environmental justification for having solar manufacturing in the market where the product will be used,” said Brightbill. “The U.S. is the second-largest solar market in the world, and solar demand is strong and growing...yet imports have taken all of that growth. It doesn’t make sense either economically or environmentally.”
Ben Bierman (R) and Chris Gronet (L) lead U.S. President Barack President Barack Obama on a tour of the Solyndra solar panel company on May 26, 2010 in Fremont, California. Obama's federal stimulus plan provided substantial loans to Solyndra, which later went bankrupt. Photo: Paul Chinn-Pool/Getty Images
An Incentive Plan — And A Loophole
Obama’s economic stimulus package was aimed, among other goals, at creating domestic jobs by helping incentivize and grow U.S. companies. Part of the $787 billion American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 — section 48C — was the Advanced Energy Manufacturing Tax Credit, a $2.3 billion program that provided a 30 percent tax credit to 183 companies investing in green energy manufacturing or energy conservation technologies.
To earn the tax credits, projects had to be based in the U.S., and a “  Buy America ” clause was included to boost domestic manufacturing. But the clause had a loophole: It would be waived if “the relevant manufactured goods are not produced in the United States in sufficient and reasonably available quantities.” Because of the relatively small solar manufacturing capacity in the U.S., domestic solar installation companies receiving stimulus money would be allowed to purchase panels from overseas, undercutting U.S. manufacturers.
But that’s not all — while roughly 70 percent of the grant recipients were American companies, there were at least 17 foreign-based companies receiving 48C tax credits that had already arranged for solar or wind manufacturing operations in low-wage nations, according to a  2010 report from a project of the BlueGreen Alliance Foundation, an environmental nonprofit. Six U.S. companies that were awarded tax credits, including First Solar and Sun Power, already had manufacturing operations in low-wage, East Asian countries such as China, Malaysia and the Philippines.
Receiving the biggest chunks of 48C stimulus funding were American manufacturers of polycrystalline-silicon, the key ingredient in most of the world’s solar cells. In January 2010, Hemlock Semiconductor Corp. was awarded $142 million in 48C tax credits to expand its polysilicon manufacturing operations in Hemlock, Tennessee, where it is based. The North American branch of the Germany-based Wacker Chemie got over  $128 million in 48C tax credits to help build a polysilicon manufacturing facility in Charleston, Tennessee. The Norwegian  REC Silicon, which has two U.S. operations, received $155 million in credits — the highest amount awarded to a 48C recipient — and  AE Polysilicon got $45 million.
Domestic polysilicon manufacturers posed another problem for the country’s solar panel producers: Both before and after receiving stimulus funds, they entered into long-term “take-or-pay” contracts with foreign, often Chinese, solar manufacturing companies. REC Silicon, for example, entered into several contracts guaranteeing sales of  polysilicon and  solar  wafers — electrical components of solar cells that are made from polysilicon — at fixed prices to companies headquartered in East Asia. Hemlock entered into numerous  take-or-pay contracts with foreign solar producers in China, Japan and Germany.
Using cheap, subsidized polysilicon and polysilicon products from the U.S., along with huge subsidies and tax credits from their own government, Chinese manufacturers were able to produce solar panels at extremely low cost, allowing them to “dump” huge numbers of cheap panels into the U.S. market.
At the same time, China was expanding its polysilicon manufacturing, further reducing global prices. Oversupply of polysilicon pushed prices way down in 2011, with global pricing  falling over 60 percent. In 2012, the price continued to decline.
After the U.S. imposed tariffs on Chinese solar imports in 2012, China  responded in mid-2013 with its own steep tariffs of up to 57 percent on polysilicon imports from the U.S. This move hurt the U.S. polysilicon industry. REC Silicon’s Washington facility, for example, exported 80 percent of its polysilicon to China before the tariffs. Until September 2015, companies were able to exploit a  loophole that waived the tariffs if Chinese companies were importing the material for use in products that would then be exported. Still, U.S. companies have taken a hit.
The stimulus money wasn’t nearly enough for American solar manufacturers to weather this perfect storm. From 2011 to 2014, at least  16 domestic facilities manufacturing solar modules, cells and other components closed. In 2014, the U.S. produced a mere 2 percent of the world’s solar panels, while Asia, particularly China, made 87 percent. From 2010 to 2016, as the overall U.S. solar industry more than doubled, solar manufacturing jobs went from 27 percent of total domestic solar industry jobs  down to 15 percent. In 2016, the industry continued to increase its workers, and manufacturing employees remained at roughly  15 percent of the workforce.
The Georgia-based Suniva provides a prime example of how American manufacturers can’t compete with foreign competitors. In late 2015, Suniva had reached a verbal agreement with a potential customer that would purchase panels for $0.665/watt. By early 2017, however, that customer had  abandoned its deal with Suniva, instead signing with a southeast Asian supplier that was selling at only $0.38/watt. In April 2017, Suniva filed for bankruptcy.
An employee makes a final check on a solar panel at the Renewable Energy Corporation (REC) intergrated solar manufacturing facility in Singapore on November 3, 2010. Photo: ROSLAN RAHMAN/AFP/GettyImages
Environmental Cost
The fact that U.S. solar companies import most of their panels from cheaper, overseas markets creates a surprising dilemma. The environmental impact of importing panels — from shipping polysilicon to East Asia to transporting completed solar panels to U.S. installation companies — is considerable. An expert estimates that for U.S. solar customers, it could take almost a decade just to pay back the carbon generated in the production and transportation of panels made in East Asia.
The process begins with the mining of quartz, the most common form of silica. Next, initial refining turns the quartz into metallurgical-grade silicon, a process that employs huge, energy-intensive furnaces to keep the quartz hot. To turn this type of silicon into extremely pure polysilicon needed for solar power, factories use hydrochloric acid and hydrogen, which create a toxic byproduct called silicon tetrachloride. The next step, creating the silicon wafers that make up solar cells, also requires hazardous chemicals.
Next, the solar cells are combined into solar modules, or panels. Because of the tariffs imposed by the U.S. on China, and then Taiwan, for dumping huge amounts of cheap panels into the U.S. solar market, these countries have moved much of their manufacturing to countries like Malaysia and Thailand, which aren’t subject to tariffs, further increasing the amount of transport involved in the process.
When the solar panels are complete, diesel-fueled ships with heavy containers of panels travel from Asia to the U.S. to deliver them to American solar installers.
The countries where the many steps in this production process take place affect the overall environmental footprint of a solar panel’s creation. The greenhouse gas payback time — how long it takes for a panel to make up for the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from manufacturing and transporting it — increases sharply with imports from Asia. China, for example, relies heavily on coal for its electricity; therefore, producing solar components there has a much higher carbon intensity than in Europe or the U.S.  A May 2014 report by the Argonne National Laboratory and Northwestern University found that solar panel manufacturing in China has roughly double the carbon footprint than in Europe. China also has fewer environmental and efficiency standards for its factories than in Western countries. (The study did not include the energy cost of transporting the solar panels to their final destination.)
The greenhouse gas payback time for a panel produced in a country with a carbon-intensive energy grid and installed in a country with a more energy-efficient grid can be considerable,  says Dustin Mulvaney, a professor of environmental studies at San Jose State University who has researched the environmental cost of solar production.
A panel made in East Asia could use an energy grid that is four times more greenhouse gas-intensive than a grid in the U.S. If that panel’s energy payback time is two years, the efficiency discrepancy between the U.S. and, for example, China would make the greenhouse gas payback time eight years. Mulvaney added that factories that use installed solar capacity to help power their operations will reduce the carbon payback time of their panels.
At IBT’s request, Mulvaney made a calculation to estimate how much transportation might increase the greenhouse gas payback time of a panel made from polysilicon mined in Washington state, sent to China, manufactured in Malaysia and installed in Los Angeles. In this scenario, transport would account for a roughly 10 percent increase in carbon payback time, given that shipping is far less energy-intensive than trucking.
Considering both estimates, it could take nearly nine years for a panel installed on a U.S. roof to make up for the greenhouse gas emissions involved in its production and transportation. Most panels last around 25 years, so if used for its full lifespan, assuming it escaped any weather-related or other damages, the panel would pay off the carbon used in its production close to three times over.
Keeping manufacturing in the U.S. would decrease greenhouse gas production considerably. Suniva and SolarWorld said that imposing adequate tariffs on all solar imports would save the domestic solar manufacturing industry. If sufficient tariffs are imposed, and the U.S. solar industry overall does not suffer a major blow, this would be a win for the environment. But the companies say ITC’s trade remedy doesn’t go far enough.
The Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA), the main trade group representing the entire U.S. solar industry, declined to answer IBT questions about the environmental impact of solar imports.
Frank Asbeck, founder and CEO of Germany's SolarWorld poses for a picture before an extraordinary shareholders meeting in Bonn August 7, 2013. Photo: REUTERS/Wolfgang Rattay
A Tariff On All Imports
Suniva and SolarWorld engaged in a bitter dispute over the best remedy for the financial injury. SEIA, which strongly opposed the tariffs, saying they would cost thousands of American jobs. In May, SEIA president and CEO Abigail Ross Hopper vowed to “  lead the fight on this petition every step of the way.”
Competition with much cheaper foreign products has led most manufacturers to close up shop. At least  26 U.S. plants that manufacture crystalline silicon photovoltaic products have shuttered since 2012, according to a recent ITC prehearing report. The closures represent a loss of $1 billion in investment and thousands of jobs in 22 states, according to Matt Card, executive vice president of commercial operations at Suniva.
Suniva is majority-owned by Chinese solar company Shunfeng International, and SolarWorld is owned by German parent company SolarWorld AG. In fact, Shunfeng stopped supporting Suniva’s trade case in May,  saying it was “not in the best interests of the global solar industry.”
Most arguments against Suniva’s trade case alleged that tariffs on solar panel imports would greatly increase solar installers’ costs, putting thousands of people out of work and decreasing the solar capacity installed in America. According to Greentech Media — a company owned by Wood Mackenzie, a firm that provides “commercial intelligence for the energy, metals and mining industries” — the higher tariff and floor prices originally proposed could halt  two-thirds of U.S. solar installations through 2022.  Up to 84,000 solar workers will lose their jobs by 2020 under a new proposal, according to SEIA. Hopper has said the tariffs, if imposed, “could be devastating. The price of solar in America will double and as any business owner knows, when you raise the price, you lose demand.”
But there have already been tariffs imposed on Chinese, and then Taiwanese, solar imports, and neither impeded the industry’s growth long-term. “Both of those times, opponents made the same claims,” Ben Santarris, head of corporate communications for SolarWorld Americas, told IBT. “None of that happened; in fact the reverse happened. Solar demand continued to increase, installation continued to increase, jobs continued to increase.”
In 2012, the U.S. slapped tariffs on imports from China, which was dumping heavily government-subsidized panels into the more expensive U.S. market. A new round of tariffs on Taiwanese imports came in 2015 because China had exploited a loophole in the original tariff order that allowed it to manufacture its products offshore to evade the restrictions. The industry did not take a hit; the number of solar jobs in the U.S. has steadily increased since 2010, including  increases of 20 percent or higher since 2012, according to the Solar Foundation.
The new proposed tariffs would be different, however, says Hopper, because they would apply to imports from any foreign nation. In a statement to IBT, Hopper wrote, “This case is completely unrelated to the hyper-focused trade cases of years past, which just hit Taiwan and China. This one would have a global impact...You simply cannot overstate the potential harm this petition could cause and there’s zero to gain, except for the investors of these two foreign-owned, bankrupt companies. The American economy will suffer immensely if this goes through.”
Mulvaney, the environmental studies professor, doesn’t think the proposed tariffs would ultimately hurt the industry. “I think it could slow it for a little, but I think it’ll reassure the industry...and open manufacturers. There’s a huge market in U.S. on the consumer side — they want in. I think it’ll get settled because the stakes are pretty high.” He added that foreign “factories, including Chinese ones, could migrate to the U.S. and increase domestic manufacturing that way.”
Early murmurs suggest that Mulvaney, as well as petition advocates, may be correct. Several foreign solar manufacturers including BYD of China and Adani Solar of India are  considering opening factories in the U.S. due to the prospect of tariffs, according to Greentech Media. If the tariffs go into effect, “I think the clear direction that will emerge from this is that manufacturing in the U.S. will be incentivized, or supported by direct or indirect means,"  said Adani Solar’s chief marketing officer Gagan Pal.
SolarWorld expected its proposed remedy to create at least 35,000 solar jobs, including nearly 10,000 in manufacturing.
This picture taken on November 28, 2009 shows a masked worker in a lab coat sorting silicon wafers at the manufacturing centre of solar cell maker Trina Solar in Changzhou. Photo: PHILIPPE LOPEZ/AFP/Getty Images
Unlikely Bedfellows
SEIA has been one of the loudest voices against the tariffs. Earlier this year, it joined with some prominent right-wing organizations, atypical allies for solar advocates, to oppose the trade petition. The combined effort, called the “free-market” Energy Trade Action Coalition, includes the conservative Heritage Foundation (funded in part by fossil fuel titans such as Charles and David Koch and ExxonMobil), the Republican-aligned corporate bill mill the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC), and the free-market think tank R Street Institute, an ALEC member.
“Organizing and coordinating” the coalition’s efforts is  George Felcyn of the Houston-based law firm Bracewell, which specializes in energy issues and advises major oil and gas companies such as BP and Kinder Morgan, as well as some renewable energy companies.
Asked about SEIA’s decision to unite forces with right-wing groups that are generally hostile to green energy, Hopper said, “In this case, we are fighting the same fight and that’s for a free market. As ALEC has publicly said — ‘our country’s trade laws were set up to facilitate and promote an even playing field, not provide shelter to those unable to compete.’” However, with China massively subsidizing its companies, those on the other side don’t consider the current market free.
Regarding “the narrow universe of American cell and panel manufacturers, which employ only 1,000 Americans,” SEIA president Hopper said, “We will address proposals to help them at the appropriate time, but they have to also be able to help themselves.” Exact estimates of the number of jobs in each subsector are difficult, but manufacturing advocates have estimates well above 1,000.
“American solar manufacturing is thriving,” said Hopper, citing a SEIA  publication featuring manufacturers — mainly those that do not produce cells or modules but rather inverters, steel products and mounting systems — that have made “good business decisions.” But overall solar manufacturing hasn’t matched the growth in other parts of the industry over the last several years. The Solar Foundation’s  analysis shows that as overall solar jobs steadily increased in the U.S., manufacturing jobs didn’t nearly keep up.
SEIA  lobbying resulted in a  bipartisan group of 69 members of Congress signing letters to the ITC, asking its chair to reject the Suniva petition because “increasing costs will stop solar growth dead in its tracks.”
Among the groups supporting Suniva and SolarWorld in the trade case is the Alliance for American Manufacturing, a trade association formed in 2007 by manufacturers and the United Steelworkers, North America’s largest industrial labor union. In a September 15  letter to the ITC, AAM president Scott Paul wrote, “The growing U.S. solar installation market would be well served by vibrant domestic competition rather than an over-reliance on imports from China. Allowing Chinese imports to destroy the remaining market share for domestic solar cells and panel manufacturing would ultimately disrupt the possibility of a truly competitive market and make it more subject to the vicious cycles of overcapacity and over-consumption that plague China’s government-driven economy.”
On October 10, Arizona-based manufacturer First Solar came out in support of Suniva and SolarWorld after staying silent for some time. CEO Mark Widmar wrote to the ITC, agreeing that import tariffs should be imposed and criticizing SEIA for failing to “engage constructively” on the issue. First Solar has  manufacturing operations in Malaysia and Vietnam as well as in Ohio, but it uses thin-film technology to produce its cells, a process that doesn’t use polysilicon. Therefore, its cells and panels would be exempt from the trade remedies under consideration.
Tesla, which is currently building what will be the largest solar manufacturing facility in the U.S.,  came out against the Suniva/SolarWorld petition.
U.S. Sen.  Ron Wyden of Oregon, home to a SolarWorld plant, and several U.S. representatives in districts that have seen solar manufacturing job losses have also stated their support.
President Donald Trump speaks to the National Association of Manufacturers in Washington, DC, September 29, 2017. Trump will decide on solar tariffs recommended by the ITC by January. Photo: SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images
Imports Have ‘Decimated’ The Manufacturing Industry
In a statement to IBT, Suniva wrote that the trade case “is about almost 30 U.S. cell and module manufacturers driven out of business in the last five years, leaving only two U.S. companies to stand between China and its proxies from owning the sun.” The tariffs are essential for keeping the U.S. solar manufacturing industry alive, say proponents. Brightbill is worried that without tariffs, “There’s a real threat that America would lose solar manufacturing, which we think would be a very bad thing.”
A Suniva statement shortly after the ITC injury decision said that the company “is gratified that the ITC has found that a surge of imports into the U.S. has decimated the American [crystalline silicon photovoltaic] cell and module manufacturing industry.”
Solar manufacturers Suniva and SolarWorld asked the ITC to recommend a $0.25/watt tariff on imported solar cells and $0.32/watt on modules in 2018, tariffs that would decrease over four years. Before the remedy phase, the companies had requested higher tariffs and a floor price on modules. In addition, SolarWorld  asked the ITC to impose a temporary import quota of 0.22 GW for cells and 5.7 GW for modules in 2018. Instead, Suniva  asked for a minimum price of $0.74 cents per module.
SolarWorld made other recommendations including loans and grants to stimulate domestic solar manufacturing and research and development, and asked for steps to address the potential circumvention of relief through Free Trade Agreement partners excluded from the Commission’s injury finding, particularly Canada and Singapore. Suniva asked for an executive order directing U.S. governmental agencies to require the use of American-made solar cells and disbursements of funds for U.S. companies seeking to develop new manufacturing capacity, including polysilicon producers.
SEIA was discouraged by the ruling and hoped to influence the ITC’s recommendations to the president. “As the remedy phase moves forward, I am determined to reach a conclusion that will protect the solar industry, our workers and the American public from what amounts to a shakedown by these two companies,” said SEIA’s Hopper in a September 22 statement. “An improper remedy will devastate the burgeoning American solar economy and ultimately harm America’s manufacturers...”
The “incredible progress” of the American solar industry “will be stopped in its tracks with new worldwide tariffs,” claimed SEIA in an October 3 press release.
SEIA accuses Suniva and SolarWorld of proposing illegal remedies and instead  called on the ITC to recommend a license fee on foreign manufacturers of up to $0.01/watt to export solar cells and modules to the U.S., revenue that would be delivered directly to American manufacturers. SEIA also proposed “technical assistance” of up to $10 million per year and managed by the Department of Commerce, and “traditional adjustment assistance” from the Department of Labor for “adversely affected workers” and grants for training programs at community colleges.
Tuesdays recommendation are far less generous than Suniva and SolarWorld wanted. In a statement, Suniva called the recommendations “weak” and “disappointing,” stating that “we’ll see very shortly the extinction of what remains of this manufacturing sector, and the jobs of American workers, as yet another high-tech manufacturing industry will have been destroyed because of an overt plan by China.”
SEIA also expressed disappointment, with Hopper saying in a statement that the “proposed tariffs would be intensely harmful to our industry. While we will have to spend more time evaluating the details of each recommendation, we are encouraged by three commissioners’ reference to alternative funding mechanisms, including our import license fee proposal.”
"We need a program that pulls together a diverse coalition of industry leaders to end the solar wars," Desari Strader, a solar industry veteran and president of IDEAS for USA, a new think tank focused on manufacturing policy, told IBT. "What the ITC commissioners have offered does not get us there. We need a global settlement that includes a quota for domestic production, and wee need to open China’s market to US producers."
Many expect Trump to support tariffs. The president ran for office on a platform of bolstering the American manufacturing industry, and specifically against what he characterized as illegal trade practices by China. In his fourth month as president, Trump  ordered a Commerce Department review of potentially illegal Chinese steel dumping into the U.S. market. Despite a delay, the White House is  expected to implement tariffs on steel.
In April, Trump issued a “Buy American”  executive order, although critics have called it “  empty.” Still, Trump’s public posture on trade, which includes attacks on the World Trade Organization and the NAFTA trade deal, has SEIA and others worried. Referring to general trade measures against China, Trump  told his chief of staff in August, “I want you to know, this is my view. I want tariffs. And I want someone to bring me some tariffs.”


Back when lawmakers were crafting the health reform law that Congress is now working to dismantle, they sought to make a deal with large health insurers. In return for the influx of new policyholders who wouldn’t have otherwise been able or required to buy insurance, the industry behemoths would together fork over an annual, multi-billion-dollar fee, the amount of which would increase year by year. While the industry’s leading lobbyist has remained committed to its campaign to abolish the fee since then — characterizing it as a direct tax on consumers, as the group says insurers must cut benefits and raise premiums to pay for it — the collective profits of the five largest insurers have continued to rise.
Here’s where it gets confusing. In their third-quarter earnings, many health insurers, such as UnitedHealth Group Inc. and Anthem Inc., are reporting revenues stunted by a temporary suspension of the large annual fee imposed by the Affordable Care Act. That math may sound disjointed to the average reader, but it’s ubiquitous throughout the earnings reports of the biggest publicly-traded health insurance companies this year. And, with $14.3 billion for the industry to cough up when it’s set to return next year, the fee, and insurers’ response to it, is one reason Americans will likely face higher premiums and less-generous benefits in 2018.
Combined with UnitedHealth’s withdrawals from the ACA’s individual market, the suspension of the fee — alternately called the Health Insurer Fee (HIF), the Health Insurance Provider (HIP) Fee and the Health Insurer Tax (HIT) — “reduced consolidated revenues by approximately $1.6 billion,” the company said in its recent third-quarter  earnings release. Aetna, which is expected to report third-quarter earnings Tuesday,  noted a $430 million decline in year-over-year revenue in the second quarter, “primarily due to lower premiums… and the temporary suspension of the HIF in 2017.” Molina Healthcare, set to report its third-quarter results Thursday, similarly flagged a “reduction to revenue as a result of the 2017 Health Insurer Fee (HIF) moratorium” in its second quarter Securities and Exchange Commission  filing.
Anthem, in its third-quarter  filing Wednesday, was transparent in how it addresses the yearly fee, which Congress suspended for 2017 when it passed 2016  appropriations legislation. The company noted that, while operating revenue had increased, it was “offset by the impact of lower Health Care Reform fees, primarily due to the HIP Fee suspension for 2017, as we did not price affected products to cover any HIP Fee related expense in the current year.” Similarly, Cigna, expected to report earnings Thursday, said in its previous quarterly SEC  filing that “our pricing actions in 2017 reflected the moratorium on the industry tax, whereas in 2016 we included this tax in our premium rates.”
In other words, the insurers say that the loss of a massive government-imposed fee has hurt their revenues — because with the fee in place, they raised premiums and cut benefits.
The  ACA and the  Health Care Education and Reconciliation Act together imposed the non-tax-deductible annual fee on insurers as a way for the government to both recoup the advantages of the ACA to those companies and keep the health care law fiscally sound, former officials from the previous administration told International Business Times. Those involved in and familiar with the law’s development said they’d hoped the firms would take at least a something of a hit to their profit margins to cover it, in return for the influx of new policyholders thanks to Obamacare’s individual mandate and subsidies that helped lower-income Americans afford the cost of health care. (In mid-October, President Donald Trump  announced plans to eliminate the latter.)

Analysts, on quarterly earnings calls, suggested profits as one of several places where insurers could cushion the fee’s financial blow. An analyst from JPMorgan Securities LLC on Humana’s second-quarter  earnings call, for example, suggested, “either you have to absorb the differential in terms of lower earnings growth, you have to reduce benefits, you have to cut [general and administrative costs] or you have to raise premium” when the fee returns in 2018. The company’s chief financial officer, Brian Kane, responded that it was not possible to take the windfall from the absence of the fee this year “and invest it in benefits.” Anthem CFO John Gallina said on his company’s recent third-quarter  earnings call that “the HIP fee always impacts every analysis,” and, consequently, between 2017 and the other years in which Anthem paid the fee, “profitability by line of business, all the ratios, all the metrics, are all really non-comparable.”
Although Brian Thompson, who heads UnitedHealth’s Medicare and Retirement division, promised in the company’s second-quarter  earnings call to “keep our benefit offerings as stable as possible” with the return of the fee in 2018, the company’s then-CEO had a different take. The fee “really affects the cost for consumers,” Stephen Hemsley said. In the third-quarter  earnings call, Hemsley’s replacement, David Wichmann, reiterated this view, saying the fee “ultimately increases [the] cost to consumers through either increased premiums or benefit reductions.” Cigna CEO David Michael Cordani, when asked about the return of the fee on his company’s second-quarter  earnings call, more or less hinted at the  relative  inelasticity of demand for health insurance policies when said, “we do not see a demonstrable change in purchasing patterns” as a result of price changes in response to HIF.
Adjusting prices to corporate or sales taxation is a normal business practice, so the insurers’ descriptions of revenue increases in response to the fee and the lobbying group’s warnings of higher costs are not unusual or absurd. Worse for insurers, the non-deductible nature of the fee has tended to expand insurers’ tax rates by upwards of 10 percent, according to their annual and quarterly reports. Yet between 2010 and 2016, an IBT review of SEC filings shows, the total net income of the five biggest publicly-traded American health insurers — namely, UnitedHealth, Anthem, Aetna, Cigna and Humana — has grown by nearly $2.5 billion, to 14.2 billion in 2016 .
“Money being fungible, it’s hard for policymakers to require a fee to come out of profits and not be passed on to consumers, at least where one is not dealing with a regulated public utility,” J. Mark Iwry, who served as senior adviser to the Treasury Secretary and the department’s deputy assistant secretary for Retirement and Health Policy within the Obama administration, told IBT. “How much they can pass on to consumers is ultimately a matter of economics and a function of the operations of the market.”
‘This Is Going To Make You A Lot Of Money, So We’d Like You To Kick Some Of That Back’
As officials ironed out the ACA in 2009, they planned on hitting three industries — drug makers, health insurers and medical device manufacturers — with yearly fees to help support Obamacare financially in return for the business boost the sectors would get with Americans’ greater access to coverage. The portion a company would pay depended on its market share, a detail intended to keep small companies from going bankrupt as larger ones comfortably took the blow.
The health insurance industry’s initial required payment, for the 2014 calendar year, was $8 billion. The total has since swelled to $11.3 billion in both 2015 and 2016, and, without the suspension,  would have grown to $13.9 billion this year. For pharmaceutical companies, the total started at $2.5 billion in 2011 and  has gradually increased to $4 billion since then.
President Barack Obama held a rally celebrating the passage and signing into law of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act bill while at the Interior Department in Washington, D.C., March 23, 2010. Photo: Reuters
Medical device makers originally would’ve paid $4 billion at the outset, but, according to a 2014  study of that part of the health care legislation by the Indiana Law Journal, the fee dropped to $2 billion, then “ evolved into an excise tax after much lobbying by the largest medical device manufacturers who claimed it was unfair.”
“Upon rejection of the annual fee,” the study noted, “Congress originally set the excise tax rate at 2.9 percent, but again under lobbyist pressure, Congress reduced it to the 2.3 percent.” The medical device makers would thus be charged with providing Obamacare with $29 billion in support over the decade spanning 2013 to 2022 — about $5 billion less than the pharmaceutical companies would collectively pay, and  less than a third owed by the health insurance industry, over the same period.
Regardless of what device manufacturers paid, the disparity between what insurers and drug makers contributed was substantial, as Rick Newman of U.S. News and World Report  pointed out at the time, with the pharmaceutical industry contributing far less than their share of the three sectors’ collective revenues. The pharmaceutical industry also enjoys profit margins of, for some firms,  upwards of 30 or 40 percent; for medical device makers, that number is closer to 10 or 15 percent, and for insurers, it’s generally in the single digits.
Kristine Grow, the senior vice president for communications at America’s Health Insurance Plans Inc., the leading industry lobbyist, told IBT that while she did not wish to comment on the ACA fees shouldered by other sectors, she “will point out that pharmaceutical companies have much higher profit margins.”
But drug makers also didn’t receive nearly as much windfall as insurers in the wake of the ACA’s enactment, according to Jonathan Gruber, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor and former health care policy technical consultant for both President Barack Obama and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney.
Obamacare consultant Jonathan Gruber (R) listened to then-Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Marilyn Tavenner, now the CEO and president of America's Health Insurance Plans, during testimony before a House Oversight and Government Reform hearing on "Examining Obama Transparency Failures" in Washington, D.C., Dec. 9, 2014.  Photo: Reuters
“On one hand, they are more profitable. On the other hand, they’ve seen the least gains from this law,” Gruber, known for his staunch defense of Obamacare, said of pharmaceutical firms. Referring to the health insurance sector, he added, “It’s like, this is going to make you a lot of money, so we’d like you to kick some of that back.”
‘The Money Has To Come From Somewhere’
To kick back those billions, health insurance firms have adjusted their offerings to policyholders, as a 2013  report by the consultancy Milliman Inc. predicted, and are largely expected to do so again when the fee returns in 2018. A more recent  analysis conducted by the management consulting firm Oliver Wyman, and, it’s worth noting, commissioned by UnitedHealth Group, predicted that the fee will result in a nearly 3 percent rise in premiums each year after 2018, with individuals facing yearly increases of between $165 and $500, depending on their coverage. Others, like Congress’ Joint Committee on Taxation, have  estimated annual premium increases of between 2 and 2.5 percent.
The ACA includes a provision to keep insurers from jacking up the annual premiums they charge. Known as the  Medical Loss Ratio, it mandates that companies spend 80 percent of premium incomes on improving quality and providing better care for policyholders — something Grow, of AHIP, was quick to point out. Only a fifth can be used for marketing, administrative costs and profits. For insurers selling group policies to companies with 50 employees or more, that ratio changes, with at least 85 percent set aside for care and quality and 15 percent allowed for profits and expenses that directly benefit the insurance company.
AHIP, the insurance industry lobbyist, has said the provision is “penalizing” insurers by misunderstanding the relationship between a company’s Medical Loss Ratio and the value of its plans to its customers. AHIP has also led the campaign against the annual health insurer fee.
The organization paid lobbyists close to $1.5 million during the third quarter to lobby Congress, the White House and various executive agencies on “issues relating to the annual fee on health insurance providers” and “issues related to medical loss ratios,” among other policy areas, according to federal lobbying  forms. It’s been lobbying on MLR since 2009 and the annual fee since at least 2011, spending upwards of $2 million in some three-month periods, federal lobbying records show.
In a July  letter to Senate Finance Committee Chair Orrin Hatch (R-UT), AHIP’s president and CEO, Marilyn Tavenner, who served as Centers for Medicare and Medicaid administrator from 2011 to 2015, thanked him for “helping to approve a one-year suspension of this tax for 2017” and told him the fee “has raised the cost of health insurance premiums by more than $100 billion.”
“That is why repealing this costly tax is so important,” Tavenner wrote, citing drops in certain types of coverage between 2008 and 2015. “We urge you and the Congress to fully repeal this tax so that millions of hard-working Americans can see lower premiums.”
In an “issue brief” on AHIP’s website, the group describes the fee as “a tax that will exceed $156 billion over the next 10 years (2017-2026) on families, small businesses, seniors, states and taxpayers, in what is essentially a sales tax on health insurance coverage.”
“Right now, health plans are finalizing their products for 2018 ahead of state and federal filing deadlines. If repeal or suspension of the tax for 2018 is not included in a legislative package before those filing deadlines, these 2018 products will have to factor in the cost of the health insurance tax,” the issue brief continues. “It is important for Congress to take swift action to suspend the health insurance tax into 2018 and beyond to continue to improve the affordability of health insurance coverage for millions of consumers.”
When asked whether AHIP’s  members — which include Anthem, Cigna, Humana, Molina, Kaiser Permanente and a dozen state companies of the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association — could absorb the costs of the fee elsewhere, Grow told IBT “that’s not how a tax works,” and that insurers must price it in like any company would a sales tax.
As Kent Smetters, a Wharton business economics and public policy professor, told IBT, the level of competition within the health insurance industry lent firms little space to take the hit themselves. With greater competition, he noted, existing price mark-ups tend to be smaller, which “implies more pass-through” of the fee expense to policyholders.
“There is not much the government can do to prevent pass-through unless they want providers to go bankrupt,” Smetters said. “Insurers will typically pass it on. Competition forces them to do so because they have low margins — currently negative for many of them.”
Still, he added, with a ballooning government deficit, “the money has to come from somewhere.”
Indeed, without the annual fee, government revenues would take a multi-billion-dollar hit. The Joint Committee on Taxation  estimated that, if the annual fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers were struck down as part of a general repeal of the ACA, the loss of government revenue would total $24.8 billion in the decade spanning 2017 to 2026. If the annual fee on health insurers were repealed, according to the committee, government revenue would drop $144.7 billion over the same period.  
‘A Lot Of Messaging’
Ezekiel Emanuel, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School, bioethicist and former Obama administration health care adviser, didn’t pull any punches when describing the insurance industry reaction to the fee.
“Insurance companies have been expert at blaming lots of stuff... on the ACA that have nothing to do with the ACA,” said Emanuel, who  reportedly advised the current administration on health care policy early this year.
Ezekiel Emanuel, a professor of Health Care Management at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, spoke at the Reuters Health Summit 2014 in Washington, D.C., April 1, 2014.  Photo: Reuters
Suggestions of raising premiums and cutting benefits in response to the fee were simply “a lot of messaging,” and curtailing the practice was a responsibility of state insurance commissioners rather than the federal government, he said.
In light of the House  passage of the fiscal year 2018 budget, which includes a provision allowing the House Budget Committee chair to revise the appropriations “for the budgetary effects of any bill… that repeals and replaces any provision of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,” and Congress’ repeated attempts to accomplish that feat, Emanuel was skeptical.
“If you open up renegotiations, you open up a can of worms,” said Emanuel, who has previously  written that low profit margins already leave health insurers with relatively little room to help cover the exorbitant costs of health care in the U.S. “You know, ‘Cut me, cut me!’ You’re not going to get a situation of more fairness.”
Gruber, the former technical consultant to Obama and Romney who’s now at MIT, echoed Emanuel’s point on messaging, noting that the insurers “could always raise premiums,” and that “the tax is an excuse.” And as the current administration and Congress work to reengineer U.S. health care policy, he said, they’ll still have to keep the government balance sheet in mind.
“The ACA had a balancing act,” Gruber said. He added, in reference to the fee, “If you don’t do it, the deficit goes up.”


On Monday morning, special prosecutor Robert Mueller brought the first charges in the Trump-Russia investigation,  indicting former Donald Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort and his long-time top aide  Rick Gates, deputy campaign manager, on 12 counts of conspiracy, money laundering, failing to register as a foreign agent and false statements. Manafort laundered millions of dollars of undisclosed payments from the political party of pro-Russian former Ukrainian president Victor Yanukovich over several years.
A foreign policy adviser to the campaign, George Papodopoulous,  pled guilty to lying to the FBI about his contact with a Russian professor with ties to the Kremlin, according to a newly unsealed court document.
One of Trump’s best friends, billionaire Tom Barrack, is the person largely responsible for uniting Manafort and Gates with Trump.
The private equity and real estate investor has known Manafort for 40 years, and he  brought the now-indicted operative into the fold of the Trump campaign in 2016, hoping that Manafort could turn around Trump’s struggling campaign. Manafort chaired the Trump campaign from May through August of 2016 and ran delegate operations before and during the GOP convention to make sure the Party didn’t try to take away Trump’s nomination. Conversations between Trump and Manafort  continued after the president took office, according to CNN.
Gates was a senior campaign official, at one point becoming deputy campaign manager, who survived Manafort’s firing and maintained “a central role on Trump’s campaign and inaugural committee.”
‘Unfailingly Loyal’
Barrack is the chairman of private equity real estate firm Colony NorthStar and was worth  $1 billion as of 2013, according to Forbes. Described as  “unfailingly loyal” to Trump, his friendship with the president goes back three decades. The two met in the late 1980s while negotiating real estate deals, and Barrack went on to help save Trump’s real estate portfolio in 1994.
In June 2016, Barrack co-founded an outside super PAC, Rebuilding America Now, which raised $23 million from  wealthy conservatives such as Home Depot founder Bernard Marcus and businesswoman Linda McMahon, who was rewarded with a cabinet appointment as head of the Small Business Administration, and corporations hoping for favorable treatment from Trump including private prison company GEO Group. The PAC  spent $17 million against Hillary Clinton and $4 million in favor of Trump, according to public data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics.
Barrack earned himself a  speaking slot at the Republican National Convention in July 2016, having given  $415,000 to a joint fundraising committee that distributed it to the Trump campaign and to the Republican National Committee. Barrack has a history of  large donations to the Republican Party, although he’s also contributed to some Democrats — including Diane Feinstein, a senator from California, where Barrack lives — and party groups over the years.
As chairman of Trump’s inauguration committee, Barrack led the effort to raise over $100 million for the events from wealthy conservatives and businesses eager to curry favor with the incoming president.
After his huge fundraising efforts, Trump  offered Barrack the position of Treasury secretary, which he turned down, according to Barack, who wanted to stay, officially, outside the White House. As of August, Barrack was reportedly the front-runner to become the  ambassador to Mexico.
As president, Trump consults Barrack regularly, whom The Daily Beast describes as one of Trump’s “  top outside advisers.” Barrack was “poised to wield enormous influence in Trump's Washington as  the person perhaps closest to the new president outside of his immediate family,” CNN’s Teddy Schleifer wrote in mid-January. Barrack has made regular  visits, bringing along Gates, who reportedly began working directly for him after leaving America First Policies, a pro-Trump nonprofit formed after the election.
Barrack’s Right-Hand Man
Despite working closely with Manafort in the many criminal acts detailed in their indictment, Gates managed to stay on with the campaign. He worked under Barrack as “the No. 2 man” planning Trump January inauguration.
Once Trump became president, Gates joined the pro-Trump nonprofit, America First Policies, where he worked alongside the likes of Nick Ayers, now chief of staff to Mike Pence, and David Bossie, another former Trump deputy campaign manager who is president of Citizens United. Billionaire Trump backers Robert Mercer and his daughter, Rebekah, initially planned to finance the group. Because of the FBI investigation into Manafort, Gates stepped down from America First Policies in March.
America First Policies was created to support Trump’s agenda. In addition, it has disclosed  spending nearly $2 million on political races this year, opposing unsuccessful congressional candidate Democrat John Ossoff with $1.5 million in his Georgia special election, and supporting GOP Sen. Luther Strange in the Alabama Senate special election.
The indictments of Manafort and Gates, and Barrack’s very close relationship with Trump, raise questions as to whether, and how much, Barrack knew about the shady dealings of Trump campaign associates with Russia-aligned Ukrainians or Kremlin-linked Russians themselves.
 


JetBlue’s plan to generate more revenue by shrinking bathrooms backfired when the bathrooms began failing, according to the Los Angeles Times Saturday.
The company’s Chief Financial Officer Steve Priest announced the bathroom problems during an earnings call with industry analysts this week. The bathrooms were installed on 21 of JetBlue’s  A321 planes and the planes will all need to be taken in for maintenance to repair “design failures with the space-efficient lavatories.”
A spokesperson told the Los Angeles Times that the bathroom’s had alignment issues that led them to be out of service at points.
The bathrooms, Space Flex 2 lavatories, are built by French company Zodiac Aerospace. Traditional airplane lavatories are located on either side of the back of the plane in front of the kitchen where flight crew prepares food. The Space Flex bathrooms are squished together on one side of the plane behind the kitchen area.
Installing the newer, smaller bathrooms can squeeze 12 extra seats on to a plane and JetBlue foresaw the move as one that could lead to a $100-million increase in revenue.
Bathroom repairs began in September and JetBlue has managed to fix one-third of its planes. The company said it wants to fix the bathrooms on its A321 planes before it begins installing the bathrooms on its A320 planes.
“We’re doing this before we begin modifications on our A320s to avoid having to take aircraft out of service at a later date,” said Priest.


Southwest Airlines expanded its partnership with Warner Music Nashville (WMN) to bring music to the airline's amenities roster through the Live at 35 in-air concert series. This deal would allow Southwest Airlines to continue its famed in-flight pop-up shows, Billboard reported Thursday. 
“Southwest's Live at 35 concert series remains the same as it has since 2011," Alyssa Eliasen, a press representative for Southwest, told International Business Times Friday. "We will look to partner with Warner Music Nashville artists, along with artists from a variety of relationships, for our ongoing Live at 35 series."
Eliasen added, "The performances will remain as a surprise and delight event for our Customers on select flights throughout the year."
Launched as an experiment in 2011, the music series has become popular among passengers who are eager to see if their flight will be selected to view a free musical performance. Atlantic Records/WMN country artist Devin Dawson kicked off the new feature for passengers on a flight leaving Nashville for Philadelphia Sunday.
Dawson performed his debut single "All On Me," alongside a few other songs, for airline passengers to help celebrate WMN designating Southwest as its Airline of Record.
"I checked the "Sing ALL ON ME at 35,000 feet in the air" box off the bucket list. Thank you @SouthwestAir #liveat35," Dawson wrote in a tweet Thursday. 
I checked the “Sing ALL ON ME at 35,000 feet in the air” box off the bucket list. Thank you @SouthwestAir #liveat35 https://t.co/SCK1U1PQ0K pic.twitter.com/0lYoSd7frU
— Devin Dawson (@zdevin) October 26, 2017
"The Employees of Southwest Airlines are already a part of our extended family," Marieke Bianchi, vice president of marketing and strategic partnerships at WMN, said in a press release issued to IBT. "No airline is more accommodating to our artists' unique needs when traveling, whether it's helping them with their guitars and gear, service animals or frequent schedule changes."
Bianchi added, "We are thrilled to formalize this relationship and continue to develop unique ways to celebrate country music and the fans who support it."
Past performers have included The Strumbellas, NEEDTOBREATHE, The Black Cadillacs and Valerie June.
"At Southwest, we connect in a meaningful way with our Customers and Employees through music," Linda Rutherford, vice president & chief communications officer at Southwest Airlines, said in a press release issued to International Business Times. "With this partnership with Warner Music Nashville, we are excited to continue to offer new music experiences to our Customers, and provide WMN artists and fans our friendly and reliable Customer Service – complete with our promise that bags (and guitars) fly free."
Twitter users responded to the news with mixed feedback. Many users appeared excited for the new amenity to take flight, but there were others who didn't see the need for the entertainment feature. 
Man, it's bad enough when people sing in the subway. Now I gotta listen to some frustrated singer-songwriter on @SouthwestAir? NO! pic.twitter.com/052p8BBjnG
— jefeto (@jefetogreen) October 27, 2017
@Joe_Roberts01 My reaction when I see this... pic.twitter.com/P6qHLMDQmi
— Ned Konin (@gophillies17) October 27, 2017
That is so cool!!
— Danie̶lle̶ Jø |-/ (@danileannejo) October 27, 2017
pic.twitter.com/m4q66NKj0I
— OGBlack (@VAKnightStick) October 27, 2017
I would have loved to be on that flight!!!
— Jamie A. Hancock (@Jamar1131) October 26, 2017
Some Twitter users echoed the sentiment of one user, who wrote: "so, like, who asked for this??" Other commenters claimed to "love" the new airline feature.
Southwest Airlines, pictured on the tarmac at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport on September 19, 2016 in Phoenix, teamed up with Warner Music Nashville to create a in-air concert experience.  Photo: Getty Images


When  Vice President Mike Pence cast the tie-breaking vote in the Senate on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's rule against forced arbitration this week, he finished off a regulation loathed by banks and financial institutions. The rule, which ensured consumers could enter class action lawsuits to resolve disputes instead of being forced into private arbitration, applied only to providers of financial services. But the vote may be an opening salvo in a battle over forced arbitration, a practice used by American companies to deny their workers and customers access to the courts. Among those companies is the Trump Organization, currently led by Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr., and formerly led by President Donald Trump, who is expected to sign the bill.
Arbitration is the process by which two parties bring their conflict to a neutral arbitrator that decides how to resolve the issue. The process, which is secret and often mandated in employee contracts, prevents the conflict from going to the courts, where the discovery process would force the disclosure of company business. It’s not surprising then that employers, as well as banks and credit card issuers, prefer to use arbitration to settle disputes with workers and consumers. While one study found that just 2.1 percent of companies used arbitration in the early 1990s,  recent research has found that number has grown to more than half of all non-union employers, a development that has angered workers rights groups.
“Forced arbitration of workplace claims is anathema to our public justice system because it occurs in secret, private tribunals in the absence of accompanying legal safeguards,” the  National Employment Lawyers Association has said, decrying the process’s lack of a “written record of the arbitration proceedings, the right to appeal the arbitrator's decision if the law is not applied correctly, or other guarantees that ensure a fair process that exist in a court of law.”
Advocates of arbitration argue the process is more cost-effective than litigation and prevents lawyers from getting a large cut of any class action remedy. That line of argument has been made by the Trump Organization, which forces all employees, including gardeners, housekeepers and manicurists, to give up their right to litigation through arbitration agreements,  according to a CBS News report.
“Because it is faster, more cost effective and tends to level the playing field, it is commonplace for large companies like The Trump Organization to use arbitration as the preferred method for resolving disputes,” a Trump Organization spokesperson told CBS in August.
The Trump Organization agreement bars employees from going to the courts for resolution of issues related to “unpaid compensation, missed meal or rest breaks, wrongful termination, unfair competition, discrimination, harassment, retaliation,” according to CBS.
In recent years,  the courts have split on the question of whether employers can force employees into arbitration agreements, so the issue has been taken up by the Supreme Court. Earlier this month, the Court heard oral arguments in  Epic Systems V. Lewis, a case which will determine if the common arbitration requirement that employees waive their right to join class action lawsuits is legal under the National Labor Relations Act. One  observer of the oral arguments believed the Court seemed likely to side with employers.


The rise of artificial intelligence threatens to eliminate jobs once considered impossible to automate. One series of papers by Oxford researchers ranks jobs by their estimated susceptibility to automation. Among those most rated likely to vanish – because they involve work that AI can increasingly accomplish less expensively – are real estate brokers, insurance claims adjusters and sports referees. Could anything good come of mass unemployment?
History tells us that when technology squeezes people out of jobs, they revolt. Industrialization in 19th-century England, for example, gave rise to Luddite activism. Unfortunately, history also suggests that protests of the marginalized don’t solve the underlying problem. The British Army suppressed the Luddites; the government passed laws to protect factory equipment and industrialization marched on. As Marx went on to theorize, in a capitalist society, the government is co-opted by the wealthy classes.
What happens, though, when that skilled upper class is itself put out of a job? That’s the question that mass AI-based unemployment would pose. What would happen when well-educated lawyers, journalists, bureaucrats, corporate managers and other creative-class knowledge workers can’t find work? Could the rise of AI lead to a white-collar rebellion?
When I was a Ph.D. student in the mid-1990s working in a subfield of AI known as computer vision – the automated processing of imagery – I used to think that the grand challenge of the field was to develop software that could take an arbitrary image and output a text description of it. At the time, computers couldn’t tell if a photo contained a human face or a bowl of macaroni and cheese. It was a problem I didn’t think I would live to see solved.
Just two decades later, a combination of advances in hardware, big data, parallel processing and neural networks have made impressive headway. Not only are AI systems increasingly able to describe image content, they are gaining significant footholds in translating between languages, grading essays and composing music. Modern AI systems are already conducting financial analysis, writing news articles and identifying legal precedents.
Old ideas that computers can’t do certain human things – be creative, express emotion, empathize – are being tossed out one by one. A visceral way to feel AI’s looming approach to human intelligence is to view the output from Google’s DeepDream, in which a trained neural network run in reverse produces eerie, dream-like images that seem genuinely creative and uncomfortably human.
It’s hard to overstate what this and related advances portend. Even technologists who made fortunes paving the way for the AI future have begun to sound an alarm. Elon Musk, the CEO of Tesla, whose self-driving car technology includes plenty of AI, has called AI humanity’s “biggest existential threat.” Bill Gates seems to think the crisis is self-evident, saying he doesn’t “understand why some people are not concerned.” And if futurist Ray Kurzweil is right, by 2045, computer intelligence will match or exceed human abilities in every way – what he calls the “singularity.”
But the job apocalypse might have a silver lining. The Luddites of the 1800s were unsuccessful for a number of reasons: They were politically marginal. They were not well-organized. They misdiagnosed the problem as being either about the technology or their employers. And, at least in some tellings, they had little public support.
In contrast, those involved in a white-collar movement would have strong ties to influential people. They would organize effectively. They would understand the larger problem as an imperfect economic system whose pathologies technology merely amplifies. And, they would have the rhetorical skills to draw the sympathy of the public – who are likely to be themselves jobless, too.
Unlike other worker revolts, a white-collar rebellion could move the levers of power so as to uproot the underlying problem: a politico-economic system that concentrates wealth, increases inequality, protects corporations from public accountability and fails to separate wealth and state.
I expect the AI job takeover to pose a problem primarily because its benefits will go to the few who own the technology, while all the harm will fall on the rest of us. It is a political problem, not a technological one.
In my view, technology amplifies the inequities of capitalism. What AI will do is to turn nearly everyone into displaced workers, even some who were previously among the elite.
Kentaro Toyama is an Associate Professor, Technology and Global Development at the University of Michigan
Logo Photo: The Conversation


In a rare instance of one federal agency publicly attacking another, the U.S. Department of the Treasury issued an 18-page  report Monday  excoriating the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s proposed arbitration rule, which would prevent financial institutions from preventing class action lawsuits from customers via consumer contracts. In doing so, the department cited a paper co-authored by a George Mason University law professor who works for several campus centers heavily funded by the billionaire industrialist, free-market evangelist and far-right political donor Charles Koch.
At the root of the social change strategy of Koch and his younger brother David, who run a massive, private energy and materials conglomerate, is generously funding professors and programs that align with their libertarian beliefs and their business interests. Koch family foundations, primarily the Charles Koch Foundation (CKF), have donated over $200 million to hundreds of U.S. colleges and universities over the last several decades, usually targeted at free-market centers and programs. Since the 1970s, the Kochs’ have used academia to shape young minds and put out scholarly works backing their beliefs; funded think tanks to repackage this work into easily digestible policy proposals; and financed advocacy groups to popularize the proposals and pressure lawmakers to adopt them.
In many ways, the Koch strategy has been successful. More and more often, research from these Koch-backed programs makes its way into federal policymaking.
Just one day after Treasury’s report was released, the Senate narrowly  voted to strike down the rule, which took five years to create and would have gone into effect in 2018. Vice President Mike Pence, a  close Koch ally, cast the deciding vote to break a Senate deadlock. The House already voted down the arbitration rule this summer, and, as Trump is very likely to sign the bill, the rule will soon meet its end. That means corporations are free to force consumers into arbitration — settling a dispute privately without the right to sue a company in court, participate in a class-action lawsuit or appeal.
Many of the lawmakers who voted down the arbitration rule have received boosts from the Kochs and their political network, both from direct campaign donations and independent election spending.
After The Crash: Consumer Protection
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) was established as part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, which occurred largely because of predatory lending and risky trading by the financial industry. The bureau was created to assist victims of financial fraud and help enforce the Dodd-Frank measures put in place to help prevent another global recession. The CFPB has helped provide nearly $12 billion in consumer relief and saved consumers $16 billion in hidden credit card fees, but the GOP has been trying trying to dismantle the agency since it was created over most Republicans’ objections.
Wall Street is strongly opposed to the arbitration rule, estimating that it would cost firms billions of dollars, and the Treasury, now run by former Goldman Sachs executive Steve Mnuchin, echoed big financial firms’ concerns. The report questions the conclusions of a CFPB study on forced arbitration and alleges that the rule would “impose extraordinary costs” and constitute “a large wealth transfer to plaintiff’s attorneys.”
“The report by the Treasury Department rehashes industry arguments that were analyzed in depth and solidly refuted in the final rule,”  said Samuel Gilford, a spokesman for the CFPB. The bureau’s analysis “found that mandatory arbitration clauses allow companies to avoid accountability for breaking the law and cost consumers billions of dollars by blocking group lawsuits.”
Just seven weeks ago, credit rating agency Equifax revealed a massive data breach that potentially endangered private information of almost half of Americans. The company created a way for people to find out if their data had been compromised, but only after signing a statement that tucked a mandatory arbitration clause into the fine print. After considerable public backlash, Equifax removed the clause. As International Business Times reported, Equifax had  lobbied against the arbitration rule that was under consideration at the CFPB. Wells Fargo, one of the worst offenders in predatory lending, used forced arbitration to prevent costly lawsuits over its fraudulent practices.
In its negative assessment of the CFPB’s arbitration rule, the Treasury cites a  critique of the CFPB’s arbitration study that was published by two Koch-funded academic centers at George Mason University (GMU).
The Koch Connection
Charles and David run Koch Industries, the second-largest private company in the U.S., and head a giant, conservative political operation that rivals either of the two major American political parties in size. The Kochs, worth a combined $95 billion, are known for their network’s huge political spending operation, which almost entirely benefits Republicans.
Of their many businesses, the Kochs own three financial firms: Koch Financial Corporation, Koch Genesis Company and Oasis Capital Markets LP. In the 1980s, Koch Industries pioneered financial instruments for speculating on commodities like oil and natural gas, as Ralph Wilson, senior researcher with the activist group  UnKoch My Campus, documented in  a report. In the 1990s, Koch Industries teamed up with energy and trading company Enron to  lobby to deregulate oil speculation. In 2000, Texas Sen. Phil Gramm (R) tucked a lengthy amendment into the Commodity Futures Modernization Act, later known as the “Enron loophole,” which gave companies like Enron and Koch Industries access to unregulated energy trading in electricity markets. The act, signed by President Bill Clinton on his way out of office, led to unregulated trading of credit default swaps, a major cause of the financial meltdown.
Signs of the Koch Brothers held at a rally where protesters demand the LA Times not be sold to the Koch Brothers on May 23, 2013 in Beverly Hills, California. Photo: JOE KLAMAR/AFP/Getty Images
At the time, Sen. Gramm’s wife, Wendy, was on the board of Enron and led the Regulatory Studies Program at GMU’s Mercatus Center, which got a major funding boost in the mid-1980s: Koch family foundations provided GMU with $30 million, much of it going to Mercatus. Enron had given campaign contributions to Sen. Gramm, and its chairman Kenneth Lay had donated to the Mercatus Center, as Jane Mayer noted in her book, Dark Money.
The Kochs have clearly gained from deregulated financial markets. Dodd-Frank and its CFPB are a direct threat to Koch Industries’ investment strategy, and professors in Koch-funded academic programs and think tanks have been churning out literature in favor of market deregulation.
Todd Zywicki, whose paper Treasury referenced, is a prime example. “Zywicki has been among the most outspoken scholars against the CFPB, serving as a model of Koch's weaponized academics, housed in Koch's Mercatus Center at George Mason University,” Wilson told IBT.
‘Involved In All Sort Of Ways With The Koch Foundation’
Zywicki is a law professor at the Antonin Scalia School of Law, which was enhanced and renamed with a  $10 million donation from the Charles Koch Foundation and an anonymous $20 million donation. He was formerly the executive director of the school’s Law and Economics Center, a recipient of Koch funds with which he is still affiliated. Also on Zywicki’s long list of leadership roles are his positions as senior scholar at the Mercatus Center, Senior Fellow at Mercatus’ F.A. Hayek Program for Advanced Study in Philosophy, Politics and Economics, and trustee of GMU’s Institute for Humane Studies (IHS), another recipient of huge amounts of Koch funding. In 2009, IHS awarded Zywicki with the Charles G. Koch Outstanding IHS Alum Award. As a student at Dartmouth, Clemson and the University of Virginia from 1986 to 1993, Zywicki “benefited from IHS programs.”
Since 1985, the Koch family has lavished GMU with  more than $100 million in donations, including $34 million to IHS. In 2015 alone, the Charles Koch Foundation gave the university $18 million.
Not only has Zywicki benefited from the Kochs’ academic funding and supported their agenda, he’s gone to bat for them directly in the public sphere,  defending the Kochs and their donations for outlets including  National Review. In one piece, Zywicki  admits, “I’m involved in all sorts of way [sic] with the Koch Foundation and many organizations that it supports. I count as friends many people at the Koch Foundation and even some at Koch Industries.” Despite the anti-regulatory output of Koch-sponsored academia, Zywicki writes that the idea that the Koch’s “philanthropy in support of free market institutions is motivated by their crude self-interest is simply — to put it bluntly — asinine.”
One of the first Koch-backed on-campus think tanks, the Mercatus Center, was originally founded under a different name by Richard Fink at Rutgers. He moved the center to GMU in 1980, and it became the Mercatus Center in 1999.  Charles Koch is a current board member. Fink became one of the Kochs’ closest allies, heading various aspects of Koch Industries and sitting on the boards of several Koch family foundations, a political nonprofit,  Mercatus and IHS.
In 2014, a Charles Koch Foundation official called Mercatus “critical” for advancing policy priorities. Another official said that Mercatus is “the ‘largest collection’ of ‘free-market faculty’ at any university in the world.”
Mercatus scholars have often influenced federal policy. The Mercatus Center has shown up more than  100 times in the congressional record and committee reports. Zywicki has a long list of  congressional testimonies on issues including consumer protection, bankruptcy and commercial real estate lending. As Lee Fang  wrote for The Nation, Zywicki was also a member of a consulting firm that has clients including Visa and Bank of America. A debt-relief company accused by the CFPB of deceiving consumers and charging illegal fees hired his firm at $500-per-hour, but Zywicki failed to disclose this or other conflicts of interest during his testimonies or in his articles critical of the bureau.
In 2015, former congressman Tom Price (R-GA), who recently resigned as head of Health and Human Services because of expensive private jet travel on the taxpayer dime, sponsored  legislation that cited Mercatus research. Rep. Mike Enzi (R-WY), cited the same research in  another bill. The two congressmen, both of whom collected campaign donations from the Koch Industries PAC, teamed up to  oust the director of the Congressional Budget Office, replacing him with  Keith Hall, a senior research fellow at Mercatus.
Treasury: Let The Market Regulate Itself
The Treasury report refers to Zywicki’s CFPB critique, co-authored with University of Virginia law professor Jason Scott Johnston, when alleging that the bureau did not adequately consider the consumer benefits of “market-based provider responses to consumer complaints.” Citing the Mercatus publication, the Treasury implies that the free market will sort out consumer disputes on its own.
“Scholars and commenters have suggested that aggrieved consumers would be more likely to change providers than to call a lawyer over a small-dollar dispute — and that financial institutions respond in kind by waiving various fees upon complaint instead of losing business or defending in arbitration.”
The case of Koch-backed research influencing the Treasury Department demonstrates the extent to which an extremely wealthy, politically active family can help shape federal policy that affects hundreds of millions of Americans. Despite the Kochs’ refusal to directly support Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, decades of funding conservative economists and law professors, think tanks and political groups has paid off in a White House stocked with Koch-linked officials and a corporate-friendly administration.


Vice President Mike Pence this week cast the  deciding vote to kill a federal rule protecting consumers' right to file class action lawsuits -- delivering a big win for a financial industry trade association that has been directly lobbying him on the issue, according to documents reviewed by International Business Times. In the lead up to the Republican’s tie-breaking vote, the American Financial Services Association said Pence’s office requested ideas about how to defang the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which had originally created the rule.
Earlier this year, the CFPB finalized its  rule -- first proposed under the Obama administration -- to prohibit financial firms from requiring customers to relinquish their rights to file consumer class action lawsuits. At the time, the agency said its research showed that these “pre-dispute arbitration agreements are being widely used to prevent consumers from seeking relief from legal violations.”
Throughout 2017, financial giants mounted a campaign to rescind the rule. As part of that pushback, AFSA -- which  describes itself as “the primary trade association for the consumer credit industry” -- delivered a nine-point regulatory reform plan to Pence's top economist Mark Calabria, who was appointed to his position in the vice president’s office from a job at the libertarian  Cato Foundation.
In its  letter, AFSA noted that in a meeting with Pence’s office weeks after he assumed office, the vice president’s advisers had specifically asked the group to provide “reforms that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could implement quickly to reduce unnecessary burdens on financial institutions.” AFSA’s blueprint pressed Pence to push for a moratorium on the CFPB’s consumer complaint database; rescind orders that “direct banks and nonbanks to ensure that their service providers are in compliance with applicable laws”; and terminate the rule that outlaws financial institutions from requiring customers to agree to forced arbitration clauses that block them from joining class action lawsuits.
“The CFPB should not finalize the proposed arbitration rule that would prohibit the use of class action waivers,” the group wrote to Calabria, echoing its separate  2016 letter to federal regulators demanding they back off the rule. “The CFPB’s own study shows that arbitration is inexpensive, fast, and beneficial to consumers.”
Less than seven months after AFSA met with Pence's office, the Republican vice president followed through on the group’s recommendations, casting the decisive Senate vote killing the CFPB arbitration rule.
Before Pence’s tie-breaking vote, federal records show, AFSA directly lobbied Pence on a host of issues, including the issue of arbitration. In all,  the  records  show the group directly lobbying Pence on arbitration during the first three quarters of the year, spending $375,000 in total on all its efforts to influence lawmakers.
Pence’s vote was no surprise -- he has been  outspoken in his support of Republican efforts to dismantle reforms passed in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. Earlier this year, his economist, Calabria,  declared that “Since so much of the Obama-era financial regulation was by guidance -- and, I would say, regulation by enforcement -- that part of the Obama era can be easily erased once we have new regulators in place.”
Pence's support for deregulation has coincided with his reliance on the financial industry as a significant source of campaign cash. During his time in Congress, he  raised  more  than  $250,000 from donors in the banking and lending industries, according to data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics. He raised an additional  $261,000 during his campaigns for governor, according to data from the National Institute on Money In State Politics.


Coffeehouse chain Starbucks on Thursday added the ominously named Zombie Frappuccino to its menu through Oct. 31. The drink is inspired by a holiday favorite treat of caramel-dipped apples. 
The green and purple Halloween-inspired drinks are sold in the U.S. and Canada and have a tart green apple flavor.
To little surprise, the drink has generated mixed reviews. 
Got our hands on the new #ZombieFrappuccino from @Starbucks! pic.twitter.com/ULklC6DFBK
— Villainous Media (@VillainousMedia) October 26, 2017
When you make a special trip to try the #ZombieFrappuccino only to find you don't like it. #bringbackthefrappula pic.twitter.com/ibQi6m2WSk
— Danielle Ledbetter (@DanielleWFXL) October 26, 2017
As an FYI, the #ZombieFrappuccino isn't that great and you really shouldn't waste your time on it. Far better ones available. Sorry!
— SN Kurse _ (@SNKurse) October 26, 2017
I did end up trying the #ZombieFrappuccino ...I didn't like it. I thought caramel apples were sweet, not sour. :/
— SP__KY TIDDY (@LilithFlorian) October 26, 2017
Some Twitter users were a bit more forgiving.
Doesn't taste too bad. It probably won't last long. #zombiefrappuccino pic.twitter.com/NeOew3BwTU
— Nancy _ (@DeadmanPunk) October 26, 2017
#ZombieFrappuccino - crazy sweet. Not bad. Just crazy sickly sweet. pic.twitter.com/Kzw6YUM5H8
— Michelle Philippi (@TheTweetsOfMP) October 26, 2017
Several others provided positive feedback.
Zombie Frappucino _ much better than the Unicorn *limited time only* #starbucks #zombiefrappuccino pic.twitter.com/MpBsybb4NF
— AriCarrasquel (@ariccr) October 25, 2017
Got mine this morning. Yummy brains! #zombiefrappuccino pic.twitter.com/7PMs5qmJAt
— Sean Andre (@sandre217) October 26, 2017
Trying the #zombiefrappuccino at #Starbucks. I love it!! https://t.co/rDbxKHRp2N pic.twitter.com/AdBfypXfEZ
— Mouse Magic (@MouseMagicJJ) October 26, 2017
Just got my #ZombieFrappuccino @Starbucks ! I must say it’s very good - like an apple _ flavored vanilla shake _ #zombie #Halloween ___ pic.twitter.com/etTIOaBqnP
— Laura Madsen (@TheLauraMadsen) October 26, 2017
Others poked fun at Starbucks' new drink.
#zombiefrappuccino kind of looks like the unicorn one lol pic.twitter.com/kqItjA0r9F
— JAY___ (@amjay718) October 26, 2017
A millennial who supports Trump is described as a #zombiefrappuccino
— Steve Redmond (@sjredmond) October 26, 2017
y’all say a prayer for starbucks baristas today __#zombiefrappuccino
— obi wan caitnobi (@CaitlinTyreee) October 26, 2017
No, no, no! Bad @Starbucks, bad. Go to your room and think about what you did. #ZombieFrappuccino pic.twitter.com/2ckF7QD4Rf
— Russell Scibetti (@rscibetti) October 26, 2017
There has even been feedback on YouTube, including a review made by Angie Eats It All.  "Oh boy, not such a good first impression — I got to be honest. I expected it to be a super sour and tart apple, it's not. It's a mild apple flavor."
YouTuber Maxwell Glick said "the taste is really not that bad" and pointed out that it contains "a lot of sugar, for sure."
"When brainstorming a new Frappuccino flavor for this Halloween, we started by thinking about a Halloween party and monster mash," Jennica Robinson, a member of the Starbucks beverage development team, said in a news release Thursday. "We had already invited Frankenstein and vampires to the party, so we came up with another monster that could join the bash.
"We thought about what you'd serve at a Halloween party, and we settled on dipped caramel apples. It has a tart green apple favor balanced with a smooth, sweet caramel."
Starbucks is no stranger to experimenting with the atypical coffee drink, including the widely discussed Unicorn Frappuccino. The blended crème drink, which debuted in April, was panned by many customers for being too tart and sugary. Starbucks' marketing tactics for the colorful drink still proved to be successful.
One method of the Unicorn Frappuccino's success was the use of social media.
"National Unicorn Day was celebrated on April 9th, which caused hundreds of trending hashtags announcing #NationalUnicornDay," Heather DeSantis, a Public Relations specialist, told Forbes in April. "It is not confirmed that Starbucks capitalized on this national awareness day — but honestly, there is no way this could be a coincidence.
"People were still obsessing over unicorns, so when Starbucks announced their new drink, people were foaming at the mouth to get in on the unicorn action."
Like the Zombie Frappuccino, social media users shared their thoughts on the drink as soon as it debuted. The buzz ultimately led to a spike in sales, which Business Insider cited as producing "increased checks from regulars, but also opened up a new audience for Starbucks." 
Starbucks, pictured January 22, 2015 in San Francisco, unveiled it's new Halloween-inspired frappuccino to consumers Thursday.  Photo: Getty Images


Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis once famously called the states “laboratories” of government, because they allow residents and their representatives to experiment with policies before they are adopted, or rejected, by the federal government. The results of these experiments are often cited during debates over federal policy, like the tax reform debate that is currently consuming Washington.
As tax reform moves forward in Congress, and Republicans insist that massive tax cuts will spur  economic growth without increasing the deficit, a study released Thursday examines the economic performance of our laboratories. In comparing states with no income taxes to states that tax the rich heavily, the study’s authors found the zero income tax states are producing poorer returns than the heavily taxed ones — and putting more of a tax burden on the poor.
Researchers at the non-partisan and non-profit Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy compared the nine states without personal income taxes, which include Florida, Texas and Washington, to the nine states with the highest top marginal tax rates over the last decade, which include California, New York and Oregon.
They found the states with the highest top tax rates (which had an average top tax rate of 10.01 percent) outperformed the states without income taxes in per capita GDP growth, 25.8 percent to 17.4 percent between 2006 and 2016. The highly taxed states also generated slightly higher levels of per capita personal income growth, disposable personal income growth and personal consumption growth, as well as prime age employment, a measure of the job market that, unlike the traditional unemployment rate, includes people who have stopped looking for work.
“Over the last decade, economic growth in the states without income taxes has lagged behind growth in the states with the highest top personal income taxes,” wrote the study’s authors, Carl Davis and Nick Buffie. “While this finding does not indicate that higher income tax rates necessarily cause economic growth, it does call into question the notion that cutting or abandoning state income taxes leads to a clear improvement in state economies.”
The study is a rebuttal to a series of papers called “Rich States, Poor States” published over the last decade by the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC), a coalition of state legislators and corporations that has long advocated for lower taxes, fewer regulations, and, in recent years, a  new Constitutional convention designed to create  a new Constitution containing strict limits on federal spending.

Those papers were authored by economist and Reagan administration veteran Arthur Laffer, who created the theoretical “Laffer Curve ” based on the relationship between tax rates and tax revenue that gave birth to Reagonomics. Not surprisingly, Laffer’s ALEC papers show how states with zero tax rates have greater growth in personal income, payroll employment and tax revenues between 2005 and 2015.
But Davis and Buffie point out that Laffer uses total, not per capita, economic indicators. By using per capita numbers, Davis and Buffie demonstrate how the increases Laffer touts are actually a product of population increases, increases which the researchers argue are part of a larger migration and birth pattern that are unrelated to tax rates.
Of course, Davis and Buffie admit they could not control for the nearly endless variables that exist between state economies, including a state’s dominant industries, natural resources, tourism industry, federal spending, geography and climate. And perhaps unsurprisingly, given the geographic clustering of more liberal, pro-tax political attitudes, the nine states with high taxes were located in the Northeast and West Coast, with the exception of Minnesota. The no-tax states were more diverse geographically, with New Hampshire, Tennessee and Florida on the East Coast, and Alaska and Washington on the West Coast.
But wherever the states are located, what the study’s calculations lay bare is the difference between the tax rates paid by the rich and poor in the no-tax states (the study’s authors didn’t examine the middle class).
States with no income taxes must generate revenue in other ways, which usually mean higher sales taxes, for example. Since these taxes are not progressive, like income taxes, they shift the tax burden from the rich to the poor.
For the bottom 20 percent of taxpayers, the effective local and state tax rate — or the rate that actually gets paid -- is 10.7 percent on average in no-tax states, slightly higher than the 10 percent effective rate paid by the bottom fifth in the nine high-taxed states. Not a huge difference. But the divide between what the richest people pay between the two groups of states is significant. The top one percent of earners in the no-tax states pay an effective tax rate of just 2.2 percent, while in the nine high-rate states they pay 7.4 percent.
The study’s authors don’t comment on the fact that the bottom fifth of taxpayers pay higher rates than the top one percent in both state groups.
Taxpayers living in states with income taxes can deduct their state and local taxes on their federal taxes as part of the SALT deduction.  Congress is currently debating eliminating or changing that deduction, which costs the federal government an estimated  $100 billion a year.


A deal last week that gave $300 million to relatively unknown Whitefish Energy Holdings to help Puerto Rico rebuild its electrical grid raised some eyebrows.  Puerto Rico Gov. Ricardo Rosselló announced Tuesday night the deal would be scrutinized. The U.S. House of Representatives will also take a look at the contract.
Whitefish Energy is a company started only two years ago and has only two employees, and was seen as an odd choice to take on such a monumental task as helping to rebuild Puerto Rico’s decimated power grid. Over 75 percent of the country is still without power after Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico last month. 
The fact that company is based in Whitefish, Montana, the hometown of Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke who knows the owner, Andy Techmanski also raised questions.
Puerto Rico’s state-owned Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (Prepa) inked the deal with Whitefish to restore three to four transmission lines or more than 100 miles of Prepa’s 2,500 miles of lines, according to NPR Tuesday. The bill would be footed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
The contract is 300 times the company’s annual revenue of $1 million.
“It is concerning that the task of rebuilding Puerto Rico's energy grid — the biggest infrastructural rebuilt in the United States since Hurricane Katrina - is being contracted solely with Whitefish Energy,” said Florida Rep. Darren Soto to the BBC Wednesday. 
Soto, a Democrat, said he will be requesting an investigation from the Department of the Interior's Inspector General.
The House Committee on Natural Resources said it will also examine the deal.
“The size and unknown details of this contract raises numerous questions,” said Parish Braden, a committee spokesman to NPR. “This is one of many things the committee is taking a close look at as it continues to work with the resident commissioner, governor's office, and oversight board to ensure Puerto Rico's recovery is robust, effective and sustained.”
In cash-strapped Puerto Rico, every dollar counts. The grid was in poor shape even before Hurricane Maria and Prepa declared bankruptcy in July. Puerto Rico could run out of money as early as the end of October, according to the Washington Post.
Typically after a disaster utility companies will work other public utilities in mutual aid, instead of contracting out to private companies. Prepa is part of the American Public Power Association (APPA), a non-profit that represents public utility companies. APPA helped coordinate efforts in Florida and Texas to get help from other public utility companies.
Prepa did not reach out to APPA for a mutual aid.
UTIER, the union that represents Puerto Rican electrical workers were dismayed at the price the outside labor Whitefish subcontracted out would cost.
“We need support and help, but under these conditions it is impossible and questionable. Who allowed this?” the group tweeted Tuesday. 
Necesitamos apoyo y ayuda pero bajo estas condiciones es imposible y cuestionable. Quien permitió esto? @AEEONLINE @ricardorossello pic.twitter.com/1gLHbBFmF4
— UTIER (@utier) October 24, 2017


American Airlines (NASDAQ: AAL) was the target of a NAACP travel advisory issued Tuesday night, the organization advised black passengers to try and avoid the airline.
In a statement, the NAACP pointed to perceived discrimination.
“The NAACP for several months now has been monitoring a pattern of disturbing incidents reported by African-American passengers, specific to American Airlines,” said the NAACP in their warning. “In light of these confrontations, we have today taken the action of issuing national advisory alerting travelers—especially African Americans—to exercise caution, in that booking and boarding flights on American Airlines could subject them disrespectful, discriminatory or unsafe conditions.”
The group listed several recent incidents with the airline in their travel warning, involving the mistreatment of black fliers. The listed offenses mostly involve people being removed from flights.
I mean, NAACP might as well warn black folks about LIVING in AMERICA not just flying on American Airlines.
— Baratunde (@baratunde) October 25, 2017
American Airlines called the advisory “disappointing.”
“Our team members, a diverse community of gate agents, pilots, and flight attendants, are proud to serve customers of all backgrounds,” said an American Airlines in a statement to CNN.
NACCP leadership stated they wanted to have a dialogue with the company.
“The growing list of incidents suggesting racial bias reflects an unacceptable corporate culture and involves behavior that cannot be dismissed as normal or random.  We expect an audience with the leadership of American Airlines to air these grievances and to spur corrective action.  Until these and other concerns are addressed, this national travel advisory will stand,” said Derrick Johnson, President and CEO of the NAACP in their statement.
In August, the NAACP issued a similar travel warning for the state of Missouri. It was the first travel advisory they had issued for a state. They cited higher incidents of black drivers getting pulled over and a new law passed in the state that limited discrimination lawsuits.
Civil rights organizations will often release travel advisories as a way to draw attention to organizations and issues as much as it is a practical warning.
American Airlines has not yet responded to International Business Time’s request for comment.


Silicon Valley giants have been slowly increasing their spending in the nation’s capital. Third-quarter lobbying reports released in the past week show Google, Facebook and Amazon spent a combined $12.6 million on lobbying from the beginning of July to the end of October.
Google spent $5.2 million on lobbying last quarter, a nine percent increase over last year. That included paying 24 different firms to lobby on Capitol Hill, and deploying another 10 of its own in-house lobbyists to engage Congress on everything from human trafficking to tax reform to “small business advertising issues.” Facebook lobbying is up 41 percent over last year’s third quarter. Amazon spent $3.4 million, more than it has ever spent in a single quarter on lobbying,  according to the Washington Post.
Those figures might not represent a huge amount of money compared to the value of those companies, but they do represent a large outlay relative to what companies and trade groups regularly spend on influencing Washington. The top three spenders on lobbying in the U.S. last year, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Realtors and Blue Cross Blue Shield, spent a similar amount last quarter: a combined total of $15 million.
Silicon Valley has long been associated with a libertarian ethos, a spirit that has been reciprocated by a laissez faire attitude from the nation’s lawmakers. But growing political spending by the companies, increasing congressional scrutiny and a backlash against Big Tech seem to indicate that era of benign neglect is over.
While Silicon Valley has found itself  deflecting criticism over Russia’s effort to weaponize its platforms,  criticism of  big tech’s power over our data, our economy and our politics has reached a fever pitch.
The most comprehensive criticism of Big Tech so far is  World Without Mind  by Atlantic staff writer and former New Republic editor Franklin Foer. Published last month, the book is a polemic against the concentrated power of Big Tech generally, and Facebook, Google and Amazon specifically. International Business Times talked to Foer Monday about Silicon Valley’s influence in Washington, our outdated antitrust laws and the need to resurrect the anti-monopoly tradition in American politics.
The following interview has been lightly edited for clarity and length. 
What scares you about Silicon Valley?
They have so insinuated themselves in our lives, in our markets and in our democracy. They have this tremendous power to pick winners and pick losers. Whatever they deem to be important is the thing that surfaces at the top of their feeds and search results, at the top of their store. We've always had tools, and technology has always been one of the things that defines us as human beings. But when we merge with these machines, we're merging with a different type of machine. These are intellectual machines that kind of shape our reality. We'll soon be inhabiting their virtual realities. And the problem is we aren't just merging with machines, we're merging with the companies that run those machines.
What should be done?
I think the broad thing that I would like to see is some sort of comprehensive data protection law. So much of the competitive advantage of these companies rests on their ability to amass more data than their competitors. And the fact that Facebook has so much data, and Google has so much data, it helps give them their lock over the advertising business.
We have a grand anti-monopoly tradition in our country. And we haven't updated it to take into account these companies. But there is such a long, important tradition in trying to limit the power of companies within the communications and information realm.
How are the big Silicon Valley companies monopolies, and how have they managed to escape antitrust action?
Well, first of all there's nothing illegal with being a monopoly in our country. You have to be shown to be an abusive monopoly for there to be an antitrust investigation. And part of the thing that makes these companies so different, and in a lot of ways so amazing, is that they offer their products for free or for very cheap. So consumer welfare is the primary paradigm that we have for evaluating monopolies. And these companies aren't so damaging to consumer welfare as defined by the antitrust code. Which isn't to say that there are not competition issues that these companies face. With the Europeans investigating Google, I think what they're essentially saying is that Google has abused its market, its power over markets, to give itself an unfair advantage. But that translates into a complaint pretty effectively in their context, it's less compelling in the context of American antitrust laws.
Europe has approached regulating these companies differently than the U.S. Is there anything we can learn and apply from the way Europe has looked at these companies?
There's two things really. The first is that the Europeans care more about privacy right now than we do. That's been one of their dominant complaints with these companies. The U.S. doesn't even have a data protection law. We have laws that protect health information or financial information but nothing that protects data per se, so I think there is something to be gleaned from that. But also if you look at the way the European Union has gone after Google, it’s pretty clear that they are starting to come to terms with some sort of way to separate the search engine from the ad sales part of their business. It seems like they are groping toward a soft way of breaking up the company, which I think is pretty interesting.
In an ideal world, would you want to see Google, Amazon and Facebook broken up? Or is that sort of fighting the last war, in the sense that maybe that's an old way of looking at antitrust. Does that sort of logic still apply, the idea that we could break up a company?
For sure. I don't see why not. What would be the issue there?
I'm just thinking that when we broke up Ma Bell, for example, you had different regional businesses. But if you break up Facebook, you’ve destroyed the whole utility of Facebook, which is that everyone's on it.
But the idea of breaking it up doesn't necessarily mean breaking up the core network. It might mean applying a solution that's similar to the one the Europeans have applied to Google. So that somehow you change its relationship to ad sales, or force it to be a bit more of a common carrier.
I don't think we've gotten to the point where the thinking is advanced enough to really start this talk about compelling remedies. We're more in the position right now of diagnosing the problem. I think people are starting to sketch out the remedies. We can talk about it in a very theoretical sort of way, but I would just caution anyone to say something like "it's impossible to break these companies up."
You're right, we're probably just applying a past template. If we analyzed these companies and their structure, there would be ways to break them up without taking a sledgehammer and smashing them up into a million pieces. There are probably more subtle things that can be done that constitute breaking them up, but not in the Ma Bell style.
Author Franklin Foer Photo: Penguin Press
It does seem people are starting to question the power of these companies. Obviously the Russian meddling has drawn a lot of the attention. But do you think people are starting to wake up to the threat of big tech?
I do think they are waking up to the sense that these companies have too much power. Really, it's a question about the power in a democracy, and also the economy. I think that beginning with the election, I think people diagnosed that the underlying health of American democracy has shifted. And so, Facebook is the first test case of whether the political system really is turning. And it does seem to be turning.
What company do you see as the greatest threat?
I tend to place Facebook at the top of the list, just because they've done so much to quickly debase the quality of information that goes to citizens and the impact of that on our democracy has registered almost instantaneously.
This quarter’s lobbying reports just came out, and they show that Amazon, Facebook and Google are spending more and more money in Washington. I think there's a popular perception that Silicon Valley has been pretty separate from Washington, they have sort of done their own thing and Washington has let them do their own thing. But you show in your book, Google specifically has been a player in Washington for awhile now. How did that happen?
Google I think has the longest deepest history in Washington. They fought a kind of pitched battle in Europe and I think have the greatest sense of their underlying vulnerabilities. So they've invested the most heavily. They were involved in these epic fights over net neutrality, and intellectual property. And also, they were in China, which was a highly politicized issue. So in a way I think they have the most political experience out of the big tech firms.
While he was still in the White House,   Steve Bannon wanted to treat Google and Facebook as public utilities. Do you agree with that?
I don't actually agree with that. If we say they are utilities and we regulate them in that sort of way, it gives the state way too much power over them. It also just seems highly unimaginative to me, that we need to assume that their can only be one social media network or one search engine or one retail store. I think that the more American approach is try to use our power to stimulate competition, rather than just accept their size as a given.
But there is something totally fascinating happen on the political spectrum right now, where you have both the left and the right being divided over the question of how to respond to these companies. And the fascinating thing is that even the center is gravitating toward antitrust in the form of  No Labels, where Bill Kristol and Bill Galston have been pushing for the government to do something about the big tech companies.
You've written about   Amazon's power. I'm wondering what you thought as you watched these cities   submit their proposals for Amazon’s second headquarters . What has your takeaway been from watching that process?
There's this sense of desperation, this willingness to give anything to get Amazon. And there's a long history of that. Amazon has managed to always extract a whole lot out of states and localities in terms of tax breaks and subsidies in order to build warehouses.This is not really a new strategy for them. This is something that they've always done.
We're facing these mega questions about the future of work, and we see that Amazon is a crucial factor in the  retail apocalypse that's happening. So if you're a jurisdiction and you're unsure about jobs, and Amazon comes in and is promising 10,000 new jobs, that's a pretty good bet for your city. But I would say, these jurisdictions don’t seem to be really doing cost-benefit analyses. They're not really adding up the gain versus the long-term cost of just subsidizing a major corporation.
There is kind of a competition issue here too, which is that Amazon's size begets more size. Amazon, because it’s so big and so prestigious, is able to leverage its reputation to get even more advantage over its competitors.
Where has the Left been on all of this? That's the group that has traditionally opposed the concentration of corporate power.
I think it's just slowly dawned on people that this is a problem. So much of the internet era was defined by tumult. We had this sense that companies rose and fell very quickly. We were just slow to acknowledge that there was a stable constellation of major powers in the tech field. Now it's kind of become undeniable.
And also, what you're getting at, which is in my book, is that the tech companies aligned themselves with the Left. And Barack Obama really closely associated himself with Facebook and Google. And so, I think there was a natural inclination on the Left to view these companies as their friends.
That leads me to ask too, obviously these companies are very powerful, but the counter argument is that if they have aligned with the left how powerful can they really be? We have Trump and we have a Republican government right now. Same thing on net neutrality, it seems like as powerful as these companies are they can’t seem to beat the old telecom giants on net neutrality.
As we saw with Facebook, it's not like these companies were sitting around rooting for Hillary Clinton, they just wanted to make a lot of money, no matter the consequences. And then on net neutrality, the Trump administration installed people in the FEC who had an ideological bent. And there's nothing much they could do about that.
Universal basic income is an idea that seems to have some cache in Silicon Valley. But it seems to me that concept is based on the the belief that eliminating most jobs is inevitable, and that it's not even worth considering whether we should do that, or attempt to do that. When you hear that discussion about universal basic income, what does that tell you about the worldview of Silicon Valley?
It shows a narcissism that's embedded in this belief that they can engineer a world in which universal basic income will be enough to carry us through. It's almost the ultimate proposition in social engineering. And like, so much else, it’s a rational solution that doesn't actually understand human beings. They just can't comprehend the idea that work is central to dignity. And there's this almost insulting assumption that most people would rather not do their jobs.
There's gotta be a way to manage technology where we can both allow it to progress without just giving it free reign. Is there a middle ground between embracing the inevitability of technology and being a luddite?
Of course. Of course. Think about automobiles. When automobiles were created they were incredibly efficient means of getting human beings from point A to point B. But a lot of people got killed because there were no rules. So we created speed limits and stop signs and safety belts and fuel efficiency standards. There is no reason that these companies, and these technologies, should be immune from rules. We can  harness them for human beings. Nobody is saying "throw your phone in the sea." To betray opposition to these companies as luddite is to concede that any criticism of them is an instance of wanting to suppress innovation, which is ridiculous.
You mentioned a data protection agency. Can you describe what that would be and what actions it would take?
It's not a totally novel concept. There are actually data protection agencies in lots of european countries that try to adjudicate complaints that people have with the big companies and try to help people fight to protect their data. But underlying it all, I really think we need a new paradigm for thinking about data. In the book I talked about how we need a paradigm that treats data as something closer to the environment, where we create a whole set of rules that govern how data can be exploited by these companies, and also insists that these companies be held to a very high standard in their exploitation of data.
Is there any particular law or fix that you would implement now?
I think what needs to happen very quickly is countervailing pressure. I look at what London has done with Uber, and I think that that's actually an important start. So many of these companies have existed in a bubble where they've been beyond criticism. Forcing Zuckerberg to come testify before the Senate would be, in the short term, an incredibly important thing that would maybe rattle the cult of personality that he has within his own company and apply pressure on their system in a very, very visible way. They would have to answer questions from angry grandstanding politicians. So much of the problem is there's no counterweight right now.
Silicon Valley, and Google in particular, hire engineers for jobs that traditionally might go to other disciplines, like finance. As we move forward, and the social implications of this technology becomes more obvious and there's more pushback, I wonder if these companies will start to move away from a strictly engineering mindset.
In the end, computer science is too important to be left to the computer scientists. Some of the systems that have been created may work efficiently and beautifully and logically, but there is very little understanding of ethics or politics. We need to treat human beings as more than the sum of their data. And that will require a really profound paradigm shift within these companies.


The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) is a divisive topic for many New Yorkers as the public transit system faces ongoing problems. The conversation appeared to reach a boiling point this week after a photo of a man sleeping under chairs in a subway car shifted blame for inadequate policing to Mayor Bill de Blasio.
The  New York Post posted the photo of the sleeping man Saturday and reported that 3 train riders were “oblivious” to man’s presence. Both a high-ranking MTA official and Gov. Andrew Cuomo on Monday slammed de Blasio, who they said should be doing more to police the city’s subway lines and more effectively assist its homeless population.
“The fact is that since 1995 the NYPD has been the police force charged with enforcement in the subway system,” Chairman of the MTA Joe Lhota said in a statement. “The MTA board gave Mayor [Rudy] Giuliani the authority to consolidate the Transit Police within the NYPD, giving the City primary jurisdiction. That’s a fact.”
Another example of a pol speaking about homeless folks w/o speaking to them 1st. People want housing, not shelters.https://t.co/BEEGDQKx7q
&mdash; Josh Dean (@_JoshDean) October 23, 2017
Lhota said that the NYPD “needs to enhance its homeless outreach efforts in the subways,” adding that the MTA was “again are asking the NYPD to step up their presence and increase enforcement and the city must stop running from its responsibility.”
Cuomo, speaking at a press conference Monday, said no one is benefited from allowing homeless individuals to sleep on trains and echoed Lhota’s sentiment, the  New York Post reported. He added that the city’s homeless population should instead be directed to safe shelters.
“It is a distortion to say we’re letting homeless people sleep on subway cars and in stations because we care about the homeless,” he said. “If you care about the homeless, put them in a safe, clean, decent shelter.”
For his part,  de Blasio expressed concern about the photo and said Sunday that it was “not acceptable for people to sleep on a subway train like that” and promised more stringent enforcement.
“A case like that would be enforceable and we’ll enforce it. We’ll put whatever personnel we need on to stop something like that from happening,” he said. He said police could use “discretion” as to whether or not to arrest individuals for such misconduct.
According to the MTA’s  code of conduct, commuters may not “sleep or doze where such activity may be hazardous to such person or to others or may interfere with the operation of the Authority's transit system or the comfort of its passengers.”


The last six months of the year have seen a surge in lobbying activity on the National Flood Insurance Program, a nearly $25-billion-indebted federal safety net for buildings whose flood risks are too costly for private insurers that was up for reauthorization in early September. On Sept. 8, many of the lobbyists won a temporary victory when President Donald Trump  signed congressional legislation kicking the NFIP expiration date from Sept. 30 to Dec. 30, and the new reauthorization deadline to Dec. 8.
In the second quarter, the usual entities lobbying on the program, mainly representatives of the insurance industry, were joined by a crowd of new or long-absent filers, close to a quarter of which were “banks and other non-insurance financial interests,” according to a Bloomberg BNA  analysis. In the third quarter of 2017, as Hurricanes Irma and Harvey barreled into the Southeast and the reauthorization deadline approached, many of those financial interests were back, and for good reason. The NFIP, which requires homeowners with federally-backed mortgages in certain high-risk flood zones to purchase flood insurance and subsidizes about a fifth of those otherwise potentially cost-prohibitive insurance policies, is one of the last remaining barriers to a disaster for the high-value coastal real estate market.
Making matters worse, compliance rates for homeowners in flood-prone areas who are required to get insurance are dangerously low, leaving the borrowers at risk of major losses and leaving the banks liable for penalties for failing to enforce the insurance mandate — something many financial institutions and groups would like changed.
Bank of America Corp., which entered the fray this year after previously explicitly lobbying on the program back in 2012, reported holding “discussions related to the reauthorization of the National Flood Insurance Program” with both houses of Congress, according to federal lobbying  documents. JPMorgan Chase & Co., which until the second quarter of 2017 hadn't named the NFIP in its lobbying forms since early 2013, said in a third quarter filing that it advocated for “reauthorization of the National Flood Insurance Program” before Congress, the White House and the office of Vice President Mike Pence. Until the second quarter of 2017, Wells Fargo & Co. had named the program only once in its filings, in 2016; in forms for the second and third quarters of this year, it named “issues pertaining to the reauthorization of the National Flood Insurance Program” and a related bill. In the same two quarters, Citigroup Inc., which appeared to have not expressly lobbied on the program before, reported pushing for “NFIP reauthorization.” 
The Independent Community Bankers of America — a trade group that, until the second quarter of this year, hadn’t specifically lobbied on the program since mid-2015 — advocated for its interests in a litany of flood insurance bills, including the  National Flood Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2017, before Congress and various federal agencies during the three months that ended in September, according to its third-quarter  filing. The list goes on.
The banks aren’t alone. They’re part of a chorus of voices advocating for reform of a program that transfers much of the cost of insuring against the ballooning risk of catastrophic flood damage to taxpayers. And, like homeowners on the coasts, banks have a lot to lose with the loss of the NFIP.
People walked past an abandoned car after the area was inundated with flooding from Hurricane Harvey in Houston, Texas, Aug. 29, 2017. Photo: Getty Images
Although only a fifth of NFIP policyholders received insurance premium subsidies in 2013, those policyholders faced annual premium increases of  between 18 and 25 percent, depending on the type of borrower. The change was a result of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012, which extended NFIP while seeking to adjust the program’s subsidies so that they might more accurately reflect flood risk. By redrawing the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s flood maps, it also “grandfathered” some property owners into higher-risk zones with new flood protection requirements and premium rates, prompting immediate backlash.
A Boston woman, for example, saw her annual premium  jump from $3,000 to $68,000, because her home wasn’t elevated far enough above high tide. In a 2013 op-ed for his local paper, one Louisiana resident called the redrawing of maps and subsequent premium spikes “an illegal taking of property” complete with a “lack of due process.” In 2014, when lobbying on the NFIP also increased significantly, Congress  repealed portions of Biggert-Waters.
Total coverage from NFIP rose from $50 billion in 1978 to a peak of $1.3 trillion in 2013, down slightly to $1.25 trillion last year, according to  data from FEMA. Over the same period, the number of policies has grown from 1.4 million to  nearly 5.1 million — down from a high of 5.7 million in 2009 — according to the agency. In July, the most recent month for which FEMA has  NFIP coverage statistics, the total coverage stood at $1.23 trillion, with more than  4.9 million policies. That translates to plenty of mortgages spread among  major lenders like Wells Fargo, Bank of America, Citi and JPMorgan Chase, all of which paid lobbyists to monitor or advocate for changes or reauthorization of NFIP in the second and third quarters of 2017.
‘Millions And Even Billions Of Dollars Of Collateral At Risk’
To banks, a loss of government-subsidized flood insurance in a high-risk area, coupled with a destructive hurricane, is “probably a rounding error in their bottom line,” J. Scott Holladay, an assistant professor at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville who has studied the economics of NFIP, told International Business Times. Still, given the sheer number of policies covered by NFIP and the widespread, simultaneous destruction that comes with increasingly frequent storms, he said, banks certainly have reason to worry about collateral for interest-earning mortgages they service. Small community banks and local branches of big banks in flood-prone municipalities are especially vulnerable, he noted.
“They’re exposed to risk because they have millions and even billions of dollars in collateral at risk,” Holladay said. And since “a whole neighborhood could be wiped out, … the risks are really concentrated. Community banks in those areas could see a big loss.”
That potential loss is made bigger, he said, by the disproportionately high values of NFIP-subsidized coastal homes. Their reduced insurance premiums, a far leap from accurately representing the risk of flood damage, are actually artificially boosting their values, research has shown.
In a 2007  report, the Congressional Budget Office found that coastal properties whose flood insurance had been subsidized by the NFIP exhibited market values far higher than the national average, a disparity the CBO attributed to the general desirability of a waterfront home. But, compared to coastal and inland homes in general, the value difference was magnified among properties with NFIP subsidies, with coastal homes having a average value 86 percent higher than their inland counterparts. Many of the waterfront properties, the study noted, were “nonprincipal residences,” or vacation homes. And the fact of being a stone’s throw from the shore wasn’t the only thing lifting their values.
“Some or all of the value of the subsidy available on coverage for a given property is likely to be capitalized into the property’s value,” the CBO report said. “Thus, when a subsidized property is sold, the buyer essentially pays for some or all of the subsidy’s value upfront, through a higher purchase price, thus reducing or eliminating the net gain.”
Flooding caused by Hurricane Irma was photographed from a Marine helicopter accompanying President Donald Trump as he flew over storm damage near Fort Myers, Florida, Sept. 14, 2017.  Photo: Reuters
Those property owners may have further benefited from a negative relationship between the values of homes with NFIP-subsidized insurance and their premium payments — or, conversely, a positive relationship between the price tag on those homes and the sizes of their subsidies — as described in a 2015 University of Massachusetts - Dartmouth  study of the program.
“What we ultimately have with coastal properties is, on average, high market value homes that are increasingly finding themselves in risky situations,” Chad McGuire, a University of Massachusetts - Dartmouth public policy professor and one of the authors of the study, noted. If the mortgage issuer finds itself “overexposed” to those risks, he added, ensuring the NFIP’s continuity becomes “a measure of protection.”
Ten years after the aforementioned CBO report, the office revisited the program, and found that those relatively expensive coastal homes were responsible for a disproportionate amount of the NFIP’s budget shortfalls as well. The program suffered a $1.4 billion shortfall in 2016, according to a new CBO  report released in September. Yet premiums from inland properties amounted to a surplus for those areas over the same period; by contrast, premiums minus claims in coastal properties, which constituted 10 percent of counties covered by NFIP but three-quarters of its policies, resulted in a $1.5 billion loss.
Banks, insurers and their  representative  groups on Capitol Hill are advocating for FEMA to make it easier for private insurers to offer coverage for lower-risk zones currently covered by NFIP as an alternative to homeowners. But as the 2017 CBO report noted, “if the private market was able to compete for the NFIP’s lower-cost policies — that is, those for which the NFIP’s premiums are (or would be) large relative to their expected claims — the NFIP could be left with relatively high-cost policies.”
Using data from 5 million National Flood Insurance Program policies in 48 states and Washington D.C. as of 2016, the Congressional Budget Office found that coastal properties with insurance subsidized by the program accounted for a disproportionate amount of the its shortfalls. Photo: Congressional Budget Office, using data from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Guy Carpenter and Company, and Risk Management Solutions
Take away the subsidies inflating the values of coastal homes and the government safety net helping to insure their losses, and the next Harvey or Irma could be a sobering prospect for mortgage lenders. That risk is spread outward when banks transfer mortgages to other banks or sell federally-backed mortgages to government-sponsored enterprises, or GSEs, like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which then transfer them to the secondary market as investments.  
“They immediately sell the mortgage to Fannie and Freddie. They shift the risk,” said McGuire, pointing out that the banks get paid interest for servicing the mortgage. “Who bails out Fannie and Freddie? The taxpayers.”
When asked about the allocations of their mortgages in high flood risk areas and those with NFIP-subsidized insurance, JPMorgan, Citigroup and Bank of America, some of the largest mortgage servicers lobbying the federal government on the NFIP, declined to answer. Tom Goyda, a Wells Fargo spokesman, said approximately 4 percent of the $1.6 trillion in residential mortgages serviced by the bank were for properties in high-risk areas where FEMA required flood insurance as part of the NFIP, but was unable to disclose the portion sold to GSEs or transferred elsewhere.
‘Not A Lot Of Compliance’ Despite Flood Insurance Requirement For Risky Borrowers
Whether the NFIP is reauthorized by the new December deadline or not, the banks still face substantial risk in the event of a hurricane, because compliance with FEMA’s mandate that homeowners in especially flood-prone areas buy flood insurance is just slightly over half as of August 2015, according to an agency  presentation. Florida and Texas hovered slightly above the national average, each with around 57 percent of residents in flood risk zones complying.
Using data spanning the period between 2000 and 2009, a 2011  study from the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School pegged the compliance rate at a higher 61 percent, but found that homeowners in risky zones were increasingly likely to let their coverage lapse as the years went by.
“Of the 841,000 new policies entering the NFIP in 2001, only 73.2 percent… were still in force one year later,” the researchers wrote. “After two years, only 49.5 percent of the original 2001 policies were still in place. By 2009... only 19.6 percent of them were still in place.”
The study authors also expressed concern that “mortgages are often transferred to other banks (and then to the secondary market) in non-flood-prone regions of the country, where there is less awareness of either the flood risk or the requirement that homeowners may be required to have this coverage.”
The mortgage lenders and GSEs are responsible for keeping track of this compliance, and the lenders can be penalized if they let the borrowers go uninsured. But Carolyn Kousky, the director of policy research and engagement at Wharton’s Risk Center, said her impression was that the banks hadn’t faced many fines, despite “most estimates” indicating that “there’s not a lot of compliance.”
“As mortgages are bought and sold, there’s not a lot of enforcement through the life of the mortgage,” Kousky said. She added that, although flood-related defaults aren’t incredibly high, “a lot of people seem to be scratching their heads about why banks aren’t that concerned with enforcing disaster insurance.”
Lloyd Dixon, the director of the RAND Center for Catastrophic Risk Management and Compensation, said financial institutions have a “thorough process” for making sure their borrowers comply, and said larger banks were better at it than smaller ones. But ultimately, he said, the stakes for monitoring compliance are high.
“If there isn’t flood insurance and big losses happen, there is a fallout that could be bad for the banks and their equities and collateral,” Dixon said.
Financial industry groups, such as the American Bankers Association,  want to both strengthen the insurance mandate for residents in high-risk zones and remove some of the burden of enforcing that mandate from the banks’ shoulders.
Goyda, of Wells Fargo, said the bank has “a very thorough process to assess when insurance is required, to determine if coverage is in place and to ensure that coverage is obtained, when necessary.” GSEs have also  said their mortgage loans have required coverage. JPMorgan, Citi and Bank of America did not respond to questions about their high-risk borrowers’ compliance with the flood insurance mandate.
As McGuire, the University of Massachusetts professor, noted, “shoring up this enforcement can be beneficial when it ensures NFIP coverage exists,” as “with NFIP coverage there is a clear opportunity for federal disaster relief funds as well.”
“So that means [there is] opportunity for insurance and disaster coverage to mitigate risk of loss,” he said. “This makes the benefit-cost calculation move toward a net benefit, from a business decision standpoint.”
After Superstorm Sandy, a family worked to clean the mud and flood debris out of their home in the New Dorp Beach neighborhood in the Staten Island borough of New York, Nov. 1, 2012.  Photo: Reuters/Lucas Jackson
A New Mortgage Crisis On The Coasts
Compounding all of these problems is the fact that flood risks aren’t going away. As global temperatures and sea levels continue to rise, destructive storms will only grow more damaging and frequent, as they  already have been. Which leads to another problem for banks that service mortgages for waterfront real estate: Holding property in those high-risk areas is becoming virtually untenable, and as those homeowners make their exodus — as is already the case — the values of those properties will drop precipitously. In fact, many have  warned of an impending housing market crash on the nation’s coasts. And the only thing standing in the way of that potential mortgage crisis may just be the NFIP.  
While median home prices in low-risk zones have risen 29.7 percent in the past 10 years, those of homes in high-risk zones have fallen 4.4 percent over the same timeframe, the New York Times reported, in a  story ominously titled “Perils of Climate Change Could Swamp Coastal Real Estate.” That wouldn’t be such bad news for mortgage lenders if coastal real estate represented a small fraction of total property value, but that’s not the case. More than a third of total taxable property value in the U.S., worth $1.4 trillion, sits an eighth of a mile or less from a saltwater beach, according to a Reuters  analysis.   
“The risk will rise as sea levels rise, and when that happens, you’d expect your property value to fall,” said Dixon, of the RAND Center. Even for those who do comply with FEMA’s insurance requirement, he said, the policyholder can collect the claim and leave, but even if the structure is gone or uninhabitable, “the property stays there,” and may even hold negative value, depending on the damage. “At some point, the property becomes worthless.”


A freshman Michigan state representative introduced a sweeping bill last week that would ban any city and town in the state from using public funds to provide municipal broadband service — publicly owned internet infrastructure. An International Business Times review of state campaign finance and lobbying records found that the representative’s campaign was heavily financed by telecommunications companies and trade associations. She also dined with trade association lobbyists in the months leading up to introducing the bill.
Rep. Michele Hoitenga, who is chair of the Michigan House's Communications and Technology Committee, introduced the bill, HB 5099, on October 12. The bill says that a city or town “shall not use any federal, state, or local funds or loans to pay for the cost of providing qualified internet service,” effectively banning municipal broadband outright. However, it  provides an exception for public-private partnerships.
Hoitenga did not respond to multiple requests for comment from IBT regarding the legislation she sponsored.
Telecommunications companies have made fighting municipal broadband a priority in recent years, as high profile networks such as  one in Chattanooga, Tennessee, proved a viable alternative to internet infrastructure being dominated by a handful of companies in any given region. There are currently  twenty states that have legislation outright blocking or obstructing the establishment of municipal broadband networks and lobbyists for telecommunications companies regularly descend upon state legislatures that attempt to create a foothold for municipal broadband, as  they did in Alabama earlier this year.
Hoitenga, who was previously mayor of a small town in Michigan, largely self-financed her campaign for the state legislature with $25,000 of her own money. However,  campaign finance records reviewed by IBT show that two of her largest campaign contributors are AT&T Michigan and the Telecommunications Association of Michigan (TAM): AT&T gave her campaign $1,500 while TAM provided her with $3,500 — large amounts for a first term state representative. The Michigan Cable Telecommunications Association — a separate entity from TAM — gave Hoitenga’s campaign $1,000.
According to  state lobbying records reviewed by IBT, Hoitenga met and dined with TAM lobbyists during the first half of the year. Michigan’s lobbying disclosures are filed every six months, so it is currently unknown if TAM lobbyists have met with Hoitenga since June. The $142.82 spent to take Hoitenga out for a meal appears to be the only food and beverage expense TAM has disclosed in conjunction with its lobbying  since 2001, as far back as online lobbying records go.
Several TAM lobbyists did not respond to requests for comment for this article.
"What we are seeing in Michigan is a continuation of bills trying to stop municipal broadband around the country,” Christopher Mitchell, director of the Community Broadband Networks Initiative at the Institute for Local Self-Reliance, told IBT. “There are tremendous areas in Michigan that are not very well connected, areas that are just being left behind. Trying to stop municipal broadband is just crazy as a political priority.”
Critics of the bill have been alarmed by an apparent lack of technical competency on the part of Hoitenga, especially given her role as chair of the technology committee. The draft of the bill she submitted defines “qualified internet service” as “10 Mbps upstream and 1 Mbps downstream” which is the inverse of the normal 10 Mbps down/1 Mbps up formulation, as downstream speeds tend to be faster than upstream speeds.
Last month, Hoitenga posted a message on Twitter thanking Jim Murray, the president of AT&T Michigan, for the company’s charitable support of schoolchildren in her district. AT&T’s sizable campaign contribution to Hoitenga and opposition to municipal broadband raises questions about how close Hoitenga is to a company courting her on specific policy positions. (AT&T is also pushing for HB 5098, also introduced by Hoitenga, which would reduce certain fees and regulations telecommunications companies face when relocating facilities.)
A tweet from Rep. Michele Hoitenga's account thanking AT&T Michigan and its president, Jim Murray, for their charitable donation. Hoitenga deleted the tweet following IBT questions about relationships with lobbyists. Photo: IBT
After IBT sent Hoitenga questions about that tweet, the representative made her Twitter account private and deleted the tweet thanking AT&T.
In August, residents of the town of Lyndon, Michigan voted overwhelmingly to build its own municipal fiber network, after  failing to convince private ISPs to invest in the community of fewer than 3,000 residents. Hoitenga’s bill would explicitly prevent networks such as Lyndon’s from being built.
Michigan’s House Communications and Technology committee is likely to hear the bill in the coming months.


Every day there’s more news about the inevitable arrival of autonomous vehicles. At the same time, more people are using ride-hailing and ride-sharing apps, and the percentage of teens getting their driver’s license continues to decline.
Given these technologies and social changes, it’s worth asking: Should Americans stop owning cars?
We’ve conducted an analysis of the all-in cost of car ownership, and we found that mobility services such as ride-hailing and ride-sharing apps – which few people today would consider their main mode of transportation – will likely provide a compelling economic option for a significant portion of Americans. In fact, if the full cost of ownership is accounted for, we found that potentially one-quarter of the entire U.S. driving population might be better off using ride services versus owning a car.
America’s love affair with the car and individual car ownership took off after World War II, aided by inexpensive fuel, a rising consumer class and a vast national network of highways. A new generation of young professionals moved away from the urban core to the suburbs and abandoned mass transit for transportation enabled by personal car ownership.
This shift transformed the modern American landscape, triggered a new approach to city planning and enabled urban sprawl. Cities that blossomed before WWII – New York and Boston, for example – already had and continue to use their mass transit systems. By contrast, cities whose growth mostly occurred in a post-war boom like Los Angeles, Atlanta, Houston and Denver were built and effectively designed around car ownership. It’s still typical for an American family to buy a house that has a large garage to store cars.
But for many people, the 1950s concept of driving as an expression of personal liberty has been replaced by the brutal reality that driving is often a tedious chore. With an average price of US$35,000 apiece in the U.S., cars are used about 4 percent of the time, during which drivers are often subjected to congested traffic.
On its face, spending so much money for an appliance that starts losing value immediately, takes up vast amount of our free time and is rarely used seems ridiculous. Is it time to consider a whole new approach to personal transportation?
To answer this question, we built a comprehensive calculator that includes the costs of car ownership and compares it with an alternative of using mobility services, such as ride-hailing and ride-sharing apps, full-time to replace personal car ownership. The results might surprise you.
The costs of traditional car ownership go far beyond the price tag: There is also interest paid on car loans, insurance, taxes, fuel and maintenance. Some expenses are non-obvious, such as parking, property taxes and construction costs for home garages, and the value of our time.
The value of an individual’s time – that is, the dollars per hour you would assign to the time you spend driving – is one of the most important factors in our calculations.
The average American spends 335 hours annually behind the wheel driving over 13,000 miles. Add in the hours we spend maintaining, cleaning and managing our cars, and it becomes clear that America’s focus on personal car ownership is costing us a significant amount of time, arguably our most precious asset.
How much would you pay to avoid the stress of driving around town? How much would you pay to use that time more efficiently, such as catching up on email, reading a book or taking a nap? What if you could do work-related tasks while riding? Some professions are more suited to using time riding in a productive way: It’s probably easier for a lawyer to clock billable hours while riding to work than a plumber, for example.
When these costs are included, mobility services might be the economically preferable option. To be clear, this analysis is focused on full replacement of personal car ownership in which an individual would shift to using ride services for all trips, rather than purchase a new vehicle.
The decision for owning a vehicle or using mobility services is unique to every individual. If you purchase a highly efficient vehicle for less than $25,000 and drive it more than 15,000 miles per year until it falls apart, then you should definitely own a car if your goal is to save money.
But, if you drive less than 10,000 miles per year, face long waits in traffic, or place a high value on your time that would otherwise be spent driving, our calculations show that mobility services might be the cheaper option. Geography can also play a role – it’s not a coincidence that there have historically been so many taxi cabs in New York City, where the high cost of parking and slow pace of traffic consume time and money.
The rise of autonomous vehicles used for carpooling and ride-sharing services could make mobility services even more compelling, particularly when you consider the economics from the service provider’s perspective.
Assume for a moment that you operate a fleet of vehicles that provide mobility services. Let’s also assume you can purchase the vehicles in bulk for $20,000 apiece and that they will operate full-time for five years (the average age of a New York City taxi was 3.6 years in 2015). The median annual pay for a taxi driver is approximately $25,000. This means that it will cost you $145,000 to purchase the car and pay a driver over five years of operations (ignoring fuel, maintenance, registration and other miscellaneous operating expenses).
Using common accounting practices, we calculated that if you could buy an autonomous vehicle for less than $114,000, a service provider would be better off never hiring a driver.
For the average customer, a price tag of $114,000 is unimaginably high for a car. But, for a company like Uber that might someday operate a fleet of autonomous vehicles, a price tag north of $100,000 might look like gold when compared with paying drivers, a major contributor to operating cost.
As the price for autonomous vehicles goes down, the cost of delivering ride services goes lower. That means more consumers are more likely to use them, expanding the overall market.
Uber, Alphabet and many of the automotive companies understand this. It’s one of many reasons why there is an epic race to capture market share and eventually be the first to deliver fully autonomous vehicles.
On the other hand, if the price of autonomous vehicles falls far enough, maybe individuals will buy their own and recapture the time they currently spend driving themselves, obviating some of the value of mobility services.
But, another question remains: Do Americans really want to give up their cars? Even if mobility services with carpooling and automation are a less expensive choice, the service might still not be adopted quickly since people purchase cars for many reasons beyond simply price (for example, they buy cars for convenience, status, fun, identity and so forth).
For many decades, the car has been a critical part of the American culture, often used as a tool to flaunt wealth and showcase the unique personalities of the drivers. Will Americans want to ride in cookie-cutter cars that are part of a larger automated fleet? Will they trade off the idea of car ownership as an extension of identity to gain back some of their free time?
Some trends do appear to be working in favor of increased use of mobility services. As the United States, and the world more broadly, continues to adopt ever greater levels of digital communication, more people will be able to complete work while on the go. And, the movement toward cities during the past decades has resulted in denser urban centers, increasing traffic congestion and making the case for alternatives to traditional car ownership.
Even changes in how different generations consume goods and services might be playing a role. Millennials have shown tepid interest in following in the footsteps of prior generations when it comes to car ownership. It will be interesting to observe whether Generation Y shows more desire for cars as they begin to enter parenthood and push toward suburbs in pursuit of affordable housing.
How the transition will play out is still unclear. If we were to postulate, it seems the most likely outcome is that the future transportation system will be a mix of personal car ownership and mobility services, using both systems as complementary. If more people use carpooling services in particular, these complementary systems of personal car ownership, mobility services and public transportation might make our roads and cities cleaner, faster and more affordable.
In addition to common mobility services today, Uber and Lyft might soon be joined in force by microtransit operators, like Ford’s Chariot shuttle service.
As mobility services become more mature, we will likely see new solutions emerge to make it even more convenient to meet specific needs, such as transporting youths, the elderly or disabled people, and even assist in disaster recovery efforts. The increased level of service could create a virtuous cycle that reinforces the value of mobility services, producing greater adoption, which further lowers costs and leads to even greater adoption. When it’s all said and done, the ease and economic benefits mean that the transition to mobility services might take place faster than we think.
F. Todd Davidson is a Research Associate at the Energy Institute at the University of Texas at Austin. Michael E. Webber is a Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Deputy Director of the Energy Institute at the University of Texas at Austin.
Researcher Zhenhong Lin, Ph.D., from the Oak Ridge National Laboratory contributed to the research in this article. Gordon Tsai of the University of Texas also contributed.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


A world without cash seems wonderful at first glance since it is convenient and fast. You don’t need to withdraw dollars or euros ahead of time. You don’t have to worry about money being lost or stolen. Paying for things with your phone is a breeze.
Many countries around the world are steadily shifting away from cash. Canada, the United Kingdom and Sweden have already largely embraced a cashless society. The U.S. is also steadily making the move, with people holding smaller amounts of cash.
However, the recent string of natural disasters and security breaches at major financial entities exposes a huge flaw in this trend: When the power goes out, telephone lines shut down or account information is stolen, it is impossible to use ATMs, credit or debit cards or mobile payments – no matter how rich you are.
In other words, giving up cash increases the chance of the kind of economic catastrophe that results when people can no longer easily trade for the goods they need and want. The solution to this national security issue is simple: bring back the currently maligned large denomination bills like the $500, which was discontinued in 1969.
Recently, some prominent economists have suggested countries should move to a cashless society, with actions like eliminating the $100 bill.
Kenneth Rogoff, a Harvard professor who was also chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, wrote in the Wall Street Journal that going cashless reduces crime by ensuring tax cheats, drug lords, gangs and terrorists cannot easily fund their activities.
If only small bills are allowed, then people making illegal payments need briefcases stacked with huge numbers of small denomination bills like $5 and $10s. This is much more difficult than discreetly using a small envelope filled with a few very high value notes.
Some countries have eliminated high value notes to reduce corruption.India in 2016 eliminated the 500-rupee (about $7.69) and 1,000-rupee notes for this reason before bringing in new denominations.
Larry Summers, an economist who was also president of Harvard and a Treasury secretary, also argued for eliminating both the $100 bill and €500 note (about $592) from circulation. A few months after his recommendation, the European Central Bank decided to stop issuing the large bills by the end of 2018 in an attempt to reduce corruption and terrorism. The Wall Street Journal reports, however, that there is no move yet to kill off Ben Franklin and his $100 note.
While eliminating high value notes does make illegal transactions harder, it also introduces new risks. A cashless society that solely uses credit cards, debit cards and electronic transfers is dependent on a complex network to replace physical money. This network requires three things to work all the time.
First, there always has to be electricity to power the computers and network storage. Second, communication between all parts of the network needs to be available. Finally, the network has to be secure, so only authorized money transactions occur.
All three of these fundamental requirements for a cashless society have broken down recently in dramatic fashion.
Hurricanes Irma and Maria devastated Puerto Rico in September. Many weeks later, less than 20 percent of the electricity has been restored, and no one really knows when the rest of the island will regain power. Because the electricity has been cut off to almost all cities and towns, the entire island has reverted to a economy based on cash, which is in very short supply. Credit and debit cards can’t be used because there is no way to process transactions and no power to run credit card terminals and readers.
Wildfires are currently ravaging Northern California. One of the problems caused by the fires is that the flames have destroyed numerous cell towers. When the phone network goes down, it is impossible both to reach loved ones and for credit and debit card readers to connect to the network. Without a connection, those without cash can’t buy fuel to flee, pay hotels for temporary shelter or purchase food.
Finally, we’ve recently learned how unsecure the network that processes transactions and protects our financial data has become. As most people do not possess piles of coins or bills anymore, our money consists of entries in bank and brokerage databases. If those entries change or disappear, people’s wealth vanishes, too.
The Pentagon is trying to ensure that cyberattacks cannot disrupt the financial system. Nevertheless, the capabilities of rogue actors, like North Korea, are increasing. It has even been implicated in stealing millionsfrom a Taiwanese bank.
The recent breach of Equifax’s database and hacks at numerous otherfinancial institutions show security is a major problem.
These events show just how precarious the three pillars of a cashless society are and how quickly they can falter. When this network breaks down, people who do not have cash are forced to barter. Bartering is devastating for an economy, in part because it needs a “double coincidence of wants.”
A double coincidence means your desire to trade something has to happen or coincide at the exact same moment someone else wants what you are offering – and has something you want as well. Moreover, few people in a modern economy own many goods or can provide services that are useful for bartering. When a natural disaster or war strikes, no one wants to barter for collections of antique dolls, baseball cards or china.
When it works, a cashless society is wonderful. I enjoy not having to carry or worry about cash when I travel. The networks, when they work, are amazing. I have checked my bank balance on the edge of a desert in Botswana using an ATM and paid my taxes from a cell phone in Tokyo.
However, a cashless society means a country’s economy is vulnerable to anything that causes a long-term disruption in power, communications or security. And those threats are rising. The number of natural disasters striking the U.S. is increasing, and wars are no longer being fought using just conventional weapons. Today the computers that control a countryare playing a much bigger role.
Shifting to a cashless economy makes a country more vulnerable to both disasters and wars. National defense is not only about boots, guns and bullets. It is about keeping the economy running at all times. Cash can ensure the economy won’t collapse in an emergency, since people with cash are still able to buy and sell.
The solution is simple. Governments need to bring back higher value notes like $500 bills. There clearly are negatives to bringing back large bills, which make it easier for crime and corruption to flourish. I believe, however, that the positives outweigh the negatives, particularly the usefulness of cash during disasters.
Whether governments bring back larger bills or not, store some cash at home in case of emergency. When disaster is about to strike and it is time to flee, having cash in your wallet or purse can make the difference. Cash gives you purchasing power when everything else fails.
Jay L. Zagorsky is an economist and research scientist at The Ohio State University
Logo Photo: The Conversation


The embattled amusement park chain SeaWorld will lay off 350 workers citing declining attendance.
SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment (NYSE: SEAS) announced Wednesday that it will be laying off employees and leaving open jobs unfilled at their SeaWorld entities in Orlando, Florida and San Diego, in addition to administrative roles in their corporate offices.
The company maintains 12 amusement parks, only three of which are SeaWorlds.
“It is an unfortunate, but necessary, consequence of the restructuring that some positions will be lost,” said spokeswoman Aimée Jeansonne Becka in a statement.
SeaWorld’s attendance was down 4 percent from last year, around 353,000 fewer people attended the park at the beginning go last year over this year, according to an August earnings report. The company blame “perception issues.”
The sign at the entrance to SeaWorld February 24, 2010 in Orlando, Florida.  Photo: Matt Stroshane/GETTY
“We do not take this task lightly,” the statement continued. “We remain committed to creating world-class guest experiences, providing comprehensively for the care of all our animals, and continuing our company’s focus on stranded marine animal rescue and ocean conservation initiatives.”
The decline in attendance was mostly concentrated in the Orlando and San Diego locations of SeaWorld. The third SeaWorld is located in San Antonio.
A 2013 documentary “Blackfish” helped surface some of SeaWorld’s “perception issues.” The film focused on an orca whale held in captivity by SeaWorld and criticized keeping the animals in captivity. One orca whale featured in the film, Tilikum, killed its trainer, Dawn Brancheau, in 2010 in Orlando. Hers was the third death associated with the whale.
Orca shows and branding are synonymous with SeaWorld. After the film, the company saw a precipitous drop in profits.
The San Diego location of SeaWorld stopped doing orca shows in 2016, and the company said it will follow suit at its other locations in the future.
It was rumored earlier this month by the New York Times that Merlin Entertainments (LN: MERL), a U.K.-based amusement park company might be interested in purchasing two parks from SeaWorld, the more ride-based Busch Gardens theme parks in Virginia and Florida.


A family of 11 were forced to sit next to a pool of vomit because Jet2 said it would cause a 12-hour delay if they cleaned it up, The Sun reported Wednesday. The airline carrier also did not want to refund the passenger the cost of her July Mediterranean getaway, which set her family back more than $10,000. The 4-hour flight was traveling from Paphos, Cyprus to Manchester.
When International Business Times contacted Jet2 for comment, they didn’t respond to a question about reimbursement. Instead, they provided a statement from the company’s spokesperson that said: “We would like to apologies for this isolated incident. Our cabin crew did their best to clean the affected area during the time the aircraft was on the ground in Paphos, ensuring that the flight was not delayed, for the convenience of all customers on board.”
But the apology seemingly didn’t do much to help passenger Keeley Casewell and her family.
“My family were on row 19 and the sick had spread to under my six-year-old daughter's seat. The sick was just covered with tissue and they were piled quite high over it,” the traveler told The Sun. “I couldn't see any clear attempts to clean it up properly. I asked the air hostess if she could move our seats but she just said no. I do understand that there may have been nowhere to move me to but she could have explained that.”
A family of 11 was forced to sit near vomit on a Jet2 flight. Photo: Getty Images
Casewell continued, saying not only were they uncomfortable, they were hungry. “All together my family spent around £8,000 [$10,000] on the whole holiday so you'd think that we would receive better service. You wouldn't expect there to be sick underneath your seat on any flight,” she said. “My kids were completely put off their food, they were crying because of the smell and because they were so hungry. They had to hold their noses throughout the flight. We had to leave our hotel at seven in the morning and the breakfast there didn't start until half an hour later so we told the kids we would get something at the airport.”
The family didn’t eat earlier because they planned to purchase food on the flight. “The food at the airport wasn't great so I thought we'd buy something on the plane but the kids couldn't stomach eating anything. We were on the plane for four hours and the smell was just getting worse… I know that passengers can't control it if they feel sick but surely the staff should have the facilities they need to clean it up,” she said.
While the crew apparently tried to clean up the mess, they didn’t do it properly.
“The attendants said that they had tried to clean it up with the salts but you could tell they hadn't,” Casewell explained to The Sun. “There were huge clumps of it on the floor still. My partner even offered to clean it up for them but they wouldn't let him. I was told that if they had to clean it up there would have been a 12-hour delay, to be honest I'd rather have had the delay.”
Aside from being gross, siting near vomit could have caused someone to get sick.
“It could have been a sickness bug so someone on the plane could have become ill from it,” the passenger said. “It's a very closed environment on the plane so there could have been all sorts of germs floating around. The air hostess told me that it wasn't a sickness bug as she had been told by the person who was sick.”
Follow me on Twitter @mariamzzarella


Most people who dream of being entrepreneurs or a force for positive change in the world would perhaps envy Elon Musk for his achievements since he left PayPal. He started Tesla (and SolarCity, now a Tesla subsidiary) to electrify the automotive (and power storage) industry, and SpaceX changed the way we look at rocket launches (now we look at rocket landings too).
While Musk has founded Neuralink to develop an interface that connects the human brain with computers and also created the hyperloop concept — giving it away for use by anyone who wants to — to change urban transport, he has another venture with the same aim. The Boring Company digs tunnels which Musk says will bypass the traffic congestion in urban areas. And the company’s latest offering are hats.
Musk announced Tuesday the sale of what he called “the world’s most boring hat” on Twitter, with a link to the company’s website where the one-size-fits-all hats retail for $20, shipping and taxes included.

There was speculation among his followers on Twitter why the company was selling the hats. Of course, someone asked Musk if selling merchandise was how he planned to fund the Boring Company, instead of going to the stock market.

For $20 a hat, it may be a long time before Musk raises enough money to meet the financial needs of the Boring Company, but Musk seems to be quite taken with hats in general. In a photograph he resurfaced late Wednesday, one he originally shared on Twitter in May, Musk, 17 at the time, is seen wearing two hats — at the same time, one over the other — holding a hammer.

The Boring Company hats, though, seem to be doing brisk business, about 4,000 of them selling in just one day. And that, even before the company has anything tangible to show for itself, which is perhaps an indication of how many people believe Musk to get things right.
To add incentive to the sale of the hats, Musk even announced an incentive for the buyer of the 5,000th hat (which, by the way, would mean $100,000 worth of hat sales, possible in just about two days — no small feat).

The company’s second boring machine, which will be its real business eventually, is “almost ready,” Musk said, and also announced its name — Line-Storm — after a poem by Robert Frost.

The first tunneling machine was named Godot, in honor of the tragicomic play “Waiting for Godot” by Samuel Beckett.
Keeping up with news about names, Musk also revealed Wednesday that the name for his tunneling venture itself was the brainchild of actress Talulah Riley, who is currently playing the character of Angela on HBO’s “Westworld.”

Riley graciously took credit.

Musk also credited director JJ Abrams for creating the logo of the company, which features on the hats.



In New York City last week, Vice President Mike Pence asked billionaire David Koch and around 100 other wealthy, conservative political donors for help in supporting a Republican tax plan. Since the plan would overwhelmingly benefit the richest Americans — like those he was addressing — Pence probably didn’t need to do much persuading.
“To get this tax cut across the line, to give the American people the tax relief that they need, we need every ounce of your energy and enthusiasm,” Pence  told the Republican mega-donors who make up part of the powerful, right-wing political donor network headed by David Koch and his brother Charles, who together run a giant industrial conglomerate and are worth a combined $96.8 billion, according to Forbes. The Koch brothers, whose political operation rivals either of the two major parties, are libertarians and fiercely oppose taxation and government regulation.
One of the Kochs’ primary political advocacy groups, Americans for Prosperity, has already spent millions on a campaign urging GOP lawmakers to pass sweeping tax cuts. The group has, since this summer, planned  events in 36 states,  launched ads targeting Democratic incumbents in swing states, dispersed activists door-to-door and had its donors call Republican legislators.
As a private company — the second-largest in the U.S. — Koch Industries is not required to report its financial information in the states, but it likely pays a large amount in federal taxes simply because of the size of the corporation: It boasts over $100 billion in revenue per year. However, a 2016 study by a liberal super PAC claimed that Koch Industries own  610 subsidiaries located in 17 global tax havens. And an International Consortium of Investigative Journalists  investigation in late 2014 claimed that Koch Industries created a complex tax scheme in Luxembourg that may have significantly decreased its U.S. taxes.
The Koch machine already helped  kill a proposed border adjustment tax, which would have taxed companies’ domestic sales and imports. Despite this victory, the Kochs want further tax cuts. President Donald Trump’s tax proposal would move the corporate tax rate down to 20 percent, although this move may not affect a company like Koch Industries, which may already pay a lower effective rate. The plan would reduce the estate tax and eliminate the alternative minimum tax, likely saving the brothers billions of dollars in personal and family taxes.
Help From The Kochs
Many top White House officials have  ties to the Koch brothers, further magnifying their influence on federal policy-making, and chief among their allies is Pence.
The New York gathering on Oct. 13 marked the first time that Pence has addressed Koch donors since becoming vice president, but it was by no means his first encounter with the group. In fact, Pence owes much of his political career to the Kochs.
In her latest  revelatory article for The New Yorker, investigative reporter Jane Mayer details the career of Pence, honing in on his extremist views on women and LGBTQ issues, his political failures as Indiana governor and his close ties to the Koch network. These connections date back more than 25 years ago.
In 1991, after losing back-to-back Indiana congressional races, Mike Pence was offered a job as president of a small, free-market think tank, the Indiana Policy Review Foundation (IPRF). One of two adjunct scholars at the foundation was Cecil Bohanon, who has a history of financial connections to tobacco industry front groups.
While Bohanon became a  Koch-funded professor at Indiana’s Ball State University, Pence is one of the Kochs’ favorite politicians. His ascent through the Indiana governor’s mansion and into the White House was heavily assisted by the Kochs.
In the early 1990s, Pence likely wasn’t on the Koch brothers’ radar, but by running IPRF, he was already linked to them financially. The foundation was established in 1989 to be a state version of the Heritage Foundation, a powerful, Washington, D.C.-based rightwing think tank that has been  funded in part by Koch family foundations since before Pence took the reins at IPRF. At a 2008 Heritage Foundation event, Pence  said, “I was part of, what we called the seed corn Heritage Foundation was spreading around the country in the state think tank movement. [IPRF was] very much...a homage to Policy Review Magazine of Heritage, and we modeled on the state level what Heritage had done before.”
Like Heritage, IPRF joined the State Policy Network, a web of conservative nonprofits that counts many Koch-backed groups as members and is  heavily funded by the Donors Capital Fund, which the Kochs support. Donors to IPRF are difficult to find, because as a nonprofit it is not required to disclose its donors, but ConservativeTransparency.org documents more recent donations from Donors Capital Fund and the Roe Foundation, created by Thomas Roe, the founding chairman of the State Policy Network and an early funder of the Heritage Foundation.
David Koch gives a thumbs-up during the Defending the American Dream Summit at the Washington Convention Center November 4, 2011 in Washington, D.C. The conservative political summit is organized by Americans for Prosperity, which was founded with the support of Koch and his brother Charles. Photo: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
Getting The Kochs’ Blessing
Pence first went to Washington in 2001, when he became an Indiana U.S. representative, having run on  a platform that opposed “any effort to recognize homosexuals as a discrete and insular minority entitled to the protection of anti-discrimination laws.” The Kochs are not religious and rarely address social issues. But when he arrived on Capitol Hill, Pence’s experience in the think tank and media worlds “really equipped him to defend and explain an argument in a full-throated way,” Kellyanne Conway, a current counselor to President Donald Trump whose polling firm has contracted with Americans for Prosperity and the Heritage Foundation, told Mayer.
It wasn’t until 2009, when Pence fully demonstrated his value to Koch Industries’ profits, that the company and its bosses, began to fund his political efforts directly. That year, as a congressman, Pence signed a Koch-backed pledge opposing any government funding for limiting carbon pollution, which would cost Koch Industries’ oil and gas refining businesses and coal-fired power plants an enormous amount of money. Pence championed the issue, urging other members of Congress to sign the pledge and making speeches against a cap-and-trade bill that was under consideration.
A few months later, Pence’s chief of staff Marc Short, whose wife worked for the Charles Koch Foundation at the time, introduced him to the Koch network by securing him a speaking slot at a Koch donor summit, not unlike the 2017 New York gathering.
After Pence’s anti-carbon tax campaign, “he was the Kochs’ guy, and they’ve been showering him with money ever since,” Scott Peterson, executive director of the environmental watchdog group the Checks and Balances Project,  told Mayer.
Not long after Pence’s speech to Koch donors, as he ran for re-election in 2010, Koch Industries’ corporate political action committee chipped in  $10,000 to his campaign, according to data compiled by the National Institute on Money in State Politics. The following year, as Pence was beginning his campaign for Indiana governor, the company itself gave $10,000 to his effort. In the same election cycle, David Koch personally donated  $200,000 to his successful campaign.
In 2013 Americans for Prosperity launched a major, expensive campaign across Indiana to rally support for Gov. Pence’s tax cut plan, which the Indiana legislature did not initially endorse. Further into his term, after signing an unpopular anti-LGBTQ bill and contributing to an HIV outbreak by helping close five Planned Parenthood clinics that offered HIV testing, Pence faced a close re-election race. David Koch gave  $100,000 to Pence’s gubernatorial re-election campaign in late 2015, and Koch Industries had previously contributed roughly $4,600. Koch Industries was the largest 2016 donor to the Republican Governors Association, giving more than $2 million, and the RGA in turn spent  $3 million on Pence’s re-election campaign.
In part because of Pence’s close connections to wealthy donors in the Koch network, the governor made it onto Trump’s ticket. After working for Pence, the former chief of staff Short went on to take a leading role in the Kochs’ political operation. Now he is the White House legislative affairs director. At least four other Pence staffers went on to work for either Koch Industries or Koch-backed political groups.
With the Kochs’ influence on the White House and on the Republican-controlled Congress stronger than ever, it’s hard to imagine the GOP passing tax reform — or any significant legislation — without the brothers’ seal of approval.


A Boston mother claims she and her baby were kicked off an American Airlines flight from Atlanta to New York after asking that her stroller be returned following a cancellation. The incident reportedly occurred following an air traffic control delay of more than five hours.
Briana Williams, 24, explained the story to the New York Daily News in an article published Wednesday. She claimed that the Aug. 21 incident escalated after she refused to leave the aircraft without her stroller after the airline canceled her flight. After police became involved, Williams claims she and her 4-month-old daughter were forced to sleep in the airport overnight to await another flight rather than board an earlier replacement flight with her fellow passengers.
The airline confirmed the incident in a statement to International Business Times.
“The flight to New York LaGuardia (LGA) canceled, and all passengers were requested to deplane. At that time, Ms. Williams refused to deplane with all other passengers, and law enforcement was requested,” the airline told IBT. “At the gate, later that evening, the flight was reinstated, but would fly to New York John F. Kennedy (JFK). It was determined by our team members to be in the best interest of everyone involved that she be rebooked on the next flight to New York (LGA) the next morning.”
Williams, a Harvard Law student, told the Daily News about the incident after learning about a similar story involving American Airlines and New York activist Tamika Mallory, who like Williams is black.
Williams plans to pursue legal action for the alleged mistreatment by the airline. During the incident, during which she claimed the pilot became “very disgruntled and aggressive,” Williams said she remained calm.
“The pilot put me in a potentially dangerous situation with law enforcement as a young, black woman, saying that I was a ‘threat,’” she said. “This type of rhetoric paralyzes the African-American community, and I want to ensure that policies are put in place that regulate the pilot’s discretionary abilities.”
The airline told IBT that it does “not tolerate discrimination of any kind.”
“From the team members we hire to the customers we serve, inclusion and diversity is a way of life at American,” American Airlines said. “Every day, our team members work to make American a place where people of all generations, races, ethnicities, genders, sexual orientations, religious affiliations and backgrounds feel welcome and valued.
“All of our team members — which includes our gate agents, pilots and flight attendants — are proud to serve customers of all backgrounds and we are committed to providing a positive, safe travel experience for everyone who flies with us.”
Williams was offered 25,000 travel points worth of round-trip flights but told the Daily News she declined the offer.
“This type of unregulated discretion is a segue into discriminatory policy,” Williams said.
A woman claims she and her baby were kicked off an American Airlines after she asked that her stroller be returned. In this photo, an American Airlines jet is seen in the air preparing to land September 3, 2004 at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport in Rosemont, Illinois.  Photo: Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images


Two Chicago aviation security officers involved in the highly publicized removal of Dr. David Dao from a United Airlines flight in April have been fired, according to a new report. The officers were seen in the viral video footage dragging Dao down the aisle of the aircraft after he refused to deboard an overbooked flight.
In addition to the dismissal of the two officers, two other officers were given five-day suspensions, the  Chicago Sun-Times reported Tuesday. Both officers filed grievances, with one suspension reduced to two days, while the other was later withdrawn before the officer resigned.
Dao, 69, was dragged and bloodied during the altercation. After refusing to leave his seat, Dao was forcefully removed and dragged off the plane. He suffered a concussion, a broken nose and two chipped teeth. He also reportedly required surgery for a sinus problem.
The handling of the incident received widespread condemnation and raised questions about passengers' rights in cases that involve overbooked flights. 
The disciplinary action was recommended by Inspector General Joe Ferguson in his quarterly report, in which he stated that one officer “escalated a non-threatening situation into a physically violent one by forcefully removing a passenger from the aircraft.” Two other officers were accused of omitting or fabricating information contained in their reports of the incident.
Thomas Demetrio, Dao’s lawyer, issued a  statement Tuesday applauding United Airlines for its “acceptance of corporate accountability” but added that it was “not a day of celebration for Dr. Dao, who is neither vindictive nor happy about Mr. Ferguson’s findings.”
“There is a lesson to be learned here for police officers at all levels. Do not state something that is clearly contrary to video viewed by the world,” Demetrio said. “But for the video, the filed report stating that only ‘minimal’ force was used would have been unnoticed. Simply put, don’t make stuff up. Also, the Inspector General’s report should become the poster child for why passengers should always maintain the right to videotape mistreatment of all kinds. Our cellphones are the best deterrent to ensure mistreatment becomes a rarity.”
Dao reached a settlement for an undisclosed amount in April. James Goodnow, an attorney with the Chicago-based Lamber-Goodnow Injury Law Team at Fennemore Craig, told International Business Times at the time that he believed Dao would receive “millions” in the settlement.
Two officers have been fired over their treatment of Dr. David Dao on a United Airlines flight in April. In this photo, a United Airlines jet retracts its wheels as it aborts a landing attempt May 27, 2005 at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago, Illinois. Travelers are heading into the skies ahead of the Memorial Day weekend. Photo: Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images


United Airlines is being sued by a man who claims his drunk seatmate urinated during the flight — and that the carrier made him sit in the soaked seat for the remainder of the trip, according to a lawsuit filed in a New Jersey court Wednesday.
Daniel Card was flying from Los Angeles International Airport to Newark Liberty Airport June 12 when the alleged incident occurred. The intoxicated man was not named in the suit.
“The passenger seated in 24E was heavily intoxicated prior to entering the flight, and had fallen into a drunken stupor sitting next to Card,” the lawsuit claims. “While sitting next to the intoxicated passenger, Card noticed that a powerful odor of alcohol was emanating from the passenger’s breath and body.”
He urinated in his seat before the plane took off.
“As the flight was getting ready to take off, the passenger seated in 24E took out his penis and aimed it at Card and proceeded to urinate all over Card’s leg, while Card was confined to his seat due to an imminent departure of the flight,” the document says. “Upon being soaked in the passenger’s urine, Card further noticed that the odor of the urine also emitted a powerful scent of alcohol.”
United Airlines forced a passenger to remain in his seat, even though his seatmate urinated on his leg, a lawsuit claims.  Photo: Getty Images
Card was unable to wake the passenger and United staff did not help Card until he repeatedly asked to be moved from his seat, but was “forced to endure the remainder of the flight to Newark, New Jersey while remaining in his urine drenched clothing.”
United did not change the plane’s route, which resulted in the risked health and safety of Card and the other passengers on the flight, according to the suit. Card contacted his father, who then contacted authorities.
“Upon information and belief, but for Card and/or his father contacting law enforcement, no one would have intervened to contacted law enforcement,” the lawsuit says.
The passenger in 24E did not remember urinating on his seatmate, he said during an interview with the FBI. He admitted to having four drinks at the airport, which led the lawsuit to claim the passenger was “allowed to be seated on a flight while in an intoxicated state by United personnel” even though it “posed a serious health and safety risk to himself and to others, including Card.”
Card is suing the airline for emotional distress, breach of contract, assault and negligence.
“We have not yet been served with this suit and due to the pending litigation involved in this matter, we’re unable to provide further comment,” United Airlines said in a statement to Fox News Tuesday.
United Airlines forced a passenger to remain in his seat, even though his seatmate urinated on his leg, a lawsuit claims.  Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @mariamzzarella


A family has claimed Delta Air Lines refused to help find their dog after it escaped the tarmac of Tampa International Airport. Brady, a 4-year-old hound mix, chewed its transport crate and ran away.
The dog was being flown from Tampa to Bermuda to reunite with her family, who recently moved there. The incident took place when the dog was being loaded onto a Delta plane. The dog has not been found since it escaped last week. 
“Brady is part of our family,” her owner, William Gideon, told People magazine. “We are sick about this. We’re worried, we’re devastated. We haven’t slept much, we can’t think of anything else. All we want is for Brady to be found and come back to our family."
Gideon said that Brady was handled by a company that specializes in transporting animals and they brought her to the airport. “There were no problems at first,” Gideon said. “But when she got to Tampa International, Brady chewed through the crate and ran off the tarmac.”
“I assumed that Delta and the Tampa International Airport had a protocol for when things like this happen,” he added. “But they really haven’t done anything. They basically say that this is my problem, not theirs.” 
Gideon said that he was concerned about the well-being of his pet as there was blood on the crate. “I’m worried because Brady is hurt,” he went on saying. “It’s a nightmare for us all, to think about her out there, lost and alone and hurt.”
While blaming the airport, Gideon said that Gideon said that authorities told him there was no surveillance footage of the cargo area.
In a statement to CBS-affiliated television station WTSP, Delta Air Lines said: "Delta and animal control continue the search for a dog that was being loaded onto a flight to Tampa when it bit through the transfer kennel and ran into a heavily wooded area near the airport. We are in direct contact with the pet’s owner."
There have been several instances in the past when airlines have been criticized over its handling of pets.
In May, a Minnesota woman claims Delta Airlines held her 8-month-old German Shepherd captive for 33 hours, refusing to release him until she forked over $3,000.
In August, United Airlines was slammed after a Houston family blamed the airline for the death of their 5-year-old dog, who was put in the cargo hold of a plane that was delayed at the airport in Houston. United Airlines had the worst record in pet deaths among airlines in the U.S. in 2016.
“It’s tragic,” Daphna Nachminovitch, a PETA representative said of the United Airlines incident. “Our hearts go out to the family and obviously the dog.”
Delta Air Lines had five animal deaths and five injuries in 2016, the second-highest rate of animal death and injury among the top seven domestic airlines.


Toys “R” Us announced in September it filed for bankruptcy in the face of declines in revenue, given the price competition from online retailers and its inability to service debt. While the company’s North American business is in the doldrums, it seems to be doing quite well in Asia, where a report Tuesday claimed it was considering a $2 billion initial public offering (IPO).
The Asian subsidiary, Toys “R” Us Asia, was set up in 1986, and the parent company holds about 85 percent stake in it, the rest owned by the Fung Group, a holding company owned privately by Hong Kong businessmen brothers, Victor and William Fung. The report by Bloomberg, citing unnamed sources familiar with the matter, said both companies were in discussions “with investment banks to study the feasibility of listing the Asian business on the Hong Kong bourse.” A successful listing could value the subsidiary at about $2 billion.
The bankruptcy filing in September included some North American subsidies of the company, but not the Asian business. However, it could still complicate matters for an IPO, with investors likely being more jittery about putting money in a company whose parent is under bankruptcy protection. The company’s current owners, however, stand to win back at least some of their losses in the event of a successful IPO.
There has been increasing focus on the Asia-Pacific market by the company, where it is seeing growth enough to help offset poor sales in the United States and Europe. It recently merged its Japan business with the one that operated stores in China and Southeast Asia. Earlier in October, Toys “R” Us also opened its first store in India — in Bangalore — which is seeing about 15-20 percent annual growth in the toys retail sector. In the next 6 months, the company plans to open two more stores in the country.
Meanwhile, Toys “R” Us continues to face problems in other parts of the world, such as in the United Kingdom, where its suppliers have stopped shipments to the company over fears of losses, stemming from the parent company’s bankruptcy filing. Even though the company said at the time of the filing that its U.K. business would run as usual, the Sunday Telegraph reported two suppliers — Worlds Apart and Tutti Bambini — had stopped deliveries to the company. Toys “R” Us also confirmed the report, calling the two vendors “part of a small number of suppliers” who had taken such an action.
Toys “R” Us is owned by KKR, Bain Capital and Vornado Realty Trust, which acquired the company in 2005 for $7.5 billion. KKR and Vornado value the company at nothing, having written down their investment to zero.


Martha Stewart Collection Whiteware cake knife and server sets sold at Macy’s have been recalled after reports of lacerations resulting from handles of both products breaking while in use. In at least one instance, a cut from a broken handle required stitches.
The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission last week advised anyone who purchased the set to  immediately cease using the products and contact Macy’s for a refund. According to the CPSC, lacerations suffered by users occurred after breaks where the blades met textured ceramic handles on both products, which each measured approximately 11 inches. Four such cases were reported to Macy’s.
“In cooperation with the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, Macy's is recalling the Martha Stewart Collection Whiteware cake knife and server sets, announced on Oct. 13,” the company told International Business Times in a statement. “The handles on the knife and server can break during use, posing a laceration hazard.”
The sets were available for purchase at Macy’s locations nationwide, online and at Military Exchanges between January 2014 and July 2017, CPSC said. Customers who contact the respective retailer at which the set was purchased can expect a full refund. The sets were sold at Macy’s for $25 and at Military Exchanges for $15.
Packaging for the products included the UPC 608356963330 and Product ID PRCDCKSRVR. An estimated 18,900 of the sets were sold.
Another product from the Martha Stewart Collection collection was recalled in December of 2015, when the CPSC received seven reports of metal discs that covered the collection’s frying pan rivets popping off and causing minor injuries. Injuries reported during use included bruises, burns and welts, according to a  recall notice at the time.
Martha Stewart Collection® Whiteware cake knife and server sets sold at Macy’s have been recalled after reports of lacerations resulting from handles of both products breaking while in use. Photo: CPSC


A woman from Canada has slammed British Airways after she and her 7-year-old daughter were bitten by bed bugs during one of its flights. Photos of the woman's and her daughter's bed bug bites were shared by media outlets. 
The woman, identified as Heather Szilagyi, claimed that she and her daughter were traveling on a flight from Vancouver to London when she noticed the bugs crawling over her seat. The bugs reportedly came out from behind her in-flight TV frames and food tray during the journey.
"It was about half-an-hour to an hour into the flight I saw one. It was coming out of the back of the TV screen," Szilagyi told the Sun. "Our food came out and I went to put the tray down on my lap. I saw what was maybe a flax seed - but it started moving - it was a bug.
Despite raising the issue with the cabin crew, she, her fiancé Eric Neilson and her daughter Molly Reid, 7. The bed bug bites left her and her daughter with several painful lumps that had turned red.
Szilagyi told the Sun that the experience on board the British Airways plane ruined their trip after they spent hours washing clothes and tending to their sores.
"Once we got to the Airbnb that we were staying in, we went to sleep. My daughter had a few bites on her thighs but when she woke up she was covered, she had them all over. It was just so bad and awful, my daughter was bleeding," Szilagyi said.
While mentioning about the reason for making her story public, she said: "We just want to make sure that airplane is taken care of and so we just want to make sure that we have a flight tomorrow morning, and we have to get back into another BA flight.
"We just want to get on a plane that doesn't have fabric seats, or maybe another partner airline," she added.
A British Airways spokesman reportedly said that incidents involving bed bugs are very rare, but do happen "occasionally" and the airline deals with such cases very seriously. The spokesman also said the airline has apologized to Szilagyi, Neilson and her daughter for the trouble.
"We have said sorry to our customers for their experience," the spokesman said. "British Airways operates more than 280,000 flights every year, and reports of bed bugs on board are extremely rare. Nevertheless, we are vigilant and continually monitor our aircraft. "
"The presence of bed bugs is an issue faced occasionally by hotels and airlines all over the world," he added.
This is not the first time British Airways has faced such an accusation. Last year, the grounded a 787 fight after the bed bugs and their eggs had been discovered on-board plane following repeated complaints from passengers. 
In September last year, a British Airways passenger claimed to have been bitten repeatedly on-board his flight from Heathrow to Boston.


New York activist Tamika Mallory has accused American Airlines of removing her from a flight in Miami after a pilot got into an argument with her following her seat assignment dispute. 
Mallory, a co-chair of the Women’s March on Washington, had an argument with a gate agent. A pilot later followed her to scold her over her earlier dispute and summoned her from her seat and kicked her off the flight, New York Daily News reported Sunday. 
“It definitely was white male aggression. I was singled out, I was disrespected, and he was trying to intimidate me. I was discriminated against,” she said.
In a statement, American Airlines spokesman Joshua Freed said:"Our team does not tolerate discrimination of any kind. We take these allegations seriously, and we are in the process of reaching out to our colleagues in Miami, as well as Ms. Mallory, to obtain additional information on what transpired during the boarding process."
Mallory accused the airline of racism as she wrote on her Twitter: "I get kicked off a flight for #FlyingWhileBlack, then am told I probably deserved it, or I must be lying. Because no one trusts black women."


Mallory was in Miami for the Revolt Music Conference and had planned to attend the wedding of Rev. Al Sharpton’s daughter Sunday afternoon, which she missed. 
The argument with the gate agent started after Mallory arrived at Miami International Airport and used an airport kiosk to change from a middle to an aisle seat but when her new ticket was issued she was put back in the middle seat. 


Mallory, who is active in movements for gun control and civil, asked an agent why and said the employee’s response was “nasty” and “disrespectful.” After the argument, Mallory thought the issue was over until a pilot who had overheard the end of the exchange stopped her.
The pilot reportedly told her the airline worker had “nothing to do” with her seat getting changed and that she was the one who behaved disrespectfully.
“Then he said to me, ‘Can you get on this flight? Are you going to be a problem on this flight?’ I said ‘No, I’m not. Actually, I’m fine. But I will write my complaint down,” Mallory said. “He looked at me and said, ‘You’re going to get yourself a one-way ticket off this plane.’”
Mallory was allowed onto the flight and settled into her middle seat, but an announcement requested that she come to the front of the plane. When she did, the pilot pointed at her and said, “Her, off.”
“I began to express my outrage,” Mallory said. “Then I asked why I was being removed. I asked why was this happening to me. I told him I felt completely disrespected. I began to weep.”
No one offered an explanation, but the cops soon arrived and Mallory left the plane. A person she was traveling with, who had remained in his seat until she was summoned to the front of the plane, was also removed.
“Doesn't matter how much we do and how hard we fight, white men are allowed to treat black women like s---,” Mallory wrote on Twitter after the incident. “Other ppl stand by and watch it happen because it doesn't affect them. If I have to fight alone, @AmericanAir will NEVER GET AWAY W/ THIS.”
After her tweet, Mallory said a representative arrived to rebook her on a flight Sunday evening — but still never explained why she was removed from the flight. 


During the presidential campaign, Donald Trump promised to boost the economy both by  cutting taxes and investing more money in infrastructure.
Usually, however, politicians and policymakers have favored one type of stimulus over the other. Conservatives like tax cuts, while liberals favor more spending.
In the Trump administration, tax cuts appear to have won the argument for now. Republicans  unveiled the blueprint of a major tax overhaul, which White House officials predict will boost economic growth to more than 3 percent a year. In the meantime, infrastructure investment remains on the back-burner.
Did they make the right choice pushing for tax cuts before infrastructure spending? Are tax cuts more likely than new spending to prod companies to produce more, encourage more consumer spending and grow the economy at a faster rate?
Or put another way, which provides the biggest bang for the buck?
British economist John Maynard Keynes was the first to suggest in the 1930s that an economy’s ills could be traced to the misalignment of what he called aggregate demand, which is made up of consumption, investment, government spending and net exports. So if there’s trouble in the economy, a government could try to move the needle by spending more (or less) money or by adjusting tax rates to spur consumers or businesses to buy more (or less) stuff.
For decades, from the 1940s through the 1970s, the U.S. mainly relied on manipulating government expenditures rather than tax cuts to goose the economy. Many politicians and academics interpreted Keynes to favor government spending as the best way to right the economic ship, but he also suggested tax policy could do the job of boosting demand.
In the past few decades, however, beginning with President Ronald Reagan and the advent of supply-side economics in the 1980s, governments have increasingly toyed with tax cuts to change aggregate demand in part because they are more likely to have an immediate effect on consumer and business expectations and incentives.
The question of whether tax cuts or spending has a greater economic impact – as well as the inverse – remains a major subject of discussion among economists and policymakers. With the help of my graduate students in a finance class I taught for three decades, I have tried to help shine some light on the answer.
The following analysis grew out of a series of research projects assigned to them in the past several years. Putting them together produced some insight on the questions I raised at the outset.
To compare the effects on the economy of increases in regular government spending with those of tax cuts, we compiled data on gross domestic product, government expenditures and average tax rates for households divided into five different income groups, or quintiles, from 1968 to 2010. We did that because a tax cut for someone who’s rich will be different than one for someone who spends most of what she earns. While the former might invest the extra cash, the latter is more likely to spend it, immediately stimulating the economy.
We focused on the middle three income groups because incomes among the top 20 percent are too disparate and the tax rate for the bottom is close to zero, making them very hard to measure.
We then tried to determine how much each variable – spending and tax rates of each quintile – correlated to a change in GDP. Our findings showed that US$1 in tax cuts for individuals making $20,001 to $61,500 a year in 2010 dollars (the second and third quintiles) was correlated with an increase in GDP more than double that of a rise in spending by the same amount. A tax cut for those in the fourth quintile earning $61,501 to $100,029 didn’t have as great effect but still correlated with a boost in GDP 1.4 times that of new spending.
These results are consistent with those conducted by economists David and Christine Romer in their study on the economic impact of changes in taxation, which also found that tax cuts correlated with more growth than spending increases.
So do these results answer our original question and show that tax cuts are always better?
Not exactly, although these results should appeal most to those who champion tax cuts for the middle class. For too long, ideology has dominated this debate and obscured the real answer if the goal is stronger economic growth: an appropriate mix of the two, well-tailored tax cuts for middle-income earners and effective government spending.
In addition, our analysis represents a relatively simplified take on a complicated topic. The last word on how tax cuts affect economic growth has yet to be written.
The real advantage of tax cuts is that they’re quick – taxpayers immediately have more money in their paychecks and companies often begin investing before the cuts have taken effect – while the impact of infrastructure or other spending takes much longer, even years, to work its way through the economy. But they both have their place in good economic policy.
Very often those advocating significant tax cuts claim that the cuts will pay for themselves in terms of ultimate tax revenues. That, of course, is an empirical issue but it misses the point. No one ever claims that expenditure increases pay for themselves (in terms of future tax revenues). The relevant point is how much does each encourage economic growth.
Dale O. Cloninger is a Professor Emeritus of Economics & Finance at the University of Houston-Clear Lake.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article here.
Logo Photo: Conversation


After Stephen Paddock opened fire on Las Vegas concertgoers on Oct. 1, many people responded with calls for more gun control to help prevent mass shootings and the routine violence ravaging U.S. neighborhoods.
But besides a rare consensus on restricting the availability of so-called bump stocks, which Paddock used to enable his dozen semi-automatic rifles to fire like machine guns, it’s unclear if anything meaningful will come of it.
If advocates for reform despair after such a tragedy, I can understand. The politics seem intractable right now. It’s easy to feel powerless.
But what I’ve learned from a decade of studying the history of the arms trade has convinced me that the American public has more power over the gun business than most people realize.
The U.S. arms industry’s close alliance with the government is as old as the country itself, beginning with the American Revolution.
Forced to rely on foreign weapons during the war, President George Washington wanted to ensure that the new republic had its own arms industry. Inspired by European practice, he and his successors built public arsenals for the production of firearms in Springfield and Harper’s Ferry. They also began doling out lucrative arms contracts to private manufacturers such as Simeon North, the first official U.S. pistol maker, and Eli Whitney, inventor of the cotton gin.
The government provided crucial startup funds, steady contracts, tariffs against foreign manufactures, robust patent laws, and patterns, tools and know-how from federal arsenals.
The War of 1812, perpetual conflicts with Native Americans and the U.S.-Mexican War all fed the industry’s growth. By the early 1850s, the United States was emerging as a world-class arms producer. Now-iconic American companies like those started by Eliphalet Remington and Samuel Colt began to acquire international reputations. Even the mighty gun-making center of Great Britain started emulating the American system of interchangeable parts and mechanized production.
The Civil War supercharged America’s burgeoning gun industry.
The Union poured huge sums of money into arms procurement, which manufacturers then invested in new capacity and infrastructure. By 1865, for example, Remington had made nearly US$3 million producing firearms for the Union. The Confederacy, with its weak industrial base, had to import the vast majority of its weapons.
The war’s end meant a collapse in demand and bankruptcy for several gun makers. Those that prospered afterward, such as Colt, Remington and Winchester, did so by securing contracts from foreign governments and hitching their domestic marketing to the brutal romance of the American West.
While peace deprived gun makers of government money for a time, it delivered a windfall to well capitalized dealers. That’s because within five years of Robert E. Lee’s surrender at Appomattox, the War Department had decommissioned most of its guns and auctioned off some 1,340,000 to private arms dealers, such as Schuyler, Hartley and Graham. The Western Hemisphere’s largest private arms dealer at the time, the company scooped up warehouses full of cut-rate army muskets and rifles and made fortunes reselling them at home and abroad.
By the late 19th century, America’s increasingly aggressive role in the world insured steady business for the country’s gun makers.
The Spanish American War brought a new wave of contracts, as did both World Wars, Korea, Vietnam, Afghanistan, Iraq and the dozens of smaller conflicts that the U.S. waged around the globe in the 20th and early 21st century. As the U.S. built up the world’s most powerful military and established bases across the globe, the size of the contracts soared.
Consider Sig Sauer, the New Hampshire arms producer that made the MCX rifle used in the Orlando Pulse nightclub massacre. In addition to arming nearly a third of the country’s law enforcement, it recently won the coveted contract for the Army’s new standard pistol, ultimately worth $350 million to $580 million.
Colt might best illustrate the importance of public money for prominent civilian arms manufacturers. Maker of scores of iconic guns for the civilian market, including the AR-15 carbine used in the 1996 massacre that prompted Australia to enact its famously sweeping gun restrictions, Colt has also relied heavily on government contracts since the 19th century. The Vietnam War initiated a long era of making M16s for the military, and the company continued to land contracts as American war-making shifted from southeast Asia to the Middle East. But Colt’s reliance on government was so great that it filed for bankruptcy in 2015, in part because it had lost the military contract for the M4 rifle two years earlier.
Overall, gun makers relied on government contracts for about 40 percentof their revenues in 2012.
Competition for contracts spurred manufacturers to make lethal innovations, such as handguns with magazines that hold 12 or 15 rounds rather than seven. Absent regulation, these innovations show up in gun enthusiast periodicals, sporting goods stores and emergency rooms.
So how has the industry managed to avoid more significant regulation, especially given the public anger and calls for legislation that follow horrific massacres like the one in Las Vegas?
Given their historic dependence on U.S. taxpayers, one might think that small arms makers would have been compelled to make meaningful concessions in such moments. But that seldom happens, thanks in large part to the National Rifle Association, a complicated yet invaluable industry partner.
Prior to the 1930s, meaningful firearms regulations came from state and local governments. There was little significant federal regulation until 1934, when Congress – spurred by the bloody “Tommy gun era” – debated the National Firearms Act.
The NRA, founded in 1871 as an organization focused on hunting and marksmanship, rallied its members to defeat the most important component of that bill: a tax meant to make it far more difficult to purchase handguns. Again in 1968, the NRA ensured Lyndon Johnson’s Gun Control Act wouldn’t include licensing and registrationrequirements.
In 1989, it helped delay and water down the Brady Act, which mandated background checks for arms purchased from federally licensed dealers. In 1996 the NRA engineered a virtual ban on federal funding for research into gun violence. In 2000, the group led a successful boycott of a gun maker that cooperated with the Clinton administration on gun safety measures. And it scored another big victory in 2005, by limiting the industry’s liability to gun-related lawsuits.
Most recently, the gun lobby has succeeded by promoting an ingenious illusion. It has framed government as the enemy of the gun business rather than its indispensable historic patron, convincing millions of American consumers that the state may at any moment stop them from buying guns or even try to confiscate them.
Hence the jump in the shares of gun makers following last week’s slaughter in Las Vegas. Investors know they have little to fear from new regulation and expect sales to rise anyway.
So with the help of the NRA’s magic, major arms manufacturers have for decades thwarted regulations that majorities of Americans support.
Yet almost never does this political activity seem to jeopardize access to lucrative government contracts.
Americans interested in reform might reflect on that fact. They might start asking their representatives where they get their guns. It isn’t just the military and scores of federal agencies. States, counties and local governments buy plenty of guns, too.
For example, Smith & Wesson is well into a five-year contract to supply handguns to the Los Angeles Police Department, the second-largest in the country. In 2016 the company contributed $500,000 (more than any other company) to a get-out-the-vote operation designed to defeat candidates who favor tougher gun laws.
Do taxpayers in L.A. – or the rest of the country – realize they are indirectly subsidizing the gun lobby’s campaign against regulation?
Brian DeLay is an associate professor of history at the University of California, Berkeley.
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article here.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Elon Musk has a plan, and it’s about as audacious as they come. Not content with living on our pale blue dot, Musk and his company SpaceX want to colonize Mars, fast. They say they’ll send a duo of supply ships to the red planet within five years. By 2024, they’re aiming to send the first humans. From there they have visions of building a space port, a city and, ultimately, a planet they’d like to “geoengineer” to be as welcoming as a second Earth.
If he succeeds, Musk could thoroughly transform our relationship with our solar system, inspiring a new generation of scientists and engineers along the way. But between here and success, Musk and SpaceX will need to traverse an unbelievably complex risk landscape.
Many will be technical. The rocket that’s going to take Musk’s colonizers to Mars (code named the “BFR” – no prizes for guessing what that stands for) hasn’t even been built yet. No one knows what hidden hurdles will emerge as testing begins. Musk does have a habit of successfully solving complex engineering problems though; and despite the mountainous technical challenges SpaceX faces, there’s a fair chance they’ll succeed.
As a scholar of risk innovation, what I’m not sure about is how SpaceX will handle some of the less obvious social and political hurdles they face. To give Elon Musk a bit of a head start, here are some of the obstacles I think he should have on his mission-to-Mars checklist.
Imagine there was once life on Mars, but in our haste to set up shop there, we obliterate any trace of its existence. Or imagine that harmful organisms exist on Mars and spacecraft inadvertently bring them back to Earth.
These are scenarios that keep astrobiologists and planetary protection specialists awake at night. They’ve led to unbelievably stringent international policies around what can and cannot be done on government-sponsored space missions.
Yet Musk’s plans threaten to throw the rule book on planetary protection out the window. As a private company SpaceX isn’t directly bound by international planetary protection policies. And while some governments could wrap the company up in space bureaucracy, they’ll find it hard to impose the same levels of hoop-jumping that NASA missions, for instance, currently need to navigate.
It’s conceivable (but extremely unlikely) that a laissez-faire attitude toward interplanetary contamination could lead to Martian bugs invading Earth. The bigger risk is stymying our chances of ever discovering whether life existed on Mars before human beings and their grubby microbiomes get there. And the last thing Musk needs is a whole community of disgruntled astrobiologists baying for his blood as he tramples over their turf and robs them of their dreams.
Musk’s long-term vision is to terraform Mars – reengineer our neighboring planet as “a nice place to be” – and allow humans to become a multi-planetary species. Sounds awesome – but not to everyone. I’d wager there will be some people sufficiently appalled by the idea that they decide to take illegal action to interfere with it.
The mythology surrounding ecoterrorism makes it hard to pin down how much of it actually happens. But there certainly are individuals and groups like the Earth Liberation Front willing to flout the law in their quest to preserve pristine wildernesses. It’s a fair bet there will be people similarly willing to take extreme action to stop the pristine wilderness of Mars being desecrated by humans.
How this might play out is anyone’s guess, although science fiction novels like Kim Stanley Robinson’s “Mars Trilogy” give an interesting glimpse into what could transpire once we get there. More likely, SpaceX will need to be on the lookout for saboteurs crippling their operations before leaving Earth.
Back in the days before private companies were allowed to send rockets into space, international agreements were signed that set out who could do what outside the Earth’s atmosphere. Under the United Nations Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, for instance, states agreed to explore space for the benefit of all humankind, not place weapons of mass destruction on celestial bodies and avoid harmful contamination.
That was back in 1967, four years before Elon Musk was born. With the emergence of ambitious private space companies like SpaceX, Blue Origin and others, though, who’s allowed to do what in the solar system is less clear. It’s good news for companies like SpaceX – at least in the short term. But this uncertainty is eventually going to crystallize into enforceable space policies, laws and regulations that apply to everyone. And when it does, Musk needs to make sure he’s not left out in the cold.
This is of course policy, not politics. But there are powerful players in the global space policy arena. If they’re rubbed the wrong way, it’ll be politics that determines how resulting policies affect SpaceX.
Perhaps the biggest danger is that Musk’s vision of colonizing Mars looks too much like a disposable Earth philosophy – we’ve messed up this planet, so time to move on to the next. Of course, this idea may not factor into Musk’s motivation, but in the world of climate change mitigation and adaptation, perceptions matter. The optics of moving to a new planet to escape the mess we’ve made here is not a scenario that’s likely to win too many friends amongst those trying to ensure Earth remains habitable. And these factions wield considerable social and economic power – enough to cause problems for SpaceX if they decide to mobilize over this.
There is another risk here too, thanks to a proposed terrestrial use of SpaceX’s BFR as a hyperfast transport between cities on Earth. Musk has recently titillated tech watchers with plans to use commercial rocket flights to make any city on Earth less than an hour’s travel from any other. This is part of a larger plan to make the BFR profitable, and help cover the costs of planetary exploration. It’s a crazy idea – that just might work. But what about the environmental impact?
Even though the BFR will spew out tons of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide, the impacts may not be much greater than current global air travel (depending how many flights end up happening). And there’s always the dream of creating the fuel – methane and oxygen – using solar power and atmospheric gases. The BFR could even conceivably be carbon-neutral one day.
But at a time when humanity should be doing everything in our power to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, the optics aren’t great. And this could well lead to a damaging backlash before rocket-commuting even gets off the ground.
Sixty years ago, the Soviet Union launched Sputnik, the world’s first artificial satellite – and changed the world. It was the dawn of the space age, forcing nations to rethink their technical education programs and inspiring a generation of scientists and engineers.
We may well be standing at a similar technological tipping point as researchers develop the vision and technologies that could launch humanity into the solar system. But for this to be a new generation’s Sputnik moment, we’ll need to be smart in navigating the many social and political hurdles between where we are now and where we could be.
These nontechnical hurdles come down to whether society writ large grants SpaceX and Elon Musk the freedom to boldly go where no one has gone before. It’s tempting to think of planetary entrepreneurialism as simply getting the technology right and finding a way to pay for it. But if enough people feel SpaceX is threatening what they value (such as the environment – here or there), or disadvantaging them in some way (for example, by allowing rich people to move to another planet and abandoning the rest of us here), they’ll make life difficult for the company.
This is where Musk and SpaceX need to be as socially adept as they are technically talented. Discounting these hidden hurdles could spell disaster for Elon Musk’s Mars in the long run. Engaging with them up front could lead to the first people living and thriving on another planet in my lifetime.
Andrew Maynard, Director, Risk Innovation Lab, Arizona State University
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article here.
Logo Photo: The Conversation


Apple recently announced the launch of its iPhone 8 and iPhone X, which come with sleek, new features. Apple also hopes to start a new community around the iPhones. Ahead of the launch, Angela Ahrendts, head of retail at Apple, said their stores will be called “Town Squares,” and would double as public spaces, complete with outdoor plazas, indoor forums and boardrooms.
The much-anticipated product launch was followed by millions who watched the event via livestream and on internet forums, blogs and in the news media.
I, too, was among them.
So, what draws people to these phones? Surely, it is not just the groundbreaking design or the connection with a community. As a minister, psychotherapist and scholar studying our relationship with hand-held devices, I believe there is much more going on.
In fact, I’d argue, as I do in my book “Growing Down: Theology and Human Nature in the Virtual Age,” the phones tap into our basic yearnings as humans.
Here are my three reasons why we love our phones.
Our sense of self is shaped while we are still in the womb. The development of the self, however, accelerates after birth. A newborn, first and foremost, attaches herself to the primary caregiver and later to things – acquiring what has been called an “extended self.”
The leading 20th-century American psychologist William James was among the first to argue for an extended self. In his “Principles of Psychology,” James defined the self as “the sum total of all that a man can call his, not only his body and his psychic powers, but his clothes and his house, his wife and children.” Losing any of this extended self, which could include money or another prized object, as he explained, could lead to a sense of great loss. In early childhood, for example, babies and toddlers cry if they suddenly lose their pacifier or favorite soft toy, objects that become part of their extended selves.
Phones, I argue, play a similar role. It is not uncommon for me to feel a sudden onset of anxiety should I drop my phone or am unable to find it. In my experience, many individuals feel the same way. It is also reflected in how often many of us check our devices.
Psychologist Larry Rosen and his colleagues at California State University found that 51 percent of individuals born in the 1980s and 1990s experienced moderate to high levels of anxiety when they were kept from checking in with their devices for more than 15 minutes. Interestingly, the percentage drops slightly – to 42 percent – for those born between 1965 and 1979.
This is primarily because they came into being during a time where hand-held technologies were only beginning to make their entry. For this group, phones became part of their extended self only as late teens or as young adults.
Not just extended selves, smartphones in particular, with their games, apps and notifications, have become an essential aspect of our sense of self.
And here’s how:
Drawing on psychodynamic theory, which holds that childhood experiences shape personality, I argue that our relationship with technology mirrors the environment our parents created in caring for us. This environment, as British psychiatrist Donald W. Winnicott writes, functions around touch, a keen awareness of what the infant needs, and establishing and maintaining eye contact.
In the same way, we, as adults, reexperience touching and belonging through our phones. Technology affords a space where the self can be satisfied, play and feel alive – a space previously provided by caregivers.
When we hold our phones, it reminds us of moments of intimacy – whether from our childhood or from our adult life. The brain chemical dopamine and love hormone oxytocin, which play a role in the addiction “high,” kick in. These chemicals also create a sense of belonging and attachment.
Holding our phone has the same effect as when a parent looks lovingly at her child or when two lovers gaze into each other’s eyes. In the words of Apple executive Philip Schiller: The iPhone X “learns who you are.”
Theological reflection also supports what we have learned about dopamine and oxytocin. The Judeo-Christian tradition, for example, identifies God as an intimate God who seeks face time and creates caring environments. In Bible, Numbers 6:24-26, we read:
“The Lord bless you and protect you. The Lord make his face shine on you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his face to you and grant you peace.”
3. Fulfills need to produce and reproduce
Anthropologist Michael Taussig reminds us that it is in our “second nature to copy, imitate, make models, [and] explore difference” as we try to become a better or different self.
Phones help us do that. We take pictures, manipulate images, join discussions, curate a selfie and reach out to others. By texting back and forth, we weave together a conversation. Through searching, we become knowledgeable (even if we lack wisdom). Thus, we join ancestors who painted on cave walls and told stories around fires.
It should not come as a surprise then that smartphones currently account for 46 percent of all internet use. This is expected to grow to 75 percent by 2021. We are destined, it seems, to live with our phones in hand.
Living with technology
Having said this, sometimes, however, I would argue, we need to show up in person and make a difference.
We can be disappointed if we limit our spaces and relationships to small screens or to “town squares.” We need intimate relationships where we give and receive touch, where we gaze into someone’s eyes. We also need spaces – some will be online – where deep connections can be made, where we can rest, play and discover.
So, as some of us head over to the Town Square to purchase the latest iPhone or venture online, it would be best to remember the dictum of historian of technology Melvin Kranzberg: “Technology is neither good nor bad; nor is it neutral.”
Jaco J. Hamman is an associate professor of Religion, Psychology, and Culture at Vanderbilt University
This article was originally published in The Conversation. Read the original article here.
Logo Photo: Conversation


Few holidays draw as much superstition around the paranormal as Friday the 13th — particularly in the rare occasion that it falls in October, thereby preceding Halloween. Perhaps this was why the internet was pleased to have discovered a Helsinki-bound plane with the flight number 666 — the infamous Number of the Beast described in the New Testament's Book of Revelations — departing on the purported unlucky day.
A screen grab of the flight was posted by Sweden-based air traffic tracker Flightradar24, which tweeted: “Flight 666 on #FridayThe13th is now en route to #HEL.”
Flight 666 on #FridayThe13th is now en route to #HEL#AY666 pic.twitter.com/AmdHWn1gU6
&mdash; Flightradar24 (@flightradar24) October 13, 2017

Indeed,  FlightView confirmed that Finnair (AY) 666 departed Copenhagen Airport (CPH) and landed at Helsinki Airport (HEL) roughly two hours later. Getting in on the fun, the Helsinki Airport later responded to a second Flightradar24 tweet asking the airport if the plane would be landing at Gate 13.
“Hi there! We have something better in opur [  sic ] mind: our heavy metal themed bus will give one HEL of a ride for #AY666 passengers!” the airport wrote, sharing an image of a bus that read “Hard Rockin’ HEL.”
Hi there! We have something better in opur mind: our heavy metal themed bus will give one HEL of a ride for #AY666 passengers! pic.twitter.com/Ai8FVqv4qq
&mdash; Helsinki Airport (@HelsinkiAirport) October 13, 2017

The airport later tweeted: “#AY666 arrived in HEL! Luckily we managed to get the gate arrival in the end, and as we do things double-well here, the gate is 13+13=26!”
Finnair  shared a statement on Twitter that this week’s Flight 666 to Helsinki would be its last after having flown 15 flights in 11 years with the devil’s number on a Friday the 13th. The airline said the change was the result of new flight numbers, and the flight from Copenhagen to Helsinki will in the future be Flight 954.
“Farewell to Finnair AY666,” wrote the airline, “but remember, we still have a flight from SIN to HEL.”


In the days after Oct. 1, when a gunman at the Las Vegas Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino opened fire on a crowd of concert-goers, killing 58 people and wounding hundreds more, the share price of MGM Resorts International, which owns the Mandalay,  tanked. The company  has assisted victims’ families with their travel needs and canceled shows at its Vegas venues, and it’s already facing at least one  lawsuit. Legal experts  say there are surely more to come. Put simply, the attack, while horrifying at its core, is costing MGM a lot of money.
In the past few years, as the frequency of mass shootings has ticked upward, a market for insurance that covers the commercial fallout in the wake of such tragedies — such as lawsuits, funerals, public relations cleanup and loss of business — has materialized in North America and Western Europe, but predominantly in the U.S. And, though little data or research exists on what is still a relatively new insurance product, it can be a very lucrative venture, experts told International Business Times.  
The damage potential associated with mass shootings — stemming from not only casualties and structural harm, but decreased business due to brand stigma — is enormous. Add to that the tendency for media coverage of the events to lend the appearance of a spike in prevalence, and the result is a heightened demand for active shooter insurance from companies big and small, said insurance agents who spoke with IBT. Each new tragic event brings a fresh surge of demand. But the rare and terrifying nature of shooting events can create a disconnect between how necessary these insurance policies appear and how useful they actually are, leaving insurers with wide profit margins and virtually no claims to pay, experts told IBT.
“Any one single incident is a tragedy. But compare that to the number of possibilities, the millions of events that could occur,” University of Connecticut School of Law professor Peter Kochenburger said, pointing to the numerous concerts, sports games and other public events that take place across the country each day. But what matters to policyholders is not so much frequency as fear: “If you could sell shark bite insurance, you could probably make a lot of money.”
And because victims and their families can always sue for negligence, alleging that more could’ve been done, insurers have an incentive to focus predominantly on the response to a tragedy rather than what can seem like a futile prevention effort. As Paul Marshall, the managing director of the underwriter McGowan Program Administrators, which offers active shooter insurance, put it to IBT, “You can’t prevent crazy.”
Krystle Egemba of Las Vegas held a candle during a vigil marking the one-week anniversary of the Oct. 1 mass shooting in Las Vegas, Oct. 8, 2017.  Photo: Reuters
Terrorism Insurance: Active Shooter’s Not-So-Distant Cousin
It’s unclear whether MGM Resorts has insurance to cover mass violence that hasn’t been designated a terrorist act by the federal government;  an MGM spokesperson did not answer questions from IBT on the subject of the company’s coverage. But, according to its most recent annual  financial statement, MGM, unlike some of its main competitors, has “‘all risk’ property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism).”
That’s likely thanks in part to a federal program created in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks, when sellers of terrorism insurance either pulled out of the market, fearing they could face the same market-destabilizing  $40 billion in costs (in 2001 dollars) that followed 9/11, or raised their coverage costs to levels unaffordable for most corporations. The program, called the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, or TRIA, originally enacted as a temporary measure in 2002, mandated that all property and casualty insurers offer terrorism coverage, and provided them with federal reinsurance for attack-related commercial losses of up to $100 billion. (After Congress reauthorized it in 2015, it became the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act, or TRIPA.) This model, according to a Congressional Budget Office  report on TRIA from 2015, “left taxpayers bearing most of the catastrophic risk.”
When Congress skirted reauthorization of TRIA at the end of 2014, before ultimately renewing it the following January,  some worried that Super Bowl XLIX would be canceled without the government’s terror-insurance safety net. In 2013, after all, the Boston Marathon bombings, which were not classified as terrorism,  sparked interest in such insurance coverage.
Still, despite the wave of anxiety that follows instances of mass violence in the U.S., the CBO noted that, as of January 2015, the federal government had paid no TRIA claims. Because later terror attacks in  San Bernardino, California, and  Orlando, Florida, in 2015 and 2016, respectively, likely did not meet the Treasury’s $5 million damages threshold to trigger TRIA, it’s unlikely that the government has paid any claims since. (The Treasury Department did not respond to IBT’s questions about TRIA claims.) Meanwhile, the program has cost the government  less than $1 million annually in administrative costs and netted the insurance industry $4.6 billion per year in commercial premiums for federally-insured, practically risk-free coverage, experts at the libertarian Rand Institute  calculated in 2014. Those figures have led some to  argue that TRIA is no more than a subsidy for insurers and should be outright abolished.
The Las Vegas attack has not been characterized as a terrorist act, drawing criticism from some terrorism experts and skeptics who say  the color of the assailant’s skin may have been the deciding factor. Without the designation, MGM — or rather, its insurers — won’t qualify for help from the federal government through TRIA.



Enter active shooter insurance.
‘Plenty Of Incentive To Create A Fear’
Between 2000 and 2006, there was an average of 6.4 mass shootings each year in the U.S., according to a  study by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Between 2007 and 2013, that number jumped to 16.4. In 2014 and 2015, that average rose once more, to 20 incidents annually, the FBI found in a later  study, which noted that a full 70 percent of those events took place in “a commerce/business or educational environment.” But in contrast to the market’s response to 9/11, the supply of insurance policies for these events has been on the rise over the past several years, as the trade publication Insurance Journal  has  reported.
The increase in availability is a response to an upswing in demand, underwriters and insurance agents told IBT. According to John Eltham, who heads North America business for Miller Insurance Services LLP, a Lloyd’s of London broker, the rise in policies sought by businesses has led the coverage to broaden beyond gun violence to all manner of attacks, including those with knives and bombs, under the new category of “active assailant.”
Many of the insurers leading the way in the active shooter market  did the same within the market for terrorism insurance — namely, American International Group Inc., or AIG, and Lloyd’s of London, which counts Miller as a broker, London-based specialist insurer Beazley Group as a syndicate and Atlanta-based Southern Insurance Underwriters Inc. as a binding authority coverholder.
Though AIG did not comment for this article, it certainly has been an early pioneer in the market for active shooter insurance policies. The company helped crisis management consultancy Marsh Risk Management Research develop  two  guidebooks on “addressing the risk of an active shooter” in the summer of 2014, hosted a webcast on “active shooter” for the industry publication Business Insurance in March 2013 and, around the same time, produced a  brochure specifically identifying Las Vegas venues as high-risk clientele when it comes to violent incidents. At the bottom of its Hospitality and Leisure policy page, AIG offers a variety of advisory pamphlets on handling an active shooter event, courtesy of the New York Police Department, Department of Homeland Security and others.

In terms of demand, Paul Marshall, the McGowan Program Administrators managing director, said he used to receive one inquiry per month about active shooter insurance; now he receives 10 to 40 each week. His clients, he said, include a pride parade, a national political party convention organizer and a concert organizer. Kerri O’Dwyer, a political violence underwriter at Beazley, whose team focuses on everything from civil war and a “coup d’etat” to “riots, strikes” and “malicious damage,” said her unit was at first “ binding a handful of risks per month, and now we’re binding, what? Fifteen to 20 per month.” She added that Beazley has been quoting as many as 10 policies daily, compared to one per day at the outset, in 2016. Southern Insurance Underwriters Senior Vice President Hugh Nelson said that while demand for his firm’s policies has been flat, he’s “seen big companies give lip service to getting it.”
As Nelson  told the Insurance Journal in March, demand tends to rise after a deadly shooting incident, and his company has, in the past year, expanded both beyond educational institutions and firearms to cover a range of venues and weapons. Eltham, of Miller, said he’d already noticed an increase in demand immediately after the events in Las Vegas. The president and co-founder of McKinney, Texas-based GDP Advisors LLC, which also administers active shooter coverage and did not respond to interview requests from IBT,  told the Journal in August 2016, “Sadly, active shooter incidents are the next cyber.”
But both the insurance industry — and the media, for what it’s worth — may be inflating the appearance of risk, said Kochenburger, the University of Connecticut professor.
“Cyber risk is everywhere, same thing as employee lawsuits against employers,” he told IBT, adding that the apparent dangers of an active shooter incident are often “greatly exaggerated.”
“To compare these risks against active shooter risks — well, to say it’s inaccurate is an understatement.”
Smaller mom-and-pop companies without the resources to analyze their own probability of facing an attack, Kochenburger said, could end up overpaying for what they believe to be a very real and imminent danger.
“One way you can make a lot of money in insurance is if the policyholders really overestimate the risk. Then you could have a very profitable insurance company,” he said. Mass shootings and other random violence is “not a silly concern. However unlikely it is that the event will occur, there’s been an increase… The question is how necessary or important [insurance coverage] is.”
George Mocsary, an assistant professor at the Southern Illinois University School of Law, echoed Kochenburger’s argument that mass shootings are far rarer than they might appear from news coverage, and that it pays to play on those worries.
“There’s plenty of incentive to create a fear to get active shooter insurance,” Mocsary said. For example, if a customer at a tech store is purchasing a TV, he said, “the salesman scares you about how your TV can break.”
It’s clear that active shooter insurers and underwriters, or at least their marketing teams, are aware of such tactics.
GDP Advisors’ Active Shooter Insurance Program  webpage, for instance, features a harrowing graphic of an individual entering what appears to be a restaurant or hotel lobby, a handgun at their side. The text overlay reads, “How to minimize the damage from an unthinkable act” and, “Since 2013, there have been at least 156 school shootings in America — an average of nearly one a week.” GDP Advisors  launched its active shooter coverage in July 2016.
GDP Advisors LLC, which did not respond to requests for interviews from IBT, advertises the dangers of a mass shooting and the need to insure against related losses on its website.  Photo: GDP Advisors LLC
McGowan Program Administrators, in a brochure on its own active shooter program, obtained by IBT, said “the numbers as of November 10, 2016 are a bit staggering,” and that, “unfortunately, by the time you begin and end this article the numbers are likely to be outdated just as quickly.”
“Despite security measures, by design and necessity these places remain very open places. The reality of the needs of these buildings directly oppose much of what the security measures look to achieve,” the pamphlet, which included graphics of bullet-pocked glass and frightening newsprint headlines, continues. “Organizations have been successfully sued for negligent security.”
McGowan Program Administrators, an underwriter offering active shooter insurance, offers pamphlets detailing the rise of mass shootings and the risks to commercial businesses. Photo: McGowan Program Administrators
In its advisory brochure on active shooter insurance programs, McGowan Program Administrators, an underwriter, cites news coverage and statistics on the uptick in mass shootings as reasons businesses need to obtain coverage.  Photo: McGowan Program Administrators
Marshall defended the use of chilling ads as a tool for raising awareness.
“Mass shootings and recent public attacks make security upgrades and purchasing adequate insurance a priority (and should be legally required like auto insurance),” he wrote in an email, citing an internet article on “powerful social issue ads that’ll make you stop and think.”
‘My Prediction Is It’s Virtually All Profits Right Now’
According to O’Dwyer, the popularity of this new insurance coverage skews American. Beazley, she said, offers this coverage in the U.S., Canada and Western Europe, but three quarters of demand for its active shooter insurance comes from the U.S., compared to 20 percent for Canada and 5 percent for Western Europe.
“It’s more to do with [the fact that] that’s where we offered our education programs,” she said. Beazley pushed its education program hardest in the U.S., she added, since the frequency of major non-terrorist shootings is higher.
American gun politics aside, the frequency is still so low that active shooter insurance policies come with fat profit margins, according to experts.
“At this point, my prediction is it’s virtually all profits right now, because the events are so sporadic that they’re just not hitting the insured population yet,” said Adam Scales, a Rutgers University law professor who specializes in insurance. “You’re not talking, probably, about significant exposure by the insurance agency.”
Because the cost of adequately covering an active shooter incident — for instance, with a $5 million policy — is cost-prohibitive for most businesses, Scales added, companies will resort to purchasing cheaper policies in the $250,000 range that won’t give them much of a cushion, and won’t hurt the insurer, if a claim is paid.
“I would wonder why you would even buy it,” he said, adding that such coverage is “not economically valuable” to the policyholders.
For insurers and underwriters, though, there is economic value, Kochenburger noted.
“It is a for-profit market,” he said. “If they’re not making a profit, they’re not going to cover it.”
Marshall defended the industry’s corporate ethics. 
“We feel we’ve been responsible… If we collected $10 million in premiums, we’re going to assume that we’re going to be paying out a large portion of that in claims,” he said. “Time will tell. We want to insure responsibly. We’ve not had a claim, but we’re insuring risks similar to ones that have had claims.”
Negligence: ‘You Can Always Allege It’
One of the benefits of insurance coverage is the monetary incentive to minimize risks as much as possible, because doing do minimizes the cost of insurance. Kochenburger compared the active shooter preparation and prevention effort to buying smoke detectors or storm shutters when getting a quote for home insurance. Mocsary suggested the purchase of metal detectors might bring down a company’s premiums by way of lowering its active shooter risks.
But attempts at prevention can only go so far.
“To the extent that you can reduce the [likelihood of the] acts of someone who’d do this — they can’t address the psychological issues, gun control — they can’t do anything about that,” Kochenburger said.
Marshall said something similar.
“Some of the prevention experts may not like me, because this event at the Mandalay — there’s no way you could’ve prevented this. You can’t prevent crazy,” he said. Marshall’s ratio of focus on post-event remediation versus prevention and preparation is 80 percent versus 20 percent, he told IBT. “You have to understand that you really won’t be able to stop this event… I think it may be leading to a false sense of security. Kind of like a tornado, or your house getting burned down.”
Both O’Dwyer and Nelson said the divide was closer to 50-50.
To Mocsary, buying an active shooter policy simply meant “buying legal representation,” because of the lawsuits sure to come in the weeks after an instance of violence inside a theater, stadium, hotel or other business. O’Dwyer emphasized the importance of the public relations response that comes with Beazley’s policy.
“What you say in that first few minutes and hours, that will stay with you forever,” she said.
Nelson, of Southern Insurance Underwriters, pointed to the constant threat of negligence lawsuits, no matter how much companies prepare.
“You always allege it,” he said.
On the other hand, Scales, the Rutgers professor, said that standard commercial general liability insurance policies, akin to MGM’s “all risk” policy, cover litigation already, rendering the extra layer provided by active shooter insurance pointless.
In Vegas, one victim is testing that assertion with a lawsuit alleging that MGM failed to notice the massive stockpile of weapons the assailant had lugged up to his 32nd-floor suite.
“How did the hotel not know about that? Why wasn’t that a red flag?” Michelle Tuegel, an attorney for the victim,  told the Las Vegas Review-Journal. The lawsuit, depending on its outcome, could inform standards of corporate liability following a mass shooting and define the need for active shooter insurance in the future. As Tuegel put it, the legal action was aimed at companies “who have a responsibility to keep the people who are on their properties at their events safe.”
Update (10/16/2017, 11:05 AM): This post has been updated to clarify the relationship between Lloyd's of London and several other insurance firms.


Xu Jiayin, founder of Evergrande Group — one of the most aggressive property developers in China — has become the country's richest man, according to a survey released Thursday by The Hurun Report, which tracks wealth in the country.
Jiayin, 59, also known as Hui Ka Yan, surpassed real estate and entertainment magnate Wang Jianlin off the top of China’s rich list to become the country’s wealthiest man. 
Jiayin's wealth quadrupled to US$ 43 billion in 2017, according to The Hurun Report. The report's list of wealthy people in China points toward a dynamic economy fueled by consumption and appetite for real estate. Both these aspects are contributing to the growth of the country where traditional engines of manufacturing and expenditure on government projects are gradually losing power, The New York Times reported.
“The top 10 on our rich list had a year like they’ve never had for 10 years,” said Rupert Hoogewerf, Hurun’s chairman, according to the publication. 
Evergrande, Jiayin's company, is the nation's largest property group by sales and China's booming property market has helped accelerate its growth further, according to a report published by Fortune.
However, Evergrande's business is built on a huge pile of debt, which was almost $50 billion at the end of 2016, raising concerns if the firm could sustain its growth. Rating agency Fitch said in a report earlier this year that Jiayin's company's high-interest expenses and payouts to shareholders would prove a hindrance in the reduction of the firm's debt, CNN reported.
In fact, Jiayin has also been compared to the U.S. President and former business tycoon, Donald Trump, who also built his fortune on a real estate business under huge debt. Evergrande — said to be China’s second-most indebted company — is aiming to reduce its net debt ratio to around 70 percent by June 2020 from 240 percent, according to a report published by ShanghaiDaily.com.
Evergrande was founded by Jiayin in 1996 and he listed it in Hong Kong in 2009. Known for developing thousands of middle-class homes in China, it grabbed headlines in 2010 when it bought main soccer club in its hometown of Guangzhou for $15 million, reports said.
Jiayin was born in 1958 in the Taikang County of China and completed his graduation from Wuhan University of Science & Technology, Hubei, Wuhan, from where he obtained a degree in metallurgy in the year 1982. He received an honorary Ph.D. in 2008 from the University of West Alabama.
Apart from the real estate business, Jiayin is also involved in other activities. For example, he is one of the top philanthropists in China. In 2011, the real estate magnate donated $62 million and received the National Model Worker honor by the State Department. Recently, he also announced donation worth $100 million for funding a scholarship at a university in Beijing.
Currently, he serves as the vice president of China Real Estate Association, China Entrepreneur Association, and the Chinese Enterprise Association. While CREA is a peak association authorized by the Ministry of Construction of China that has over 2,100 members, the Chinese Enterprise Association "was formed in 1998 in Philadelphia by a group of Christians to respond to the needs of many young Chinese professionals and entrepreneurs who like to establish themselves at their present position and eventually extend their services to China," according to its official website. Further, the establishment of China Entrepreneur Association in February 1999, marked a milestone in the development of Chinese enterprises in Singapore, the official website says. 


This story was produced by MapLight and published in partnership with the International Business Times.
Top Republican donors have been pressing the Environmental Protection Agency to move its regional headquarters from San Francisco to Phoenix.
Agency records show EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt hosted a May meeting to discuss “possible EPA restructure opportunities.” People attending included Foster Friess, a longtime Republican financier considering a run for U.S. Senate in Wyoming; Mike Ingram, an Arizona real estate developer and Trump supporter; Tim Bidwill, the son of a prominent Arizona GOP donor who owns the city’s professional football franchise; Hunter Moorhead, a Washington, D.C.-based lobbyist whose clients have included the National Rifle Association and Koch Industries; an Arizona Department of Transportation official; and executives from the Greater Phoenix Economic Council
Although Friess told MapLight he was “was in and out in a number of meetings” that day, he said the meeting shown on Pruitt’s calendar involved a pitch to move the EPA’s regional headquarters from San Francisco to Phoenix. The office has more than 700 employees in California, Arizona, Nevada, and Hawaii. Friess said moving the office would save money for taxpayers, since commercial rents are significantly higher in San Francisco than Phoenix.
Pruitt’s calendar, published last week by the New York Times, highlights the influence wielded by top GOP donors in the still-young Trump administration. The agency records show Pruitt also met with an executive from an Israeli water company at the behest of GOP mega-donor Sheldon Adelson, and conferred with Marc Goldman, a Florida-based investor who sits with Adelson on the Republican Jewish Coalition's board of directors.
The EPA said it hasn’t set aside money in the budget year that began Oct. 1 to move the regional headquarters out of San Francisco. “Anyone that takes time to read President Trump’s budget will realize that no money is allocated to close down regional EPA offices,” said Jahan Wilcox, an agency spokesman. 
Adelson, a casino magnate, and his wife gave $20 million last year to Future45, a super PAC that spent more than $24 million to help Trump defeat Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. They also donated $492,000 to Trump Victory, a joint fundraising committee benefiting the Trump campaign, the Republican National Committee, and state parties. Adelson contributed $5 million to Trump’s inaugural committee in December.
Friess, who’s known for boosting Rick Santorum’s 2012 presidential campaign, donated $100,000 to Trump Victory in 2016 before describing him as the “less flawed” of the two major-party presidential candidates. Ingram chairs the real estate company El Dorado Holdings, one of Arizona’s largest private landowners. He is also a co-owner of the Arizona Diamondbacks baseball franchise and gave $10,000 to Trump Victory.
After the election, Ingram gave $15,500 to Trump’s Make America Great Again Committee, which raises money for Trump’s 2020 campaign and the RNC. In late December, he was listed as a co-chair in an event invitation from the Opening Day Foundation, a Texas-based nonprofit.
Las Vegas Sands Corp. Chairman and CEO Sheldon Adelson on Oct. 1, 2014 in Las Vegas, Nevada.  Photo: Ethan Miller/Getty Images
Trump’s adult sons, Eric and Donald, Jr., were named as honorary co-chairmen in the invitation, which presented donors an “opportunity to play a significant role as our family commemorates the inauguration of our father, friend and President Donald J. Trump.” The invitation said the Opening Day Foundation would donate all net proceeds from the event to conservation charities.
Although the foundation initially listed Trump’s sons as directors in its Texas corporate registration filing, a Trump spokesperson said that the event details had not been approved by the president’s family. The organization filed new paperwork two days later removing them from its board.
The EPA also is considering a plan to combine its Chicago office with the Kansas City regional headquarters. Officials said in April that no decision had been made. The Chicago office has come under fire for its handling of the Flint water crisis.


Marijuana sales in Colorado hit $1 billion in a record eight months, according to data analysis from the Denver Post’s weed site, The Cannabist Tuesday. This is the second year in a row that the industry has made $1 billion in sales.
Last year it took ten months to hit the $1 billion mark in combined recreational and medical marijuana sales. Colorado legalized recreational marijuana in 2012 and sales began in January of 2014.
The 2014 sales of marijuana were $699,198,805 and the 2015 sales were $996,184,788. Last year Colorado sales of Marijuana hit just above $1.3 billion.
As of August last year, marijuana sales hovered around $846 million, meaning that sales are up 21 percent this year.
Big money for retailers also means big money for the state.
Colorado will pull in around $137 million in taxes and fees from the marijuana industry. A new law increased the tax on recreational marijuana to 15 percent from 10 percent in July. The law also exempted recreational marijuana accessories from the standard 2.9 percent sales tax. Medical marijuana accessories are still subject to that tax.
Economists expect the market's growth to slow as more states get in on the action.
Nevada began selling recreational marijuana in July and in its first month sold $27.1 million worth of weed, according to the Reno Gazette-Journal. That’s a faster first month than Colorado, Washington, and Oregon.
Marijuana sales in Oregon last year are estimated to have been around $241 million, according to the Register-Guard. 


As fires ripped through California’s Napa, Sonoma and Mendocino Counties this week, some of the regions most prominent wineries have been affected by the flames. Some 17 fires spread across Northern California this week, burning more than 115,000 acres and putting many wineries in danger of destruction.
Napa Valley Vinters and Sonoma County Vinters were updated by hundreds of the wineries regarding their status in the wake of the fires It appeared at least four wineries in Napa County were significantly or completely destroyed, while at least one in Sonoma County suffered a total loss, CNBC reported.
In Napa, the Signorello winery appeared to be largely destroyed, according to SF Gate. Proprietor Ray Signorello, who also lives on the property, said he planned to rebuild.
A flame from an open gas line illuminates grape vines in a vineyard during the Nuns fire in Glen Ellen, California, Oct. 9, 2017. Photo: Getty Images
“It’s like getting punched in the stomach,” Signorello’s sommelier Ronald Plunkett told CNBC Tuesday, noting that the winery’s Chardonnay vines were 38 years old. “This is devastating to us because this is kind of our home.”
White Rock Vineyards was also damaged significantly and was “likely lost,” employees told SF Gate. Other wineries in the county, like William Hill and Stags’ Leap, appeared to have been damaged as well, though the full extent was not yet clear.
In Sonoma County, the Paradise Ridge winery had completely burned down. 
“We are heartbroken to share the news that our winery was burned down this morning,” Paradise Ridge wrote on its Facebook page Monday alongside photos of the entirely decimated vineyard and facility.
Nicholson Ranch, Chateau St. Jean, Mayo Family Wineries and Gundlach Bundschu Winery appeared to have escaped the worst of the damage.
Mendocino County’s Frey Vineyards Winery and Oster Wine Cellars both appeared to have been largely destroyed by the fires. 
At least 15 people have been killed as a result of the fires, though Sonoma County Sheriff Rob Giordano said he expected that number to rise in the coming days. More than 1,500 structures were destroyed, while some 20,000 people were evacuated from their homes in the path of the flames that seared through 115,000 acres of land. Sonoma County authorities said they received somewhere around 200 missing persons reports.
The main building at Paras Vinyards burns in the Mount Veeder area of Napa in California, Oct. 10, 2017.  Photo: Getty Images


The principal of a law firm involved in fending off a criminal investigation into a Trump Organization project gave $10,000 to Manhattan district attorney Cyrus Vance amid the probe, according to campaign finance records reviewed by International Business Times. The money from Elkan Abramowitz, which had not previously been reported, was in addition to a separate campaign donation to Vance from Trump attorney Mark Kasowitz. After the money flowed to Vance, the Democratic DA overruled his prosecutors and declined to file charges against Ivanka Trump, Donald Trump, Jr. and others involved in the controversial Trump SoHo project.
The disclosures are the fourth in a week showing that Vance received campaign donations from law firms whose clients had potential cases before his office. IBT previously reported that Vance declined to prosecute Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein and received $182,000 from partners at the law firm of Weinstein’s long-time attorney. IBT also reported that Vance received more than $42,000 from lawyers at a criminal defense firm whose clients received plea deals from Vance’s office that let them avoid prison, including another high profile sexual assault case.
Scrutiny of Vance’s campaign was first kicked off by a report by ProPublica, WNYC and The New Yorker, which revealed that Vance declined to file charges against the Trump Organization over its SoHo project after Vance received a $25,000 donation from Trump attorney Mark Kasowitz. The story noted that Vance’s former employer, Morvillo Abramowitz Grand Iason & Anello PC, was one of the firms involved on the defense side of the potential case, which revolved around allegations that investors were misled about the project and its finances.
The allegations were investigated by Vance’s office from 2010 to 2012. A further IBT review of Vance’s campaign finance found that on March 24, 2011 — between the opening of the investigation and the closing of the investigation — Abramowitz gave $10,000 to Vance’s campaign, which was the single largest Abramowitz donation disclosed in state records. In all, Abramowitz has donated more than $26,450 to Vance’s campaigns since 2008 -- making Vance the largest recipient of Abramowitz donations, according to state records. 
Abramowitz is a power player in New York politics; he recently served as a criminal defense attorney for New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo during a federal corruption probe launched by former U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.
Vance returned Kasowitz’s donation —  and the ProPublica report said Vance asserts that is “standard practice when a donor has a case before his office.” Vance’s office has also previously told IBT that all contributions are vetted for potential conflicts of interest.
However, there is no record that shows Vance returned Abramowitz’s $10,000 contribution that came during the DA’s investigation into the Trump Organization — despite Abramowitz’s firm being involved with the defense team. According to the DA’s office, Paul Grand, a principal of Morvillo Abramowitz, represented Rodrigo Nino, the CEO of Prodigy Network, which was the selling agent for the Trump SoHo units.
“Kasowitz's initial contribution was returned to avoid the appearance of conflict as DA Vance said [to WNYC], not because there was a conflict,” Joan Vollero, communications direct for the Manhattan District Attorney’s office, told IBT over email. “If there had been a conflict with the other donation you listed [Abramowitz’s], it would have been flagged and returned in the same way. This multi-step vetting process is more rigorous than what is required, and consistent with other prosecutor's offices.”
Paul Grand and Morvillo Abramowitz did not respond to a request for comment from IBT.
Vollero explained that the office did not consider Abramowitz's donation a conflict of interest because he did not personally represent any clients before the DA's office at the time. She told IBT over email that the DA's campaign finance vetting committee does not consider a contribution from the principal of a firm that has a client under investigation by the DA's office to constitute a conflict.
The New York Times has reported that Paul Grand -- the Morvillo Abramowitz lawyer who worked on the Trump defense team -- did not meet directly with Vance about the case.


Fashion Designer Donna Karan is taking heat for calling Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein wonderful, a comment she later walked back. Weinstein was the subject of a New York Times investigation that surfaced years of allegations of sexual harassment.
Karan spoke about Weinstein on the red carpet of the CineFashion Film Awards in Los Angeles, Sunday.
“I think they’re wonderful people. Harvey has done some amazing things,” said Karan to the Times about Harvey and his wife Georgina Chapman who is a designer herself.
Karan also suggested that the way women dress may invite harassment.
“What are we asking? Are we asking for it? By presenting all the sensuality and all the sexuality? What are we throwing out to our children today? About how to dance, how to perform and what to wear? How much should they show?,” asked Karan. “I don’t think it’s only Harvey Weinstein. I don’t think we’re only looking at him. I think we’re looking at a world much deeper than him. I think he’s being looked at now as a symbol.”
In a statement provided to the Times from Karan’s publicists, she walked her statements back.
“My statements were taken out of context and do not represent how I feel about the current situation concerning Harvey Weinstein,” read the statement. “I believe that sexual harassment is NOT acceptable and this is an issue that MUST be addressed once and for all regardless of the individual. I am truly sorry to anyone that I offended and everyone that has ever been a victim.”
Weinstein was fired from the Weinstein Company Sunday, a movie production company he co-founded with his brother. The company removed him after the Times story. Several prominent Hollywood figures, are beginning to condemn Weinstein for his alleged actions.
Karan, despite backtracking on her original comments, has been sharply criticized for what she said.
To @dkny How many seventeen year olds have you dressed like they are, in your words, "asking for it "? https://t.co/oYyO9tfFKz pic.twitter.com/Fck0h5m13R
— Anthony Bourdain (@Bourdain) October 10, 2017
Donna Karan you are a DEPLORABLE Aiding and abetting is a moral crime. You are scum in a fancy dress pic.twitter.com/Vze7lnpdvj
— rose mcgowan (@rosemcgowan) October 10, 2017
Thanks, Donna Karan, for the life lesson: dress like a woman and you can be sexually harassed by a pig. #stoptalking #findbetterfriends
— Katie Phang (@KatiePhang) October 10, 2017
Donna Karan Spring 2018 Collection pic.twitter.com/iVWHU1VoI0
— Lincoln's Bible (@LincolnsBible) October 10, 2017
The comment section of Donna Karan New York, one of the designer's lines are full of vitriol as well.



Beauty supply giant Dove has apologized and said it "missed the mark in representing women of color thoughtfully," after it released a Facebook advertisement many social media users deemed racially insensitive.
The ad, posted on Friday, featured an African-American woman in a brown shirt taking off her top to reveal a white woman in a light-coloured shirt. Another image showed a white woman removing her shirt, revealing a woman who appeared to be of Asian descent.
Dove apologised for &#39;racist&#39; Facebook advert showing a black woman turning white after using @Dove lotion. pic.twitter.com/NGXyhnGuBZ
&mdash; Habeeb Akande (@Habeeb_Akande) October 8, 2017
On Saturday, Dove, which is owned by Dutch-British consumer goods company Unilever, released a statement via its official Twitter account, apologizing for the advertisement.
"An image we recently posted on Facebook missed the mark in representing women of color thoughtfully," the statement read. "We deeply regret the offense it caused."
An image we recently posted on Facebook missed the mark in representing women of color thoughtfully. We deeply regret the offense it caused.
&mdash; Dove (@Dove) October 7, 2017
After the soap company removed the ad, it issued an apology on Facebook, saying that the feedback it received will be considered in subsequent advertisements  
"Dove is committed to representing the beauty of diversity. In an image we posted this week, we missed the mark in thoughtfully representing women of color and we deeply regret the offense that it has caused. The feedback that has been shared is important to us and we’ll use it to guide us in the future," the statement read.
Despite having apologized and removed the ad, Dove set the internet ablaze. After the advertisement sparked a debate about racial sensitivity, many took to social media and chastised the beauty brand, even threatening to stop purchasing its products.
Dove said &quot;we missed the mark&quot;... man, y&#39;all missed the mark, get set, and go!
&mdash; laire (@laire) October 8, 2017
Any black business sell soap?? Dove made it clear they only want white ppl using their products, I&#39;m cool with that
&mdash; Sad Pitt (@Bbillions) October 8, 2017
Really @Dove ?? Now I can&#39;t patronize you anymore#iSeeWhatYoureImplying pic.twitter.com/M5McMLbCD2
&mdash; Jonica Booth (@Blu1x) October 8, 2017
Welp, looks like I’ve purchased my last pack of @Dove soap. #BoycottDove pic.twitter.com/zzcCVdTu4W
&mdash; Tiffany M. Graves (@tiffmgraves) October 8, 2017
Some users suggested that the company had a history of racially insensitive advertisements.  
Okay, Dove...One racist ad makes you suspect.Two racist ads makes you kinda guilty. pic.twitter.com/hAwNCN84h2
&mdash; Keith Boykin (@keithboykin) October 8, 2017
It’s not a new thing. They know what they are doing. pic.twitter.com/w1caubZsEV
&mdash; Complexion Magazine (@ComplexionMag) October 8, 2017
the racist dove ad is a continuation of a long history of racist soap advertising pic.twitter.com/nO7iDT7dxH
&mdash; /kaw·reɪdʒ/ (@kawrage) October 8, 2017
Definitely missed the mark there @DoveFYI Dark skin IS NORMAL pic.twitter.com/lUD9OJR46f
&mdash; Stacey B (@_StaceyBaptiste) October 8, 2017
A complete historical view is always important. #Dove pic.twitter.com/1vAxvGy0bh
&mdash; Kristina Chäadé Dove (@KristinaCDove) October 8, 2017
Dove is a Unilever brand. Unilever has multiple brands that have skin-whitening ranges, worth $billions in annual revenue.This is PR. https://t.co/atulOGkFzR
&mdash; Briganvenutius (@JordanLM__) October 8, 2017
Here is another! Y’all literally could’ve googled “racist soap ads” and it would show you ones just like yours. This is not ok pic.twitter.com/iJoEBR4TU4
&mdash; George M Johnson (@IamGMJohnson) October 8, 2017
Screenshots of the advertisement were circulated by American makeup artist Naomi Leann Blake, which went viral and was re-posted over a thousand times on Facebook and Twitter.
"So I'm scrolling through Facebook and this is the #dove ad that comes up.... ok so what am I looking at," she captioned the photo.
Some Facebook users seemed to be spilt on the subject.
"This is gross. You think people of color can just wash away their melanin and become white? What were you going for, exactly? Your creative director should be fired," Angela Reinders wrote on Facebook.
"I think they meant it's for all skin types... it went from black to white to another race," said one Facebook user.
"The third woman is definitely not white but this was a bad deliverance of the message that all can use the soap," posted another.
This isn’t the first time Dove received backlash after releasing ads deemed racially insensitive. In 2011, an ad sparked controversy after it showed three women with different skin tones in front of a wall marked "before and "after."
You have done it in the past._ pic.twitter.com/qaGG10bePw
&mdash; Nonhlanhla Mabhena (@N0n0zA) October 7, 2017
The woman in front of the "before" section had a darker skin tone, the woman in the middle was slightly lighter and the woman in front of the "after" sign was white. After the ad received criticism, Dove released a statement looking to clarify its objective.
"The ad is intended to illustrate the benefits of using Dove VisibleCare Body Wash, by making skin visibly more beautiful in just one week. All three women are intended to demonstrate the "after" product benefit. We do not condone any activity or imagery that intentionally insults any audience," the statement read.


Delta Air Lines announced Thursday that it will allow customers to treat themselves to a complimentary glass of Prosecco in-flight. The introduction of Avissi Prosecco will now be available to passengers on all international flights. It has not been confirmed as to whether this deal will eventually extend to flights in the United States. 
Customers of age have always had the option of choosing between beer, spirits, white wine and red wine in-flight. Prosecco, however, was only recently served to those seated in the aircraft's first-class section for free. All passengers flying internationally, even those seated in coach, will now be able to reap the benefits of the newly enhanced alcoholic beverage list that will include the popular fizzy drink.  
"Sparkling wine is often the first choice for a celebration and we know how special it is for people to jet off on a trip so we wanted to bring the celebration to them," Lisa Bauer, Delta's Vice President of On-Board Services, said in a press release Thursday. "Offering complimentary chef-curated food and drinks throughout the flight is one of the things that sets Delta apart and we’re upping the ante again with our mini bottles of Prosecco."
Passengers seated in Delta One, the airline's premium cabin for business class customers, will pair fall-inspired flavors with a selection of wines by Delta's Master Sommelier. The airline's sommelier reportedly tasted more than 1,300 wines to create a selective list that pairs well with the customer's in-flight experience. 
A representative for Delta Air Lines did not immediately return International Business Times' request for comment. 
Delta announced in May that it would begin serving complimentary Prosecco to fliers seated in the aircraft's first-class. Customers seated in the main cabin could order a glass of Avissi or La Marca Prosecco, but they would have to fork out $9 to do so. The deal, which began June 1, was a part of the airline's "industry-leading culinary strategy." 
"The airline is committed to offering an ever-changing variety of fresh, local and seasonal food and beverage options to enhance the on-board customer experience," the airline wrote in a May press release. 
This deal may not be directly available to Delta customers flying in the U.S., but it will be accessible through flights heading to Europe from John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) in New York, for example. 
Delta's complimentary Prosecco deal comes on the heels of the airline's free in-flight text messaging offer. Passengers will be able to use iMessage, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger to send texts in-flight.
"We know many of Delta's customers want or need to stay connected in the air and on the ground, which is why we're investing in an easy, free way to send and receive messages inflight through some of the most popular global platforms," Tim Mapes, Delta's Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, said in a September press release . "Coupled with our investments in seat-back screens, free entertainment and High-Speed Wi-Fi, free messaging is one more way customers can choose how to make the most of their time on Delta flights."
Delta is the first U.S. airline to offer passengers in-flight texting capabilities. Free mobile messaging was made available on all Gogo-enabled Delta flights October 1, including aircraft's that have two or more cabins. The service, however, will not allow passengers to send text or video messages at this time. 
Delta Air Lines, pictured Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on July 14, 2016, will now offer airline passengers free Prosecco.  Photo: Getty Images

