
A family’s long-awaited vacation came to a bitter halt Tuesday after Irish budget carrier Ryanair announced it would be cancelling their flight. The family, who saved for the trip for 12 months, were told the Malaga, Spain-bound flight was canceled roughly 45 minutes before they boarded.
The airline told International Business Times in a statement that the cancellation occurred as a result of a strike by French air-traffic controllers and “was entirely beyond our control.” More than 20,000 passengers were affected Tuesday as a result.
The Roffee family had reportedly scrimped and saved £2,105 ($2515 USD) for a year in preparation for the trip, British newspaper Mirror Online reported Monday. It was a celebration of the 30th birthday of Simon Roffee, who with his wife Kellie Roffee were accompanied by their four young daughters.
Following the cancellation, the Roffees claimed their attempts to make different accommodations — they were at the Leeds Bradford Airport from 11 a.m. until 6 p.m. — were made in vain. They were offered a flight to depart Monday that would arrive in Spain at 10 p.m. with a return trip departing 11 a.m. the following day — little more than 12 hours after their arrival.
“We normally go away for a weekend camping and we couldn't do it because we were saving up for this holiday, we now won't be getting a holiday this year,” Kellie Roffee said, according to Mirror Online. “We were waiting around the airport, the kids were really excited, we were sat in the VIP lounge and we heard this tannoy and they [were] asking for everyone to go to gate four.”
A family’s long-awaited vacation came to a bitter halt Tuesday after Irish budget carrier Ryanair announced it would be cancelling their flight. In this photo, a Ryanair aircraft takes off from Lille Airport in Lesquin on August 25, 2017.  Photo: PHILIPPE HUGUEN/AFP/Getty Images
She said that when they arrived at the gate, the airline “locked the doors and they said nobody was going anywhere” some 45 minutes before boarding. Passengers grew angry, she said, with one woman having a panic attack and crying.
“Amelia-Rose was crying because she was scared, there was a bloke swearing and the police had to come and he almost got arrested,” Kellie Roffee said.
When the Roffee family asked Ryanair if it would be paying for another flight, she said “[the airline] said that was absolutely not going to happen.”
“I feel really bad like I have deprived my children of a holiday, the kids are devastated, absolutely distraught, the next morning my Amelia-Rose came in and asked us ‘are we off on holiday today then?’” Kellie Roffee said.
The family claimed that it was not issued a formal apology, but the airline told IBT in a statement that the family was both refunded as well as issued an apology.
“This flight from Leeds Bradford to Malaga (12 Sep) was regrettably cancelled due to a French Air Traffic Control Strike,” Ryanair told IBT in a statement. “The customers in question have been fully refunded. Ryanair sincerely apologised to all customers affected by this French ATC strike, which was entirely beyond our control.”
Strikes, however, haven’t been the only thing leading to cancellations with the carrier. Ryanair, Europe’s largest short-haul airline, announced Saturday that it anticipated cancelling  40 to 50 flights per day through the end of October. The cancellations — as many as 2,000 — are expected to affect roughly 400,000 passengers and could cost the company $30 million.
The cancellations, according to the airline, occurred after it “messed up in the planning of pilot holidays.”
“We f---ed up here, and we have to fix it. We should have seen it coming. This will have a reputational impact,” CEO  Michael O’Leary said on a conference call, according to the Washington Post. “We should have seen it coming. This will have a reputational impact.”


Uber is yet again in the unfortunate position of having to apologize for a public flub. In its latest blunder, Uber sent out a promotional social media message to customers in Bangalore, India, in which it urged husbands to “let your wife take a day off from the kitchen” for “Wife Appreciation Day.”
The message came with a promotional discount for the Uber Eats food delivery service, BBC News reported.
“Dear husbands,” the message read. “A gentle reminder – Today is Wife Appreciation Day! Order on UberEATs and let your wife take a day off from the kitchen.”
The promotion was swiftly denounced by Uber chief brand officer Bozoma Saint John, who called it “unacceptable.” The company tweeted that it was “totally inappropriate.”
“We’ve removed it,” Uber said. “And we apologize.”

Uber is no stranger to botched messages and public relations nightmares. The company has been fending off allegations of sexism and harassment, which led to founder and CEO Travis Kalanick stepping down from the company in June.
In February 2014, Kalanick was skewered for apparent sexism after he made a joke about his desirability, saying, “We call that Boob-er.” Before he left the company, Kalanick again came under fire for sending a company-wide message regarding a party in which he outlined rules about inter-office sex and “keg throwing.”
“Do not have sex with another employee UNLESS a) you have asked that person for the privilege and they have responded with an emphatic, ‘YES! I will have sex with you,” he wrote. “AND b) the two (or more) of you do not work in the same chain of command. Yes, that means that Travis will be celibate on this trip. #CEOLife #FML.”
Even after Kalanick’s ouster, the company continued to battle allegations of sexism. In a June meeting discussing former U.S. attorney general Eric Holder’s recommendation about how to fix Uber’s culture, a board member started the meeting with a sexist joke. David Bonderman later apologized for the comment after audio was leaked, calling his words “disrespectful” and “inappropriate.”
An Uber Eats courier makes a delivery in Lille, France, Sep. 2, 2017. Photo: Getty Images


Budget air carrier Ryanair ( NASDAQ: RYAAY) announced Saturday it would be canceling 40 to 50 flights per day for the next six weeks after scheduling mistakes. They didn't factor in crew vacations.
“We f---ed up here, and we have to fix it. We should have seen it coming. This will have a reputational impact,” said CEO Michael O’Leary on a conference call.
The budget airliner could stand to lose $30 million and the cancellations could affect up to 400,000 passengers, according to Bloomberg Monday.
“We have messed up in the planning of pilot holidays and we're working hard to fix that,” said Chief Marketing Officer Kenny Jacobs to the BBC Sunday.
The Ireland-based company faces a backlog of mandatory crew vacations as outlined by Irish authorities.
“We were trying to give too many pilots blocks of four weeks leave,” said O’Leary. “We have mismanaged that process.”
The cancellations will affect about two percent of the carrier’s daily flights. In order to help e soften the blow of the situation, Ryanair plans a fare sale, to offer bonuses to pilots willing to sacrifice vacation days and to hire more crews.
Ryanair has listed all flights it has canceled through Sept. 20 on its website. The carrier is offering fee-free flight changes and refunds.
European Union rules have much greater protections for flight passengers than in the U.S.
“It is the potential for long-term damage that concerns us. The poor [public relations] could deter future bookings and may well put off more time-sensitive higher yielding demand, like business trips, if the carrier is seen as unreliable and less punctual,” said a note to clients of RBC Capital Markets Monday.
O’Leary apologized on behalf of Ryanair on the call.
“My apologies to our investors but also primarily to our customers for any uncertainty or any inconvenience we’ve caused you over the weekend,” O’Leary said. “It wasn’t done lightly, it wasn’t done out of some dismissive or ‘don’t care’ attitude.”


Get ready for a day full of swashbuckling adventure, just don’t expect Krispy Kreme to participate. Tuesday, Sept. 19 marks annual Talk Like a Pirate Day, but unfortunately for those celebrating and looking to get their annual free doughnut from Krispy Kreme, that’s not an option in 2017.
Krispy Kreme has announced its not participating in its usual Talk Like a Pirate Day freebie promotion and we’ve got the lowdown as to why.
Krispy Kreme announced on Twitter on Monday that the free doughnut promotion will not be in effect on Tuesday. In past years, customers who talked like a pirate would be given a free traditional glazed treat and those who dressed like a pirate would be gifted a dozen free doughnuts.
“As a company we’re not repeating TLAPDay this year,” the company wrote to one customer. “Ahoy! Talk Like a Pirate Day is still a holiday & you can still have fun dressing up. However, we will not be giving away doughnuts for it,” the company stated in another tweet.
Ahoy! Talk Like A Pirate Day is still a holiday &amp; you can still have fun dressing up. However, we will not be giving away doughnuts for it.
&mdash; krispykreme (@krispykreme) September 18, 2017

As expected, fans for the annual freebie event were not pleased, but the company has stated they’re still encouraging patrons to dress up for the occasion. “Please bring your friends, parents, grandparents and kids to dress up,” reads another official tweet. “We love costumes and fun with the family.”
Krispy Kreme’s famous pirate-themed doughnuts are also not listed on the company’s online menu. They company is currently promoting its Pumpkin Spice Cake and Reeses Peanut Butter doughnuts.
Krispy Kreme did not immediately return International Business Times’ request for comment.
On past Talk Like a Pirate Day celebrations, Krispy Kreme would released a pirate-inspired doughnut. Photo: Justgrlmes/Flickr
So why did Krispy Kreme pull out of the promotion this year? According to the chain, it was because other events took precedent. The Desert Dispatch reported that Sarah Roof, a corporate communications coordinate for Krispy Kreme, said the company “will not be participating in Pirate Day this year” because the company had other events planned. 
Krispy Kreme has advised those upset about the lack of Pirate Day celebrations to enroll in their Krispy Kreme Rewards program to earn more doughnut freebies. Enrolling in the program, which customers can download for free on the App and Google Play store, allows them to earn points towards food and beverages with every purchase. “Loyalty has never been so sweet!” the app touts.
Advantages of the app include earning points towards free doughnuts and beverages, exclusive offers and benefits and a free gift on your birthday. The app also allows doughnuts lovers to be alerted when a location nearest to th em has just created fresh doughnuts.
To ease the pain of this year’s cancelled Talk Like a Pirate Day, those who enroll will be happy to know new customers can earn a free “welcome” Original Glazed doughnut when they sign up.
Krispy Kreme is currently running a Panthers promotion. When the North Carolina-based NFL team scores, “you score.” The promotion gives Krispy Kreme Rewards members points to use towards free doughnuts and coffee every time the team scores. The points will be loaded into reward member’s accounts 48 hours after game day.
Kripsy Kreme will not be participating in Talk Like a Pirate Day this year. A customer is pictured carrying a bag with Krispy Kreme donuts on May 9, 2016 as he leaves a Miami location.  Photo: Getty Images
How do you feel about Krispy Kreme canceling their Talk Like a Pirate Day this year? Sound off in the comments section below!


Nevada could become the first state in the U.S. to allow marijuana consumption in public indoor spaces such as lounges, according to a state legal body this week. The ruling could bolster the already thriving business and give smokers more options.
Nevada's Legislative Counsel Bureau on Monday permitted the use of legal marijuana in public areas only if the user is of legal age. State law does not forbid city or county governments from operating a lounge or club dedicated to marijuana use, the bureau said. Cities and counties are permitted to govern businesses and decide upon the use of special permits, according to the bureau.
The news sparked relief among marijuana users, who will be able to light up in public. Smoking marijuana is banned in Nevada’s casinos and hotels, according to state law. Nevada became the fifth state to legalize the plant on July 1, which allowed adults 21 and older to purchase it.  None of the four other states where marijuana is legal for recreational use — Washington, Colorado, Alaska, and Oregon — allowed smoking in lounges. 
Marijuana supporters welcomed the lounges and called it a logical next step for the state. Nevada is currently one of the most popular tourist distensions in the world with its gaming and conventions and is expected to attract more smokers.
"Allowing regulated social use areas is a good solution that recognizes cannabis consumers' rights to congregate just like alcohol drinkers can in bars while also protecting nonconsumers' rights not to inhale secondhand smoke," Tom Angell, the founder of Marijuana Majority, a pro-legalization group told The Hill. "It should be a no-brainer, especially in tourist towns like Las Vegas where visitors don't have private residences they can go back to imbibe."
Marijuana plants are grown at Essence Vegas' 54,000-square-foot marijuana cultivation facility on July 6, 2017, in Las Vegas, Nevada. Photo: Getty Images
However, marijuana naysayers suggested the growing number of lounges and places where the plant can be utilized, increased the chance of crime in the area.
"The people of Nevada wanted folks not to go to jail for using marijuana," Kevin Sabet, head of the anti-legalization group Smart Approaches to Marijuana, told The Hill. "I don’t think they envisioned pot clubs in their neighborhood."
"Data show that areas around marijuana stores have higher crime and issues with second-hand smoke and other nuisances. I can't imagine pot clubs will be a good thing for the state," Sabet said according to The Hill.
Anti-legalization supporters worried about the how carefully regulators would inspect the marijuana being used at the lounges, and what type of impact it would have on the neighborhood.
"Every major social problem is simply exacerbated when you have higher amounts of marijuana available," Carla Lowe, the founder, and co-chair of Citizens Against Legal Marijuana told CBS News. "What is going to be the impact on these people that are driving home and what’s going to be the impact on crime?"
State Sen. Tick Segerblom, D-Las Vegas, who championed marijuana legalization in the state, suggested that bars, lounges and bed and breakfasts could offer a safe place for adults to consume the plant. People already used it in public spaces, he argued.
"What they do is they go to a dispensary and go back to the casinos right now," he told CBS News. "To me, it’s better to openly do it than surreptitiously go back to the casinos."
Cities and counties will issue limited licenses to let businesses test the marijuana lounges "on an experimental basis," Segerblom said, according to CBS News, and stated it would be successful in Las Vegas.
Republican Gov. Brian Sandoval told the Record-Courier Tuesday he hadn't read the opinion yet, but doesn't regard it as the final say in the matter. Sandoval has expressed concern over whether such lounges could invite a federal crackdown in the state given that marijuana is still listed as an illegal, Schedule 1 drug by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency.
"An LCB opinion does not have precedential value," Sandoval told the Record-Courier, adding that he would prefer an official opinion from the state's Attorney General.


What was expected to be a four-hour flight turned into a nightmare for passengers flying from London to Athens on British Airways after the trip ultimately took up a staggering 33 hours instead, according to reports. The ordeal ultimately involved four separate planes, one of which had to be evacuated after an engine caught fire.
The incident began Tuesday, Sept. 5 as the initial flight was scheduled to leave Heathrow Airport around 1:15 p.m. local time, the  Evening Standard reported. Passengers were alerted the flight had been canceled due to a faulty cockpit warning light, and a second flight was later scheduled to depart at 5 p.m. — however that flight was later canceled, as well.
The airline told the Evening Standard that the second scheduled flight had to be canceled because its flight crew would have exceeded their permitted hours of work. The pilot reportedly called the announcement “the most embarrassing PA announcement I have had to make.” Additionally, passengers were unable to deboard for another hour, with the airline citing “security issues.”
The passengers were compensated with hotel vouchers for accommodations in London. It was unclear Friday how many of the same passengers returned for a third flight with the airline the following day.
Passengers who did return to the airport Wednesday were scheduled to depart around 1:40 p.m., but the trip was again foiled. Shortly after takeoff, witnesses reported hearing several loud bangs before the starboard engine caught on fire. Geoff Lye, a 67-year-old passenger on the plane who was traveling with his partner, recounted the madness to the Evening Standard.
“I’m an atheist but even I was praying,” said Lye, a business advisor. “Our hearts were racing. Passengers behind me said they could see flames kicking out from the engine.”
What was expected to be a four-hour flight turned into a nightmare for passengers flying from London to Athens on British Airways after the trip ultimately took up a staggering 33 hours instead. In this photo, British Airways aircraft take off from Heathrow Airport Terminal 5 on May 28, 2017 in London, England.  Photo: Photo by Jack Taylor/Getty Images
The flight’s captain reportedly told passengers that everything was “under control” but that the engine had to be shut down and the plane would be returning, yet again, to Heathrow Airport.
“We landed perfectly safely, accompanied by a fire engine,” Lye said. “At this point we were just delighted to be alive.”
Passengers were able to board a fourth plane around 7:40 p.m. Wednesday, and the plane touched down in Athens early Thursday morning.
“We fully appreciate how frustrating this experience has been, and have apologised to our customers for the long delay to their flight,” the  airline said in a statement to the Daily Mail. “We provided refreshments and hotel accommodation during this time, and the flight arrived in Athens on Wednesday night.”
While the incident was certainly an extraordinary culmination of unfortunate events for passengers who were significantly delayed by days, engine fires are rare but not unheard of. Earlier this month, a Delta Air Lines flight from Las Vegas to New York was forced to make an emergency landing after  one of its engine’s caught fire.
Tom Farrier, a retired U.S. Air Force command pilot, wrote about what occurs when a plane’s engine catches fire in a lengthy  post on Quora published last year.
“Engine fires rarely cause really serious trouble if they remain confined to the engine itself,” he wrote. “You shut off the fuel and use your fire extinguisher; the fire goes out; then, you land as soon as practical to make sure nothing else was damaged by the event. As long as nothing really dire caused the fire, it’ll get everybody’s heart rate up nicely but it usually can be quickly and safely resolved.”


Forever 21 was accused Thursday of allegedly stealing and selling the intellectual property designed by Word, a Los Angeles-based public relations agency. Word's founders, Zoila Darton and Angela Carrasco, intended to use the shirt's profits to aid Planned Parenthood (PPH). Twenty-five percent of the profits from each sale would go towards funding PPH.
The T-Shirt was first created in July. Word, however, discovered a design similar to its shirt on Forever 21's website Thursday. The public relation's agency took to Instagram to share a side-by-side post of its "Creator" T-shirt and the competing shirt sold by Forever 21. 
"We're not ones to point fingers but this looks mighty familiar. For the record, we created this shirt with a purpose. Too bad they removed the Swahili, Arabic, Hebrew & Japanese," Word wrote on Instagram Thursday. 
PLEASE SHARE: Hey @forever21, we're not ones to point fingers but this looks mighty familiar. For the record, we created this shirt with a purpose. Too bad they removed the Swahili, Arabic, Hebrew & Japanese ____ #CreatorShirt #Forever21 DONATE ALL THE MONEY TO @plannedparenthood
A post shared by WORD (@word.agency) on Sep 14, 2017 at 5:08pm PDT
 
The two shirts share some similarities, but there are also visible differences. Forever 21 removed some of the foreign translations of "woman," it used different font styles and rearranged the ordering of the words. 
"Forever 21 decided they liked the design we created at WORD to raise money for Planned Parenthood," Darton wrote on Facebook. "If you see this shirt in the windows of this shit store — do not purchase this cheap knockoff of an idea I created over a year ago and executed with my brilliant designer husband."

Word received thousands of orders on its graphic T-shirt following the controversy.  
A representative from Word and Forever 21 did not immediately respond to International Business Times' request for comment. 
This was not the first time Forever 21 came under fire for allegedly replicating and selling designs that aren't their own. Forever 21 suffered several copyright or trademark lawsuits over the years by either taking ideas from graphic designers or even other big-name retailers. However, the retailer has managed to depart several incidents unscathed. 
H&M sued Forever 21 in September 2015 for allegedly copying its "Beach Please" bag design. The lawsuit detailed that Forever 21 was guilty of copyright infringement over a bag H&M began selling in stores April 2014. H&M's lawsuit, which was handled in a New York federal court, claimed the design has gained "secondary meaning in that H&M is recognized as the original source of the tote bags," according to The Fashion Law.
Up-and-coming graphic designers face challenges when rising to success. However, this becomes much harder when their artistic property is stolen by major retailers. Sam Larson, a freelance graphic designer, allegedly had his designs ripped-off by Forever 21 in 2015. Larson, who claims to have his work stolen frequently, told BuzzFeed, "I put so much time and effort into my work to try to make it as freelance artist and then companies do this".
Forever 21 isn't the only well-known retailer to receive criticism for reportedly stealing designs. Urban Outfitters was accused by Soares, a designer who sells his work on various websites like Society 6, for using his designs in a mini-skirt in 2014, according to Huffington Post. Zara also came under fire for copyright infringement in 2016. Tuesday Bassen, a designer who has previously worked with Nike and Urban Outfitters, noticed several of her designs were being stolen and sold by Zara. 
Forever 21, pictured October 1, 2014, has come under fire for taking a design from a company who made the shirt to raise money for Planned Parenthood. Photo: Getty Images


Most people who have heard of blockchain technology unsurprisingly associate it with cryotocurrency—typically bitcoin or perhaps ether. While those and other cryptocurrencies utilize the blockchain, they are but one new product made possible by the blockchain. 
The components of the blockchain—distributed consensus protocols, cryptography, and economic incentives based on game theory—are not new; rather, the blockchain combines them in novel fashion in the form of a shared ledger that allows consensus to be built and maintained on a distributed, decentralized basis by parties with no inherent reason to trust one another. 
The potential for this new technology is immense. 
Many believe that the blockchain will drive profound change in such diverse fields as artificial intelligence, autonomous vehicles, identity, governance, and land transfer, to name just a few.  Since its inception in 2009, the blockchain has been the basis for many proofs of concept, each advancing a solution—some grounded in present-day possibility, some more in the realm of science fiction—for a “problem”—some real, some postulated.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
Perhaps surprisingly, one of the more tangible implementations for the blockchain has been advanced by the State of Delaware, which in 2016 launched the Delaware Blockchain Initiative to explore how the blockchain might qualitatively improve its suite of corporate services offerings. This initiative, headed by Andrea Tinianow, has teamed up with one of the leading blockchain technology platforms, Symbiont, as part of its efforts. Together they have pioneered several services on the blockchain, including issuing and trading corporate securities and the automating various aspects of Uniform Commercial Code filing and monitoring.
A small state with big ideas, Delaware is home to nearly two-thirds of the Fortune 500 companies and has long prided itself as being the domicile of choice for businesses in the United States. It has even earned the nickname as “the corporate capital of the world,” a status that has been well-earned. Supporting its corporate infrastructure, the Delaware legal system is at the forefront of legal issues impacting complex business transactions, and its judiciary is home to leading experts in such issues. The Secretary of State’s Office also plays a big part in Delaware’s success, constantly improving the user experience and maintaining foresight to ensure that the State’s offerings and systems are always on the leading edge of customer demand. 
The Delaware Blockchain Initiative is just the latest result of these unique factors. In late July, Delaware Gov. John Carney, Jr. signed a bill into law making it legal for companies to use the blockchain to issue securities and maintain corporate records. 
What does that mean to you?  When can we expect implementation?
We recently hosted a Delaware Fireside Chat in New York City which was attended by Delaware Secretary of State Jeffrey Bullock and Director of Corporations Kristopher Knight assembled together with some 60 industry stakeholders — bankers, attorneys, technologists, and even some representatives of foreign governments. The discussion was lively and clearly there's an appetite for Delaware advancing the initiative based on the audience participation. 
On Delaware’s part, we detected no small measure of caution about moving forward, with references to concern regarding the interests of Delaware’s citizens and constituency. 
No doubt, any agents of disruption will be met with legacy naysayers who enjoy the status quo…but at what cost? 
That is the difficult question and environment government officials must try to answer and navigate.  Ultimately the delegation’s response left many somewhat perplexed, as it seemed to indicate the pace of advancement would slow.
Adopters are awaiting the ability to access and utilize various services.
We have penned an “Open Letter to Delaware” in which we give a more organized voice to industry enthusiasm for this initiative and provide some specific suggestions as to how the State of Delaware’s leadership in this space will result in innumerable benefits in corporate management and governance.  
Indeed, an entire suite of services—well beyond the digitization of ownership interests—could be provided to business entities of all types and sizes.  For example, these services could include a blockchain-based ledger for the storage and registry of corporate documentation such as operating agreements and board records to enhance and support entity-level recordkeeping.
Additionally, corporate voting could be implemented swiftly and efficiently using a blockchain-based system which could fundamentally change the way in which shareholders participate in the governance of their companies.
Ultimately the transformation of corporate services by the State of Delaware to one powered by the blockhain has the potential to be a watershed moment in the history of corporate formation, practice, management, and governance in the United States.
Much like the internet did before it, the advancement of the blockchain in this area is likely to generate additional value-added opportunities that at present we cannot envision. We believe the demand of companies big and small alike to move into a new century of corporate practices is quite high, as the benefits of the efficiency and immutability of distributed ledger technology with no single point of failure is extremely attractive. 
The world is watching and waiting.
_____________________
by Chuck Thompson and Gary Miller of Blockchain Consulting LLC,  a group of financial services professionals bridging the gap between technology and real-world use cases for distributed ledgers. 
 
 


As Bernie Sanders worked to finalize his Medicare-for-All Act of 2017, corporate lobbyists representing the traditional opponents of single-payer health care — including the nation’s major private insurers and drug companies — poured hundreds of thousands of dollars into Senate Democrats’ fundraising accounts. Now, many of those lawmakers have refused to sign on to the Medicare bill.
Sanders has faced questions about whether or not the bill would garner solid support among Senate Democrats. So far,  16 Senate Democrats have said they will sponsor the legislation — which the insurance industry slammed after he announced it. A  new study from campaign finance watchdog group MapLight found that since 2010, Democratic senators who have refused to sponsor the bill have, during their careers, raised twice as much insurance industry cash as those who support the legislation.
As Republicans took over the White House earlier this year, significant campaign funding for Democratic senators has continued to come from lobbyists. According to federal campaign finance records reviewed by International Business Times, lobbyists, lobbying firms and one other corporate political action committee collectively delivered nearly $2 million in bundled campaign contributions to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee during the first half of 2017. Sen. Chris Van Hollen, the DSCC’s chairman, was a  proponent of the law that requires lobbyists to disclose the contributions they bundle together from donors.
With Sanders and a  majority of House Democrats supporting single-payer — and with  polls showing rising support for a Medicare-for-all system — lobbyists for major health care industry clients were among the biggest donors to Democrats in the Senate, as they have been in years past. Among those who delivered the most cash to the DSCC in the first half of 2017 were:
- Steve Elmendorf, the former top aide to then-House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt. He delivered $130,400 to the DSCC while representing insurance giant  UnitedHealth Group Inc. and dialysis conglomerate  DaVita Inc.
- Jonathon Jones, the former chief of staff for Sen. Tom Carper, a Finance Committee member has not signed onto the single-payer initiative. He delivered $97,000 to the DSCC while representing insurers  Anthem Inc. and the  Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, as well as the trade group  Pharmaceutical Research Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) and drugmakers  Amgen Inc.,  Astellas Pharma Inc.,  AstraZeneca,  Merck & Co. Inc.,  Novartis,  Genentech Inc. and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals.
- Lisa Kontoupes, a former aide to  President Bill Clinton and staffer for Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. She delivered $77,500 to the DSCC while representing drugmakers  Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc. and  Teva Pharmaceuticals Inc..
- David Castagnetti, the former top aide to Montana Sen. Max Baucus, who was accused of blocking a debate over single-payer during the Affordable Care Act deliberations. Castagnetti delivered $64,000 to the DSCC while representing insurers  Humana Inc.,  Blue Cross Blue Shield of Arizona and the parent company of  Oscar Health Insurance.
- Jeff Forbes, the former staff director for Democrats on the Senate Finance Committee, which oversees the nation’s healthcare system. He delivered $20,000 to the DSCC while representing the drug industry’s trade association,  PhRMA, as well as individual drug companies  Abbott Laboratories,  Amgen and  Genentech.
The principals of major lobbying firms also gave big to Senate Democrats. Tony Podesta, the namesake of the Podesta Group and a top Hillary Clinton bundler, gave $202,476 to the DSCC while representing the  American Healthcare Association and  Mylan — the controversial maker of the Epipen. Heather Podesta of Podesta + Partners delivered $226,400 to the DSCC while representing  Baxter Healthcare and insurer  Cigna.
Meanwhile, two lobbying firms’ corporate political action committees gave directly to the DSCC. Brownstein Hyatt Farber’s PAC, for instance, bundled $307,000 for the DSCC while the firm represents  Anthem, the  Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association and drugmaker  Abbvie. Holland & Knight’s Committee For Effective Government bundled $104,650 for the DSCC while representing  BlueCross Blue Shield of Minnesota.


Update: Thursday, Sept. 14 at 4:08 p.m. EDT —  The original story now includes responses from both airline carriers. 
Original Story:
Basic economy passengers on American and United Airlines should measure their carry-on luggage carefully. If it’s too big to fit under the seat, passengers may be hit with service fees of $50 or more.
Most basic economy seats do not come with the option of having a bag in the overhead compartment. If a passenger doesn’t realize this rule or tries to get around it, they could wind up paying more in fees than they saved by getting the cheaper ticket. Carry-ons too large to fit under the seat are subject to the standard bag checking fee of $25 and then on top of that hit with a $25 fee if they wait to check the bag at that gate instead of the desk. Both companies rolled out the fees early this year. 
American calls their charge a gate-service fee, while United calls theirs a gate-handling charge. American and United don’t entitle their basic economy passengers to the typical two carry-on bag allotment of one overhead and one underneath bag. Delta, on the other hand, does.
Fees could go even higher if the unplanned bag is the second bag checked. United charges $35 for the second checked bag.
American Airlines spokesman Josh Freed told International Business Times over the phone that the fee is made clear through the process and that passengers can go back and check their bags at the desk if time allows to avoid the gate charge fee. 
“We do everything we can to make sure customers do not reach the gate with a bag that needs to be gate-checked,” United spokeswoman Maggie Schmerin told the Wall Street Journal Wednesday.
Both companies told IBT that the bag policy is made clear when passengers purchase the tickets. 
United has said that the practice of not giving basic economy passengers overhead bin space streamlines departures because gate agents aren’t tagging and checking as many bags.
American’s reasoning for the additional fee is to ensure passengers check the bag before it gets to the gate.
Fees and charges are now a very integral part of air travel. Many major airlines started using baggage fees in 2008. Domestic flight change fees are now typically $200.
Last year, U.S. air carriers earned $4.2 billion in baggage fees and $2.9 billion in ticket change and cancellation fees, according to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics. That over $7 billion represents more than half of airlines profits in 2016.
Airlines charge fees for a variety of other services, including pets, unaccompanied minors and booking flights over the phone or in person. Coach passengers also face ever-shrinking seats. 


Ahead of Equifax Inc.’s announcement that it suffered “a cybersecurity incident potentially impacting approximately 143 million U.S. consumers,” as a Sept. 7  press release from the consumer credit reporting firm stated, it was well aware of the risks of a hack, and of the danger that it may not have had “adequate” insurance to cover associated losses.
In spite of efforts to stave off the risk of a breach, “our information technology networks and infrastructure or those of our third-party vendors and other service providers could be vulnerable to damage, disruptions, shutdowns, or breaches of confidential information due to criminal conduct, denial of service or other advanced persistent attacks by hackers,” the company stated in the “risk factors” section of its most recent annual  filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, dated Feb. 22. “Unauthorized access to data files or our information technology systems and applications could result in inappropriate use, change or disclosure of sensitive and/or personal data of our customers, employees, consumers and suppliers.”
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security Event in San Francisco, Sept. 26-27. Photo: Newsweek Media Group
The company also expressed concerns that its “property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur” in the event that “such access, disclosure or other loss of information could subject us to litigation, regulatory fines, penalties or reputational damage, any of which could have a material effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations.”
Equifax held an insurance policy covering between $100 million and $150 million around the time of the news of the hack, but will likely have to fork over multiple times that amount in related penalties, Bloomberg  reported last week, citing “people familiar with the coverage.” The firm may face fines from the federal government on multiple fronts. The Federal Trade Commission, for example, confirmed Thursday that it was conducting an investigation of the breach, and lawmakers from both parties have urged the SEC and Justice Department to look into a possible case of insider trading by Equifax’s executives, three of whom shed $1.8 million in shares in the company just days after the discovery of the hack.
In a more recent  filing for the second quarter, dated July 27, the firm said its risk factors had not changed from those listed in the annual report, in which the company also had said it was “not aware of any material breach of our data, properties, networks or systems.” The Sept. 7 press release stated that Equifax became aware of the hack on July 29, two days after the company filed its quarterly report. 
An Equifax spokesperson did not immediately respond to requests to comment on the firm's risk assessments and the timeline of its awareness of the data breach. 


This summer a federal court ordered the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to look into shrinking seat sizes in coach on airline carriers and determine its effect on passenger safety. In the court case a judge called the situation “a plausible life-and-death safety concern.” 
Safety testing for the airlines is outdated and that no airline has coach seats with enough space to meet the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) guidelines for flight attendant safety, a new investigative report by the Daily Beast Wednesday discovered. 
Flyers Rights, an advocacy group for airline passengers brought the suit against the FAA. The group said that the smaller seat space can lead to longer evacuation times. The space between rows has shrunk from 35 inches to between 28 and 31 inches, according to CBS News.
“The biggest concern is that you won’t be able to get out in time before you’re overcome by smoke or fire,” said Paul Hudson, president of Flyers Rights in a Wednesday interview with CBS News. “You won't be able to get into the brace position which means your head will hit the seat in front of you and break your skull.”
The FAA requires that airplane, regardless of size, be able to be evacuated in 90 seconds or less with at least half of the exits blocked. A critique of these tests is that they are done in a hangar and often not in emergency landing conditions.
A 2015 Delta flight that veered off of a snowy at La Guardia Airport in New York City, for example, took 17 minutes to deplane.
Besides limiting egress, another concern of tight airplane seats is the risk of head trauma in the event of a crash or hard landing.
Seat pitch size refers the axis of space a passenger has from the bottom of their seat. If a passenger were to lean forward either to crouch or by forced impact, the pitch is how much space they have in relation to the seat in from of them. The DOT requires at least 35 inches for flight attendants, but no airline offers any more than 32 inches for passengers.
The FAA has until December 28th to respond to the court’s ruling.


Bitcoin and blockchain media group CoinDesk has released its latest The State of Blockchain Report, which reveals digital assets are nearly twenty times more lucrative than property, gold and stocks combined.
The report reveals year-over-year returns on global real estate (3.2 percent), gold (7.7 percent), U.S. equities (9.2 percent), and global equities (14.7 percent) pale in comparison to returns on bitcoin (150.6 percent) and all digital assets (445 percent).
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
The 115-page report contains a breakdown of the historic surge in cryptocurrency across April, May, and June, including statistics on transaction numbers, fees, ICOs, token value propositions, enterprise adoption, research and development, regulation and industry challenges.
CoinDesk Director of Research Nolan Bauerle said: "This quarter's State of Blockchain Report is remarkably eye-opening. Blockchain and digital assets are already solving real-world problems in business, government, technology and finance, and the impact on markets has been extraordinary. At the end of Q1, the total cryptocurrency market cap was valued at $23 billion. Largely due to ICOs, the total market cap for digital assets hit $109 billion by the end of Q2."
While JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon recently called bitcoin "a fraud" and likened it to the Dutch tulip craze, the report told a different story. "The State of the Blockchain report dispels common myths and uncertainty surrounding blockchain through facts and exhaustive research from the top analysts in the space," said CoinDesk CEO Kevin Worth. "The statistics in the Q2 report speak for themselves; enterprise and institutions are taking this asset class seriously and investor confidence is climbing exponentially. In Q2 alone, blockchain token sales raised a combined $797 million, three times that of venture capital's $235 million investment in blockchain companies," Worth said.
In addition, the report shows records being smashed right, left and center: Q2 2017 saw the largest amount of combined blockchain transactions ever, at over half a million per day, while bitcoin's total market capitalization doubled. Global digital asset exchanges reported record trading volumes during the quarter, and returns for several ICO tokens since inception were historic, including Augur (4,583 percent returns), Golem (4,700 percent), ICONOMI (2,862 percent), Melonport (1,136 percent), First Blood (2,667 percent), Digix (2,393 percent) and SingularDTV (1,033 percent).
However, Q2 also saw some industry challenges. Due to Bitcoin's heavily publicized network congestion issues, transaction fees quadrupled from 62 cents in Q1 to $2.40 in Q2, while Ethereum's transaction fees rose by 918 percent within the same period. Further, in a blockchain sentiment survey, over 72 percent of the sample audience indicated bitcoin mining is too centralized, while 95 percent indicated ICO issuers should not convert funds raised into fiat currency.
"There will always be growing pains in an industry that added a billion dollars a day in value across Q2. Solutions are being worked on for blockchain backlogs, transaction capacities and reducing fees. The technology is advancing quickly and we are confident the industry will continue to boom. Regulation appears to be clearing up in Europe and Asia, while new guidelines are being instituted within the United States," said Bauerle.
In response to the unprecedented rise of cryptocurrency in Q2,  CoinDesk is launching Consensus: Invest, an event tailored to the growing number of wealth managers interested in cryptocurrency.


R3 has hosted its first CordaCon event in London, just before the release of Corda version 1.0 at the end of this month.
Introducing the event, R3 lead engineer Richard Gendal Brown said Corda 1.0 is an important mark in the sand for the banking consortium, providing API stability for a growing army of developers. He also announced the expected release of the first enterprise version at the end of the year, which will feature things like Intel SGX, enhanced DLT performance and greater disaster recovery capabilities.
Privacy was going to be a governing theme for the day: lead platform engineer Mike Hearn had arranged a compare and contrast between SGX and zero knowledge proofs, while Intel and Microsoft were on hand to talk in detail about architecture. There was also going to be a discussion with demo around cash, and specifically the challenge of multiparty netting on distributed ledgers.
Simon Johnson, Intel's SGX program architect, began by looking at trusted execution environments in some detail. SGX changes the memory architecture of computers, he said, leveraging an "Enclave Page Cache Map" (EPCM), a protected structure used by the processor to track the contents of the EPC.
Mike Hearn clarified that developers building apps for Corda would not have to delve into the fineries of SGX; R3's engineering team have gone to some lengths to implement the JVM inside the enclave. "So you don't have to do anything. This is what we are shielding you from," said Hearn.
R3's relationship with Microsoft has always been strong and is now deepening, said Marley Gray, principal architect, Azure Blockchain Engineering, Microsoft. Ethereum remains by far the most popular thing people want to spin up on Azure, something of a rite of passage. "We also have to support Fabric," added Gray, "and we see a lot of things like hackthons happening. But for PoCs it's a no-brainer. You will see a lot more R3/Azure templates going forward."
Gray explained Microsoft's middleware approach vis-à-vis underlying blockchains and also said the roadmap for shipping the oracles or cryplets that connect to smart contracts was this calendar year.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
As well as useful side offerings like like identity and key management, Gray touched on the intriguing idea of blockchain data lakes, in conjunction with machine learning and AI. Referring to public chains more than enterprise, he said: "With the data visibility you get with Ethereum and Bitcoin, who knows what we are going to learn? This is going to be big – we just don't know how big."
Mike Hearn began his talk, "Decrypting the future of privacy with ZKP, SGX" stating that what distributed ledgers are trying to do is a paradox; you want to show but you don't want to tell.
Zero knowledge proofs, where the proofs themselves are visible to everybody but what's being proved is invisible, have a downside in terms of their computational burden. Hearn pointed out that current DLT deployments only work for crypto-assets, such as Z-cash, so smart contracts are out for the time being.
He also flagged up the complexity of attempting to express business logic in terms of equations. "Good luck with this," he said, showing the room a code sample.
Research into this area of cryptography is moving in a risky direction, warned Hearn, as proofs based on new assumptions are pushed along much faster than the usual 10-20 year period of mathematical pondering.
"Zero knowledge proofs were immediately branded 'moon math' for a reason. It's not usual for me to ask that people innovate less fast, but there have been mistakes in the mathematics. I do want to see this succeed because it will make society better," he said.
Drilling down, R3 engineer Konstantinos Chalkias said the discovery of succinct signature size of 288 bytes changed everything in the ZKP world. However, these and other forms of cryptography will not survive the "quantum apocalypse".
"Shor's algorithm can break existing cryptography with less than 2000 qubits. This is a problem for public blockchains," said Chalkias.
He pointed out that the expected risk of RSA and elliptic curve cryptography being broken is 15% by 2026, which jumps to 50% by 2031.
"Corda supports the SPHINCS algorithm so we are prepared for the quantum apocalypse," he said.
CordaCon 2017 in London comes just weeks before release of Corda 1.0. Photo: cubit
A mere handful of people working at banks have actually thought about how to do multiparty netting on distributed ledgers. As well as trade-offs between settlement frequency and settlement efficiency, there's a question of whether efficient netting can be done in a completely decentralised manner.
Some experts believe you have to temporarily centralise an aspect of the algorithm in order to perform the equivalent of a batch exercise, for example, which entails passing control to a trusted entity for a short while – a broadly-trusted node on the distributed ledger or a trusted oracle.
R3 deals with financial use cases using a concept of flows, which don't just change the state of the ledger, but also chart the complex dance between parties that leads up to that point.
Corda models cash as IOUs against banks, and it's these obligations which are being settled. Achieving atomicity with payments of cash and netted obligations began by setting out certain requirements, said Dave Hudson, director, Solutions Architecture at R3.
For instance, participation in the netting cycle would be optional; everybody gets to choose how much cash they want to put in the netting solution. It also needed to be fast, and you can't "stop the world", the system has to keep running and never end up incomplete.
Hudson said: "We use flows; lots of flows. From a high level, it can be broken down into a detect phase and an execute phase.
"Any node can start a scan; talk to neighbours it has obligations with, payments they would like to go in the netting cycle (we use pseudonyms)."
All the information about the different payments to be settled is computed. All participants must agree and their signatures gathered for this to work; if not, the flow will fail and nothing will happen.
"Corda's flows framework and consensus mechanism do this single transaction. Corda flows are powerful building blocks. This isn't really a finance problem, it's a network problem," said Hudson.
He gave a demo of a netting transaction, adding that the whole thing involved a relatively small amount of code, under 1,000 lines.
"It's complex and compact and avoids using a single trusted node which would be a single point of failure."


In 2016, GOP Rep. Brian Babin didn’t even have a Democratic challenger in Texas’ 36th Congressional District. He beat a Green Party candidate with close to 90 percent of the vote in the general election. The 36th is considered a “safe” Republican district by the Cook Political Report, but this time, two Democrats are running in their party’s primary — and in the wake of Hurricane Harvey flooding, they see a chance to win.
Harvey wreaked havoc on southeast Texas, putting some communities under more than 50 inches of water. The Houston area and nearby Gulf Coast region is home to numerous oil refineries and chemical plants, many of which have emitted  benzene plumes and other toxic chemicals into the air because of shutdowns and explosions due to flooding. One plant in Babin’s district, owned by French chemical manufacturing company Arkema, suffered numerous explosions on August 31 and the days after, releasing dangerous airborne toxins that sent police and first responders to the hospital.
Arkema  successfully lobbied against key chemical safety provisions with the help of elected officials including Babin and nine other Texan members of Congress, as  International Business Times reported. Babin co-sponsored a House  bill to strike down these safety regulations, which were written under former President Obama and set to take effect in March. Environmental Protection Agency Director Scott Pruitt has delayed the rules’ implementation twice this year, and they won’t apply until February 2019, if at all.
Babin’s office did not return requests for comment.
Candidates Support Praise Benefits Of Regulation
Geologist Jon Powell and fellow Democratic candidate Dayna Steele, a well known former rock radio host, plan to use Babin’s role in opposing the chemical safety standards against him. Steele told IBT that she “absolutely” supports instating the chemical safety rules that Babin and Arkema successfully delayed.
“Everyone frames [chemical safety rules] as, ‘Ooh it’s a scary regulation.’ Regulations are protections put in place to protect people,” said Steele, who worked as a crisis communications consultant for some chemical plants in the area. “People can now see what we’ve been trying to say all along… It appears that a lot of the regulations maybe could have prevented [the Arkema explosions] from happening.”
These regulations have other benefits, too, Powell said. “The term regulation always seems to have ‘job-killing’ in front of it. But it’s quite the opposite: they’re job-creating regulations… The truth of it is, when companies have to install environmental protection they have to purchase it, install it, maintain it and audit it. It all creates jobs.”
The cost of refining crude oil into gasoline is about 16 percent of the total cost of standard gasoline, said Powell. Only a fraction of that amount — around 5 cents per gallon — goes towards environmental protection, he said.
But Arkema, the American Chemical Council lobbying group and many other chemical and oil companies have come out against increased safety measures at their plants. Powell speculated about the source of the opposition in a September 7  op-ed in the Texas Tribune.
“A basic function of government is to protect us. Ask yourself if laws and regulations that were in place before Harvey struck made the situation better or worse. Who advocated for those bad policies? Was it the people who have a financial incentive to not spend the necessary funds for protection and their bought-and-paid-for lawmakers?”
An oil tank damaged by Hurricane Harvey is seen near Seadrift, Texas, August 26, 2017. Photo: REUTERS/Rick Wilking
Steele decided to run for office after the 2016 elections, feeling “stunned each and every day on everything from health care to education to relaxed regulations to DACA.”
“Global warming — let’s call it what it is. Climate change is very real…Science is fact. I don’t care if you don’t like it,” said Steele, who is married to a rocket scientist.
Powell, too, is focusing on Babin’s environmental record. “Babin has voted against this so-called [Waters of the United States] regulation that…regulates contamination of runoff from privately owned lands,” said Powell. “But chemicals are in the water…and they don’t understand property boundaries.
“When plants not required to operate safely they push cost of consequences of their unsafe choices onto the taxpayer,” said Powell. “Babin and his cohorts either don’t realize that or they’ve been bought by the lobbying and campaign contributions.”
Fossil Fuel Funds In Politics
The oil and gas industry has been kind to Babin, having donated nearly  $115,000 to his federal campaigns since 2014, his first Congressional race. In just the 2016 election cycle, he received over $40,000 from the political action committees of oil and gas companies including Koch Industries, Exxon Mobil, Halliburton and Valero Energy. Arkema, the owner of the exploding chemical plant in his district, gave Babin  $3,000 over the 2014 and 2016 election cycles.
In 2018, Democrats are looking to take advantage of an unpopular president, a chaotic White House and a GOP-led Congress that has failed to pass any significant legislation.  23 congressional districts held by Republicans went for Hillary Clinton in the 2016 general for president. But Democrats are split on how to win back the House:  Centrist super PACs have appeared, supporting a “big tent” party and looking to elect conservative Democrats in areas that usually vote GOP, while progressive organizations such as Our Revolution and Justice Democrats are backing leftist candidates. Meanwhile, Democratic senators are lining up behind Bernie Sanders’ Medicare-for-all bill, which he plans to introduce on Wednesday.
In a flood-damaged district, though, local issues are paramount, Powell has said.
“I’m hoping that people will see that Babin has brought nothing to the district,” Powell said. “People don’t really care about who goes to what bathroom or spending a bunch of money on a wall on the Mexican border.”
“With floodwaters still flowing in parts of Texas, and Hurricane Irma eyeing the U.S. mainland, the current political talk is about tax cuts for the wealthy or the residency status of nearly 800,000 children and young adults,”  wrote Powell on September 7. “Lowering the taxes on the highest earners does nothing to solve the problems so many people face in Southeast Texas.”


New York Fashion Week (NYFW) has become a major business venture — a chance for designers to demonstrate their creative visions and a vital money-making opportunity, too.
NYFW emerged in 1943 as Press Week by way of legendary fashion publicist Eleanor Lambert, creator of the International Best-Dressed List. International Management Group (IMG) now serves as NYFW's official organizer. IMG operates the showcase: securing venues, acquiring sponsors and providing full production services to brands, among other duties. However, every intricate detail from preparation, model castings and the runway shows themselves are executed by the brands.
"It is the perfect combination of art and commerce," James LaForce, CEO of LaForce PR, told International Business Times. "Some things make perfect sense and follow a playbook. Other things are a complete surprise and come out of nowhere. It's what makes it so fun."
Any designer that wants to partake in NYFW can do so. The challenge is to secure CFDA recognition on the official NYFW calendar. Brands typically apply at least two months in advance to secure a featured calendar listing.
"The various NYFW organizing bodies try to accommodate every designer's request. That said, there are only so many hours in the day," LaForce said. "If every designer had their choice, they would show late morning or in the middle of the afternoon on a weekday. That means everyone is competing for the same time slot."
"The major brands that have been showing for many seasons and years tend to get priority on the calendar," Jane Lerman, the CEO and Founder of L.E.R. Public Relations, told IBT. "Newer brands are usually slotted in around these established brands to ensure there are no conflicts for the top tier buyers and press who attend the majority of the shows."
Putting on a successful show can be costly for brands, especially those that are working with a smaller budget. The most basic show costs anywhere from $150,000 to $200,000, but the budget can increase for big-name brands with extra cushion to play with.
In @JonathanSimkhai's show notes, the designer shared his goal to capture "the ease & effortlessness women require to feel beautiful." #NYFW pic.twitter.com/72NOPqYnDM
— NYFW (@nyfw) September 9, 2017
"Some brands, like the major fashion houses with very large marketing budgets, can spend several hundred thousand dollars, sometimes nearing or going over the $1 million mark," Lerman said. "The budget is really determined by the venue and the type of models booked for the show."
New York City reaps the benefits of NYFW. State Senator Brad Hoylman said NYFW adds nearly $900 million to the city's economy, according to a 2015 press release. The event may reel in tourists worldwide, but where the show is presented can also benefit local businesses. 
"The business model now in New York is that more shows are showing in unique off-site venues and that makes the entire city the 'official' fashion week venue,'" Lerman said. "Designers today can choose to do presentations at hotels, at photo studios, in privately owned lofts, on rooftops, in restaurants, and even in parks. So what ends up happening is that all of NYC benefits business-wise from NYFW."
Lerman added, "The week brings in a ton of travelers from all over the world, making it a great time for hotels, local shops and restaurants, cab drivers, and beyond. It also brings a great deal of PR and social media exposure to various places in the city, making people far and wide excited about New York."
Tadashi Shoji, who has been in the business for 35 years, told IBT, "I'm a businessman, so I have to think about money, budget and stuff like that — we are not a billion dollar company." Shoji's Spring/Summer 2018 line incorporates the beach and blue sky to create a Southern California vibe. "This is advertisement and promotion, and we have to show it to the media and buyers… Then, how much is budget? How much is exposure? Those kinds of stuff, if you don't figure it out, I don't think you can continue this kind of business."
Shoji said the key to success in the fashion industry is determining a clear path for the brand.
"You have to think about what kind of direction you're going to go," Shoji said. "If you do it too expensive, then it's not accessible to everybody. If it's too commercial, then it's going to be boring."
It's also important to see what's going on around you — and move quickly. "You can feel something is coming; you have to catch it," Shoji said. "If you don't catch it, you’ll have [a] problem."
Thanks to all our supporters for an amazing show today! Here's to a great rest of the week for all the designers. @nyfw #nyfw2017 #TadashiShoji #TadashiShojiSS18
A post shared by Tadashi Shoji (@tadashishoji) on Sep 7, 2017 at 10:42pm PDT
 
"I've been in China doing different shows; Paris and Korea as well. New York Fashion Week is the most commercialized and it's the most known for fashion," designer Jia Liu, whose latest parent-child collection uses travel as its inspiration, told IBT. "It means a lot to come over and show what I have. I've learned quite a lot."
Liu didn't want to talk about the budget for her show. The Beijing native, who believes fashion is "like artwork and commercial," told IBT: "I spend most of my energy, labor, time [on the show]…this is more important than the money." 
Fashion Week is a key time for models as well as designers. 
"A model can book anywhere from no shows to more than 20 during New York Fashion Week," a representative from The Society Management, the agency that represents Kendall Jenner, told IBT. "Though it seems like they are only on each runway for a few minutes, what is typically not seen is how many additional hours might be involved for the fitting, hair and makeup, and countless other appointments in between each show."
Tom Ford pic.twitter.com/QBZvotYwOa
— Kendall (@KendallJenner) September 7, 2017
Models attend several castings throughout Manhattan a few days before NYFW starts. Casting appointments can extend into the early days of NYFW, too. Models will not only meet with casting directors but also stylists and designers.
"After a detailed selection process by the brand's team, the chosen models for the show are scheduled for fittings, where each look in the collection is tailored to its correlating model, and soon after the clothes will be presented on the runway," The Society Management added.
For models selected to walk the catwalk, the payout isn’t all it’s cracked up to be. Unless the model is a household name like Giselle Bündchen or Kendall Jenner, the payment could be minuscule. Models are often paid in designer clothing, but the average paycheck is $48,130 for the week.
The highest paid models earned a combined total of $154 million last year, according to Forbes. Bündchen was the highest supermodel at $30.5 million, followed by  Adriana Lima at $10.5 million and Jenner earning $10 million, respectively.
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson
Gigi Hadid, pictured September 10, 2017, walks the runway for Prabal Gurung during New York Fashion Week. Photo: Getty Images


The ultra-wealthy are ultra-wealthier than they may appear — at least, to their respective tax authorities. That’s because, perhaps unsurprisingly, those who exploit offshore tax shelters are not likely members of the average household, but rather those in the top one percent of the one percent of income distribution, a trend that’s increasingly concealed the severity of wealth-inequality over the past several decades, according to two studies published this week.
Using leaked information — namely, the  Panama Papers and  files from the British bank HSBC — about overseas tax havens and the individuals who exploited them, researchers from the University of California, Berkeley, the Norwegian University of Life Sciences and the University of Copenhagen  found that “top 0.01 percent households are much more likely to hide assets abroad than households in the bottom of the top 1 percent.” More specifically, a household with a net worth of between $10 million and $12 million is twice as likely as one with between $5 million and $6 million to hide its wealth abroad. Increase those household assets from the latter range to about $45 million, and the likelihood of offshore tax sheltering also rises. by a multiple of four.    In their study "Tax Evasion and Inequality," researchers in the U.S. and Scandinavia found that the percent of an individual's wealth that's hidden overseas increases markedly as their wealth increases. Photo: Gabriel Zucman, Annette Alstadsæter and Niels Johannesen - "Tax Evasion and Inequality"
“Offshore wealth is very concentrated at the top,” said Annette Alstadsæter, a professor at the Norwegian University of Life Sciences and one of the three authors of the two studies. She called the results “striking,” and emphasized the importance of using new information on tax sheltering to craft effective public policy, as, thanks to such leaks as the Panama Papers, “one can hope that there isn’t much of a safe harbor for offshore tax evasion anymore.”
The reason for the concentration of the hidden wealth among the super-rich may have more to do with a supply of specialists who can help them hide their wealth in places like Switzerland and the Cayman Islands, rather than demand for such services. As the authors point out, “taxpayers with more than $50 million in wealth face the same marginal tax rates as those with $5 million, are more likely to be (non-randomly) audited and yet seem to evade much more.” But because banks that offer tax avoidance services are more likely to be caught when they offer those services to a larger swath of clients, the researchers suggest, “it is optimal for banks to only supply tax evasion services to the super-rich.”
The gap between the total wealth held by the top earners and the assets they disclosed domestically has widened substantially over the past several decades, the study also noted. In Norway, for example, the difference between the assets that the top 0.01 percent disclosed and those individuals’ true total assets, both hidden and disclosed, as a share of the country’s total wealth grew to nearly 1.5 percent in 2010 from roughly three-quarters of a percent in 1970 and an almost negligible amount in 1930. 
In Norway, the gap between what the ultra-rich disclose and their total wealth has widened over the past several decades, rendering traditional measures of inequality somewhat misleading.  Photo: Gabriel Zucman, Annette Alstadsæter and Niels Johannesen - "Tax Evasion and Inequality"
The authors’ estimates may even skew conservative, as the paper examined only Scandinavian countries, which, they wrote, citing earlier research, “consistently rank among the countries with the highest social trust, lowest corruption and strongest respect for the rule of law.” Tax evasion among the highest earners, they concluded, “may be even higher elsewhere.”
In a second  study, also published this week, they sought to add some certainty to that presumption, calculating what they described as the first “country-by-country estimates of offshore wealth” and measuring the effects of foreign tax sheltering on inequality. The impact was most acute in Russia, where the top 0.01 percent held more wealth offshore than they did domestically. Similarly, in some of Europe’s economic powerhouses, such as the U.K. and France, between 30 and 40 percent of the wealth owned by the 99.99th percentile is sheltered overseas. In the United States, however, the authors noticed a different, but no less striking, situation: “In the United States, offshore wealth also increases inequality,” the wrote, “but the effect is more muted than in Europe, because U.S. top wealth shares are already very high even disregarding tax havens.”
The sheer amount of wealth hidden overseas has drastically distorted the appearance of income inequality in many developed countries, such as Russia, according to the newly published study, "Who Owns Wealth In Tax Havens? Macro Evidence and Implications for Global Inequality." In the U.S., however, not so much.  Photo: Gabriel Zucman, Annette Alstadsæter and Niels Johannesen - "Who Owns Wealth In Tax Havens? Macro Evidence and Implications for Global Inequality"
As in Scandinavia, the amount of wealth held overseas by the highest earners in other developed countries, such as France and the U.K., grew significantly over time, likely resulting in a somewhat rosier picture of wealth inequality than the reality. And, once again mirroring the team’s findings in Scandinavia, those totals could be grossly understated, Alstadsæter noted.
“Since we only include financial assets and not real assets such as art, gold, and yachts, true offshore wealth can be expected to be even higher than our estimates," she said.
As in Norway, the amount of wealth those in the highest portions of the income distributions in both France and the U.K. have hidden in foreign tax havens has risen substantially in the past few decades.  Photo: Gabriel Zucman, Annette Alstadsæter and Niels Johannesen - "Who Owns Wealth In Tax Havens? Macro Evidence and Implications for Global Inequality"
According to Matthew Gardner, a senior fellow at the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a Washington, D.C.-based think tank, the reason the U.S. exhibits such a high level of wealth inequality, even without hidden holdings taken into account, is that “we have a tax system that’s pretty much designed to help individuals accumulate wealth.”
“It’s obviously a completely legitimate system of rules, but one that’s geared toward inequality,” he said, adding that the problem could be more excusable in developing nations with less governmental and financial structure and stability. “We have the structure in place where we can monitor tax avoidance. We have no excuse.”
To combat such abuses, former President Barack Obama signed into law in 2010 the  Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, better known as FATCA or the “Fat Cat” tax, an additional reporting requirement for Americans with overseas assets and the financial institutions catering to them. While it passed by a  70-28 Senate vote, it’s  faced a fierce repeal campaign from both lobbyists and Republican lawmakers critical of government overreach. Critics on both sides of the aisle have pointed to hypocrisy on the part of the U.S. government for requiring financial institutions in other countries to disclose its citizens’ assets while  refusing to sign an international initiative similar to FATCA, called the Common Reporting Standard. The U.S., after all, featured prominently in the Panama Papers — which, as Gardner put it, might as well have been called “the Nevada Papers.”
“The U.S. has been a willing partner for a long time in the secrecy of financial assets,” he said. Until the White House and Congress enact or amend laws to boost transparency of global cash flow and increase taxes on capital gains as opposed to incomes, or “to tax wealth like work,” Gardner said, “we’re going to see continued growth in wealth inequality.”


The Republican congressman from one of Hurricane Irma’s hardest hit counties is leading a legislative effort to let companies conceal how climate change affects their businesses. Only weeks before the storm came ashore, Florida U.S. Rep. Bill Posey reintroduced  legislation designed to bar federal regulators from forcing companies to better disclose their climate-related risks to their shareholders. Amid  fossil fuel  industry lobbying on the bill, a version of Posey’s legislation was  passed by the House last year, and now — despite hurricanes and floods intensified by climate change — the legislation could get a boost from a Trump administration that has moved to roll back efforts to combat global warming.
Climatologists have said that while climate change may not have caused Hurricane Irma, warmer waters intensify such storms. Still, Florida has twice elected a Republican governor who has  questioned the science behind climate change and whose administration has barred the use of the terms “climate change” and “sea-level rise” by state officials. Meanwhile, in Washington, Florida’s Posey has taken a similarly high-profile leadership role in fighting efforts to confront climate change.
Posey, of District 8, represents Brevard County — which  sustained significant damage, flooding and  power outages from Irma. Since being elected in 2008, Posey has voted against enforcing limits on carbon pollution and in favor of barring the EPA from regulating greenhouse gases. He signed a pledge to oppose any climate change legislation that increases government revenue. As a member of the powerful Financial Services Committee, he has most prominently spearheaded legislation to kill a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) initiative designed to compel corporate executives to tell their shareholders how their companies could be affected by climate change.
Posey’s office did not immediately return an International Business Times request for comment.
Posey’s initiative revolves around the SEC’s  2010 directive, which required companies to publicly disclose the impact climate change will have on their businesses. The directive, said the agency, was “intended to remind companies of their obligations under existing federal securities laws and regulations to consider climate change and its consequences as they prepare disclosure documents to be filed with us and provided to investors,” reads the guidance.
Elected to the House in 2008, Posey first wrote legislation in March 2010 to  roll back the SEC’s directive. The bill was referred to committee that year, so Posey revived the bill in 2011, and again it didn’t make it out of committee. At the time, Posey said in a  press release that the SEC’s climate risk guidance was “yet another startling example of how the Administration is making it worse for job creators across our country. Our bill blocks the SEC from forcing American employers to conduct burdensome and expensive climate analysis.”
In 2016, Posey tried again with an  amendment to an appropriations bill prohibiting funds from being used to address the SEC guidance on climate change; the House approved that amendment on July 7, 2016.
Leading up to the House approval, the fossil fuel industry was lobbying Congress, along with the SEC itself, against the guidance. Texas-based petroleum refining company Tesoro, now known as Andeavor,  lobbied on climate risk disclosure, as did the  American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers, a trade association that represents nearly all of America’s refining capacity and petrochemical manufacturing facilities, and which is  funded in part by the Koch Industries PAC and the American Petroleum Institute. AFPM employed lobbyist Justin Daly to lobby Congress and the SEC on the issue; Daly previously worked as a senior counsel to the House, Senate and SEC.
Ceres, a nonprofit organization that advises investors on sustainable investing,  lobbied against Posey’s proposal.
In the same month that the Posey amendment passed, fossil fuel trade groups submitted letters urging the SEC to avoid expanding its existing climate disclosure mandates. Among the groups that submitted letters were the  American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers; the  National Mining Association, which represents the greater coal, metals and minerals mining industry; and the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which counts major fossil fuel companies among its top members.
“Mandatory disclosure for climate change would not benefit the market or investors,” AFPM wrote. “Requiring a company to disclose social and environmental matters that are not material or sufficiently certain would effectively force the company to support social and environmental policy agendas that lie outside the SEC’s authority and that disregard the company’s purpose and strategy as a business.”
The environmental group Ceres  countered with its own letter to the SEC, encouraging the SEC to strongly enforce its 2010 climate risk guidance and to issue new rules. The nonprofit coordinates the “Investor Network on Climate Risk, a group of 120 institutional investors managing more than $14 trillion in assets focused on the business risks and opportunities of climate change.”
Now in 2017, Posey is trying  once more to have the guidance rescinded.
A History Of Climate Denial
Like Florida Gov. Rick Scott, Posey has questioned whether climate change is caused by human activity. At a congressional hearing in 2014, Posey challenged White House science advisor John Holdren, asserting that because of periodic ice ages, the climate must naturally adjust, or warm, in the intervening periods.

After the House passed his amendment last year, Posey called climate change “a political agenda with its supporters lobbying on behalf of special interest groups to set policies that include more unnecessary red tape for American businesses.”
Posey’s 2016 Democratic challenger in District 8, Corry Westbrook,  wrote, “Financial disclosure would not only protect investors, but would also pressure corporations to manage their exposure to climate change risks. But not according to Congressman Bill Posey.
“His amendment will harm investors, our local economies, our children and our planet,” she continued. “It would let real estate companies be quiet on the risks posed to waterfront properties by rising seas and let agriculture and food companies leave the impact of future drought unaddressed.”
In Posey’s congressional district sits the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s John F. Kennedy Space Center, its primary launch center for human spaceflight, where Posey once worked. NASA is one of the key agencies researching climate change, but Posey  wants to end that critical research.
Posey has received nearly  $87,000 from the energy and natural resources sector during his state and federal campaigns, according to the National Institute on Money in State Politics.
The Trump administration appears to be slashing climate measures as quickly as it can — with Trump  pulling out of the Paris Climate Accord, EPA Director Scott Pruitt  blocking more than 30 environmental rules, and Interior Sec. Ryan Zinke  fast-tracking oil and gas exploration permits for federal lands. But Trump’s pick to chair the SEC, Jay Clayton, has, as a lawyer, advised fossil fuel companies to  increase their disclosure of climate-change impact.


American Inc. has taken steps to help those affected by the two hurricanes — Harvey and Irma — that hit the country within a space of a fortnight.
Retail giant Walmart is leading the way, pledging an additional $10 million to the $20 million it has already allocated for relief to those affected by severe weather conditions in the U.S. in 2017.
“We know our associates and customers make the difference. And once again, when needed the most, they are stepping up to help in a major way,” President of the Walmart Foundation and Chief Sustainability Officer for Wal-Mart Stores, Inc, Kathleen McLaughlin, said, Business Wire reported. “This is about neighbors helping neighbors and we will continue to be there for the communities we serve as they recover.”
Walmart launched a new customer campaign, wherein the the company will match customer donations two-to-one, in cash and kind of up to $10 million.
The money and the products will support American Red Cross disaster-response efforts by providing shelter, food, comfort and emergency assistance to those affected by the hurricanes.
The company has urged its customers to donate at registers for hurricane relief at Walmart stores as well as Sam’s Clubs. They can also login to their online portals — Walmart.com and Samsclub.com — to show their generosity. Customers also have the option of texting the word “SUPPORT” to 90999 to donate $10 via wireless carrier.
Walmart has pledged $30 in hurricane relief funds. In this photo, an employee restocks a shelf in the grocery section of a Wal-Mart Supercenter in Troy, Ohio, May 11, 2005.  Photo: Getty Images/ Chris Hondros
Walmart isn't the only big business with a big heart out there.  An array of companies have stepped forward with financial contributions to assist in America’s efforts to pick up the pieces after the devastation caused by the storms in Texas and Florida.
Apple has pledged an additional $5 million to “Hand In Hand” campaign, an ongoing fundraiser that will distribute collected funds between several organizations helping in relief efforts after Harvey and Irma.
The drive has been collecting funds since Harvey flooded Houston, and includes a celebrity-studded telethon on Sept. 12 that will air on all the major networks – ABC, CBS, FOX, NBC and HBO, CNN reported.
Apple had previously donated $5 million to the Red Cross ($3 million contributed by the company and $2 million by its employees), which is working tirelessly to help those affected by Hurricane Harvey.
The company will also make it easier for their customers to start donating money for the cause through their various apps. "Starting this weekend, anyone with an iPhone, iPad, Mac or PC running iTunes can donate directly through the App Store and iTunes," the company said in a statement.
Apple has pledged an additional $5 million to “Hand In Hand” campaign. In this photo, the Apple logo is displayed at the Apple Store on Fifth Avenue in New York City, June 17, 2015.  Photo: Getty Images/ Eric Thayer
The founder and CEO of Dell Technologies, Michael Dell — also a Houston native — has given $5 million to the campaign. Verizon, which will be running a call center for the drive, has also pledged $2.5 million to “Hand in Hand.”
"The corporate response thus far [has] been strong," Marc DeCourcey, senior vice president of the Chamber of Commerce Foundation, told CNNMoney.
The response is a continuing one ever since Harvey hit Texas, and a clutch of companies came forward to do their bit for relief efforts.
American Express donated $150,000 to the Red Cross. An additional $100,000 was given in employee donations to the organization.
AT&T contributed $350,000 to various charitable organizations, including $100,000 to the Greater Houston Community Fund, $100,000 to the Red Cross Hurricane Harvey Fund and $50,000 to the Coastal Bend Community Foundation in South Texas.
The Boeing Charitable Trust and The Coca-Cola Foundation committed $1 million each to the Red Cross for Harvey relief efforts.
Facebook donated $1 million to organizations on providing support. The social media giant announced Aug. 31 that more than $10 million had been raised through donations from its users.
Google.org is donated $250,000 to the Red Cross, to match employee donations of up to $250,000. The tech giant also launched a similar campaign for consumers, with donations reaching up to $1 million.
IBM donated $2 million in cash and kind, including technology and services. McDonald's contributed $1 million to the Red Cross, while Microsoft announced a $100,000 grant to the same.
Many of Samsung's U.S. subsidiaries donated $500,000 to the Red Cross. The company also pledged $500,000 worth of products, including washing machines, dryers, laptops and tablets to rebuild homes in the disaster-struck areas.
The Starbucks Foundation donated $250,000 to the Red Cross. It has also made arrangements for its customers to donate through its chain of stores across the country.
According to Una Osili, associate dean at the Indiana University Lilly Family School of Philanthropy, companies have gotten more generous in their contributions over the years.
"Employees themselves want to work at companies that are engaged in a broader social good and making the community better," Osili said.


A Toronto airline excluded a local family from a flight, pushing them to spend an extra $4,000 on tickets, only to take the same flight the next day.
Air Canada prevented Shanty Thivakaran, husband Thiva Maheswaran, their two young boys and Maheswaran's mother from getting on a flight June 27. The airline manager stopped the family from boarding the flight — even though there were eight vacant seats, CBC News reported Sunday.
The family arrived two hours early for their flight to London from Toronto's Pearson airport.
"They're not willing to acknowledge that they're in the wrong," Shanty Thivakaran told CBC News.
From London, the family planned to fly via Air India to Sri Lanka for a vacation, but their plan went awry when an Air Canada agent pointed the family to the wrong check-out line. About an hour and a half before takeoff, another agent redirected the family to the right queue, where three passengers checked in ahead of them for their London flight.
An agent checked in the Maheswaran family, but stopped when a manager said a family of five was a "no-go." They assumed the airline overbooked the flight, but Air Canada told CBC the flight had eight vacant seats before takeoff.
"We were so upset," Maheswaran said. "My mom's crying, the boys started crying. I was almost crying. It was an emotional scene."
An agent directed the family to a ticketing line, where they assumed Air Canada would rebook their flight, but that never happened. They waited for an hour before the desk closed and were stuck.
The airline then pointed the family to another check-in clerk who informed them she couldn’t assist them because she didn't have proper ticket training.
"At that point, I didn't know whether to laugh or cry," Thivakaran said. "I never felt so helpless. I felt like I was banging my head against the wall."
Thivakaran claimed the same manager they dealt with prior asked them to go home and that Air Canada could rebook them for another flight the next day.
Air Canada excluded a family of five from boarding a flight on June 27, 2017. A passenger is pictured checking into O'Hare International Airport Feb. 3, 2011 in Chicago, Illinois.  Photo: Getty Images
The family exited the airport at midnight and returned at 9.a.m. the next morning. They waited in the ticketing line for two hours, but when they spoke to an agent, she claimed she couldn't help them. The clerk told them the airline categorized their family as a "no show," meaning that they didn’t show up for their initial scheduled flight.
The airline claimed they bought the tickets through a travel agency so they were marked as "private fair" and only the agency could fix the matter. The only resolution was to purchase a new set of tickets.
"I paid rightfully for this ticket. I didn't buy it off the black market," Thivakaran said.
The agent refunded their money and sold the family new tickets for an Air Canada flight the same day, which cost them charge fees plus added penalties for last-minute tickets. In total, the family spent $12,326.38 for their trip, which was $5,345.83 more than their original purchase.
"This is money we worked hard to earn, and there's no reason why we should be ripped off," Thivakaran said.
After they returned from their vacation, Thivakaran complained to Air Canada and requested reimbursement. Instead, the airline offered the family 25 percent discount on subsequent flights.
"I just fumed," Thivakaran said. "That action on their part was just too little too late."
The family learned their travel insurance will absorb the $1,350 they spent in fees.
They considered legal action against the airline for the $3,995.83 extra they paid. The Maheswaran family wanted an apology and an explanation from Air Canada, too.  But that might not be enough.
"I'm never traveling on Air Canada again," Thivakaran said. "Even if I was on my death bed and I needed immediate treatment in U.S., I'd rather die than go on Air Canada."


If you want to know if you were one of the 143 million people whose data was breached in a hack of Equifax’s data, the company has a website you can use to find out — but there  appears to be a catch: To check, you have to agree to give up your legal right to sue the company for damages. The outrage that clause has now generated could complicate the company’s efforts — backed by Republican lawmakers — to block an imminent rule that would ban companies from forcing customers to agree to such provisions.
On  Friday, social media users spotlighted fine print on Equifax’s website that appears to force users to agree to waive their class action rights if they use the company’s website to see if their personal data was exposed by the recent hack. It is precisely the kind of arbitration clause that a pending Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) rule is designed to outlaw — if Republicans and the Trump administration allow it to go into effect as scheduled later this month.
Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security Event in San Francisco, Sept. 26-27. Photo: Newsweek Media Group
Federal documents reviewed by International Business Times show that in response to that  2016 rule, the Consumer Data Industry Association (CDIA) — which  says it is “the trade association which represents Equifax” — pressed regulators to back off the proposed prohibitions, saying the regulations would subject data companies to tough penalties if during a class action suit they were found to have broken the law.
In one section of the  letter, CDIA declares that federal regulators “should exempt from its arbitration rule class action claims against providers of credit monitoring products.” The letter asserted that allowing customers to sue companies “would not serve the public interest or the public good” because it could subject the companies to “extraordinary and draconian civil liability provisions” under current law. In another section of the letter, Equifax’s lobbying group says that a rule blocking companies from forcing their customers to waive class action rights would expose credit agencies “to unmanageable class action liability that could result in full disgorgement of revenues” if companies are found to have illegally harmed their customers.
Equifax’s lobbying group argued against the prohibition even as it acknowledged that a  2015 government study found “that credit reporting constituted one of the four largest product areas for class action relief” for consumers. Consumer groups countered the claims of CDIA and other rule opponents by saying the ability to file suit is necessary to protect Americans’ legal rights.
“The use of forced arbitration clauses has created a closed system where corporations allow court access only when it’s in their interest, where it is functionally impossible for consumers to recover small dollar amounts they are due under law, and where the deterrent effect of class actions has been lost,” wrote the Consumer Federation of America in a 2016  letter to the CFPB.
As written, the rule may not prevent Equifax from restricting customers’ legal rights as they seek to find out whether they have been harmed by this week’s data breach: The legal language says the arbitration provisions would apply only to contracts and terms of service six months after the rule goes into effect. However, the massive data breach and backlash against the company’s arbitration clause may impede Republicans’ efforts to repeal the rule.
“Equifax is doubling down on this data breach with a breach of that trust,” said Karl Frisch, executive director of consumer watchdog Allied Progress, in a press release. “This is nothing more than an underhanded attempt to deny the victims of this cyber attack their day in court... There couldn’t be a clearer example of why this new rule from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is so essential.”
With frustration about the breach and the website language simmering, Equifax issued a statement Friday evening. “In response to consumer inquiries, we have made it clear that the arbitration clause and class action waiver included in the Equifax and TrustedID Premier terms of use does not apply to this cybersecurity incident,” said the company. 
Equifax has delivered more than  $500,000 of campaign cash to Republican lawmakers since the creation of the CFPB in 2010. During that time, congressional Republicans have waged a campaign to weaken the CFPB, culminating in this year’s Republican legislative proposals to  repeal the rule and  fully eliminate the agency. A top Trump-appointed regulator — former  bank lawyer turned Acting Comptroller of the Currency Keith Norieka — has also  previously pushed for the rule to be delayed.
According to government watchdog  Public Citizen, 24 Republican senators co-sponsoring a bill to kill the arbitration rule have, over the course of their political careers, collectively received over $11 million in campaign contributions from commercial banks and over $100 million from the financial sector overall.
Equifax itself has directly lobbied the CFPB on the arbitration rule. Federal records show that since the  second quarter of 2015, a team of lobbyists from Equifax’s own government relations shop lobbied the Bureau on the “Use of arbitration agreements involving consumer financial products and services.” This year, the company was still lobbying the CFPB; during the most recent period for which lobbying information is available, the  second quarter of 2017, Equifax had five lobbyists personally pushing the CFPB to revise the rule.
The company and CDIA are also both lobbying Congress on a Republican-sponsored House bill, pointed out by journalist David Dayen on Twitter on Friday, that would cap class action damages at $500,000 and eliminate punitive damages altogether. The bill's sponsor, Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), announced CDIA's support.
A long-time CDIA lobbyist and former top staff member from the Senate Banking Committee, Geoffrey P. Gray, is now lobbying Congress on a Republican bill to repeal post-2008 financial regulations. Federal  records show that Gray has been working specifically to influence “provisions related to the structure, powers, and funding of the CFPB.”
UPDATED 9:10 p.m.: This story was updated to include a statement from Equifax.


Delta added 2,000 more seats Thursday to help people who wanted to flee Hurricane Irma. The day before, however, they were accused of price gouging an evacuee 600 percent after the traveler tried to purchase a Delta ticket from Miami to Phoenix through Expedia. The airline, who has a troubled past, quickly dispelled the rumor and helped the evacuee find a reasonably priced ticket.
 The carrier added flights to airports in Punta Cana, Nassau, Freeport, Key West, Miami, Ft. Lauderdale, Sarasota, Orlando and more, they said in a press release.
One-way flight prices to and from southern Florida were capped at $399. This price is slated to last until Sept. 13.
Delta loosely addressed their price gouging drama, citing a source that said supply and demand plays a factor in the price of plane tickets.
“There's only so much airline capacity to any destination. When bad weather hits, there's typically a surge of last-minute demand,” Henry Harteveldt, a San Francisco-based travel industry analyst, told thed airline. “Normally, these last-minute fares may be expensive. When bad weather may affect a city or region, an airline can make more last-minute, lower-fare seats available to help people who need to travel find and get an affordable fare.”
Delta added 2,000 plane tickets for people who were trying to fly out of southern Florida. Photo: Getty Images
Previously, Delta denied increasing the cost of plane tickets because of the storm. “We have absolutely not been raising prices,” a spokesperson told International Business Times Wednesday.
The accusation was raised Tuseday by Leigh Dow, a public relations executive, who was trying to safely evacuate from the hurricane area. She shared a screenshot that showed her flight from Miami to Phoenix was “jacked up” 600 percent.
“Shame on you @delta. Jacking from $547 to over $3200 for people trying to evacuate responsibly? #IrmaHurricane,” she tweeted.
The rep blamed Expedia.com for the problem. Ultimately, “she was satisfied with the fare she got,” the rep said.
Considering the deadly nature of Irma, Delta said they would not charge an additional fee for anyone who wanted to make changes to their travel plans.
The airline advised the best option when looking for a plane ticket was to call them directly or go to Delta.com. Leigh, whose tweet was shared more than 57,000 times updated her followers she was given a fair price.
“The @Delta team explained how it happened, and another airline was also involved. That wasn't obvious to me. They intervened & helped us out,” she wrote. “.@Delta reached out & helped tremendously. Note to travelers, always call airline directly if something doesn't look right.#IrmaHurricane.”
As Irma heads toward Florida, Gov. Rick Perry cautioned people who lived on both coasts to get ready to evacuate. “Every Florida family must prepare to evacuate, regardless of the coast you live on,” he said.
At the time this article was written, it was unknown if Irma would make landfall in Florida. The storm killed at least 11 people and decimated Barbuda, destroying 95 percent of the buildings.
Follow me on Twitter @mariamzzarella


Shortly after Hurricane Irma left a path of destruction in the Caribbean, Florida residents flocked to stores to stock up on food and supplies to prepare for the impending Category 5 storm. Last-minute shoppers should hurry as supermarket chain Publix announced that it will close stores. 
Experts categorized Hurricane Irma as the most powerful Atlantic storm in a decade, as it barreled through the Caribbean with maximum sustained winds of up to 185 miles per hour Thursday. 
South Florida residents stocked up in preparation for the storm but late-comers may be out of luck, as Publix announced Thursday that it will adjust store hours and close several locations due to the storm.
"Due to Hurricane Irma, several of our stores in South Florida will be adjusting their operating hours," the Publix website read.
The supermarket chain said it planned to alter store hours at certain locations as well as close several South Florida locations come noon Saturday. Locations in Miami-Dade and Broward will close Friday at 9 p.m. Palm Beach Locations will close Saturday at 12 p.m., according to the store.
With hurricane Irma approaching, our stores located within the Florida Keys will be closing. For updated info visit: https://t.co/E09zki4VWk
&mdash; Publix (@Publix) September 7, 2017
Update: Publix will have store closures in south and central Florida. For full list and details visit: https://t.co/DCoTPsYjT6
&mdash; Publix (@Publix) September 7, 2017
Altogether, the supermarket chain will close 77 locations in Miami-Dade, 77 locations in Broward, and 69 locations in Palm Beach County. However, Publix’s Winn-Dixie location hasn’t announced exact closing times.
"We will continue to stock our stores and keep them open as long as we can do so safely for our associates," Joe Caldwell, Southeastern Grocers corporate communications manager told the Miami Herald. "Every store is different, but there is no ‘cut off’ time for deliveries — they’ll be made as long as there’s staffing and it’s safe to do so."
Management at the Hollywood location allowed patrons into the store at 6.a.m., an hour before the store’s usual opening time, ABC-affiliated WPLG reported Thursday.
However, when south Florida residents flocked to Publix to stock up on supplies, they discovered that the store had run out of most essentials. The store ran out of bottled water though Publix stores announced that it will restock inventory Thursday to keep up with demand.
"It's been like my fifth trip to the store. I've been up since 1:30 this morning getting gas for two vehicles and watching the news," one customer, Karen Exterkamp, told WPLG. "I'm having a hard time getting water, so I'm happy I got that."
Publix limited shoppers to four one-gallon containers of water per person to ensure that every customer received water. Managers said that delivery trucks will be coming to the store Thursday to stock water and other essentials.
Supermarket chain Food Lion also experienced an uptick in customers looking to stock up ahead of the storm. Shoppers are stockpiling items like canned meat, water, charcoal, batteries, bread and ice, spokeswoman Christy told the Charlotte Observer. She added that Food Lion will work closely with its vendors to ensure that essentials are continuously restocked.
"We are providing additional shipments of water, food, batteries and other items to our stores to help ensure product availability for our customers, as well as preparing our stores to minimize any impact from Hurricane Irma," Phillips-Brown said.
Welcome to the family, Store #1567, in Winter Garden, FL. pic.twitter.com/hECq4m4gp0
&mdash; Publix (@Publix) August 31, 2017


Seven first responders filed  a lawsuit Thursday against a chemical company whose Houston-area facility exploded after Hurricane Harvey. The lawsuit against Arkema and three of the company’s executives is seeking over $1 million in monetary relief, and alleges that the company did not adequately warn law enforcement and public health agencies about hazardous materials at the chemical plant. Those allegations come after Arkema and its lobbying group, the American Chemistry Council,  lobbied to kill a federal rule designed to require companies to better coordinate and inform first responders about the toxic compounds at chemical plants. The rule would have taken effect in March.
The EPA’s rule, which included a series of other safety provisions, was ultimately delayed to February 2019 by the Trump administration, with the support of  top Texas Republican lawmakers — many of whom received large campaign donations from the chemical industry.
The suit filed in Harris County court asserts that after explosions at the Arkema’s Crosby plant emitted a cloud of gas, company officials “repeatedly denied that the chemicals were toxic or harmful in any manner to the people, and first responders, in the community.” Yet, the complaint says the fumes sickened the first responders, and charges Arkema with “gross negligence” and “malice.”
“Immediately upon being exposed to the fumes from the explosion, and one by one, the police officers and first responders began to fall ill in the middle of the road,” says the lawsuit, which was filed by members of local agencies including law enforcement and the fire department. “Calls for medics were made, but still no one from Arkema warned of the toxic fumes in the air. Emergency medical personnel arrived on scene, and even before exiting their vehicle, they became overcome by the fumes as well. The scene was nothing less than chaos. Police officers were doubled over vomiting, unable to breathe. Medical personnel, in their attempts to provide assistance to the officers, became overwhelmed and they too began to vomit and gasp for air.”
In a statement, Arkema said its employees did "everything they could to protect the public."
"We reject any suggestion that we failed to warn of the danger of breathing the smoke from the fires at our site, or that we ever misled anyone," the company said. "To the contrary, we pleaded with the public, for their own safety, to respect the 1.5 mile evaucation zone imposed by the unified command well prior to any fire. We will vigorously defend a lawsuit that we believe is gravely mistaken." 
The American Chemistry Council, which counts Arkema as a member, said in a statement to IBT that “industry had significant concerns with many of the modifications because it was not clear that they would improve the safety and security of chemical facilities or neighboring communities.”
The first responders’ complaint concludes that the company did not properly store its chemicals, did not “have adequate procedures in place to protect the safety and welfare of the community in the event of a catastrophe” and failed “to provide the public and first responders accurate information on the chemicals at risk of exploding.”
Company Pushed To Block Rule Requiring More Information Sharing With First Responders
The allegations about information are particularly relevant to Arkema and its lobbying group’s successful effort to kill the EPA’s chemical plant safety rule,  just months before the disaster in Texas.
Under  that rule, which was originally proposed by the Obama administration in 2013 in response to a  deadly explosion at a West, Texas, fertilizer plant, owners of chemical plants would have had to increase coordination with local first responders. In particular, the rule stated companies would have to ensure that “local response organizations are aware of the regulated substances” at plants covered by EPA rules once a year.
Companies, like Arkema, operating plants covered by the laws would have also had to annually disclose to local emergency responders the amounts of the chemicals, the risks from the plant, and the “resources and capabilities at the facility to respond to an accidental release of a regulated substance.”
After several years of development, the EPA finalized the rule in January in the last days of the Obama administration, with final implementation of the rule scheduled for March 14. But after a  petition from a coalition of chemical and fossil fuel companies, as well as years of lobbying, EPA administrator Scott Pruitt delayed implementation of the rule to June 2017, and then delayed implementation again until February 2019.
Plant operators would have had one year to implement parts of the rule that would have improved coordination with local emergency responders. It is unclear whether the first responders who filed the lawsuit Thursday would have had improved knowledge of the toxic chemicals they allege caused them physical injury. However, enactment of the rule would have prompted companies to begin the process of complying with its first responder provisions.
“Never Heeded The Warnings”
The Crosby facility has a  history of safety violations. In 2006, the Texas Commission for Environmental Quality fined Arkema $3,950 for failing to appropriately store a pallet of organic peroxide, which led to a warehouse fire.  In 2011, the company paid a $16,240 penalty for failing to maintain equipment at proper temperatures.
The new lawsuit against Arkema also raises questions about the company’s preparation for natural disasters, arguing that “Arkema, Inc. never heeded the warnings and ignored the foreseeable consequences of failing to prepare” for the kind of storms that regularly hit the Houston area. Indeed, a fter the explosions, Arkema Vice President Daryl Roberts  claimed, “We’ve never experienced anything that would have given us any indication that we could have that much of water.” But in the company’s 2014 Risk Management Plan and a 2013 hazard analysis, Arkema  identified concerns including “equipment failure; loss of cooling, heating, electricity; floods (flood plain); hurricane; other major failure identified: power failure or power surge.”
The company also warned its investors of the risk of chemical explosions in its 2016 annual report, warning that “facilities may be subject to risks of accidents, fires, explosions and pollution due to the very nature of their operations and to the level of hazard, toxicity or flammability of certain raw materials.”
One thing the company may have already prepared for: lawsuits from sickened first responders.
In its  2016 financial filings, the company declared that its operations may “present significant risks to the health or safety of neighboring communities and to the environment” -- and that the company “could be held liable following injury or damage to property or people, notably due to exposure to hazardous substances being used, produced or destroyed” at its facilities.UPDATE 5:42 p.m. —This story was updated to include a statement from Arkema, sent by the company after the story was published. 


Three employees from a Cleveland Taco Bell reportedly opened fire on two armed robbers Wednesday, police said. The restaurant's branch owner, Arthur Giles, claimed the employees killed one of the robbers out of self-defense. 
Two masked assailants entered the restaurant and instructed three works to lie on the floor. However, three additional employees pulled out handguns to protect themselves. The suspect that suffered a fatal injury was shot in the ribs six times, whereas the second suspect managed to run away by foot. No customers or Taco Bell workers were injured from the incident.
"Everyone at the store is okay, from my understanding," Giles told Cleveland.com Wednesday. "All the employees and all the customers are safe."
Members of the Cleveland Police Department's (CPD) Homicide Unit, along with the Cuyahoga County Medical Examiner Office (CCMEO), arrived at the scene. De'Carlo Jackson, 24, was identified as the dead robber. He was reportedly found with a loaded gun in his hand before being transported to MetroHealth hospital, according to Time. His accomplice's identity still remains unknown. 
"Taco Bell and Sigma Bell, LLC., the franchise owner of this Cleveland, Ohio location, are shocked this happened at the restaurant," a Taco Bell media representative told International Business Times Thursday. "Our franchisee is fully cooperating with the Cleveland Police Department in their investigation."
"The employees are very shaken up from yesterday's events, and our franchisee is offering them counseling," Taco Bell added.
The employees who utilized self-defense are said to be two 19-year-old men and a 23-year-old man. No charges or arrests have been made.
"Officers responded to the Taco Bell Restaurant at 1531 W. 117th street on Sept. 6, 2017 at approximately 2:45 a.m. for a robbery with shots fired," the CPD told IBT Thursday. "Upon arrival, one suspect was located on the floor near the counter with multiple gunshot wounds."
"Officers administered first aid until the arrival of EMS. The suspect was conveyed to Metro Hospital where he was later pronounced deceased," CPD added.
The incident is still under further investigation by local law enforcement.
Taco Bell isn't the only restaurant to have an armed robbery experience, but they are among a select few that have employees effectively defend themselves from armed robbers. 
Santucci's Restaurant in Warminster, Pennsylvania, was robbed at gunpoint Sept. 2. An armed, masked man forced staff members into an office and demanded money. The robber took an unknown amount of cash before fleeing the scene. The suspect has not been determined after local law enforcement completed a thorough investigation on the matter. 
Employees and customers were forced by an armed robber to hide in a freezer at Ted's Montana Grill in Columbus, Ohio, Sept. 3. George Higgins, 32, was identified as the robber and arrested by the Columbus Division of Police SWAT. Higgins, a former employee of the restaurant, primarily stole money from a charity the establishment supports called No Kids Hungry, according to WBNS-10TV. 
 
Three employees at Taco Bell, pictured December 31, 2014, killed an armed robber out of self defense.  Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


Want a Big Mac, fries and a caramel macchiato? McDonald’s (NYSE: MCD) is making that a possibility.
McDonald’s announced they will be offering a variety of new espresso-based drinks Wednesday, as part of a strengthening of its McCafé brand. McDonald’s will now offer caramel macchiatos, cappuccinos and Americanos as part of its menu. The cappuccinos can be flavored with French Vanilla, caramel or hazelnut. As part of a roll out promotion, the new drinks and all other McCafé drinks will be available for only $2.
The drinks will be in direct competition with Starbucks (NASDAQ: SBUX), which also offers espresso-based drinks, albeit at a higher price. By comparison, a tall caramel macchiato on average costs $3.95 at Starbucks.
McDonald's launched McCafé in the US in 2009, and it now generates about $4 billion annually in the US, according to Business Insider Wednesday. McCafé will also get a new and cleaner logo.
New McCafe logo Photo: McDonald's
McDonald’s also released a series of bottled McCafé Frappé drinks in collaboration with Coca-Cola. The drinks will be available in grocery stores and come in three flavors: caramel, vanilla and mocha.
“This is just the start of our McCafé commitment,” said Chris Kempczinski, president of McDonald’s USA, in a statement. “We understand how important the coffee culture is for consumers and we are committed to meeting that demand at the taste, convenience and value only McDonald’s can offer.”
McDonald’s currently stocks are trading at a five-year high.
The bottled drink move comes hot on the heels of a new rollout from Dunkin’ Donuts (NASDAQ: DNKN), which recently began selling bottled drinks at convenience stores and grocery stores. Starbucks began selling a bottled frappuccino drink in 1996, according to USA Today.
The McCafé concept began in Melbourne, Australia in 1993. A licensee opened up a stand-alone coffee shop with the McDonald’s brand. McCafé was the largest coffee shop in Australia and New Zealand by 2003. The U.S. McCafé-brand products are available at most McDonald’s locations.


An incident that spurred an apparent brawl on a Thursday Ryanair flight from England to Spain reportedly continued long after the flight had landed. The carrier said it banned a passenger for life following the initial incident, but a scorned and allegedly intoxicated woman took the fight to baggage claim.
The woman, who was not identified, was reportedly met by police after exiting the flight, British newspaper  Metro reported Tuesday. However a witness, 35-year-old Rachel Burns of Newcastle Upon Tyne, said that authorities at the airport “let [the woman] go” shortly thereafter. Burns said the woman made her way to baggage claim where other passengers were waiting and “that’s when the violence started.”
Video of the scuffle at Alicante Airport in Newcastle shows two women — one in a yellow top and the other in a green top — engaged in a physical altercation, with the woman in a green top straddling the other. The woman in yellow can be seen hitting other passengers in the video of the previous incident.

“I saw her just go up to a lady who had been one of the people telling her to sit down. Then they were going at it on the floor,” Burns told Metro. “It went on for a couple of minutes. She just seemed intoxicated. She was very, very drunk. Some man tried to pull her off, then she started again.”
Burns noted that the woman appeared “very, very drunk.” At one point a man attempted to intervene and pulled the woman off, but then she began getting physical again.
“It was an absolute shambles, the security was shocking. She just left. She was with two friends, they seemed mortified and were crying. Then we left, we just needed to get the children away from it,” Burns added. “It’s shocking that she’d even been able to get on the plane in the first place, let alone get to that point in the airport.”
The incident follows an initial report of the  altercation aboard the flight between the woman in the yellow and several other passengers during which both men and women were seen throwing punches. The brawl occurred shortly before the plane touched down in Alicante.

“It was just as we were about to land when the woman started kicking off,” witness Lucy Norris, 30, of Blyth, Northumberland,  told the Chronicle Live. “She was shouting, screaming and making a show of herself. She had been rude to a few people on the flight and I think she was mortal drunk.”
Burns said the woman sat two rows behind her and became “aggressive” with other passengers on the flight. Burns said the woman asked other passengers, “What you looking at?”
“Then she started fighting with the man in front, and started getting aggressive with the lady asking her to move. The plane staff couldn’t control her,” Burns told Metro. “The people she was attacking got moved to the front of the plane.”
The airline addressed the incident last week in a statement.
“The crew of this flight from Newcastle to Alicante requested police assistance upon arrival after a passenger became disruptive inflight. The aircraft landed normally and the passenger was met by police,” the airline said.
“We will not tolerate unruly or disruptive behaviour at any time and the safety and comfort of our customers, crew and aircraft is our number one priority,” the airline added. “This passenger has been banned from flying with Ryanair and this is now a matter for local police.”


As Floridians waited Wednesday to see whether Hurricane Irma would make landfall in the Sunshine State, reports of price gouging by airlines emerged. Social media users railed against the apparent spike in prices as people attempted to leave Florida before the storm hit.
Price gouging is illegal in Florida at any point in a state of emergency and Gov. Rick Scott declared a state of emergency for all 67 counties Monday as the storm gained strength. But because airlines are regulated by the United States Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administration, ticket prices are not subject to Florida's price gouging laws, according to the Miami Herald. 
Using an incognito Google search window, International Business Times attempted to determine how much it would cost to leave Miami, Florida and surrounding airports on a one-way flight to New York in the coming days.
The cost for flights out of Florida varied Wednesday. Some airlines, like American Airlines, showed prices of up to $1,982 for a one-way ticket. Others, like JetBlue, offered cut rate tickets for those evacuating the area. In many instances, flights were not available at all.
Jet Blue announced that it was offering seats for those in the hurricane’s path at a reduced rate — from $99 to $159. The airline had canceled 150 flights as of Wednesday afternoon and warned that many of the remaining low-cost tickets were sold out.
Delta Airlines was accused of gouging prices Wednesday after a passenger posted a photo showing her flight from Miami to Phoenix was raised from $547.50 to $3,258. A representative for the airline told International Business Times it had “absolutely not been raising prices.” Instead, the representative said, the discrepancy appeared after the traveler tried to book a ticket through expedia.com but was amended when she spoke to Delta directly.
Below are the costs of a one-way economy ticket for from four major airlines.
American Airlines
American Airlines offered flights to New York from Miami Thursday. Photo: International Business Times
​Delta Airlines
Delta Airlines offered flights to New Jersey, New York and Philadelphia. Photo: International Business Times
United Airlines
United Airlines appeared to have no flights out of Miami Thursday. Photo: International Business Times
United offered a few more options for people to leave Friday. Photo: International Business Times
Jet Blue
Most Jet Blue flights were sold out. Photo: International Business Times


Fashion conglomerate's LVMH and Kering have teamed up to ban size zero models. The restriction will be applicable to both companies' luxury brands worldwide. Gucci, Christian Dior, Stella McCartney, Marc Jacobs and Balenciaga are among a long list of brands owned by the pair. 
The ban was set in place to support the well-being of female and male models. As leaders in the fashion industry, the groups desire to go the extra mile to implement beneficial change.  
"I am deeply committed to ensuring that the working relationship between LVMH Group brands, agencies and models goes beyond simply complying with the legal requirements," Antoine Arnault, a member of LVMH Board of Directors, said in a press release. "The well-being of models is of great importance to us. As the leader in the luxury sector, we believe it is our role to be at the forefront of this initiative."
"We have the responsibility of building new standards for fashion and we hope to be followed by other players in our sector," Arnault added. 
The charter will require female models to be at least a size 34, which equates to a size 2 in the United States. Male models are required to be a size 44 at a minimum compared to a size 42, respectively. To maintain this regulation, models will have to present a valid medical certificate that was obtained less than six months before a photo shoot or runway show. The medical certificate must depict that the model is of good health. 
Additional restrictions will be applied to models under 16. Brands housed by LVMH and Kering are not permitted to hire young models in shows or shootings to represent adults. Models between 16-18 will not be allowed to work late hours and will need to maintain regular school attendance, among other requirements. 
This new policy is slated to launch at the upcoming respective Fashion Weeks. 
"Through the establishment of this charter and our commitment to abide by its terms, we are once again manifesting the importance of this core value in a very concrete manner," François-Henri Pinault, Chairman and CEO of Kering, said in a press release. "We hope to inspire the entire industry to follow suit, thus making a real difference in the working conditions of fashion models industry-wide."
This announcement comes on the heels of the start of New York Fashion Week (NYFW), which hits the city Thursday. The fashion industry has faced backlash for allowing dangerously thin models to strut along the runways at major fashion shows for NYFW and Paris Fashion Week, among others. 
A study published in the American Journal of Public Health in 2015 examined the thinness of models. Researchers claimed if the United States were to place a regulation on model size, it "would shake the fashion industry, even if enforcement dollars were few and far between. Designers would be hard pressed to maintain a presence in the fashion industry."
Models are at risk for eating disorders, including anorexia nervosa. Many professional models have also died from starvation-related problems. However, over 62 percent of models have been asked to slim down, according to a study produced by Ziff.
Former Australian Vogue Editor Kirstie Clements shared with The Guardian in 2013 the extreme measures she's witnessed models using to maintain thinness. Eating tissues may have been among the more bizarre practices, but cigarettes and Diet Coke proved to be dietary staples. 
A representative from Kering and LVMH did not immediately return International Business Times' request for comment.
Models, pictured at Paris Fashion Week on July 5, 2017 in Paris, France, that are a size zero will be banned by fashion powerhouse's LVMH and Kering. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


Hurricane Irma swirled in the Caribbean seas with winds up to 185 miles per hour, making it a Category 5 storm. As of Wednesday, the storm  was projected to hit Florida this weekend and airlines are canceling flights in preparation for the storm. As a result, the entire system was disrupted. The latest airline woes come just a week after Hurricane Harvey slammed Texas, sending airline carriers reeling.
Cancelations began in the Caribbean earlier this week in anticipation of the storm. Some carriers are adding flights to and from Florida before they are forced to be canceled because of Irma. American Airlines has already canceled all flights to and from their hub in Miami, according to ABC News’ Jeffrey Cook.
#Breaking American Airlines is canceling all flights in and out of their Miami hub for Saturday and Sunday.
— Jeffrey Cook (@JeffreyCook) September 6, 2017
Over 80 Wednesday flights both in and out of Luis Munoz Marin International Airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico were canceled. Princess Juliana International Airport in St. Martin, which got hit by Irma Wednesday morning had 28 flights arriving and 30 flights departing from the airport canceled. For Miami, 11 flights in and 16 flights out of the airport have been canceled by Wednesday afternoon. 
Officials warned travelers of extended delays and flight cancelations. Monroe County, Florida, which includes the Florida Keys and the state’s southernmost tip, has been issued a mandatory evacuation.
Some airlines are offering waivers for transfer and rebooking fees for destinations that will be affected by Irma, including Delta, JetBlue, Southwest, United and American, according to the Washington Post.
Airlines have not yet covered from Harvey. There were over 50 cancelations of flights leaving Houston from the William P. Hobby and George W. Bush International airports. Disruptions in fuel refining capabilities in Texas and flight issues have cause jet fuel prices to spike up 20 percent.
The price of airlines tickets had not gone up because of the storm and carriers are adding flights to help with the storm.
“As with all flights, fares are typically more affordable when booked farther out, and may be higher for last-minute original bookings — that fare structure hasn’t changed as a result of the storm,” said Airlines for America,  a trade group that represents major U.S. carrier. 
Flights leaving Miami on Wednesday or Thursday were extremely hard to come by.
President Donald Trump declared an emergency for the state Tuesday and Gov. Rick Scott activated the state’s entire 7,000 person National Guard to be available Friday. Trump also declared emergencies for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.


A Delta Air Lines flight was forced to make an emergency landing this week after one of its engines caught on fire. The incident occurred early Wednesday morning on a flight from Las Vegas to New York. Passengers were delayed several hours after landing at the airport from which they departed less than 30 minutes prior.
Delta Air Lines spokesman Chris Jones  told the Associated Press that the carrier’s pilots declared an emergency immediately after the fire started and successfully landed the Boeing 757 at McCarran International Airport. Passengers reported that the engine burst into flames roughly 15 minutes into the flight,  according to KRON-TV.
FlightAware indicates Flight 1057 departed from Las Vegas at 12:07 a.m., nearly an hour after the flight was initially scheduled to depart. The total flight time listed for the aircraft is 25 minutes, with the plane landing back at the airport around 12:32 a.m. While the AP noted that the replacement flight was scheduled to depart around 6 a.m., it appears it was delayed roughly an hour and didn’t depart until 7:23 a.m.
KRON-TV reported that there were 192 passengers on the first flight out of McCarran International Airport. According to the airline, no injuries were reported during the incident.
“Delta flight 1057 from Las Vegas to New York-JFK International returned to McCarren International after the flight crew received an indication of a possible issue with one of the aircraft’s engines, shortly after departure,” the airline told International Business Times in a statement. “The flight landed without incident and taxied to the gate where customers deplaned normally. The safety of Delta’s customers and crew is always our top priority and we apologize for the inconvenience. Customers were reaccommodated on an alternate aircraft.”

Delta Air Lines saw a similar incident occur in April, when one of its aircraft carrying 227 passengers was forced to return to the Beijing Capital International Airport after one of its engines caught fire shortly after takeoff.
Passengers recounted the incident and described the plane as feeling like it “lost balance,” the  Daily Mail reported at the time.
“It was hard to tell whether it was going up or dropping,” an unnamed woman on the flight said. “Then we heard the captain announcing that we were to turn back.” 
A Delta Air Lines flight was forced to make an emergency landing this week after one of its engines caught on fire. In this photo, a passenger waits for a Delta Airlines flight in Terminal 5 at Los Angeles International Airport, May 4, 2017 in Los Angeles, California. Photo: ROBYN BECK/AFP/Getty Images


A plume of benzene has been detected in the air over Houston after four fossil fuel companies reported leaks of the highly toxic compound that can increase the risk of cancer — even from brief exposure. Documents reviewed by International Business Times show that two of the companies — ExxonMobil and Valero — recently lobbied against an EPA rule to prevent the government from more strictly regulating the toxin, as did a fossil fuel group that counts three of the companies as members. The agency ultimately passed a rule strengthening overall benzene regulations, but after the companies filed critical comment letters, the Obama administration's EPA revised the rule to exempt the companies from those limits during so-called “force majeure” events such as Hurricane Harvey.
“After the comment period closed for the rule, the EPA created some specific exemptions that still allow unlimited releases of toxic pollution during certain time periods,” said Emma Cheuse of Earthjustice, a group that filed a lawsuit to try to remove the new exemptions from the rule. “Those exemptions are really relevant to what we're seeing now. It's likely that refineries will rely on calling this a force majeure incident to avoid sanction. Communities need more protection than just having refineries say this is a force majeure event and having the EPA rubber stamp that.”
Exxon and Valero did not respond to IBT questions about their lobbying on the benzene regulations or preparedness for Hurricane Harvey. Benzene causes a slew of health effects including rapid heart rate, tremors and headaches;  short-term exposure to high levels of the toxin is associated with an increased risk of leukemia.
In 2014, the Obama administration's EPA  proposed a new rule designed to strengthen the requirement for refineries to take corrective action when benzene emissions are detected. The rule was aimed at curbing emissions from companies such as  Valero, ExxonMobil, Shell and Chevron — all of which reported benzene emissions in Texas after Hurricane Harvey, according to state records reviewed by IBT.
In response to the new proposed rule, Valero, ExxonMobil, and the American Petroleum Institute (which represents ExxonMobil, Shell and Chevron) pressed the EPA to back off the benzene regulations.
The Valero Houston Refinery is threatened by the swelling waters of the Buffalo Bayou after Hurricane Harvey inundated the Texas Gulf coast with rain, in Houston, Texas, U.S. August 27, 2017.  Photo: REUTERS/Nick Oxford
“The proposed rule will impose significant new burdens on our operations, many of which are justified solely on the basis of improving compliance assurance for hypothetical situations,” said ExxonMobil in an  October 2014 letter to the EPA arguing that the agency’s proposed rules were too strict and would require an additional $2.5 billion investment in safety infrastructure.
The American Petroleum Institute — a lobbying group that counts ExxonMobil, Shell, Chevron and other major oil and gas companies as  members — also sent a  letter to the EPA criticizing the benzene rules, saying the agency “has overstated the risk associated with refinery emissions” and challenging the EPA’s estimates of benzene’s cancer risks.
Valero said the detection of benzene in the air near refineries — a situation faced by the Houston area now —should not automatically trigger corrective action.
“The Proposed Rule should be revised to more explicitly provide that: 1. Short-term, high benzene readings are not actionable, and do not require investigation or response,” Valero declared in an  October 2014 letter to the EPA.
Martyn Smith, a professor of toxicology at University of California-Berkeley, questioned the scientific basis of Valero’s argument against the rule.
“Short-term high benzene exposure can definitely result in harmful health effects,” Smith said in an interview with IBT. “This is because you take in the benzene and you distribute it around your body and it stays in your body for several hours. So I'm not quite sure what the logic behind that is.”
The EPA ultimately opted to enact a benzene rule in 2015. However, after lobbying by Valero, ExxonMobil and API, the EPA rejected calls for a  stricter overall benzene emissions limit. The EPA  said at the time that critics noted the rule sets a benzene limit that is “80-percent higher than the European Union’s standard” and they “urged the agency to consider adopting a stricter standard comparable to what other industrialized nations use.” But the EPA declined the request.
The EPA also revised its final rule to add in exemptions that environmental groups say gives corporations the freedom to emit benzene during emergencies.
“In finalizing new national standards in December, EPA created hazardous malfunction exemptions that give oil companies one or two free passes to pollute uncontrollably every three years, and a complete pass to pollute whenever they lose power or have some other ‘force majeure’ event,” said a  statement from Earthjustice and the Environmental Integrity Project — two groups that filed a lawsuit over the new provisions, which were added by the EPA without allowing public comment on the revisions.
“Force majeure” exemptions apply to events that are unforseen, but at least one of the companies that may invoke those clauses told investors they foresaw problems with flooding. In 2016, ExxonMobil declared in its  financial filings, “Our operations may be disrupted by severe weather events, natural disasters, human error, and similar events,” and has said that “hurricanes may damage our offshore production facilities or coastal refining and petrochemical plants in vulnerable areas.”
Federal records show that  Valero,  API,  Chevron and  Phillips 66 — which shares ownership of the Houston suburb-based Chevron Phillips Chemical with Chevron — lobbied congressional lawmakers on the benzene rule. Disclosure records for  API and  Phillips show that they specifically lobbied the EPA on the rule in 2015 as it was being revised to include the force majeure exemptions.
Valero has consistently lobbied on the rule since it was proposed in 2014, and has employed, among others, a  former senior counsel of the Energy Department to lobby on the issue. Federal records show that the company in 2017 has employed 11 lobbyists who worked in the federal government.
In recent years,  Valero,  Exxon,  Chevron and  Shell settled lawsuits with environmental regulators over emissions of benzene and other toxic compounds. As part of the settlements, the companies had previously agreed to reduce benzene emissions.
“Industry Can Do More To Prevent Emissions”
In the EPA’s 2012  reference summary for benzene, the agency specifically warned that short-term high exposures to benzene can be more of a concern for causing certain illnesses, such as leukemia, writing: "It is important to note that rather than cumulative exposures to low concentrations, it is repeated peak benzene exposures which have been deemed determinative of bone marrow toxicity with a greater potential for leukemia."
Loren Raun, Houston’s chief environmental science officer, told IBT that the city found benzene levels as high as 324 parts per billion Monday in Manchester, an east Houston neighborhood near the Valero refinery, where 37 percent of the population lives  below the poverty line. The Texas Commission for Environmental Quality’s (TCEQ) regulated maximum for short-term benzene exposure is 180 parts per billion. In an interview with IBT, Raun stressed that more measurements are needed before assessing public health effects of the benzene leaks.
Smith, the University of California toxicologist, said he was most concerned with possible “pockets of exposure” where benzene levels might spike, leading to potentially harmful health effects, echoing the EPA’s warning of peak benzene exposures. “I’d become significantly concerned if I saw anything over 100 parts per billion,” he told IBT.
Because of the “force majeure” exemption, communities in East Houston may find that the companies polluting their neighborhoods go unpunished.
"We know that we have people living in close proximity to these facilities,” Bakeyah Nelson, the executive director of Air Alliance Houston, told IBT. “We know that Houston is a hurricane-prone area. We know that industry can do more to prevent emissions. Now the EPA and TCEQ need to require them to do that."


Five nurses from Denver Health Medical Center (DHMC) will be suspended for examining and admiring the size of a dead male patient's genitalia. The nurses viewed the patient's genitalia when he was unconscious, but they also opened the patient's body bag to view parts of his body. The patient was transported to DHMC for an undisclosed medical emergency.
The suspension, which will last three weeks, was confirmed to International Business Times Wednesday by the Denver Police Department (DPD). The hospital staff launched an internal investigation into the incident and was given the task of deciding an adequate punishment for the responsible nurses.
"Multiple staff members viewed the patient while he was incapacitated, including after he was deceased," DPD wrote in a police report. "The complainant, Risk Management for Denver Health, made a mandatory report."
Local law enforcement confirmed the events took place April 3. A report wasn't filed against the participating staff members until May 8. A fellow nurse reportedly overheard the participants making inappropriate comments about their actions, which led her to report the incident to hospital staff. 
"Denver Health responded to this report immediately and the nurses in question were placed on investigatory leave," a representative said in a statement issued to IBT. "Their actions, which violated our policies and our Code of Conduct, were promptly reported to appropriate governmental authorities, including the Denver Police Department and the Colorado State Board of Nursing." 
"Denver Health is truly sorry this happened. This incident it is not an appropriate representation of the high-quality care and compassion our clinical staff strive to provide to our patients," DHMC added.
Two nurses were initially suspended for their participation, but five nurses total were disciplined after the investigation was concluded, according to ABC affiliate KMGH. Four nurses returned to work at DHMC following suspension, but one did not. However, the one that did not return to their post at the hospital was not fired. All participants will have the incident listed on their personnel records. 
No criminal charged were filed against the nurses. Local law enforcement reportedly determined that there was not enough information to file a criminal report against the responsible parties.
The nurses' actions are in direct violation of Denver Health's regulations for employee principals and practices. Such prohibited practices include harassment and unwelcomed sexual advances.
"Denver prohibits all forms of sexual harassment. Unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other physical, verbal, or non-verbal conduct of a sexual nature constitute sexual harassment," the manual read.
Denver Health also provides rights to its patients, which the five suspended nurses violated the dead patient's rights during his stay. The organization claims patients will "receive care and treatment that is respectful...[and] personal privacy to the extent possible during the course of treatment." The responsible nurses did not comply.
Failure to report incidents of this caliber could result in punishment or suspension.
Nurses, pictured March 16, 2010 in Birmingham, England, were suspended for admiring a dead patient's genitalia.  Photo: Getty Images


UPDATE: Friday, Sept. 22, 2017 at 12:41 p.m. EDT:  Seth Oster, Global Head of Corporate Communications at United Talent Agency, confirmed to the International Business Times that the incident took place as reported.
Original story:
Talent agent Jeremy Barber, who works with a roster of famous clientele, reportedly saved a woman’s life aboard a recent Delta Air Lines flight. The incident occurred on a flight from the from the Telluride Film Festival in Colorado to Los Angeles.
A  witness told Page Six in a report published Tuesday that Barber moved to action after a woman in the row ahead of him began choking. Employing the Heimlich maneuver, which he reportedly hadn’t used since learning it in high school, Barber has able to save the woman from choking to death. The witness told the gossip site that following “five or six tries, it came up.”
“She was about to die. It was not good. People were freaking out,” the witness told Page Six. “[H]e really saved her life.”
The witness said that upon arriving on the flight, Barber had helped the same woman load her luggage into the overhead bin. When the woman confirmed that Barber was indeed the man who had come to her aid not once, but twice, he reportedly joked: “That’s the last thing I’m doing for you on this flight!”
It was clear neither on what day the flight took place nor what the woman had choked on in the report. Seth Oster, Global Head of Corporate Communications at United Talent Agency, confirmed to the International Business Times that the incident took place as reported. Delta declined IBT’s request for comment, citing customer privacy. 
Barber is a partner at United Talent Agency and works with clients who include Greta Gerwig, Don Cheadle, Patrick Dempsey, Steve Coogan, Sigourney Weaver and Justin Theroux,  according to Variety. He was named a partner of UTA in 2009 after being with the company since 2003.
“Jeremy has been an extraordinary asset to UTA in the motion picture department and to the agency overall,” UTA chairman Jim Berkus said.
Barber isn’t the only high profile personality to come to the aid of choking travelers in recent months. Chicago Bears linebacker Jerrell Freeman used the Heimlich maneuver to save a man choking on food at the Austin Airport in July. The man was eating barbecue at a restaurant in the airport at the time of the event, and Freeman noticed something was amiss when the man appeared to be in distress.
“I grabbed him and tried to squeeze the life out of him,”  Freeman told Chicago Tribune at the time. “You’ve got to push in and up. So I did that and he started throwing up what he was choking on. I asked him if he was all right and he shook his head like ‘No!’”
Talent agent Jeremy Barber, who works with a roster of famous clientele, reportedly saved a woman’s life aboard a recent Delta Air Lines flight. In this photo, writer David Seidler, producer Harvey Weinstein and agent Jeremy Barber attend a dinner hosted by Ann Barish for the Hamptons International Film Festival screening of 'The King's Speech' at 75 Main Restaurant on October 8, 2010 in Southampton, New York.  Photo: Photo by Matthew Peyton/Getty Images for The Weinstein Company


Using machines to read text as a way to enhance understanding of market movements is a topic of intense polarization and debate.
Back in the 90s, work on natural language processing (NLP) involved teams of linguists and computer scientists attempting to code up rules of grammar. Recent work has focused on techniques like word embedding, the underlying idea that a word is characterized by the company it keeps; semantic similarities between words are based on their distribution in large samples of data.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
The "bag of words" approach has been applied commercially in finance for more than 10 years. But it can depend on the source of information being analysed: a rule-based approach can work pretty well for news articles that follow certain editorial processes, while social media proves much more challenging.
Tom Doris, CEO at OTAS Technologies, takes a longer view of the technology's potential; he thinks asking an AI how to get better prediction of which stock is going to outperform may be the wrong question. In terms of efficiency, it certainly can be used to quickly reveal things that would take many years' experience and a carefully curated set of information sources to put together.
"What's exciting is we finally have the techniques that can look at entire economies and start to understand where the ebbs and flows are, and anticipate where the potential downturns or the potential resource constraints are going to be in future," he said.
"That's quite different to the hype around social media, which has really been focused on the low latency play and being the first to identify when Carl Icahn tweets something, or when the CEO of a company says something stupid — or the president, for that matter."
Doris, who holds a PhD in computer science, believes Twitter can be useful, but in a more limited domain. He said it doesn't contain the information to answer a lot of the questions that are interesting to traders, and it has proven extremely difficult to extract information from Twitter that eliminates enough of the noise for traders to be interested in it.
"Nothing really works very well with Twitter because basically there just isn't that much information in Twitter," said Doris. "I think where a lot of this stuff falls down – whether it's natural language processing or AI in general – people expect it to be able to extract information where there just fundamentally isn't that much information."
One approach to event trading with Twitter is using a so-called white list, where only verified company or influencer accounts have been used. Taking on the entire Twitter firehose may offer the wisdom of the crowd, but it's extremely noisy and can easily become very expensive from a trading point of view.
However, some experts can demonstrate that Twitter-based indicators substantially outperform the market over extended periods of time. Sentiment analytics company iSentium extracts actionable indictors from large amounts of unstructured social content. It points to independent research commissioned by Nasdaq and carried out by Lucena Research.
Gautham Sastri, CEO of iSentium, emphasized that his company does not use a bag of words approach. "Our team of linguists, led by Dr Anna Maria di Sciullo [post-doc from MIT, Fellow of the Royal Society] all have PhDs and have been working since 2008 to build a system that seeks to understand social media messages in a human-like way.
"If short messages are less valuable because they are brief and to the point, then how does one explain the extensive references in Churchill's History of the Second World War to telegrams that he sent and received? And why were so many resources expended on building the Enigma machine at Bletchley Park?
"I would argue the point that brevity is indeed the soul of wit; and low latency, combined with volume, can provide substantial edge when properly exploited."
Sastri went on to say that his company processes more volume of social content in a second than the entire New York Stock Exchange produces in a day. "For each tweet that we process, we generate 24 different fields that can provide deep insights regarding demography, geolocation, contagion, etc."
Even with replies and hashtags, Twitter is very disparate and lacks a strong sense of topic threading, says Doris. "You'd have much richer content if you looked at the archives of email within a company," he said. "From that you build up a much richer picture about how the different parts of the organisation interact and where the connectivity is and what topics people are discussing.
"For instance, analysis of thread length would tell you whether things are languishing – you just don't have that richness in Twitter. It's been very successful in part because it's so brief and to the point, but that makes it less valuable from an analysis point of view."
Peter Hafez, chief data scientist of big data analytics firm RavenPack, said investors are finding value in Twitter, but not as much as some people might think, and not as much as one you you might find looking at more traditional sources like news. "That said, I believe Twitter may get a second life as the technology knowledge graphs that are applied are becoming more advanced.
"Twitter is more about tracking consumer sentiment than about following the views of prophets. People tweet about the products they like or dislike, what they wish to buy, observed side effects caused by a given drug, etc.
"They don't necessarily tweet about the companies that own the products or a given subsidiary. For example, I might say that I love the new Q5, but I might leave out Audi, the owner of the product; and surely I would leave out Volkswagen, the owner of Audi, which would be the stock that I would have to buy if I wanted to trade the equities markets. You could of course have traded Audi's corporate bonds, skipping the link back to VW; tracking products in a point-in-time fashion is the hard part."
Today internal content is driving the discussion and many financial firms are looking to internal content such as email and instant messages like Slack, instant Bloomberg, Symphony, Skype and more for a competitive advantage.
Hafez added: "More traditional firms have started turning their emails and internal investment notes into actionable data points that can be used more directly within their investment process, basically making internal content more easily accessible within the organisation. It allows deeper understanding of where an organisation has a true competitive advantage over publicly available information."
Returning to a more macro picture of the world, Doris sees NLP technology dovetailing with human discretionary analysis, where the ability to quickly surface information algorithmically will be a fundamental sweet spot.
"It's about what will be the ultimate truths of the macro environment; are interest rates going to change significantly; is the money supply going to change significantly; do we think that there is going to be a significant change in the socio-economic or the global geo-political environment?" he said.
"That's the kind of stuff that you do need a human level of perception to understand whether it's a fad or actually the establishment of a long term trend."
And regarding firms publishing backtests of their signals, Doris pointed out that it's really important to know whether trading costs have been taken into account. "If you don't take into account trading costs, it is trivial to create a 'signal' that always makes money, e.g. by assuming you can instantly trade large volumes of stock whenever the main index future price moves and before the stocks catch up."


Albert Oliver, the founder of concierge services provider One Hundred (it's limited to 100 clients), says that about 30 percent of his wealthy clientele have made money from holding cryptocurrency. However, he has encountered a problem, as have his clients, should they decide they want to cash out their digital gains:  No bank will touch large amounts of cash exchanged for cryptocurrency.
"These people are typically early adopters, with a few investments in stock and shares and some other bits and pieces, who fancied a punt on Bitcoin," he said. "They may have stuck a few thousand in and even forgotten about it."
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
"We've got clients that are British citizens with U.K. bank accounts, with money stuck in Kraken or somewhere like that, and then want to bring it back into a U.K. bank account. But the banks are like, 'We're not touching it.'"
This has meant exploring banks in other jurisdictions, and generally feeling like money launderers, despite having done nothing wrong. "One client wants to use the million pounds he's made to buy a house," said Oliver, "but he can't get his money out."
Perhaps his client would be interested in a new, luxury property opportunity, open to holders of Bitcoin, being launched September 6.
Baroness Michelle Mone of Mayfair OBE and her business (and life) partner Doug Barrowman, the chairman of the Knox Group of Companies, have unveiled a luxury apartment complex called Aston Plaza in the heart of Dubai. You can buy one of these apartments directly with your Bitcoin, facilitated by BitPay, the well-known Bitcoin payments processor.
The $325 million development includes a large shopping mall and spans over 2.4 million square feet, split across two 40-story residential towers, containing 1,133 apartments.
Michelle Mone Interiors, another new venture, has handled much of the design, and Bitcoin can also be used to select a tailor-made interior package. Studio apartments will start in price from around 30 BTC, said a statement.
"Apartments have been sold before using Bitcoin, I believe, but there's never been a development on this sort of scale – £250million sold using Bitcoin. It's very exciting," Baroness Mone said.

 

How to spend your cryptocurrency gains. Baroness Mone and Doug Barrowman of Knox Group. Photo: IBTimes.co.UK
Barrowman, who has been investing in cryptocurrency and tokens for the past two years, said: "People are sitting on large gains that have been made in the crypto world over the last few years. So it's a great opportunity to turn it into a physical asset."
BitPay converts Bitcoins to U.S. dollars that are then transferred to the property development company in Dubai and held in an escrow account until completion. In terms of tax, there is a 4 percent land registry fee payable on purchase, said Barrowman.
"We have a dollar value for each of these apartments (dollars are pegged to Dubai dirhams, so it all fits in beautifully) and on the day on which they purchase it, we look at where Bitcoin is. BitPay will take care of the transactional side of it, but essentially the process in Dubai will be a conventional conveyancing process."
According to Coindesk's State of the Blockchain report, assets like real estate are returning about 9 percent, while cryptocurencies and tokens average at about 450 percent, suggesting you'd have to be mad to diversify.
Baroness Mone rightly pointed out that the crypto world is very volatile; the recent ICO ban from China wiped billions off the value of cryptocurrency tokens, for example.  "I think if you buy one of these apartments it's something you can touch, something you can have," she said. "We see big swings on a daily basis and who knows what might happen to Bitcoin in the future; no one quite knows. So this is an opportunity to put it into a hard backed asset."
A recent report by a Transparency International pointed out that buying property in places like London is a favorite way to launder squillions of dirty dollars. Given the perception around Bitcoin, this would seem to wave a rather large anti-money laundering (AML) flag.
On the subject of regulation, Barrowman pointed out that while Bitcoin is currently unregulated in most parts of the world, it's only really pseudonymous and actually leaves an indelible audit trail. "The reality is we are in an evolving world when it comes to cryptocurrency regulation. I think in three years' time it will be more heavily regulated," he said.
"The Isle of Man has the Designated Business Act so you have to know your client [KYC], source of funds, AML laws and that's only going to increase."
The Aston Plaza, Dubai Photo: IBTimes.co.UK
Timo Dijkstra, compliance director at BitPay has handled AML and KYC on large Bitcoin purchase transactions in the past, including boats and the occasional holiday home in Lake Tahoe.
He said that in terms of KYC, BitPay's primary role is to check out the merchant, Knox Group in this case. "We perform the due diligence on them. We make sure that we know that customer; that we know they have a good process in place; that they are dealing with all the legal and compliance aspects of their business," Dijkstra said.
"The other counterparty risk is really the responsibility of the merchant because it's their customer. But we also check that regularly. So when a high transaction goes through, we check the KYC documents for that transaction and ask what other checks were done. We look at the purpose of this transaction and what was the source of the funds.
"That's the traditional side. But with Bitcoin every transaction is recorded on a public ledger so everybody can see it. So we use blockchain analysis to make sure the incoming transaction is not linked in any way to nefarious sources, such as dark markets or related to ransomware for example," said Dijkstra.
"So that's the check we can do on our end to make sure that when someone is buying a house they didn't make that money with selling illegal goods or something like that."
Pawel Kuskowsk, iCEO of Coinfirm, which specializes in crypto compliance and analytics, echoed this, pointing out that because Bitcoin is decentralized and you don't have a bank in the middle, you carry the peer-to-peer risk exposure.
"So it's one party's job to understand who the counterparty is. The second part is, what is the risk associated with the source of funds.
"Maybe you do a check and it appears to be some person, an individual, who maybe bought some Bitcoin years ago and forgot about it, or didn't expect the value to go up so high, and now they want to buy a house. But in reality they have just hacked an exchange, or maybe it's not an individual at all, but money coming from ransomware."
Kuskowski said that while most cryptocurrency holders are legitimate businesses, out of every ten crypto transactions, about one will have come from questionable sources. He said there are about 200 different red flags in his system highlighting risky sources and exposures.
"If you want to accept new ways of payment, you need to manage the risk associated. There is no way you can cut the corners here. But there are tools out there; it's not rocket science."
Another approach to KYC is simply ensuring you know your customers really well. This is the approach being taken by Eleesa Dadiani, owner of Dadiani Fine Art Gallery in London, who recently started accepting cryptocurrencies to pay for art.

 

Eleesa Dadiani believes in blockchain. Photo: IBTimes.co.UK
Now she is about to launch Dadiani Syndicate, which will provide a whole range of very high luxury products that can be bought with crypto, including central London property, supercars, diamonds and bloodstocks.
Regarding KYC for her new venture, Dadiani said: "These people are not strangers. I need to know my clients personally. This is a really hyper-personalised service; it's a small line-up, definitely not an ecommerce site."
Dadiani is travelling to places like Singapore and China, in part to educate her clients about cryptocurrency, new tokens and the technology that underpins various use cases. She said there has been quite a bit of interest from her network of contacts in the U.S. and India; initially, she was targeting Russia.
She said: "We are the first platform in the U.K. that will trade bloodstock in cryptocurrency. The particular bloodstock fund I work with enjoys 40 percent returns; it's a very unusual structure they have got there. It's a passion investment as well as a practical one. Maybe in time we can convince some of our dealers to accept crypto and sit on it."
This perhaps touches on an obstacle facing any business offering people the chance convert their cryptocurrency into other assets. Because even in a crashing crypto bear market – what do you do? Those familiar with the expression 'I AM HODLING' know there's only one answer to that question.

I AM HODLING! How to answer the question of cryptocurrency in a crashing market. Photo: Pinterest

 


Update — Tuesday, Sept. 6 at 1:06 p.m. EDT:  After the story was published, a rep for Delta responded to International Business Times’ request for comment. The airline did not raise any prices because of the storm. “We have absolutely not been raising prices,” the rep said.
The discrepancy apparently happened after the traveler, Leigh Dow, tried to book her ticket through Expedia.com. When she spoke with Delta directly, they fixed the problem. “She was satisfied with the fare she got,” the rep said.
Moving forward, Delta encouraged anyone who wants to book a flight with their airline to go to Delta.com directly. They added extra flights from Florida and the south Caribbean to accommodate people who want to evacuate because of Hurricane Imra.
If passengers need to alter their travel plans, they will not be charged a fee because of the storm. “In addition to the waiver, the fares are stable and we have not increased them at all,” the rep said.
Finally, the rep noted Delta Air Lines has a partnership with the Red Cross “and we’re working with them to provide relief. We’re very active in those efforts,” the spokesperson said.
Original story:
Delta's in trouble again.
The airline was accused of “jacking” up the price of one of their flights nearly 600 percent after a traveler tried to book a flight out of Miami in the midst of Hurricane Irma Tuesday. Leigh Dow, a public relations executive, was trying to safely evacuate from the hurricane area and not pleased with the price gouging. She took to Twitter to vent her discontent to her nearly 19,000 followers.
Dow posted a screenshot of the price change. The photo showed her flight from Miami to Phoenix was raised from $547.50 to $3,258.50. “Jacking from $547 to over $3200 for people trying to evacuate responsibly?”
Shame on you @delta. Jacking from $547 to over $3200 for people trying to evacute responsibly? #IrmaHurricane pic.twitter.com/O2nfPHQUAh
— Leigh (@LeighDow) September 5, 2017
While talking to her followers, Dow said the flights out of Miami were apparently sold out. “I think they are probably sold out at this point. Seems to be the case across the industry,” she wrote when someone suggested she take another airline.
The post soon went viral on Twitter, garnering more than 30,000 reactions over 23,000 shares. Hundreds of people started to comment on Dow’s post. They slammed Delta.
They shud be fuckn free. They should be sending planes from everywhere to get these people this is sad.
— _LUVIN_ (@luvin_hester) September 6, 2017
Right! But then gone say "pray for them" once everybody dead, underwater, and missing _
— S.S. _ (@ReallyDGAFF) September 6, 2017
Horrible
— Heather Hunter (@heather_hunter) September 6, 2017
That is not cool @Delta! Help people, not screw them.
— Paul Abrahamian (@deadskulltweets) September 6, 2017
Delta like, "Just wait till you get in this flight." ___ pic.twitter.com/Ck5Sh5lSzu
— Falcon Travis (@TravisSelvidge) September 6, 2017
Delta soon responded to Dow to try to make amends. “Leigh, can you please message me more details regarding this! I would love to try and help,” the airline wrote.
Less than a half hour later, Delta helped Dow find a solution.
“The @Delta team explained how it happened, and another airline was also involved. That wasn't obvious to me. They intervened & helped us out,” she wrote. “.@Delta reached out & helped tremendously. Note to travelers, always call airline directly if something doesn't look right.#IrmaHurricane.”
International Business Times reached out to Delta for a statement, but did not immediately hear back.
Follow me on Twitter @mariamzzarella


The latest phase of the Utility Settlement Coin project, which aims to settle trades with a token linked to accounts at central banks, has seen the consortium expand.
Barclays, CIBC, Credit Suisse, HSBC, MUFG and State Street are the latest participants; the project began life with UBS and the other early stage members are BNY Mellon, Deutsche Bank, Santander, NEX. The technology is being built by UK-based start-up Clearmatics.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
This third phase of the project is expected to run for about 12 months. Following that we can expect to see the first live collateralised token exchange using the platform, which could occur as soon as the end of 2018, according to Hyder Jaffrey, UBS director of strategic investment and fintech innovation.
Not much has been said about the technology underlying the USC project. Robert Sams, Clearmatics CEO, who favours blockchain technology inspired by Ethereum for the Cleamatics decentralised clearing system, confirmed USC is built on something similar. "It's an Ethereum-like architecture rather than UTXO/Bitcoin-like," he said in an email. Asked if it would comprise a single monolithic chain or a series of cross-connected chains, he explained: "Multiple chains. We will be making some announcements about our approach to interoperability in due course. It will be based on open standards and open source implementations."
Privacy is a big problem for industrial-grade blockchains that handle sensitive information. Clearmatics has leveraged ring signatures to develop a privacy solution called Mobius. Ring signatures are a type of zero knowledge proof for set membership, often associated with things like anonymous voting and whistleblowing.
At a recent Enterprise Ethereum Alliance meet-up, Clearmatics blockchain engineer Matthew Di Ferrante explained how Mobius could be used for payments. He pointed out that it has less in the way of untested cryptographic assumptions than zk-SNARKs and less computational overhead. It can handle tens of thousands of transactions a second, he said.
It is interesting that USC is being developed at the same time as CLS is developing CLSNet, a new automated payments netting service for FX trades based on the Hyperledger Fabric distributed ledger platform. It is clear that regulators and central banks are entertaining the idea of new peer-to-peer infrastructure, including as new services operated by market infrastructure incumbents.
One of the new banks to join USC is Barclays. Dr Lee Braine of Barclays Investment Bank's CTO Office reiterated that Barclays had just joined the USC project and so would begin its architectural reviews of aspects such as data privacy, scalability, interoperability with existing infrastructure, etc.
He said that as well as potential benefits with capital efficiency and risk reduction based around shortening the settlement life cycle, there may also be broader gains from an industry architecture perspective. "The current capital markets ecosystem comprises a highly complex technological landscape with many different systems interacting via many different data feeds. A proportion of the industry processes in place are effectively workarounds to support the fact that there often isn't instant settlement finality. The innovative thinking is that, if you could have a utility token permitting settlement finality, then you may also be able to simplify that ecosystem in order to reduce costs and reduce risk."
The use case roadmap for USC is likely to start with payments and then add other transactions in the longer term.
"The potential value obtained from such utility tokens could eventually be broadened and extended by going beyond payments to also include more complex transaction types where you are looking for an atomic swap of different asset classes," added Braine.
"A good example would be delivery versus payment (DvP), where one leg of the transaction could potentially be the payment as a USC token denominated in a particular currency, and the other leg could be the security. Additional benefits are likely to accrue when both legs can settle instantly with finality, as opposed to just one leg - the payment - and the other leg taking longer."
Harder challenges could include efficient multi-party netting on a blockchain and perhaps even the use of utility token by clearing houses. However, Braine pointed out that efficient securities netting would remain a challenge for distributed ledger technology (DLT) in general for some time to come. He explained: "Remember that no single netting solution is perfect for all scenarios, with one example reason being the unavoidable trade-off between settlement frequency and settlement efficiency."
Braine said that while some have proposed that efficient securities netting could be performed in a completely decentralised manner, he remains sceptical. "I think for certain netting optimisations, you need to effectively temporarily centralise an aspect of the algorithm in order to perform the equivalent of a batch exercise. That's not necessarily incompatible with a distributed ledger, it just means you may need to pass control to a trusted entity for a short while – whether that's a broadly-trusted node on the distributed ledger or perhaps a trusted oracle."
Regarding blockchains and digital currency, the central banking world has been quite vocal. There has been research by the Bank of England (including some work in association with UCL), Bank of Canada, MAS for Singapore, while the People's Bank of China has opened a Digital Currency Research Institute.
But despite this enthusiasm, issuing a central bank digital currency would probably take years to happen, and so something like the USC, which is focused on major currencies, has the potential to be deployed in the meantime.
But of course to move this project forward may mean loosening a Gordian Knot: a whole layering of agreements, whether they be network agreements, counterparty agreements, and jurisdictions under which these agreements are governed and supervised by regulators.
Peter Randall, CEO of rival blockchain settlement solution SETL, queried: "Would a deposit in the name of a USC account at a central bank be sufficient for global regulators to agree that any bank using this route would be allowed to relax the capital treatment of their obligations towards each other by an equal and opposite amount?"


Lego can't build itself out every dilemma.
The famed toymaker announced Tuesday it would cut 1,400 jobs before the end of 2017. The job cuts, which equates to 8 percent of the company's employee roster, are a result of a drop in profit and sales accumulated through the first half of the year.
The Danish family-owned company's revenue has fallen by 5 percent. Lego's operating profit is reportedly down by 6 percent and its net profit decreased by 3 percent. The toymaker's total revenue also declined by 5 percent, which doesn't compare to the Lego's earnings from the first half of 2016.
"We are losing momentum and productivity — and it's a warning light of declining competitiveness and thus adaptability," a representative from the Lego Group told International Business Times Tuesday. "Ultimately, this can lead to stagnation or even a decline. We cannot allow this to happen.
"We are already taking steps to regain momentum in markets like the U.S. and Europe and will work with our partners to do this. This is however not a quick fix, and may take a few years to materialize," the company added.
"We have added complexity into the organization which now, in turn, makes it harder for us to grow further," Lego chairman Jorgen Vig Knudstorp said in a press release. "As a result, we have now pressed the reset-button for the entire Group.
"We are working closely with our partners and we are confident that we have the long-term potential of reaching more children in our well-established markets in Europe and the United States. We also see strong growth opportunities in growing markets such as China." 
Lego's decision to create a smaller business and organization will ultimately simplify its business model. The European toymaker believes this will, in turn, help the company to better reach its target market.
All terminated employees will receive a severance package. The package will include job transition to a position outside the company, among other unlisted benefits.
Niels Christiansen officially becomes CEO on Oct. 1, replacing interim CEO Bali Padda.
Lego, which is owned by the Kirk Kristiansen family, began making wooden toys in 1932. The company's most recognizable product is the red Lego brick, which was first unveiled in 1958. However, the toymaker came under pressure to keep with the times as electronic toys became a hot commodity. 
Lego hasn't experienced an annual revenue setback in 13 years.
Lego, pictured November 9, 2015 in London, England, is looking to simply its functions after loss in profit and sales.  Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


An American Airlines flight to Seattle was forced to return to Miami International Airport on Friday after the plane was struck by lightning, according to reports. Several other flights were reportedly grounded the same evening as a result of inclement weather.
“The flight landed safely, we swapped to a new aircraft, and the flight re-departed,” the airline told International Business Times in a brief statement Tuesday. American Airlines added that aircraft are engineered to be resistant to lightning strikes.
Marc Henderson, a spokesperson for Miami International Airport,  told ABC-affiliate WPLG no passengers were hurt during the incident. According to the news outlet, “Miami-Dade Fire Rescue was prepared for a hazardous situation, but Henderson said they were only there as a precaution.”

http://www.nbcmiami.com/portableplayer/?cmsID=442525753&amp;videoID=jCJlTa4e3CNT&amp;origin=nbcmiami.com&amp;sec=news&amp;subsec=local&amp;fullWidth=y ">
According to  Boeing’s website, lightning strikes to aircraft are relatively common. While damage to planes is rare, Boeing notes that “the result can range from no damage to serious damage that requires extensive repairs that can take the airplane out of service for an extended period of time.”
“The frequency of lightning strikes that an airplane experiences is affected by several factors, including the geographic area where the airplane operates and how often the airplane passes through takeoff and landing altitudes, which is where lightning activity is most prevalent,” the website noted.
In terms of frequently, the  Scientific American reported in 2001 that each craft in the United States commercial fleet is hit by lightning more than one a year without any significant incident. The report went on to note that the last confirmed incident in which a plane crashed after being struck by lightning occurred in 1967, when a lightning bolt struck an aircraft and caused a fuel tank explosion.
But modern flyers needed worry, experts say.
“Airplanes have been designed for years to deal with lightning strikes pretty well,” William Voss, the president and CEO of the Flight Safety Foundation,  told CNN in 2010. “Since the 1930s, it's been clearly understood that aircraft will be subjected to lightning strikes, so they're sort of designed to take it.”
Voss added: “[T]hey do it by basically making sure there's a conductive path so that the lightning runs around the skin of the aircraft. It is dissipated out safely through points that have static wicks [antenna-like devices on wingtips] and so on, things that help the electricity flow around the aircraft and back out to the atmosphere.”
An American Airlines flight to Seattle was forced to return to Miami International Airport on Friday after the plane was struck by lightning. In this photo, lightning is seen through the window of a Malaysian Airlines plane over the Kuala Lumpur city. Photo: SAEED KHAN/AFP/Getty Images


An airline is now apologizing to a disabled man whose wheelchair was destroyed while traveling with the carrier. Andy Latham and his wife, Kerry Latham, claim that the specialized wheelchair was severely damaged while being loaded onto their Ryanair flight from Birmingham Airport in England.
The airline told International Business Times in a brief statement Tuesday that its service representatives were working with the couple to get the issue resolved.
“We regret any inconvenience caused by our handling agents (Swissport) at Birmingham Airport, and our customer service team are liaising with this customer to resolve this matter directly,” the airline said.
Andy Latham was partially paralyzed two years ago after suffering a brain hemorrhage,  BBC News reported Sunday. The Warwickshire-based couple was headed for Alicante, Spain, for vacation at the time of the incident. Andy Latham’s custom-made wheelchair, on which he is dependent, was reportedly destroyed while being loaded onto the plane as the two were en route to their destination.

“Andy depends on the wheelchair, so of course I’m feeling upset to see his wheelchair in pieces,” Kerry Latham told BBC News.
The couple said they spent hundreds of euros during their vacation to secure a wheelchair. Kerry Latham also said that they were contacted by the airline while they were in Spain at their UK phone number, meaning that they weren’t able to take the calls. Ryanair also reportedly sent an email to the couple apologizing for the handling of the chair. But Kerry Latham said she’s been having to “chase” both the carrier and Swissport to get a resolution.
“Somebody needs to replace the wheelchair,” Kerry Latham said.
It could take up to three months for Andy Latham to receive another chair that suits his medical needs, but the couple is renting one in the meantime.
Ryanair came under fire earlier this year for its customer service provided to another wheelchair-dependant customer. A 20-year-old student with Friedreich's Ataxia was left at a Dublin airport after being detained because of her chair and was allegedly asked to walk up stairs “for easiness’ sake.”
“I thought, how dare they ask a person in a wheelchair that question?”  Niamh Herbert told the Guardian in February.
She added: “I was visibly distraught and a few people in the airport came up to me, asked me if they could help or buy me tea, but Ryanair staff barely spoke to me.”
“While we regret any inconvenience, this customer arrived at the boarding gate 13 minutes before the flight was due to depart and had not booked any wheelchair services,” Ryanair later said in a statement. “Our crew provided full assistance and as a gesture of goodwill, transferred this customer on to the next available flight, free of charge, and the customer flew to London Stansted. Had this customer booked wheelchair assistance and arrived at the boarding gate on time, there would have been no issue.”


An American Airlines Boeing 767 made an emergency landing Monday at Norfolk International Airport (ORF) in Norfolk, Virginia, due to the aircraft's mechanical errors. No injuries were sustained by its 192 passengers crew members upon landing.
An electrical odor was detected on the aircraft of Flight 235. This caused the airline crew to plan for an unscheduled stop. The flight was heading to Miami International Airport from John F. Kennedy International Airport. 
"The flight diverted due to a mechanical issue," Rob Feinstein, an American Airlines press representative, told International Business Times Tuesday. "The flight landed safely and taxied to the gate. Passengers were accommodated on another aircraft to Miami."
"On Monday, American Airlines flight #235, a Boeing 767 from JFK to Miami, diverted to Norfolk, VA after the pilot reported smelling smoke in the cockpit. The aircraft landed without further incident," a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) representative told IBT Tuesday.
There was no presence of smoke or fire on the plane despite the smell, said American Airlines spokesperson Katie Cody, according to Nexstar Broadcasting affiliate WAVY-TV.
American Airlines isn't the first carrier to encounter a questionable odor on its aircraft. United Airlines experienced a similar electrical odor issue in July 2014 on a flight heading from Guam from Honolulu. Approximately 335 passengers and 13 airline employees were deserted on a remote Midway Island for seven hours. David Soucie, a former FAA inspector and CNN safety analyst, explained what leads to mechanical incidents like this on CNN's "New Day."
"It's actually ozone," Soucie told the show's hosts. "Extended exposure can be harmful to your lungs, your mouth. It can make you very irritated."
Airline passengers who have experienced ozone's odor have equated it to smoke or burning. These mechanical errors occur by arcing, which is defined as the movement between two electrodes caused by electrical currents in the air. Arcing can also occur in nature through lightning. Failure, like an internal short, within an aircraft's fan could potentially create sparks. This, in turn, would lead to the smoky ozone smell. 
Flight delays, like the issue of American Airlines Flight 235, are a common problem passengers may endure. However, airlines can't and don't guarantee flight arrival schedules because unanticipated delays can occur that are out of a carrier's control. This causes airlines to make emergency defers because of mechanical malfunctions or other common complications. 
Compensation for customers experiencing extensive delays is not a requirement that airlines have to follow. This, in part, is due to the lack of government regulation.
"Each airline has its own policies about what it will do for delayed passengers waiting at the airport; there are no federal requirements," the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDT) wrote on its website. "Some airlines, often those charging very low fares, do not provide any amenities to stranded passengers. Others may not offer amenities if the delay is caused by bad weather or something else beyond the airline's control."
"Compensation is required by law on domestic trips only when you are 'bumped' from a flight that is oversold. On international itineraries, passengers may be able to recover reimbursement under Article 19 of the Montreal Convention for expenses," USDT added. 
American Airlines aircraft, pictured September 1, 2017 in Washington, DC., had to make an emergency landing at Norfolk International Airport due to a mechanical error.  Photo: Getty Images


The old story of the American Dream is pretty straightforward: You work hard in school, develop skills and then get a job that provides decent wages and solid benefits. It was a dream that was actually realized by millions of people a generation or two ago — but journalist Rick Wartzman says the dream is increasingly out of reach because of a radically altered relationship between employers and employees, and also because of the new  supremacy of shareholders over community stakeholders.
Wartzman is a former Wall Street Journal reporter whose new book is called “The End of Loyalty: The Rise and Fall of Good Jobs In America.” In a podcast interview with International Business Times, he discussed how huge corporations once took responsibility for providing for their workers and retirees. But over the last 30 or 40 years, he argues, the fundamental relationship between companies and their workers changed in a way that began prioritizing shareholder returns and corporate profits over everything else.
Subscribers can click here to listen to the whole podcast. What follows is an excerpt of the discussion.
What was the typical experience for workers at major corporations in the mid-20th century – and how does that differ from today?
The experience was much different than today fundamentally in this way — or these ways, I should say. Job security was much stronger than today even down to folks on the front lines. Pay was rising and it rose markedly from the late 1940's, mid-to-late 40's after World War II, all the way up until the early 70's. And benefits were rising as well where there was a very small percentage, 15 percent, 20 percent of workers who had basic healthcare coverage, for example, in the late 40's that would rise to over 70 percent by the early 70's. Pension coverage, there were actually things called pensions back then where people were guaranteed a set amount of income after they retired for all of their days.
In many ways, to me, that was the fullest expression of the social contract between employer and employee. It was built on this expectation of lifelong loyalty between the parties. About half of the American workforce would end up with a defined benefit pension plan. In terms of your pocketbook issues, corporate America had created this kind of private welfare state almost where they really took good care of you.
In providing better wages and benefits to workers, were corporate CEOs just nicer back then? Or were they forced to provide those better wages and benefits  because unions were stronger a few generations ago? 
I wouldn't say CEOs were nicer. I don't think they were nicer, but I do think that there was an important element of culture writ large that played a very important role coming out of the Depression and World War II. There was definitely more of a "we" culture in American society than an "I" culture. And CEOs did talk much more explicitly about needing to balance the interest of all of their stakeholders, not just take care of their shareholders.
There really was a different ethic at that time, and I think that corporate cultural norms reflected and reinforced these bigger societal norm. I think that was an element but you are absolutely right. I spent a lot of time early in the book talking about the role of unions, of organized labor. Jim Carey from the electrical workers and Walter Reuther from the autoworkers are major figures in my narrative because just as you say, a lot of the pay and benefits were hard won and hard fought for, often with blood spilled by unions.
I think the lesson there is that at that time and rising up through the 50's — when about 25 percent to 35 percent of the private sector workforce in America carries a union card —  there was enough of a countervailing power to make a difference not only for those in unions but there was, well-documented by scholars, this tremendous spillover effect to the rest of the economy. Other blue collar workers saw their pay and benefits rise by the gains won at the bargaining table through these big industrial unions.
And even white collar workers, often their benefits were patterned after what the unions were able to win. Unions very much helped to forge the social contract and lift all boats. Now, when we're at a point where less than 7 percent of the private sector workforce is a unionized. There just isn't that countervailing power and there's no longer that spillover effect that helps lift up everybody.
Henry Ford was famous for promoting the idea that its good to pay workers well so they can buy your company’s product. That doesn’t seem to be the corporate ideology today. When and how did that change?
This idea is the virtuous cycle that Henry Ford famously kicked off in some ways — at least symbolically — by raising his workers' wages from a dollar a day to $5 a day overnight. Lo and behold, suddenly, they could afford to buy cars. They could buy Fords. That was a very common sentiment among top business executives through the 40's and 50's and even into the 60's. There's a quote in my book from Charlie Wilson, the president of General Electric, who says, "How are they going to buy my refrigerators if I don't give them good enough wages do it with?"
They got this idea and again, you look at today. Some like Larry Summers are warning about secular stagnation, meaning we just may not be paying across the economy workers enough with wages flat for decades on in for 80 percent of the workforce. We may be not putting enough dough in their pockets to keep the economy humming, so there is real concern. What got lost between then and now, the great shift, I think, they're all kinds of forces that change the social contract.
Automation and technology, globalization and trade with low wage competitors around the world, the shift from blue collar work where you could get a job with a high school degree or even less: hard, backbreaking work, often dirty. But it put you on a path to the middle class. You could make decent money and have health and retirement security. The fracturing of jobs into temp work and all those things. There are a lot of big forces that have happened over the decades.
But the real philosophical shift was going from that stakeholder model that I spoke of, balancing the interest of all stakeholders. Shareholders, yes, but workers and customers and communities you operated in. And again, CEOs talked about that very explicitly to going by really the mid 70's and then the kicking off really in the 80's and through the 90's and accelerating to today, a very different model where now, it's all about maximizing shareholder value. Companies have decided very explicitly to put investors above all those other stakeholder groups, and when you do that, it's just a matter of math. Workers don't fare as well.
Were there some key moments and key people that hastened the shift you are describing?
Yeah. There were some. One, a lot of the weaknesses in American business were exposed by the recession in the early 70's that are actually back-to-back recessions. It was the period of stagflation, this incredible, double wallop of high unemployment and high inflation that would kick in and really plague the country for quite a long time. That's sort of signaled that, again, the American corporation would no longer be as dominant as it was on the world stage and that was certainly a hastening factor. A lot of people mark 1973 and the recession then and the oil crisis in a period where productivity began to decline and wages for the first time in real terms began to decline, as an important marker.
The other one was in terms of the philosophical shift that accompanied this was two things. Milton Friedman, the famous University of Chicago economist, who wrote a very famous piece in 1970 in the New York Times magazine where he laid out that the social responsibility, his words, of a business was only one — and that was for executives to act as the agents of the shareholders and to do their bidding and to do the one thing they cared about, and he said that was to make as much money as possible. He said that for an executive to do anything else was, he very explicitly said to try and create more employment, that that was pure and unadulterated socialism, I think were the exact words that he used in the piece.
Friedman started to give intellectual cover to investors and to business leaders to shift from this stakeholder model to this maximizing shareholder value model. That was then picked up by a large group of academics on the business side. Most importantly, there was a paper written in 1976 by Michael Jensen and William Meckling then at the University of Rochester School of Management. Jensen became the biggest proponent of this agency theory as it's called, that managers need to be the agents of the shareholders. That's their job. He went on to Harvard and they wrote a paper, Jensen and Meckling, that became the most cited academic business paper of all time. Again, that was its theme, that maximizing shareholder value was the thing for executives to do.
What about the role of technology and automation — how has that changed the social contract between workers and employers? 
I think of technology in two ways. One is just automation so that is something that's been accelerating over, obviously, human history but in sort of the context of the story arc I'm talking about. Certainly, since the 1950's, by the mid to late 50's, companies like General Electric were automating factories as well as their back office operations and putting in these giant computer systems.
We tend to think that America doesn't manufacture anything anymore. It's not true. Industrial output is actually higher than it was in the 50's. It just takes a lot fewer hands to do it. We don't need that many people. In some ways, it's analogous to what happened in agriculture. We produced a lot of food but how many farmers do you know? Most of it has been automated. So, one Fed study said that what took a thousand people to make in the 1950's, now takes somewhere between 150 and 200, and that's only increasing today; there's just not that many people around. You look at pictures of factories in the 1950's, they're full of people doing stuff.
That's had a huge impact, and again, sort of hastened the shift. If you're lucky enough and you can afford to have a good education and you get some skills, you become a knowledge worker and you can by and large do pretty well in this economy. But kind of their poor cousins or low wage service workers, we've kind of taken away these jobs in the middle. A lot of talk of economists is the hollowing out of the middle and that's what they're talking about.
Then, the other technological piece is very much, as you talk about, is that it has allowed companies to effectively extend their reach to overseas to the cheapest labor markets that there are. There's a book, it's academic. Richard Baldwin wrote it, "The Great Convergence," where he sees that only accelerate, that lots of things will be able to be done very, very cheaply because we can zip information around all over the place and go where the labor is cheapest.
Is Silicon Valley playing a positive or negative role for workers in the 21st century? 
To me, Silicon Valley is emblematic of exactly the split that I'm talking about. At one end, you have these incredibly well-compensated jobs for knowledge workers, coders, engineers, data scientists. You work at Google and if you're an employee there, life is sweet. It's good. You can get, what, a Foosball table in your office and get free sushi and stuff. It's fantastic. But there's this whole other part of the economy there which is the fastest growing part.
That part in the former camp, I think the average wage, depending what data you look at, but it's $120,000 a year or something like that. They're good jobs. At the other end are jobs were people are making on average about $20,000 a year in a very expensive place to live and these are mostly temp jobs or gig work, independent contractors. They're 1099 employees, not W2 employees; 1099 workers and they have no benefits, so I say their pay is terrible. They are mostly Black and Latino and these are the people who are the shuttle bus drivers and the groundskeepers and the janitors and the security guards, often at very big high-tech headquarter complexes, some of which are now being built. New ones are springing up all over that region. You have this just tremendous divide between those on the high end and those on the low end…
The other important thing is on that high end, there's just not that many jobs that are created. Again, they're terrific jobs but the BLS [Bureau of Labor Statistics] data suggests there's something like a million software developers in the U.S. There are many times more that fast food workers and janitors and home healthcare aides who all of whom make less than $25,000 a year. Those knowledge worker jobs are great but Silicon Valley just doesn't create that many jobs.
What do you think can be done to rebuild a stronger social contract between employers and employees — one that is better for workers? 
One thing I think we need to do is create portable benefits for those independent workers. I don't want to overblow this. Those in this kind of contingent jobs and this would include temp workers as well as independent contractors and on-call contract workers and so on, it's really about your very inflated numbers that's half the workforce and things like that. It's really not, depending on how you measure it. It's somewhere between 15 percent or 16 percent of the workforce. Those are the best numbers that I've seen…
It goes up to maybe 30 percent or 35 percent of the workforce if you include people who have a regular job but then, work at least once a week in some kind of, drive an Uber, whatever, on the side regularly to make ends meet. We need to increase benefits for them, portable benefits that people can take from gig to gig. And there are some interesting, at this point unfortunately small, kind of nods in that direction in New York State and Washington State but it's not nearly enough going on.
We need to really make sure we're enforcing the labor standards that are out there, particularly for those in low wage work. And what I mean by that is that, David Weil who was in the Obama administration labor department has done a ton on work on this in his, what he called the fissured workplace where people are in all these subcontracting roles and fast food franchises, that there's a lot of people who suffer wage thefts. You see their schedules get jerked around in a very dehumanizing way, in a way that makes it hard for them to plan and to take care of their kids. We just have to do a way better job of enforcing the laws on the books and unfortunately, we won't get that in the Trump administration that's calling for the labor department budget to shrink by more than 20 percent.
We need to do a much better job there. We need a true living wage across this country and I'd love to then see it indexed to inflation so we can stop fighting about this all the time…
We really need to rethink from top to bottom education. Training and education is not a magic bullet. It won't solve everything but again, we are in a knowledge age. We are leaving a huge numbers of people behind. Half the adults, slightly more than half in this country, don't have any kind of post-secondary education, not a four-year degree, not a two-year degree, not any kind of technical certificate.
It's really hard to make it in this economy, in this society now, without that and we do not do a good job at all of preparing people for lifelong learning. They're going to have to keep learning and keep going to school and keep getting new skills. We need to really rethink how we do that. Policy-wise, if I could do one thing, that would be the moonshot. 
Then, the last thing I would say because I think it's so important, policy is hugely important. Government has a huge role to play, but we have to put pressure on companies to shift their philosophy, their mindset, their culture and norms away from this maximizing shareholder value model.
There are some ways we can do this as investors, as customers, putting our dollars into companies that treat their people well and there's an increasing number of digital tools where we can peek behind the curtain and see how companies pay and treat their workers. We need to pressure companies into thinking about their workers as assets again.


Would-be flyers were temporarily stranded in Paris on Monday after a passenger spotted a scorpion aboard a Glasgow-bound flight. The plane, which was departing from Charles de Gaulle Airport, was delayed overnight in order to be fumigated.
“We were about to board, and as we were at the bottom of the gate a cleaner came out and said she saw a scorpion run up the inside of the plane, over the seats and back down again,” Glasgow resident Jimmy Smith, 62,  told the Daily Record. “They're being quiet about it now, but as we were passing a guy who was taking boarding passes I heard him say there was a scorpion.”
“We only found out about everything through the easyJet app. At first it was delayed until 4pm, then 7pm, 8pm,” passenger Graham Mckinnon  told the Guardian. “[I] overheard someone at the desk ask what was happening and they were told the plane was needing a clean. Then heard it was a broken chair, before the app released a picture stating it was in fact a scorpion that had been found.”
According to Mckinnon, the carrier’s app notification read: “We were hoping that we would be able to continue with your flight today but we were informed that a scorpion was sighted on board your plane.”
It wasn’t immediately clear how the arachnid got on the plane, though  rats and other pests are known to board flights by following the storage cases in which food trays are kept. Scorpions have also boarded flights in luggage and clothing.
“I've no idea how it got on, they were saying something about people taking stuff through in glass containers to take somewhere else — and that's how it got out,” he told the Daily Record.
The airline said that passengers were being offered hotel accommodations for the inconvenience. It also released a statement about the incident and confirmed that a passenger had indeed spotted the scorpion.
“We can confirm that a passenger reported to crew that a scorpion was on board. The safety and comfort of our passengers and crew is always our highest priority so, as a precaution, the aircraft will be fumigated before its next flight,” the airline said. “Although this is outside of our control, we would like apologise for any inconvenience to passengers.”
Monday’s incident isn’t the only report in recent months of uninvited scorpions boarding passenger planes. A similar incident occurred in May aboard a United Airlines flight, which was delayed for hours at the George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston after the  arachnid clawed out from a passenger’s clothing. During another incident in April — also aboard a United Airlines craft — a  scorpion fell from an overhead bin and landed in a man’s hair. He was stung after attempting to pick it up.
EasyJet did not immediately return International Business Times’ request for comment.
A scorpion recently stranded EasyJet passengers in Paris after it was discovered on a flight. In this photo, a rare six-inch Asian Emperor Scorpion is seen in Taipei. Photo: SAM YEH/AFP/Getty Images


Stealing is against the law, unless, of course, the “offender” has permission from one of the world’s largest companies. Victims of Hurricane Harvey are short on water, so Coca-Cola allowed two men to break into their facility in Beaumont, Texas, to “steal” 14 cases of bottled water Saturday, USA Today reported Monday.
There were thousands of bottles of fresh water at Coca-Cola’s warehouse, but flooding prevented the company from distributing it. They informed Beaumont’s Fire Department, who then turned to Bill Zang, the president of the Hovercraft Unlimited Company. He waded through the flooded streets of Beaumont at 60 miles per hour on his hovercraft to recover the drinking water.
READ: Joel Osteen Refuses To Shelter Houston Harvey Victims In Church, Twitter Claims
Zang happily took on the task, bringing along his friend, Sam Byers and a hand saw and hammer. They were able to break the lock and successfully find water. “This is so much fun!” said Byers.
Getting free water might have been one of the lighter moments, but rescuers spend their days checking empty houses to make sure they’re evacuated. While occasionally they’re able to save a pet, sometimes they come across a dead body.
Volunteers and officers from the neighborhood security patrol helping to rescue residents in the upscale River Oaks neighborhood after it was inundated due to Hurricane Harvey in Houston, Texas, Aug. 27, 2017. Photo: Getty Images / Scott Olson
After Hurricane Harvey wreaked devastation on Texas, Zang left his home in Rockport, Illinois with two of his hovercrafts to help the victims. At least 50 people were killed by the storm that left tens of thousands displaced.
“I have no idea when we got here,” Zang told USA Today. “What was that, two days ago? Four? The days all start running together after a while.” He added: “There is still a lot of work to do.”
One person who didn’t leap out to help victims was televangelist Joel Osteen. While Houston residents braved the storm, Osteen tweeted from the comfort of his home. The doors of his church, an arena that could seat nearly 17,000 people, remained closed days after Harvey flooded Houston. It wasn’t until Osteen faced mass criticism on social media that he decided to aid in the relief effort.
Osteen claimed in a Sunday sermon that he didn’t do anything wrong — that those who spoke against him were merely naysayers who wanted to see him and Lakewood Church flounder.
WATCH: Pastor Ed Young Defends Joel Osteen For ‘Refusing’ Harvey Victims
“I’m a peace with taking the heat for being precautious. But I don’t want to take the heat for being foolish. It’s easy for people to make judgments from a distance without having all the information,” he said.
“Some people that don’t know the facts and don’t want to know the facts will continue to try to stir things up,” Osteen said. “They would love to discredit the ministry and lessen our voice, but can I tell ya, they’re not that strong. The forces that are for us are great than the forces that are against us.”
After Osteen posted the video of his sermon to Facebook, he took to Twitter to finish his response. “Be of good cheer. Nothing is a surprise to Him. God has already armed you with strength for every battle,” he tweeted. “Don’t give up when it’s hard, when life’s not fair. Have faith in the middle. He will bring you through it.”
Coca-Cola allowed two men to "steal" water from their flooded warehouse in Beaumont, Texas. Pictured: Employees load purchased water into a customer's car.  Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @mariamzzarella


Less than a month after its unsuccessful attempt to purchase the Chicago Sun-Times, Tronc, a Chicago-based company, acquired the Pulitzer-Prize winning tabloid, The New York Daily News.
The announcement of the acquisition came Monday. Tronc purchased The Daily News for only $1 million and the assumption of operational and pension liabilities, Chicago Tribune reported.
Tronc is the publisher of The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune among other news outlets, and was formerly known as Tribune Publishing.
"We are excited to welcome the New York Daily News team to the tronc family, and we look forward to working with them to serve new audiences and marketers while delivering value for our shareholders," stated a press release from Tronc, quoting its CEO Justin Dearborn.
"As part of the tronc portfolio, the New York Daily News will provide us with another strategic platform for growing our digital business, expanding our reach and broadening our services for advertisers and marketers," Dearborn added.
The deal brought to an end the 25-year ownership of The Daily News by Mortimer B. Zuckerman, who had bought the paper out of bankruptcy in 1993 for $36 million in cash, reports said. 
Along with Zuckerman, Fred Drasner also owned The Daily News, however, he left the company in 2004. 
The Daily News was currently going through tough times, characterized by sweeping layoffs. In the 1940s, it used to have a circulation of more than two million a day, but in recent times it had been reduced to just a few hundred thousands. 
According to  the Daily News Zuckerman had started considering the option of selling the newspaper from 2015, when he informed The News' staff in an email: “A few weeks ago, we were approached about our potential interest in selling the Daily News. Although there were no immediate plans to consider a sale, we thought it would be prudent to explore the possibility and talk to potential buyers and/or investors."
Zuckerman put the publication on sale that year itself and received offers from several wealthy businessmen, including supermarket magnate John A. Catsimatidis.
However, the business tycoon later reconsidered his decision of selling the paper by taking it off the market, the New York Times reported.
Zuckerman is a Canadian-born American businessman whose interests predominantly lie in magazines, publishing, and real estate. He is now a naturalized citizen of the U.S.
He graduated from Harvard Business School, but remained in the university as an associate professor for the next nine years. After that, he also taught at Yale University. He also spent seven years at the real estate firm Cabot, Cabot & Forbes, where he did well and became senior vice president and chief financial officer, according to his biography.
In 1980, he bought the literary magazine The Atlantic Monthly and was the chairman from 1980 to 1999 before selling it to David G. Bradley for US$12 million. In 1984, he bought U.S. News & World Report.
In 2008, he was named the 147th wealthiest American; in 2007, he was the 188th richest man, his biography said citing Forbes.
 


A fight broke out aboard a recent Ryanair flight from England to Spain in an incident that saw both male and female passengers throwing punches during the brawl. The airline said following the Thursday incident that a passenger involved in the fight has been banned from flying with the carrier for life.
It wasn’t clear Monday what spurred the incident, though video seems to indicate the fight started with an argument between a man and a woman seated in a row behind him. Tensions apparently hit a boiling point shortly before the plane touched down in Alicante.

“It was just as we were about to land when the woman started kicking off,” 30-year-old Lucy Norris of Blyth, Northumberland,  told the Chronicle Live. “She was shouting, screaming and making a show of herself. She had been rude to a few people on the flight and I think she was mortal drunk.”
Norris added that police were reportedly made aware of the in-flight melee but did not board the flight to remove the woman from the cabin immediately upon landing. According to the witness, “They were waiting there as we got off.”
Ryanair — an Irish budget carrier and Europe’s largest short-haul airline —  issued a statement this week addressing the incident.
“The crew of this flight from Newcastle to Alicante requested police assistance upon arrival after a passenger became disruptive inflight. The aircraft landed normally and the passenger was met by police,” the airline said. “We will not tolerate unruly or disruptive behaviour at any time and the safety and comfort of our customers, crew and aircraft is our number one priority. This passenger has been banned from flying with Ryanair and this is now a matter for local police.”
The carrier added, “This is exactly why we are calling for significant changes to prohibit the sale of alcohol at airports, such as a two-drink limit per passenger and no alcohol sales before 10am.”
Ryanair has been a vocal proponent of the crackdown on alcohol sales at airports and before flights. Amid a hike in arrests pertaining to alcohol-related incidents, the airline called for a ban on early morning alcohol sales in addition to a cap on the number of drinks that passengers can order at airports, the  Guardian reported last month.
“It’s completely unfair that airports can profit from the unlimited sale of alcohol to passengers and leave the airlines to deal with the safety consequences,” Kenny Jacobs, Ryanair’s marketing director, said in a statement at the time.
He added: “This is an issue which the airports must now address and we are calling for significant changes to prohibit the sale of alcohol at airports, particularly with early morning flights and when flights are delayed.”
NOTE: An earlier version of this story referred to the banned passenger as a woman. It was not immediately clear whether the person banned from the airline was a man or a woman.
A passenger has been banned from flying Ryanair for life after a brawl broke out on a recent flight. In this photo, Ryanair aircraft takes off from Lille Airport in Lesquin on August 25, 2017.  Photo: PHILIPPE HUGUEN/AFP/Getty Images


A New York woman is suing after a flight attendant on a JetBlue flight allegedly failed to properly secure the lid on a scalding cup of tea. Michelle Lavin, 25, reportedly suffered second- and third-degree burns on her backside and claimed the airline served a beverage not “fit for human consumption” in the Manhattan Supreme Court lawsuit.
The Manhattan woman filed the suit nearly three years after the 2014 incident, the  New York Post reported Saturday, as she initially opted to avoid litigation. But Lavin claimed the airline treated her poorly both during and following the incident aboard the flight from New York to Las Vegas. She was flying over the Labor Day weekend that year to visit her older sister.
Lavin said the incident occurred while an altercation between two other passengers escalated to an extent that it frightened others on the flight. A man had shouted at a woman to keep her dog from barking, and the woman reportedly became heated as well.
“She just screamed,” Lavin said. “It was insanely loud, like a horror movie. I got very nervous and everybody turned around and it was frightening.”
While turning to see what was happening, Lavin reportedly bumped the tray table with her tea, which she described as “very hot” upon being served. It spilled on her, and she immediately screamed in pain.
“I was in excruciating pain and had tears running down my eyes and asked them to get me anything. Cream. Something!” Lavin told the New York Post. “They said, ‘We don’t have anything for burns on the plane.’ They were looking at me like I was insane.”
Lavin, a help desk manager, described the pain as being “unreal” but said that every time she stood, she was asked to sit back down. She was reportedly offered aspirin and ice, but Lavin maintained that both the flight attendant who served her the tea and another crew member weren’t taking her seriously.
At that time, Lavin pulled her pants down to show them the burns. A  photo obtained by the New York Post shows Lavin’s backside blistered and burned to a deep red.
Both of the flight attendants were reportedly “horrified” by her burns and allegedly became much more accommodating after realizing the severity of the injury. Lavin said flight crew offered to have a stretcher waiting for her upon landing, but she opted instead to be taken to the emergency room by her sister. She said she was “humiliated” by the experience.
Thomas Lavin is representing his niece as her attorney in the suit. JetBlue declined the New York Post’s request for comment.
JetBlue is among the few airlines that have managed to avoid damning headlines currently slamming the airline industry for poor customer service, but the carrier is not without its own share of problems. In recent months, the airline has seen both passengers and crew being taken to the hospital or advised to seek medical care after  reports of strange odors, headaches and  burning sensations of the eyes during a slew of recent trips.
A woman severely burned by hot tea on a JetBlue flight is now suing the airline. In this photo, a JetBlue plane is seen at John F. Kennedy International Airport April 27, 2012 in the Queens borough of New York City. Photo: Photo by Allison Joyce/Getty Images


Hurricane Harvey has caused so much damage that the nearly $8 billion that the Trump Administration requested from the federal government is considered only a small down payment for recovery efforts. According to Texas Gov. Greg Abbott, reliefs efforts could eventually total up to $180 billion.
Appearing on CNN’s "State of the Union" Sunday, Abbott said the state would need a massive commitment from the federal government and claimed the range affected by Harvey could surpass both Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Sandy combined.
"Let’s not compare it to Sandy. Let’s compare it to Katrina," Abbott said.
Hurricane Harvey made landfall in Texas on Aug. 25. It was the most powerful hurricane to hit Texas in several decades and has a death toll that has reached 50. It has displaced more than 1 million people and damaged roughly 200,000 homes in southeast Texas.
"This is a long road to hoe if we are going to rebuild the fourth largest city in the United States as well as the entire geographic region," Abbott said on Fox News Sunday.
The nearly $8 billion from the federal government could be delayed unless the government acts fast and raises the government’s debt ceiling, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told Fox News Sunday. If the debt ceiling isn’t increased soon, the government will not have the adequate funds to continue operations past Sept. 29, Mnuchin told lawmakers. Arrogating adequate funds to supplement the Harvey relief efforts could quicken the deadline, Mnuchin said.
"The president and I believe the [debt ceiling] should be tied to the Harvey funding," Mnuchin told Fox News. "With Harvey, it's moved the situation up earlier. And without raising the debt limit, I'm not comfortable that we would get the money that we need this month to Texas to rebuild."
Sen. Roy Blunt of Missouri said on "Meet the Press" Sunday that Harvey’s aid fund will "likely" be merged with a bigger bill, which lawmakers will decide on soon.
"Whether you put that [Harvey aid] together with keeping the doors open for the government or the debt-ceiling vote, I think that’s something that will be decided in the next few days, I expect," Blunt said.
Recovery efforts continued Sunday with hopes to open businesses in Houston, according to Mayor Sylvester Turner. He suggested that whoever can conduct business should open their doors.
"I’m encouraging people to get up and let’s get going,” Turner said on "Meet the Press."
"There is still tremendous need. Don’t want to downplay that but most of the city is dry, and I’m saying to people — if you can open, let’s open up and let’s get started," Turner said.
People walk past an abandoned car after the area was inundated with flooding from Hurricane Harvey in Houston, Texas, Aug. 29, 2017. Photo: Getty Images


As President Trump attempts to shut down a federal board that helps oversee chemical plant safety, a former top official from the panel says the unfolding crisis at a Houston plant could have been prevented had the plant owner's lobbying group not fought the board's work.
In 1998, when the Chemical Safety Board (CSB) was formed, Chief Operating Officer Phyllis Scalettar led the team in creating a comprehensive database of chemical incidents, relying on data from five different federal agencies. The CSB created the database — which was the first of its kind — because officials believed a central resource documenting all incident reports, especially relevant information on what caused the incidents, was vital for the board to fulfill its mandated duty: to investigate toxic chemical incidents and determine the causes of those incidents.
When the CSB published its one-of-a-kind report in February 1999, analyzing data from 600,000 chemical incidents over a decade, and presented it to Congress, the feedback was positive. But when the American Chemistry Council (ACC) got hold of the report, the group hurled accusations of bias at the nonpartisan CSB in an effort to discredit the report. An influential lobbying and campaign spending operation, the ACC successfully pressured Congress to withhold sufficient funding for the CSB, preventing it from updating and enhancing the crucial database.
Arkema — a specialty chemicals company whose plant in Crosby, Texas, exploded last week and which pressed regulators to kill a chemical plant safety rule — is a member of the ACC.
The Chemical Safety Board planned a follow-up report for the 2000 fiscal year, but it never happened.
“Perhaps, had the report led to the envisioned subsequent work, risks that now pose current threats to the Houston area — and, indeed, throughout the U.S. — could have been evaluated and addressed prior to the disaster in a comprehensive, data-driven manner,” wrote Scalettar in an email to International Business Times.
Going forward, an underfunded CSB would not be able to harness an updated database to help prepare for, and prevent, the tens of thousands of chemical incidents that occur every year in the U.S.
Scalettar confirmed there is no current central resource in the U.S. for information on preventing chemical incidents.
The CSB still exists, but it continues to be hampered by what officials say are insufficient resources.
In April 2013, investigations into 13 prior chemical incidents were incomplete. CSB leadership told the Center for Public Integrity at the time that the budget allocated by Congress wasn’t nearly enough to tackle the numerous incidents. "We've made innumerable proposals over the years...pointing out the significant discrepancy between the number of serious accidents and the ones that we can handle from a practical standpoint," said CSB managing director Daniel Horowitz.
The chemical industry, led by the ACC, has for years fought legislation requiring chemical facilities to use safer technology.
"I was quite surprised that anyone would resist this concept, this concept of prevention," Rafael Moure-Eraso, then the CSB chairman, told NPR in 2013.
“You have to make a cost-benefit about what is more costly: to engage in a process to try to mitigate or avoid hazards; or deal with the families of the people who get killed, the destruction of an industry, the destruction of a community," said Moure-Eraso. "And I claim that it's a lot more expensive to deal with these catastrophic losses than what it will take to invest to prevent this to happen in the first place."
Fire rages at the Magnablend chemical processing plant on October 3, 2011 in Waxahachie, Texas. The burning chemical plant is not far from several residential areas and Wedgeworth Elementary School. Photo: Tom Pennington/Getty Images
Tens Of Thousands Of Chemical Incidents Each Year
In 1990, Congress amended the Clean Air Act to enhance its efforts to reduce acid rain, urban air pollution and toxic air emissions. The amendments established the Chemical Safety Board “to investigate accidental releases of chemicals.” In particular, the board was created “to determine the cause or causes of an accident whether or not those causes were in violation of any current and enforceable requirement.”
It took more than seven years — until January 1998 — for the government to staff, fund and launch the board. When board finally began its work, its first order of business was to study the hundreds of thousands of prior chemical incidents across the country and analyze the reasons that these incidents had occurred.
“Most importantly from a safety standpoint, existing databases do not contain information on the root causes of incidents or patterns of causes that are the most solid clues to prevention,” the report states.
A 1993 EPA report admitted that the government’s chemical safety system was full of “overlaps, inefficiencies, and some gaps in the statutory and regulatory framework as well as in the government's management structure.” It also states that “sufficiency and quality of government data on chemical incidents impact ... most importantly, lives and livelihoods.”
CSB staff members began their research with over 10 million chemical incidents that occurred on land between 1987 and 1996. After filtering out duplicate incident reports and those that contained insufficient information, the board was left with 605,000 incidents to incorporate into its study, which came out in 1999.
Some key findings include:
—During the period 1987 to 1996, chemical incidents were recorded in 95 percent (3,145) of the nearly 3,300 U.S. counties.
—42 percent of the incidents occurred at fixed locations occupied by industrial and commercial businesses, and 43 percent related to transportation.
—9,705 incidents resulted in at least one death or injury. There were 2,565 deaths (with an average of 127 incidents per year resulting in at least one death) and 22,949 injuries.
—California had the most incidents (100,000 during the period from 1987 to 1996), nearly double the number of incidents recorded for Texas (55,209), the second leading state. The remainder of the top 10 states, in descending order, were Ohio, New York, Louisiana, Illinois, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Florida and New Jersey.
—Mechanical failures led to 40 percent of the incidents. Intentional and unintentional human acts were cited in another 27 percent of the reports. The effects of natural phenomena accounted for only 1 percent of the incidents. Approximately 29 percent of the incident reports did not indicate an initiating event.
A more recent study of the period from 1980 to 2008 indicates that 3 percent of hazmat emissions occurred due to natural phenomena, and these nature-induced emissions increased as the years passed.
The ACC waged a campaign against this report.
“The industry association challenged the accuracy of the reporting data used in the study, failing to recognize and acknowledge that the data were reported by the industry itself,” Scalettar told IBT. “It also pointed out the data limitations referenced in the report undermined the findings, again overlooking the fact that identification of limitations in any research study are fundamental to establishing that claims made are not misleading, and recommendations for future work are supported by the issues raised.”
Scalettar added that “because our [CSB] board was populated by some people who had strong attachments to industry, I would be remiss not to say that there was probably some back-room arm twisting.”
Freedom of Information Act Request records show that the ACC submitted comments regarding the EPA’s risk assessment practices, discouraging the consideration of worst-case scenarios and “biased risk assessments.”
Meanwhile, in 2001, the ACC and similar industry groups successfully convinced the George W. Bush administration to kill chemical safety provisions proposed by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, including a strengthened Process Safety Management standard.
An Arkema Disaster
Included in the CSB report was a map showing all chemical incidents analyzed. Many chemical incidents that occurred between 1987 and 1996 were located in southern California, but another area with one of the highest concentrations of explosions, emissions and other hazardous events was the southeastern coast of Texas, which is where Hurricane Harvey hit.
A 1999 report from the U.S. Chemical Safety Board analyzed 600,000 chemical incidents around the country. Photo: U.S. Chemical Safety Board, February 1999
Nearly 20 years after that report, Arkema North America’s CEO said that “no one anticipated six feet of water” that Harvey brought to his plant in Crosby. But Sam Mannan of Texas A&M University's Mary Kay O'Connor Process Safety Center told the Houston Chronicle that it would be surprising if Arkema had not considered a flood of this magnitude before. And there was a way to prevent the explosions: Companies can “quench” organic peroxides by combining them with another chemical, potentially eliminating the danger.
"You'll lose the feedstock, but it's safer than letting it go into runaway mode," Mannan told the Chronicle.
As IBT reported on Saturday, Arkema warned its investors of the risks of chemical storage explosions at its sites.
Arkema’s most recent risk management plan submitted to the EPA is from June 2014; the facility has high levels of toxic chemicals, making it a Program 3 site that is required to file such plans with the EPA. The Environmental Defense Fund reviewed Arkema’s plan, which the public may only inspect in person in an EPA reading room. That plan, which revealed that the facility held 85,000 pounds of the flammable substance 2 methylpropene and 66,000 pounds of toxic sulfur dioxide, cited a 2013 hazard analysis that identified concerns including “equipment failure; loss of cooling, heating, electricity; floods (flood plain); hurricane; other major failure identified: power failure or power surge.”
On Friday, after several explosions had already occurred, Arkema announced that least 225 metric tons of peroxides stored at its Crosby plant were likely to explode in the near future.
The company has a history of dangerous chemical safety practices, including “serious” hazardous chemical-related safety violations in February by the Arkema plant in Crosby, resulting in a $90,000 fine from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
Trump’s Attack On Chemical Safety
As IBT reported Thursday, Arkema and the ACC successfully lobbied the EPA to halt new chemical safety rules that were meant to go into effect in March 2017. Numerous U.S. Congressmen from Texas co-sponsored a House resolution to quash those rules. Previously, then-Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt and Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton sent a letter to the EPA expressing their opposition to the safety measures.
This year, as EPA director, Pruitt has been able to delay the implementation of the safety rules twice, and as Crosby residents were evacuating due to Arkema’s plant explosions, a court denied environmental groups’ request to impose the rules as a lawsuit over the delay moves through the courts. But there are even higher-ranking officials who are trying to minimize chemical safety: Trump’s budget proposal would eliminate the CSB altogether, something that has elicited serious criticism.
“If you want to put the American people in danger this is the way to do it,” former EPA director Christine Todd Whitman told Reuters. “The chemical industry has fought back from the beginning.”
“If you can’t prove your relevance in today’s administration, you become superfluous,” said Scalettar. “Can [the CSB] show they’ve made any significant progress in reducing chemical incidents? Probably with great difficulty.”
With the current Congress and White House, Scalettar doesn’t paint a rosy picture of the near future. “There will continue to be chemical incidents, but we could make the circumstances a little bit better. But after 20 or 30 years at this, I’d say the odds aren’t very good to make it better.”


Arkema, the specialty chemicals company whose chemical storage facility in Crosby, Texas, exploded Thursday morning and is currently spewing noxious smoke near Houston, warned its investors earlier this year about the dangers of possible explosions and public health risks from the chemicals it stores. At the same time, the French-based company lobbied the U.S. Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency to delay implementing new chemical facilities safety rules, as International Business Times previously reported. Two more chemical storage trailers exploded Friday evening and more explosions from the remaining trailers are expected in the coming days.
“The Group’s facilities may be subject to risks of accidents, fires, explosions and pollution due to the very nature of their operations and to the level of hazard, toxicity or flammability of certain raw materials,” Arkema wrote to investors in March, in the company’s annual report for 2016.
Arkema’s backup generators failed on Thursday, which meant that volatile chemicals were unable to be stored cooly enough, causing them to burn and explode. Speaking to the Houston Chronicle, an Arkema safety official declined to say whether its backup generators were elevated, a common-sense precaution in case of flooding. However, the company was well aware of the potential dangers of floods at its plants, as it warned its investors that “exceptional flooding” could lead to the shutdown of its facilities.
Furthermore, Arkema’s 2014 Risk Management Plan for the Crosby facility specifically noted the risk of equipment failure due to flooding. Facilities regulated as a “Program 3” facility by the EPA, such as the one in Crosby, are required to create and submit Risk Management Plans. The 2014 plan is the latest filed with the EPA. However, those documents are not publicly accessible online and can only be viewed by visiting federal reading rooms in person. The watchdog group Environmental Defense Fund did so on Thursday, finding that a hazard process analysis filed by Arkema specifically for the Crosby facility “identified concerns, including: equipment failure; loss of cooling, heating, electricity; floods (flood plain); hurricane; other major failure identified: power failure or power surge.”
A flood causing a power failure that lead to a loss of cooling is the exact scenario that has caused the recent explosions and current fires in Crosby.
After initially promising to provide its inventory of chemicals, Arkema has since backtracked that promise only offering a list of chemicals on site but not their quantities or how they are stored, making it difficult to assess public health risks from the smoke overhead in Crosby. In the 2016 annual report to investors, the company noted as a risk to investors that it uses “toxic or hazardous substances to manufacture its products,” but does not specify at which locations certain chemicals are stored or how toxic they may be. On Thursday, the company’s president, Richard Rennard, declined to tell reporters whether chemicals burning at the Crosby facility were potentially toxic.
At the same time that Arkema warned investors of these health and safety risks, the company and its trade association, the American Chemistry Council, was lobbying the Trump administration to delay implementing new EPA safety rules for chemical facilities. IBT’s review of federal lobbying records found that Trump’s EPA administrator Scott Pruitt blocked the new rules following that extensive lobbying campaign.
The rules that Pruitt blocked would have gone into effect on March 14. Arkema’s annual report for 2016, which noted the risk of explosions at its facility, was filed on March 30.
In that annual report, Arkema warned investors that increased regulations could jeopardize its business, requiring it to, for instance, “institute costly emissions control or reduction systems.”
“The Group’s business activities are subject to frequently changing international and national laws and regulations in the areas of environmental protection and health and safety,” the 2016 annual report noted. “These laws and regulations impose increasingly strict obligations.”
In Arkema’s 2015 annual report, the company similarly warned investors about the risk of “increased safety costs” endangering profit margins.
“The Group’s business and financial results are likely to be directly or indirectly impacted by any adverse changes to the economic and political environment in the countries in which the Group operates,” read the 2015 annual report.
That year’s annual report did, however, reassure investors that the company carries an environmental insurance policy that will cover up to $50 million of liability within the U.S.


A Denver-bound Southwest Airlines flight was temporarily delayed this week after a passenger allegedly assaulted a crew member. The airline told International Business Times that the incident, which occurred Wednesday at the Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport, was diffused after local authorities “assumed control of the situation.”
“Shortly after pushing off a gate at Sky Harbor destined for Denver, the Pilots in command of flight 948 elected to return to the gate after a passenger failed to comply with instructions from the Crew,” the airline told IBT.  
“Law enforcement officers assumed control of the situation (and investigation) as the aircraft returned to a gate,” the airline added. “The flight, with 163 Customers onboard, operated uneventfully from there and arrived in Denver 57 minutes behind schedule under the operation of the original Crew of six.”
ABC-affiliate KNXV reported Thursday that police were called to the scene after David Dutson, 58, allegedly became physical with an employee of the carrier. The specifics around the incident were not immediately clear Friday, but the airline told KNXV that Dutson didn’t follow directions from airline staff after leaving the gate.
Dutson was later handcuffed and removed from the flight, and an investigation is reportedly underway. Video of the incident obtained by KNXV shows Dutson being escorted into a police cruiser on the tarmac.

Dutson is only the most recent in a string of incidents of passengers who have been escorted off of flights as the result of disruptive or rowdy behavior. During one incident, a pilot for an Ibiza-bound flight was forced to  physically leave the cockpit to reprimand several passengers for apparent intoxication prior to takeoff. In another more high-profile case, actor  Jason Mitchell was recorded going on a profanity-laced tirade that ultimately resulted in him being removed from the Delta Air Lines flight.
Following an incident in November, a judge on Monday  ordered a man to pay Hawaiian Airlines  $97,817 for disruptive behavior after he became verbally and physically abusive midway through a New York-bound flight. According to an affidavit of the incident, the man slapped a flight attendant on the shoulder with the back of his hand, threatened to cut his girlfriend’s throat and name-called her three children “piggies.”
A Denver-bound Southwest Airlines flight was temporarily delayed this week after a passenger had to be escorted off the plane in handcuffs. In this photo, a Southwest Airlines jet takes off at Midway Airport April 3, 2008 in Chicago, Illinois.  Photo: Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images


As nearby residents fled the area surrounding an  exploding Arkema S.A. chemical plant in the flood-ravaged Houston suburbs, a federal court effectively approved the Environmental Protection Agency's delay of rules designed to strengthen chemical facility safety measures. The ruling was a win for Arkema and its lobbying group, which had successfully pressed officials in President Donald Trump's administration to block the regulation, and for the broader chemical industry, which has bankrolled the campaigns of top Republican lawmakers.
Arkema is already benefiting from the rule's delay: In a teleconference on the crisis Friday, the company refused to release a map of its facilities or an inventory of the potentially hazardous chemicals at the beleaguered plant, as would be required by the heightened safety standards. The company argued that disclosing such information to the public could put the company at risk of terrorism threats, the Houston Chronicle reported. Under  both federal and state law, the firms can elect to disclose such information, or not to.
Less than four months ago, Arkema pressed the EPA to repeal the chemical plant safety rule, criticizing the rule's provisions that require chemical companies to disclose more information to the public. In a May 15, 2017 letter to the EPA, Arkema's legislative affairs director wrote that “new mandates that require the release to the public of facility-specific chemical information may create new security concerns if there are not sufficient safeguards to ensure that those requesting the information have a legitimate need for the information for the purposes of community emergency preparedness.”

Trump’s Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt used the same national security rationale in his March  decision to review, and therefore delay, amendments to the agency’s Risk Management Program, an amendment to a part of the Clean Air Act that would boost transparency and safety at plants at risk of spewing harmful chemicals into the air of nearby communities. (The EPA once again  delayed it in June, pushing implementation to Feb. 2019.)
Even as the disaster unfolded in Texas, the D.C. District Court of Appeals rejected the environmental groups’ argument that by pushing off the rule’s implementation, the EPA “ignores the serious consequences of delaying essential emergency preparedness provisions” and denies “vulnerable fenceline communities” access to crucial information on hazardous chemicals, according to court documents obtained by IBT.
Gordon Sommers, an associate attorney representing the environmental groups that  sued the EPA in June over the rule’s delay, said the court’s approval of the delay was “unfortunate.” He also disputed the notion that greater transparency made Arkema and other chemical companies more vulnerable to terrorist attacks, citing the importance for first responders to know exactly which chemicals they’re going to be dealing with in cases like that of the Crosby plant.
A police officer lays down a safety flare while blocking the road leading to the Arkema chemical plant which twice exploded after Tropical Storm Harvey near Crosby, Texas, August 31, 2017.  Photo: Reuters
“It’s disgraceful that the administration has delayed these rules,” said Sommers, whose non-profit organization, Earthjustice, is representing the Sierra Club, the Union of Concerned Scientists and Air Alliance Houston, among others, in their legal battle against the agency. The explosion at Arkema’s Crosby plant, he said, “shows more than ever that there’s a need for the rule, for better preparation.”
Sommers said the court ruling was not all bad news for environmental groups, as the judges opted to expedite the groups’ overall lawsuit to keep the EPA from further delaying the rule.
In a statement to IBT, Michael Abboud, a spokesperson for the EPA — which  announced Thursday that it was monitoring the situation at the plant, was assisting emergency personnel and found “no concentrations of concern for toxic materials” at the scene — said the rule would not have fully taken effect until 2021, and therefore its delay had no impact on the situation in Crosby. He denied that an explosion had taken place, describing the situation as a fire, despite reports contradicting that characterization. And while the Arkema plant in Crosby faced a  $90,000 fine from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration for “serious” hazardous chemical-related safety violations in February, Abboud said the facility faced “no recent EPA [Risk Management Program] enforcement actions.”
Sommers called the EPA’s claim that the rule’s delay did not affect the likelihood or emergency response to the hazardous explosions at the Crosby plant “a lie,” as agencies commonly give industries time to adjust the technologies they use to comply with an new rule, along with intermediate deadlines for piecemeal compliance. If the Risk Management Program amendments hadn’t been pushed back, he said, things might’ve gone differently at Arkema.
When asked by IBT to comment on the crisis in Crosby and its involvement in the delay of the EPA Risk Management Program rule, a spokesperson for Arkema sent documents showing the firm's previous comments on the regulation, addressed to EPA officials, calling for it to be changed or repealed. As far as the situation at its Crosby plant, the Arkema maintained via  press release Thursday that it had “followed its hurricane preparation plan” ahead of Tropical Storm Harvey’s landfall and “had redundant contingency plans in place.”
In the wake of a  deadly 2013 fertilizer plant explosion, former President Barack Obama issued an  executive order amending the EPA’s Risk Management Program to require chemical companies to boost emergency preparedness, provide better information access for nearby citizens who’d be impacted by a chemical plant disaster and improve prevention measures.
Pruitt, who  fought the rule as Oklahoma attorney general and was part of a group of Republican governors that  partnered with the industry in an effort to demolish the Clean Air Act last year,  selected Nancy Beck, the former policy director of the lobbying group American Chemistry Council, to head the branch of the EPA that oversees enforcement of regulations of harmful chemicals.
Arkema — along with the American Chemistry Council, of which the French chemical giant  is a member — has waged an aggressive campaign to change the regulations in the industry’s favor, as IBT reported.  
In May 2016, Arkema sent a  letter to the EPA describing the rule as overly burdensome. In January, the American Chemistry Council and other industry groups wrote Congressional leaders a  letter urging them to kill the rule by way of the Congressional Review Act, which lets lawmakers repeal recently-passed regulations by a simple majority vote. In first quarter of this year, the Council directly  lobbied the EPA on the issue.
About a week after the chemical industry organizations sent the letter, Rep. Markwayne Mullin (R-Okl.) introduced a  House resolution disapproving of the rule. Its cosponsors included Texas lawmakers who represent districts in and around Houston, including Brian Babin, whose district houses Arkema’s flame-spewing Crosby plant.
Sommers rejected the idea that the newly-amended rule is too burdensome for industry compliance, and emphasized the importance of monitoring the  more than 12,500 plants in the U.S. with chemical storage above regulatory thresholds.
“I think anybody who reads the rules would frankly have a hard time believing that, because it’s a very, very common-sense, market based regulation,” he said, adding that the Obama administration was essentially “going after the lowest of the low hanging fruit” and that “the rule that the epa adopted is hardly some draconian regulatory scheme.”


Labor Day is a notoriously busy time to travel, and 2017 is expected to see record highs in the days ahead of and after the official holiday — particularly for travelers who plan to fly. Airlines for America announced this month that it expected 16.1 passengers worldwide would fly on United States carriers during the timeframe.
The spike in holiday travelers went up by 5 percent from last year’s estimation for the same seven-day period. Airlines for America said in a  press release earlier this month that “airlines are adding 133,000 seats per day across their networks to accommodate the expected increase in demand.”
Friday, Sept. 1 is expected be the busiest time to travel, but attempting to get around Monday, Sept. 4 will also prove difficult. The reason for the spike in travelers over the holiday? Household income jumps and low fare prices.
“As household wealth increases, ticket prices remain low and airlines large and small continue to grow, consumers are finding it easier and more affordable than ever to get away for personal or family travel,” John Heimlich, Airlines for America Vice President and Chief Economist, said in a statement.
But Airlines for America says that shouldn’t worry flyers too much.
“While we expect a growth in passenger traffic over the Labor Day holiday, flyers can rest assured that U.S. airlines have appropriately increased the number of seats available for their late summer getaways,” Heimlich said.
For folks who are forgoing travel over the long weekend, now could be the time to book a vacation for the future. The end of August kicked off what will be a period of discounted airfare that continues through November. Travel experts agree that now is the time to get the best value on the dollar for both domestic and international airfare.
As International Business Times  previously reported, travelers can potentially save hundreds of dollars flying to premier vacation destinations like Rome or Madrid. Those looking to book flights domestically can see savings of between $20-50, depending on the destination and the flexibility of booking dates.
“[I]t’s the start of the off peak season,” Sanjay Hathiramani, Global SVP of Supplier Relations for CheapOair, said in a statement last month. “Fares are going to continue to stay low until Thanksgiving. Especially for those looking for deals to international destinations, the time to book your tickets [is] during this window, beginning at the end of August.”
Labor Day is a notoriously busy time to travel, and 2017 is expected to see record highs over the week of the holiday — particularly for travelers who plan to fly. In this photo, a Virgin Airlines plane flies overhead. Photo: Photo by Jordan Mansfield/Getty Images


Air India reportedly suspended an airline commander Thursday for a variety of alleged violations. The senior A-320 commander has come under fire for his misconduct, which includes recklessly driving the company's aircraft, according to Times of India. 
The senior commander's actions have been overlooked until now. He reportedly announced to airline passengers that Air India has made several violations and that he wouldn't take flight until the airline confessed to its mistakes. The commander's actions were reported to Air India by a senior Boeing 747 pilot that rode as a passenger on the flight, according to the Times of India. 
The grounded employee also operated an Air India flight without passengers that appeared on the company's flight safety department radar for reckless flying. During the flight from Delhi to Gaya, the commander allegedly flew at a speed that exceeded the maximum requirement for takeoff. He also allegedly sharply flew the flight nose up by 24 degrees, which exceeded the normal expectation of 12-13 degrees. The aircraft's tires were reportedly hot.
"The commander has been grounded," an AI spokesman said, according to Times of India. "He will be given a refresher as a co-pilot and then when back flying, will do so as a first officer."
A representative for Air India did not immediately return International Business Times' request for comment. 
The qualifications to become a senior A-320 officer are steep. Those interested in the position would first need to acquire a Private Pilot License (PPL). Obtaining a PPL allows recipients to become the Pilot-in-Command (PIC) for a private aircraft, according to Alpha Aviation Group (AAG). This training period for this certification includes three weeks of ground school, 40 hours of basic training and five hours of training in a simulator.
Successful students then move on to complete training for a Commercial Pilot License (CPL). Earning the CPL is essential to becoming an authorized commercial airline pilot. Trainees are required to finish 11 weeks of ground schooling on the theory of flight and 140 flight hours, among other training practices.
Instrument Rating (IR) and Type Rating (TR) are the final certifications that follow, according to AAG. An IR certification enables pilots to fly in adverse or severe weather conditions (i.e. thunderstorms), whereas the TR certificate allows for pilots to fly a particular aircraft (i.e. Airbus A320, like the grounded Air India commander).
Airlines have different requirements for senior A-320 officer candidates. Wizz Air, a Hungary-based airline, requires successful applicants to have completed a total flight time of 1,500 hours in an A320. Not only do potential employees need to have adequate certification and licensing, but they also need to be prepared to fly from any Wizz Air base. 
Airline controversies have become a regular occurrence. However, it's rare when the controversy revolves around a flight commander. Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) saw the most recent incident of an airline pilot coming under fire. The pilot was caught napping on a flight to London in May. He placed the aircraft in the hands of a trainee. 
Air India, pictured September 8, 2012 as a company plane prepares for take-off, reportedly grounded an airline commander for alleged violations.  Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


Lykke, a blockchain-powered trading platform, has partnered with another startup called CryptoTax to provide customers with country-specific tax reports on their recent crypto gains.
Within the last year blockchain based tokens experienced an extreme increase of attention and value. Lykke enables the efficiency of blockchain technology in financial services even to non tech-savvy customers by reducing complexity and providing a unique customer experience in the field of digital asset trading.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
CryptoTax, a brand of Munich based 21 Consulting GmbH, is offering and constantly developing tax reporting solutions and other regulatory declaration services for customers of cryptocurrency exchanges and users of blockchain assets to help them be compliant with the law of their residence state.
The vision of the German company is to simplify legal obligations for investors in digital assets by serving easy but high-quality services to businesses and private individuals. CryptoTax says it has a strategic alliance with KPMG to get access to their worldwide network of tax and legal experts and to ensure a constant coverage of the current state of legislation.
Considering the price spikes of blockchain assets within the last month, a bulk of cryptocurrency users are expected to have high taxable income in tax year 2017. Also the awareness of regulators and tax authorities is constantly increasing. But since there are various unanswered questions regarding the legal qualification and taxation of digital assets a lot of users struggle to calculate their taxable gains and losses and need help to fulfill their regulatory and tax declaration obligations.
Now you can get a country-specific tax report to enable you to pay taxes on your cryptocurrency gains. Good news, right?  Photo: Pixabay
Zurich-based Lykke offers users to trade cryptographic tokens, fiat and virtual currencies by simply using their mobile device running an iOS or Android operating system. Using so-called "colored coins" (which are described as blockchain based collateralised debt obligations) the exchange allows the transfer of any kind of real-world asset to the Bitcoin blockchain and enable trading of such without incurring transaction fees.
Richard Olsen, Lykke founder and CEO, said : "This is one more step along the way toward making blockchain-based trading a viable alternative to traditional markets. It is essential for us to be able to offer a wide range of reporting and declaration services. Transparency is one of our foundational values: trust among our user base, and openness to regulatory authorities. CryptoTax's strategic thinking demonstrates their shared commitment to these goals."
Klaus Himmer, CEO of 21 Consulting, said: "Because of our experience in the conventional financial services industry we know that tax reports are already market standard and will also help companies operating in the field of cryptocurrencies to reach a broader market acceptance while differentiating from other providers.
"We are very pleased Lykke chose us to support them to manage the increasing demand of country-specific tax reports. We are sure that the cooperation will help both parties to foster their strong market position and help them to drive the market acceptance of blockchain based financial instruments", he added.


The Illinois Blockchain Initiative, a collaborative effort exploring blockchain's impact on government, has partnered with self-sovereign identity firm Evernym, to create a secure, self-sovereign identity for Illinois citizens during the birth registration process.
The concept will augment work from the W3C's Verifiable Claims Task Force and use the Sovrin Foundation's distributed identity ledger, said a statement.
Self-sovereign identity refers to a digital identity that remains entirely under the individual's control. A self-sovereign identity can be efficiently and securely validated by entities who require it, free from reliance on a centralised repository.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
Recently, the Illinois Blockchain Initiative partnered with Hashed Health, a US-based blockchain startup focused on medical applications, to see whether the tech can help streamline how medical licenses are issued and tracked.
Jennifer O'Rourke, Blockchain Business Liaison for the Illinois Blockchain Initiative, said: "To structurally address the many issues surrounding digital identity, we felt it was important to develop a framework that examines identity from its inception at child birth. Government has an important role to play in the development of any digital identity ecosystem. Identity is not only foundational to nearly every government service, but is the basis for trust and legitimacy in the public sector."
In the proposed framework, government agencies will verify birth registration information and then cryptographically sign identity attributes such as legal name, date of birth, sex or blood type, creating what are called "verifiable claims" or attributes. Permission to view or share each of these government-verified claims is stored on the tamper-proof distributed ledger protocol in the form of a decentralised identifier, said the statement. The identifier guarantees each attribute is cryptographically sealed and only accessible with explicit consent of the identity holder or in the case of a newborn child, his or her legal guardian.
Illinois Blockchain Initiative has partnered with self-sovereign identity firm Evernym to create a secure, self-sovereign identity.  Photo: Pixabay
Businesses and governments will be able to verify and authenticate citizens by requesting encrypted access to these verifiable claims. This minimises the need for entities to establish, maintain and rely upon their own proprietary databases of identity information.
"This architecture allows us to bridge the best of both worlds, combining government's robust infrastructure for identity verification with a platform engineered for the digital identity ecosystem. This digital identity system is extensible, inter-operable and at the same time ensures the utmost security, privacy and user-agency," said Cab Morris of the Illinois Blockchain Initiative. "Additionally, this model for digital identity can extend beyond the boundaries of government and has broad applicability for many products and services in the private sector."
A formal announcement of the project will be made on 1 September by Evernym's Chief Trust Officer Drummond Reed at the MyData2017 Conference in Helsinki, Finland.
Reed said: "The successful transition to an identity ecosystem that is truly self-sovereign requires conversion of 'breeder documents', such as birth certificates, which serve as the basis for obtaining other documents. Digitising these foundational documents in a state the size and importance of Illinois will make a major contribution to the larger effort of solving the online identity problem."


A gay father who was falsely accused by United Airlines staff of molesting his 5-year-old son earlier this year is speaking out about the incident. Henry Amador-Batten, who  fell asleep with his arm over his son during the May flight, now questions whether the allegation was racially motivated.
Speaking with People for an interview published Thursday,  Amador-Batten said that he’s never been subjected to discrimination on the basis of his sexual orientation. He said he has, however, experienced racial profiling. Amador-Batten, a Latino man, recalled several incidents in which he was discriminated against while traveling.
“I was nearly always targeted by security both in the U.S. and in the countries I was entering,” he told People. “I’m assuming that a well-dressed Hispanic man flying out of Miami was easily suspected of being in the drug business. I missed flights, had luggage basically torn apart. I had tubes of toothpaste squeezed out and even hems on my jacket and pants ripped open.”
He added, “We can’t know what the flight attendant’s motives, perceptions, or intentions were. Although both Ben and I are Hispanic, he is lighter than I. Did the attendant see an older Hispanic man traveling with a little white boy? I can’t imagine he could have but who knows?”
The captain of the flight from Newark, New Jersey, to the family’s home in North Carolina told authorities at the time that crew witnessed Amador-Batten touching his son “near the genitals,” and Amador-Batten later was detained and questioned. 
Amador-Batten’s experience was widely publicized after the family  posted about it on Facebook and clarified that he had his “hand/arm laying across [the sleeping boy’s] lap.” 
“After being made to feel like a criminal in front of other passengers as they exited the plane my husband filed a report of his own mentioning that the male flight attendant that must have accused him had treated him oddly in flight, and was promptly sent on his way,” Amador-Batten’s husband, Joel, wrote at the time. “This is the icing on the cake for a man who has spent nearly the last two weeks in Puerto Rico dealing with his father's quick decline and subsequent death. This is not how anyone deserves to be treated.”
United Airlines issued a statement to International Business Times in May addressing the incident.
“In this instance, the crew believed it was appropriate to ask authorities to meet the plane and interview the customer,” said the airline. “After speaking with the customer, authorities determined that no further action was necessary. Our customers should always be treated with the utmost respect and we have followed up with our customer to apologize for the misunderstanding.”
A gay father who was falsely accused by airline staff of molesting his 5-year-old son during a United Airlines flight earlier this year is speaking out about the incident. In this photo, a United Airlines jet taxis at O'Hare International Airport on September 19, 2014 in Chicago, Illinois.  Photo: Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images


A passenger who forced a November flight from New York to Honolulu to turn around was ordered to pay the airline $97,817 this week. New Jersey resident James August’s disruptive behavior included threatening to cut his girlfriend’s throat, name-calling her children and slapping a flight attendant’s shoulder with the back of his hand.
On Monday, a federal judge ruled that August must pay costs the airline accrued for the return trip back to Hawaii, the  Honolulu Star-Advertiser reported. The costs incurred included fuel, maintenance, various landing and re-stocking fees and overhead for the airline’s ground and replacement flight crew.
In addition to the extraordinary costs of delaying the Nov. 29 flight, Hawaiian Airlines also reportedly racked up $46,900 in meal vouchers given as compensation to delayed passengers aboard the flight.  NJ.com reported Wednesday that August was not ordered to pay the airline restitution for those costs.
An  affidavit of the incident from the FBI, which handles crimes committed in the United States airspace, said August made contact with a flight attendant using the back of his hand, threatened to slice his girlfriend’s throat and verbally accosted her three children by referring to them as “piggies.”
In addition to the aforementioned behavior, August also repeatedly referred to his girlfriend — who was identified only by the initials K.P. by the FBI — as a “c---” and threatened the safety of the woman, her children and flight crew. During boarding, the woman’s 11-year-old son was reportedly observed crying and asked, “Can you please just keep him away from us?”
At one point while August was restrained by the crew, he repeatedly said he was going to return to his seat and punch his girlfriend in the face. He also threatened a flight attendant by stating: “I will take you out.”
Court documents indicated that August had been drinking prior to boarding. He also consumed two small bottles of liquor and took an unidentified pill, according to the affidavit.
“Turning an aircraft around due to a passenger’s unruly interference with our flight crew not only creates an inconvenience to all guests on board, but is extremely costly,” a representative for Hawaiian Airlines told International Business Times in a statement. “We appreciate the efforts of the U.S. Attorney’s Office and the ruling allowing Hawaiian to recoup some of the hard costs it incurred.”
August pleaded guilty to interfering with flight crew in February, the  Honolulu Star-Advertiser reported at the time. When asked by the judge what occurred, August said he did not “remember much” about the incident.
A man who forced a New York-bound Hawaiian Airlines flight from Honolulu to turn around and return to Hawaii in November was ordered to pay the airline $97,817 this week. In this photo, a Hawaiian Airlines aircraft prepares to land at the Los Angeles International Airport, California on December 22, 2016. Photo: RINGO CHIU/AFP/Getty Images


Using the bitcoin cryptocurrency to buy goods and services online can lead to the currency's famed anonymity being overturned and user identity exposed, a team of researchers has warned.
It was found that cookies used by websites to track visitors around the internet make it possible for the anonymity treasured by bitcoin users to be stripped away, linking bitcoin wallets with the real-world identity of their owners.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
The researchers also found the use of privacy-protecting services like CoinJar, designed to add a further layer of anonymity to bitcoin transactions, does not stop customers from being identified by third-party web trackers used by online merchants.
The report, compiled by privacy researcher Dillon Reisman and Princeton University's Steven Goldfeder, Harry Kalodner and Arvind Narayanan, claims of 130 merchants that accept bitcoin, they found 53 leaked payment information to 40 different third parties, who could then link bitcoins with their owners. Most of these leaks came from the shopping basket pages of retail sites, and were done on purpose for advertising and analytical purposes.
Web cookies can cut through bitcoin anonymity. Photo: Princeton University research paper
Worse than these deliberate leaks, the researchers say, were the "many merchant websites [with] far more serious (and likely unintentional) information leaks that directly reveal the exact transaction on the blockchain to dozens of trackers." Linking a blockchain transaction with the once-anonymous owner of the bitcoins is then trivial.
Even if customers used software to protect them from being tracked, the researchers claim many sites still helped themselves to personal information, which could in turn lead to bitcoins being linked to their owners.
The researchers explained: "We show that, if the user pays using cryptocurrency, trackers typically possess enough information about the purchase to uniquely identify the transaction on the blockchain, link it to the user's cookie, and further to the user's real identity."
Worse still, they found that if a tracker is able to spot two purchases made by the same user and link them to the blockchain, a public record of all (anonymised) bitcoin transactions, the tracker data can be used to identify a person's entire bitcoin transaction history.
Lastly, the researchers warn how this identification technique is passive and "can be retroactively applied to past purchases."
There isn't a great deal consumers can do to fully protect themselves from such attacks, the report says, as "most of the privacy-breaching data flows we identify are intentional and not accidental."


Disruptive passengers riding with EasyJet, a European airline, caused the flight to divert from its original path this week. The flight — which was in route to Paphos, Cyprus, from Edinburgh, Scotland — was diverted because the two male passengers were allegedly drunk.
EasyJet confirmed the news on its website Wednesday that flight EZY6945 would make an unanticipated stop at John Paul II International Airport Kraków–Balice in Poland.
"We're sorry that your flight has diverted to Krakow airport. This is due to a passenger incident, that unfortunately has resulted in your plane having to divert," EasyJet wrote in an update on its website.
READ: Video Of Couple Having Sex On Ibiza-Bound Flight Goes Viral
"We plan to fly you to Cyprus (Paphos) when this incident has been resolved," the second update read. "Your crew will be keeping you up to date on the situation and we also recommend checking back with Flight Tracker for the latest updates."
Polish police reportedly arrested the men when that plane made its unscheduled landing, according to Cyprus Mail. The plane had been flying over Slovakia before making the diversion to remove the passengers. The flight, which was scheduled to land in Paphos at 10:20 p.m., was delayed because of the diversion. It's landing time was subsequently bumped to 1:25 a.m.  
"Such incidents are rare, [but] we take them very seriously, do not tolerate abusive or threatening behavior and always push for prosecution," an EasyJet spokesperson told BBC News Thursday. "EasyJet's cabin crew are highly trained to assess and evaluate all situations and to act quickly and appropriately to ensure that the safety of the flight and other passengers is not compromised at any time."
Drunk customers prove to be problematic for airlines. Ryanair, one of Europe's biggest airlines, announced its plans to modify the alcohol limit on airlines Thursday. Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary told The Independent that drunk passengers pose a "threat to safety."
O'Leary no longer wants airports to serve customers alcohol at airport bars before 10:00 a.m. He also requested that airport bars don't serve customers more than two drinks.
"Nobody wants to be on a flight with a couple of drunks on board creating trouble," O'Leary told The Independent Thursday. 
EasyJet isn't the only airline company to have problematic passengers disrupt its flight. 
United Airlines had complications with a customer in July. Flight 898, which was heading to New Orleans, returned to its starting location in Houston. The female passenger reportedly began yelling and banging on the plane's walls. Approximately five flight passengers tackled the disruptive customer as she began to sprint towards the cockpit from the plane's back row.   
A passenger that boarded Hawaiian Airlines in Honolulu reportedly owed the company nearly $100,000 for his disruptive behavior. The passenger, James August, began behaving disorderly while his plane was still on the tarmac in February. August threatened airline employees, his girlfriend and her children. He pleaded guilty to interfering with flight crew, according to Honolulu Star-Advertiser. August, however, claims to not remember his actions. 
A representative from EasyJet did not immediately return International Business Times' request for comment. 
Easyjet Airline, pictured August 25, 2017, had to remove disruptive customers from a flight heading to Cyprus from Scotland.  Photo: Getty Images


The French company that says its Houston-area chemical plant is spewing "noxious" smoke — and may explode — successfully pressed federal regulators to delay new regulations designed to improve safety procedures at chemical plants, according to federal records reviewed by International Business Times. The rules, which were set to go into effect this year, were halted by the Trump administration after a furious lobbying campaign by plant owner Arkema and its affiliated trade association, the American Chemistry Council, which represents a chemical industry that has poured tens of millions of dollars into federal elections.
The effort to stop the chemical plant safety rules was backed by top Texas Republican lawmakers, who have received big campaign donations from chemical industry donors.
Representatives from Arkema Americas and the American Chemistry Council did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
In 2013, a  West, Texas, chemical plant explosion killed 15 people, prompting the Obama administration to try to raise chemical plant safety standards (investigators later found the explosion was caused deliberately). In an executive order that year, President Obama  proposed an overhaul of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Risk Management Program with the goal of increasing safety and transparency at chemical plants by strengthening existing regulations. The EPA said the enhanced rules would “seek to improve chemical process safety, assist local emergency authorities in planning for and responding to accidents, and improve public awareness of chemical hazards at regulated source.”

Arkema has  six production plants in Texas and has received more than  $8.7 million worth of taxpayer subsidies from the state. Arkema’s Crosby plant — which  OSHA fined more than $90,000 for ten “serious” violations earlier this year and has spewed smoke in Crosby — appears to be covered under the existing EPA rules because of the kinds of chemicals it uses. While Texas Republican Gov. Greg Abbott has  given chemical companies legal cover to hide the locations of their EPA-regulated chemicals, the  Associated Press reports that the imperiled Arkema facility houses large amounts of  toxic sulfur dioxide and flammable methylpropen, which required Arkema to submit a risk management plan to the agency —  and which would have subjected the company to the strengthened safety rules.
However, those rules — which would have taken effect on March 14  — were blocked by EPA administrator Scott Pruitt, who as Oklahoma Attorney General demanded  the rule be withdrawn. The move was a big win for the chemical industry that has spent more than  $100 million supporting federal lawmakers since 2008. Among those who have received more than $100,000 from the industry are powerful Texas lawmakers  including Sen. John Cornyn (R), Rep. Joe Barton (R), Rep. Pete Olson (R), Rep. Gene Green (D), Rep. Pete Sessions (R) and Rep. Kevin Brady (R).
“Will Likely Add Significant New Costs”
Documents reviewed by IBT show that Pruitt’s announcement followed a lobbying campaign by Arkema and its colleagues in the chemical industry.
In May of 2016, Arkema sent  a letter to the EPA criticizing the proposed rule. One part of the letter said the rule’s requirement of independent risk management audits “will likely add significant new costs and burdens to the corporate audit process.” The company also took issue with the rule’s “Safer Technology and Alternatives Analysis” (STAA) requirements.
Those provisions would have required that companies consider using “inherently safer technology” that would encourage companies to “substitute less hazardous substances” and encourage firms to “simplify covered processes in order to make accidental releases less likely or the impacts of such releases less severe.”
“The additional requirement for STAA would be burdensome because there is no consensus methodology, definitions or standards for STAA,” the company told the agency. “Knowledge of ‘inherently safer technologies’ can vary greatly depending on the process being examined and the knowledge and expertise of the team performing the analysis. As a result, implementation of STAA would likely be inconsistent across companies.”
Federal records reviewed by IBT show that Arkema specifically lobbied on the chemical safety rules. In the first quarter of 2017, as the Trump administration was reviewing the rule,  federal records show the company was lobbying on “EPA chemical regulations, including Significant New Use Rules and the Significant New Alternatives Policy program and EPA Risk Management Program regulations.” The records show the company directly lobbied the EPA and the White House on the issue. In the second quarter,  federal records show Arkema lobbying the EPA and the National Economic Council on “EPA risk management program regulations.”
Of Arkema’s six production plants in Texas, five, including the Crosby plant, are near the coast and in the Houston area, raising the prospect of additional explosions due to flooding. The town of Beaumont, where there is a  taxpayer-subsidized Arkema  plant, has experienced  severe flooding. Another plant is located  in Houston, and two more, in nearby Pasadena, sit right on the Trinity Bay; one of these plants took in nearly  $5 million in subsidies.

Arkema Push To Stop Rules Gets Boost From Its Lobbying Group & From Texas Republicans
In its  letter to the EPA, Arkema noted that it is a member of the American Chemistry Council — a powerful lobbying group that has delivered  $1.6 million of campaign donations to federal lawmakers since 2010. That Arkema-backed group helped spearhead the effort to block the EPA’s chemical plant safety rule. In January, the council was one of 21 groups that sent a  letter to congressional leaders asserting that the new rule’s costs were not worth the alleged safety benefits.
“The lack of identifiable and quantifiable benefits stands in stark contrast to the clear costs associated with this rule,” said the letter. “Whether it be the requirement of third-party auditor participation that will reduce the pool of qualified auditors, changing well-established audit procedures already designed to maximize safety effectiveness, or imposing ineffective requirements to consider ‘inherently safer technology/design,’ the final rule includes a litany of costly changes that have not been shown to increase safety.”
The American Chemistry Council also lauded Texas Republican Attorney General Ken Paxton for co-authoring a letter slamming the chemical plant safety rule. The letter chastised the EPA for proposing to require chemical plants to more expansively disclose castatrophic releases of hazardous chemicals and berated regulators for requiring independent audits of facilities' safety procedures.
"To complicate matters further, EPA is demanding that the auditors have no relationship with the audited entity for three years prior to the audit and three years subsequent," wrote Paxton and Louisiana Republican Attorney General Jeff Landry. "EPA is demanding that a professional engineer be part of the auditing team, that attorney client privilege cannot apply to the audits, and finding and reports be released to the public. It is difficult to fathom how this collection of burdensome, costly, bureaucratic regulatory requirements does anything to enhance accidental chemical release prevention...This unauthorized expansion of the program does not make facilities safer, but it does subject facilities to even more burdensome, duplicative and needless regulation."
Paxton received $106,000 from chemical industry donors during his 2014 run for attorney general.  His letter was backed by then-Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt and then-Alabama Attorney General Luther Strange (now a senator),  who  argued that disclosing details of chemical accidents would imperil national security. Pruitt's campaigns were supported by the Republican Attorneys General Association -- which he chaired and which received $50,000 from the American Chemistry Council during his tenure as a state official, according to data compiled by PoliticalMoneyLine.com.
The push to persuade the Trump administration to block the chemical plant safety rules was also bolstered by an American Chemistry Council-backed  resolution introduced on February 1 by Republican Rep. Markwayne Mullin of Oklahoma.
Among the 65 co-sponsors of the measure to block the rules were 10 members of the Texas Congressional delegation, including five who represent Houston area districts: Brian Babin (TX-36), whose  district encompasses Crosby, where the Arkema plant lies; Michael McCaul (R-10), chairman of the House Committee on Homeland Security, whose  district sits northwest of Houston; John Culberson (R-7), whose  district covers part of Houston; Randy Weber (R-14), who represents a coastal district just outside of Houston; Blake Farenthold (R-27), a representative whose coastal  district lies southwest of Houston. Other co-sponsors include Louie Gohmert (R-1), vice chair of the House Committee on Natural Resources, and Lamar Smith (R-21), chair of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology who  has challenged climate science. Weber and Babin are also members of that committee.
The Texas lawmakers who sponsored Mullin’s bill to block the chemical plant safety regulations have received more than  $652,000 from the chemical industry, according to data from the Center for Responsive Politics. Federal contribution data show the American Chemistry Council specifically has delivered more than $160,000 to the entire Texas congressional delegation since 2008, with top recipients including Gene Green ($20,288), Olson ($18,999), McCaul, who co-sponsored the Mullin bill ($13,500), and Barton ($16,500). Babin and Weber, who also co-sponsored the bill, each received  $3,000 from Arkema.
Also this year, Texas Senators Ted Cruz and John Cornyn were two of 16 co-sponsors of a companion resolution in the Senate. Cornyn has taken more than $408,000 from the chemical industry over the course of his career, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Cruz has recieved $234,000 from the industry. The National Institute on Money In State Politics reports that the American Chemistry Council has given more to federal lawmakers in Texas than legislators in any other state.
ExxonMobil, Dow Chemical, Koch Industries and Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC), a Saudi government-owned firm with multiple locations in the Houston area, including its North American headquarters, all lobbied on the legislation, which set the stage for Trump's administration to block the rules.
In the lead up to that administration decision, the American Chemistry Council took its lobbying efforts directly to the EPA — along with the U.S. House and Senate, the Department of the Interior, the Office of Management and Budget and the Department of Agriculture — on both the legislation and the EPA rule on behalf of Arkema and its many other corporate sponsors. In a  May 2017 letter to the EPA, the American Chemistry Council advocated that the implementation of the safety rule be delayed for “at least eighteen months” — until February 19, 2019, arguing that the current rule would be too expensive for its members such as Arkema to implement.
“The Final Rule raises significant security concerns and compliance issues that will harm ACC members and others in the regulated community,” the trade association wrote to the EPA. “Certain provisions, such as the requirement to audit ‘each covered process’ in a facility’s compliance audit, impose costly and burdensome obligations on facilities.”
UPDATED, 4:13pm ET: Arkema originally reported that there were two explosions at its Crosby facility. Law enforcement authorities have since said there were no explosions. The company's CEO has said that there is "noxious" smoke coming from the facility. This story has been updated throughout.


Passengers on a recent Ibiza-bound flight got a smackdown from the flight’s pilot after he left the cockpit to reprimand several rowdy individuals aboard the plane. The incident occurred last week on a flight leaving Edinburgh, Scotland, after the passengers had become heavily intoxicated prior to takeoff and accosted flight crew.
The incident was  first reported by British tabloid newspaper the Sun on Tuesday and later confirmed to the Daily Mail as having occurred Saturday. The Jet2 pilot reportedly told those on the craft: “A lot of you think this is a party bus, but it is not.”
“People want a good holiday, a nice flight and not have any trouble, loud raucous behaviour and drunkenness,” the unidentified pilot said, according to the Sun. “And unfortunately this flight has started badly already with verbal aggression going on which is not going to be tolerated.”
According to one witness who recorded the incident, a man and his girlfriend “had apparently been verbally abusive to staff,” and the male passenger was later removed from the plane.
“There were a few people who were drunk,” the witness said. “A girl behind us could barely look straight.”
Some passengers commended the pilot for taking a stand and applauded after he finished speaking, the passenger told the Sun.
“We can confirm the captain made the decision to offload a male passenger from our Edinburgh flight LS805 to Ibiza on Saturday 26th August,” a Jet2 spokesperson told Daily Mail. “This was due to his increasingly anti-social and aggressive behaviour. As a family friendly airline the safety and welfare of our customers and staff is always our number one priority, as our captain demonstrated on this occasion.”
Last week’s Jet2 flight out of Edinburgh wasn’t the only Ibiza-bound flight to find passengers engaging in questionable behavior. A video of two individuals  engaging in a sexual act aboard a Ryanair flight from Manchester to Ibiza earlier this year caused a stir, though the woman later maintained that the stunt was a “lapdance.”

“I heard them talking about it but I thought they were joking. The guy was shouting, ‘Anyone got a jelly?’” witness Kieran Williams told the Daily Mail at the time. “We all laughed but then ten minutes later they actually did it. They seemed so drunk, they brought a lot of attention to themselves.”
Jet2 did not immediately return International Business Times’ request for comment.
Passengers on a recent Ibiza-bound flight won the ire of the flight’s own pilot after the man physically left the cockpit to reprimand several rowdy individuals aboard the plane. A Jet2 aircraft lands at the Toulouse-Blagnac airport on September 29, 2014.  Photo: PASCAL PAVANI/AFP/Getty Images


New mothers are encouraged to breastfeed — it's good for babies' health and even keeps healthcare costs down. It's just not easy when mothers are in the workplace, let alone on a business trip. But some businesses are looking to change that. 
Kate Torgersen launched Milk Stork in 2015, a California-based breast-milk delivery service that aims to make it easier for working mothers to pump and ship breast milk to their newborns.
"Mothers are one of the fastest growing sections of the workforce," Torgersen told International Business Times in a phone interview. "Moms are pumping in bathrooms and wherever they can. It’s not something the rest of the world knows about. A working mom also needs to send her breast milk to her child while she is away."
Breastfeeding rates are increasing in the U.S., according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Breastfeeding Report Card released in 2014.  The World Health Organization advises mothers to nurse an infant from birth to six months daily. But mothers who breastfed for six months suffered greater earnings losses than women who didn’t breastfeed at all, said a report published in 2012 by the American Sociological Association with data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth. The cause: lost work-time due to the need to pump breast milk.

Mothers need to pump several times a day, requiring extra time to pump and stockpile milk during work hours. This can become more challenging if a woman travels for work.
"When you take a business trip, now all that production of milk is offsite," Torgenson told IBT. "It’s difficult to cover your absence."
Catie Trombley, a working mother from Washington D.C., had been having troubles stockpiling breast milk to feed her baby during a business trip, so she turned to Milk Stork. She discovered the service online after her father mentioned it. 
"When my maternity leave was drawing to a close, I tried it out on my first business trip away from my baby," she told IBT via email. "My daughter was 4 and a half months old and still nursing as her sole source of food. I had been diligent about pumping and freezing milk while I was on leave."
Trombley, like many traveling moms, worried that she wouldn't make it back to her baby before her milk supply diminished. Milk Stork helped her store and ship the milk that she stockpiled during travel. She embarked on a two-day trip from D.C. to California and pumped on planes, in bathroom stalls, in client offices, and at airports and used plastics bags to store them, which became messy. 
"I checked out the next morning at 9 a.m. PST with my Milk Stork cooler in hand," she said. "I took it with me everywhere I went that day and kept filling it with milk whenever I had the opportunity to pump. I made it home the next day at 7 a.m. EST with 50 ounces of milk all chilled. I was so relieved."
Working mothers are more likely to stop breastfeeding because of money loss. Mothers working between 20 hours and 34 hours a week had a 45 percent chance of stopping breastfeeding before their newborn became six months old, CBS News reported last year.
"Moms are using Milk Stork and asking their companies to reimburse them," Torgenson told IBT. "We have 60 enterprise companies on our roster. Moms have gone to their companies and asked them to pay for it. Companies want to do it to attract and retain talent. It allows a woman to resume her responsibilities."
Milk Stork charges based on size and shipping, so a 34-ounce Pump and Tote package will cost $79 plus shipping. Seventy-two ounces is the biggest Pump and Tote package, starting at $99. 
Torgenson added: "If a mother has to go on a work trip, they will offer Milk Stork’s shipping or toting services to help her get the milk back home, easing the stress before and during the trip, which supports her to keep breastfeeding."
In addition to its physical and emotional benefits, consistent breastfeeding lowers healthcare costs. If four out of five U.S. women breastfed exclusively for six months, it would save $10.5 billion in healthcare costs nationwide, a 2010 study in the journal Pediatrics concluded.
Working moms sometimes lose money when they take a break to pump and stockpile breastmilk during the workday. A mother is pictured outside the Legislative Assembly in San Jose on Aug 3, 2016 breastfeeding. Photo: Getty
Boston Scientific, a worldwide medical device manufacturer, partnered with Milk Stork through its Benefits to Fit Your Life program. It offers support to its employees and their families.    
"Boston Scientific added innovative benefits, such as Milk Stork, a breast milk shipping service for traveling, breastfeeding moms," the company told IBT in a statement. "Since the beginning of the year, 35 Boston Scientific employees have used Milk Stork’s service on 67 trips, shipping nearly 50 gallons of breast milk home."
Milk Stork hopes to normalize motherhood and breastfeeding in the workplace. 
"What’s been amazing is to see companies respect this time of motherhood and how difficult that transition can be," Torgenson said. "I love that women are coming to a place where they don’t have to ask for an accommodation. I don’t think they should have to apologize."
 


The death toll left in the wake of Hurricane Harvey  rose to as many as 30 people Wednesday as the storm made its second landfall near Louisiana.  Tens of thousands of others in the area have been affected, and recovery from the storm’s impact is expected to take years. In an effort to raise necessary funds for victims of the days-long flooding that hit Houston last week, several airlines have teamed up with disaster relief campaigns and promise miles and other promotions to persuade flyers to donate to the effort.
American Airlines partnered with the Red Cross for its relief efforts. AAdvantage members will receive 10 miles for every dollar donated to the charity after a $25 minimum contribution. American Airlines began the promotion last week, and it will run through Sept. 24. The carrier noted how each dollar amount can help victims of the disaster on its  website.
A representative for  United Airlines told International Business Times by email that the carrier is teaming up with several organizations to aid the Texas relief effort. In addition to matching the first $200,000 donated to its  CrowdRise campaign, the airline will also offer up to three million bonus miles to customers who contribute to designated relief organizations that include the American Red Cross, Airlink, Greater Houston Community Foundation, Americares as well as Operation USA. The company has already raised $1.5 million in donations.
Southwest Airlines told IBT it was offering 5 million Rapid Rewards points in a match program with its customers who donate to the American Red Cross, Team Rubicon or All Hands Volunteers. Rapid Rewards members can also donate their points to a bevy of organizations through the carrier’s website.
In addition to waiving rebooking and cancellation fees for its customers booked for travel to and from Houston through Sept. 5,  JetBlue Airways is matching  TrueBlue member point donations to benefit a charity of their choosing. The carrier noted on its website that it will match up to 250,000 points donated to Americares through Sept. 30. While members will not directly benefit, JetBlue Airways offers an alternative way to donate for those who might be on a budget.
Similarly,  Delta Air Lines told IBT that it too is allowing its members to  donate their frequent flyer miles to benefit several of its partner charities, including Habitat for Humanity, the Salvation Army and UNICEF. The airline has also set up a customer microsite to  donate directly to the American Red Cross.
Spirit Airlines, which is now fully functional in Houston again, told IBT that it is providing transportation for recovery personnel in the area. Additionally, the carrier is matching customer donations to the American Red Cross up to $50,000.
A representative for  Frontier Airlines told IBT that while it is not currently running a donation program, “on our first flight back to Houston (currently planned for Thursday morning) will have relief supplies for our Team Members and their family and friends who have been impacted.” 
Like JetBlue Airways, most major airlines are allowing customers to rebook their flights without facing additional fees. Airlines that include the aforementioned carriers have all allowed for rebooking without consequence. While some noted that the last day to rebook would be Wednesday, others have extended the booking window. A full list of specific dates  can be read at Time.
Several airlines have teamed up with disaster relief campaigns and promise miles to persuade flyers to donate to the effort. In this photo, a United Airlines Boeing 787 Dreamliner pulls up to a gate at O'Hare International Airport Photo: Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images


Jim “Mattress Mack” McIngvale turned his showroom into a shelter for victims of Hurricane Harvey, something Houston Pastor Joel Osteen was accused of not doing. More than 300 people are taking refuge inside Gallery Furniture, which is located just outside Houston, CNN reported Wednesday. The owner of the store is best known for his wacky commercials, but now he’s gaining a reputation for being charitable, too.
Mattress Mack wanted some of the people who were displaced to have a dry place to stay. “All day on Sunday we went around rescuing people out of high water stranded on overpasses. We brought about 200 people into the store that way,” Mack told CNN.
Mattress Mack took to Twitter Sunday to announce that his store was open to victims of the hurricane. The post was liked more than 50,000 times, which is double the amount of followers he has.
The business owner took to Twitter again Tuesday to announce he would take in more people in need. “For residents in need of shelter who live near Gallery Furniture Grand Parkways and can safely get here, Gallery Furniture Grand Parkway is now taking in more people in need of shelter,” he wrote. “Animals must be kenneled, and kennel kept at owner’s side. If you are in need of shelter, we invite you to safely join us at 7227 West Grand Parkway South if you can travel here safely.” Mack added: “Thank you to every volunteer, and our service men and women for their brave and unwavering compassion during this difficult time.”
“God bless,” he added Wednesday. “Staying the course/ keeping the faith.”
Televangelist Joel Osteen, pictured Oct. 3, 2016 in New York, didn't immediately open his Houston church doors to shelter victims of Hurricane Harvey, but Mattress Mack did. Photo: Getty Images
Mack’s daughter, Laura, praised him on Facebook. “Sometimes in life those closest to you surprise you in ways even beyond your realm of thought. Dad, it doesn't surprise me on it you opened the stores to our fellow Houstonians, you would give your last breath for another, but it still amazes me how selfless you are,” she wrote Monday. “More than any being on earth, I hope I'm half the person you are one day. During these horrific 5 days my faith in humanity has been restored over and over, and you Dad are at the top of that list.”
While Mack was praised for his generosity, Osteen, a famous televangelist, was slammed when rumors swirled he refused to open the doors open his megachurch to the tens of thousands of people in Houston who were misplaced.
He denied the accusations. “We have never closed our doors. We will continue to be a distribution center for those in need. We are prepared to house people once shelters reach capacity. Lakewood will be a value to the community in the aftermath of this storm in helping our fellow citizens rebuild their lives,” a statement from the church read Monday.
The following day, Lakewood Church shared a picture that showed refugees inside the area. “Thank you Houston. Your response has been overwhelming. We cannot thank enough the hundreds upon hundreds of volunteers who came out today!” the congregation wrote.
Follow me on Twitter @mariamzzarella


Enterprise Ethereum Alliance stalwart Nuco has formally announced Aion, an interoperable blockchain network and the framework allowing communication between blockchains.
Nuco is led by Matthew Spoke, who launched the Rubix Blockchain project at Deloitte back in 2014, making him one of the first people in the enterprise space to work with Ethereum; he continues to play a central role in the Enterprise Ethereum Alliance.
He said: "The hundreds of blockchains existing today will soon become thousands, then millions. Future adoption of this technology relies on a network of blockchains, both enterprise and public, and we're on our way to achieving this mission. Today's blockchains don't talk to each other at all. With Aion, blockchains will be able to federate, interoperate, and scale in a model similar to the internet itself."
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
In the future, blockchains will federate data and value in a hub and spoke model similar to the internet. The future of mainstream blockchain adoption will be achieved by the development of a networked, federated blockchain to integrate these separate spokes. Aion is designed to enable any private or public sector organization to:
The first phase of the Aion network development focuses on launch technologies that will be functional for the first version of the live system. The Aion network will depend on a secure proof-of-work algorithm while we continue to design and develop our neural net-backed consensus system, said a statement.
Blockchains don't talk to each other -- yet. Photo: iStock
It will leverage characteristics of the Ethereum VM, modified to improve performance, and support a mechanism for AION tokens to flow seamlessly between Ethereum and a public, third-generation blockchain called Aion-1.
Michael Tang, Head of Global Digital Transformation for Financial Services at Deloitte and an Advisor to Nuco, said: "Blockchain technology will soon become integral to every industry's infrastructure, and a framework for interoperability is critical to scaled adoption. As strong supporters of innovation in this space, we are eager to witness how Aion will help enterprise blockchains realize their enormous potential."
Nuco's advisors include Vitalik Buterin, Michael Tang, Scott Robinson, and Alex Tapscott. Advisors on the Aion project include New Alchemy, led by managing director Peter Vessenes, Co-Founder of the Bitcoin Foundation. Additional advisors for Aion will be announced soon.
 


Historic rainfall and flooding in southeast Texas will cause gas prices to go up. Hurricane Harvey has shut down completely or partially at least 14 oil refineries and gas prices could rise as much as 20 cents nationally and as much as 35 cents in parts of Texas and Louisiana, according to the Washington Post Wednesday.
Patrick DeHaan, is a senior petroleum analyst with GasBuddy, a website that monitors retail gas price. He predicts a rise over the next few weeks even as Labor Day Weekend approaches and peak summer driving will taper off.
“Gas prices will go up. The national average will rise 5 to 15 cents a gallon over the next two weeks. It’s up a penny already since yesterday. Areas of the Gulf of Mexico will see prices go up between 20 and 35 cents,” DeHaan told the Washington Post Tuesday.
The average price for a gallon of gas Wednesday was $2.404, up from $2.378 Tuesday, according to the American Automobile Association (AAA). In Texas the average price of a gallon of gas was lower than the national average,  $2.219 on Wednesday and $2.161 in Louisiana.
The refineries affected represent over 17 percent of the U.S. gas production, around 3 million barrels a day, according to Tribune. Around one-third of U.S. refineries dot the coast between Corpus Christi, Texas, and New Orleans, the area most affected by the storm.
In the wake of Hurricane Katrina, which hit New Orleans at the end of August in 2005, gas prices jumped up 40 cents.
Despite crude oil prices being low, around $46 per barrel, if refining capacity is limited, gasoline prices go up. Refineries not affected by the storm will work over time and benefit from “crack spread.” The term refers to the differential in crude oil prices and the price of gas products that refineries are able to churn out. With a bottleneck created by shut down refineries in Texas and Louisiana, other refineries are able to increase their profit.
Gas prices typically begin to fall at the end of summer as people begin driving less, using less gas, and gasoline stockpile reserved for summer drivers hit the market.
U.S. oil production has hit record highs recently, able to process over 9 million barrels a day, according to the Post. High production combined with historically low crude oil prices have meant lower stocks for companies like Chevron and Exxon. Just three years ago, the per barrel price of oil was in excess of $100.


Warren Buffett, 87, is one of the most successful investors in the United States. He is the chief executive officer, president, and chairman of Berkshire Hathaway. He was named the second richest person in the country and fourth wealthiest in the world by Forbes in August 2017, with an estimated net worth of $76.9 billion.
Along with being a philanthropist, Buffett is also an excellent orator. The following are a few of his quotes, on the occasion of his 87th birthday Wednesday, which is sure to inspire young entrepreneurs across the globe, as taken from Brainy Quotes:
1. Someone is sitting in the shade today because someone planted a tree a long time ago.
2. Rule No.1: Never lose money. Rule No.2: Never forget rule No.1.
3. It takes 20 years to build a reputation and five minutes to ruin it. If you think about that, you'll do things differently.
4. In the business world, the rearview mirror is always clearer than the windshield.
5. In the 20th century, the United States endured two world wars and other traumatic and expensive military conflicts; the Depression; a dozen or so recessions and financial panics; oil shocks; a flu epidemic; and the resignation of a disgraced president. Yet the Dow rose from 66 to 11,497.
Berkshire Hathaway's CEO Warren Buffett (L) and his business partner Vice Chairman Charles Munger answer questions at a news conference in Omaha, Nebraska, May 4, 2003.  Photo: Getty Images/ Eric Francis
6. Chains of habit are too light to be felt until they are too heavy to be broken.
7. It's better to hang out with people better than you. Pick out associates whose behavior is better than yours and you'll drift in that direction.
8. Wall Street is the only place that people ride to in a Rolls Royce to get advice from those who take the subway.
9. I always knew I was going to be rich. I don't think I ever doubted it for a minute.
10. Basically, when you get to my age, you'll really measure your success in life by how many of the people you want to have love you actually do love you.
11. Of the billionaires I have known, money just brings out the basic traits in them. If they were jerks before they had money, they are simply jerks with a billion dollars.
12. Should you find yourself in a chronically leaking boat, energy devoted to changing vessels is likely to be more productive than energy devoted to patching leaks.
13. When a management with a reputation for brilliance tackles a business with a reputation for bad economics, it is the reputation of the business that remains intact.
14. I never attempt to make money on the stock market. I buy on the assumption that they could close the market the next day and not reopen it for five years.
15. The only way to get love is to be lovable. It's very irritating if you have a lot of money. You'd like to think you could write a check: "I'll buy a million dollars' worth of love." But it doesn't work that way. The more you give love away, the more you get.


It's no secret celebrities are rich, but it’s surprising how much money some stars make through Instagram. Celebrities are influential, and fans may be more likely to buy a product if it's publicly endorsed by someone like Beyoncé or Selena Gomez. These endorsements are advertisements, which result in a hefty paycheck deposited into the celebrity's bank account. 
Instagram advertisements create an easier way for brands to attract current and future consumers by utilizing popular celebrity talents. Instagram has over 1 million monthly advertisers, with the vast majority being small to medium-sized businesses. Instagram has higher audience engagement compared with other social media websites, according to internet marketing company Yotpo; smaller businesses like Flat Tummy Tea, Cocowhite and Bootea have used Instagram celebrity endorsements to help them grow. 
Celebrities are matched to brands based on similarities, according to MJ Pedone, the president of Indra Public Relations, whose clients have benefited from this practice.
"Celebrity endorsers are usually chosen based on the connection between the brand and the celebrity," MJ Pedone told International Business Times. "It wouldn’t make sense for a professional athlete to endorse office supplies, but it would make sense to have them endorse athletic wear, TV’s and cell phones, to name a few. Both the company and the celebrity should definitely have the commonality factor or it won’t be genuine and can backfire."
The price paid out per celebrity differs because "that number will vary based on the celebrity's popularity," according to Pedone.
The Kardashian-Jenner clan are among the highest paid stars on Instagram as they've promoted brands like Sugarbearhair — among others.
I can always count on my @sugarbearhair vitamins to help keep my natural hair healthy and strong #ad __+ they taste delicious! #sugarbearhair
A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Jul 24, 2017 at 12:02pm PDT
 
"Some companies have been known to pay $500,000 a post to get access to Kim Kardashian's 102 million Instagram followers, while Khloé and Kourtney earn up to $250,000 a post,” Pedone told IBT.

Selena Gomez rakes in the most cash for her endorsement efforts at roughly $550,000 a post. The Instagram queen boasts 125 million followers to her name, which makes her a hot commodity with top retailers.  
Gomez is a vocal spokesperson for Pantene, but she also became the newest brand ambassador for Coach in December 2016. The Disney alum's partnership with Coach has given her the creative license to cultivate her own designs for the high-end retailer. Coach's stock went up after the partnership with Gomez was solidified, Business Insider reported. Gomez's reportedly inked $10 million for her Coach partnership, according to The Hollywood Reporter. 
Also so stoked I got to show you a sneak peak at my @coach bag I designed
A post shared by Selena Gomez (@selenagomez) on Aug 3, 2017 at 3:14pm PDT
 
The singer may be the highest-paid celebrity on Instagram, but following shortly behind is Kim Kardashian-West at $500,000 per post and Cristiano Ronaldo earning $400,000 per post, according to Instagram data and information website Hopper HQ. Other stars to secure spots on the list include Cara Delevingne at $150,000 per post, Gigi Hadid at $120,000 per post and LeBron James making $120,000 per post. 
But influencers don't have to be an A-list or even B-list celebrity to make money through Instagram. Dubai-based beauty YouTuber Huda Kattan is the highest-paid social influencer at $18,000 per Instagram post, according to Hopper HQ. Kattan has partnered with brands like Tweezerman to enhance her income. Other social media influencers to make the cut include Cameron Dallas at $17,000 per post, Zoella at $14,000 per post and Nash Grier reeling in $13,000 per post. 
Teami Blends uses Instagram to promote its detox tea products to approximately 431,000 followers. The brands' biggest celebrity influencer is Demi Lovato.
Lovato wrote in an April advertised post: "@teamiblends has #sponsored my 30-day detox challenge to help get rid of toxins and my bloating for summer. I'm on Day 7 right now & it's so easy! I just drink their tea every single day in my favorite purple tumbler."
This year is all about #selflove _ truly taking care of myself and exercising has changed everything for me. @teamiblends has #sponsored my 30 day detox challenge ☕__ to help get rid of toxins and my bloating for summer. I’m on Day 7 right now & it’s so easy! I just drink their tea every single day in my favorite purple tumbler. I love taking it to shoots and the studio with me. If you are ready to be your best YOU this summer, use my Code: DEMI for 20% off your detox program when you check out! I want all of you to do the challenge with me! #thankyouteami #teamitumbler #healthylifestyle
A post shared by Demi Lovato (@ddlovato) on Apr 24, 2017 at 4:19pm PDT
 
Brand ambassadors, like Lovato, are chosen by Teami Blends for their aspirationally healthy lifestyles. The "Confident" singer actively shares posts of her workout regimen, body positive messages and partnership with Fabletics, which is a Kate Hudson brand. 
"We choose ambassadors because of the lifestyles they live. We promote health and happiness, and we choose those who live by that as well," Teami Blends told IBT. "Our influencers truly use and love our products, because they are all natural, and serve to help ailments that we all experience."
The company's primary goal with celebrity collaborations "is the informative exposure of our brand." The tea brand recognizes that it "can attribute a large percentage of our business to our ambassador marketing."
Instagram advertisements are supposed to be tagged properly by the celebrity or social influencer. In the past, several celebrities reportedly failed to adequately tag posts with the identifier, including Rihanna.
Public Citizen, an advocate for proper taggings of advertisements, fought for the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to enforce stricter regulations. Public Citizen argued that young consumers are "deceived" by celebrity advertisements.
"On Instagram, disguised ads are rampant; deceived consumers often believe celebrities are making genuine, self-directed and enthusiastic endorsements of brands," Public Citizen's website reads. "They don't realize that those celebrities are paid and may not even use the touted brand. These ads are often targeted at kids and teenagers, and there is clear evidence that this is an especially vulnerable group to advertising disguised as content."
Instagram has worked towards making it easier for consumers to identify advertisements on celebrity and social influencers accounts. Post identifiers marked with "#ad",  "paid partnership with" or "sponsored" are being enforced by the social app. These identifiers are being encouraged by the social app to enforce transparency in the Instagram community, which will make it easier for millennial consumers in particular to distinguish advertisements from regular posts. 
"It's the relationships people form on Instagram that foster the community and make it so unique, including partnerships between community creators and businesses," an Instagram spokesperson told IBT. "To keep this community healthy and transparent, we want to be open and consistent about paid partnerships."
Instagram doesn't reap the financial benefits of paid partnerships. It's a free service provided to businesses to cultivate "greater transparency" within the Instagram community.    
Based on the sizable amount of money in play, it's more evident than ever that it pays to be famous. 
Kendall Jenner (L) and Kylie Jenner (R), pictured November 18, 2015, are among a long list of celebrities whose incomes benefit from Instagram ads. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


UPDATE: 3:02 p.m. – After a photo emerged that showed a Best Buy store selling cases of water for $42 in flood-ravaged Texas, the company has issued an apology for the pricing.
"This was a big mistake on the part of a few employees at one store on Friday," a spokesperson for Best Buy told International Business Times in a statement Tuesday. "As a company we are focused on helping, not hurting affected people. We're sorry and it won't happen again. Not as an excuse but as an explanation, we don't typically sell cases of water. The mistake was made when employees priced a case of water using the single-bottle price for each bottle in the case."
Original story: A Best Buy store near Houston was accused of price gouging bottles of water in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, according to a story on GritPost by Ken Klippenstein. Photos shared on Twitter allegedly of a store in Cypress, Texas, showed cases of Smart Water being sold for $29.98, while cases of Dasani water were being hocked at $42.96.
Social media users decried the apparent price gouging for vital supplies like water — though it was far from the first time prices were raised in the aftermath of the disaster. More than 500 complaints were leveled against businesses about price gouging during Hurricane Harvey over the weekend, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton told CNBC in an interview Monday.
“These are things you can’t do in Texas,” said Paxton. “There are significant penalties if you price gouge in a crisis like this.”

Price gouging can result in fines of up to $200,000, with an additional $50,000 if the victim in question was over 65 years old. Texans reported businesses driving up prices in the wake of the disaster as companies reportedly worried about supply and demand.
“I don’t think as large as our country is, as large as Texas is, that supply is ultimately going to be that big of an issue,” Paxton told CNBC.
Others reported cases of water going for up to $99. A television crew from KXAN-TV in Austin attempted to stay in a hotel about 20 miles from Corpus Christi Saturday — only to find prices at the establishment had been tripled. The Best Western Plus charged $321.89 instead of the standard $120 - $149 per night.
Multiple customers at a WingStop in Houston were overcharged over the weekend as well — patrons noticed ambiguous charges and “catering platter” fees on their receipts. General manager Estebanon Barnes acknowledged the issue and said the customers were “incorrectly charged.”
“I want to apologize to our guests who may have been incorrectly charged,” Barnes said, according to the Corpus Christi Caller-Times. “We’re working to quickly resolve this error and ensure it doesn’t happen again.”


Tuesday marked what would have been Michael Jackson’s 59th birthday. He was born in 1958 and died June 25, 2009. The King of Pop regularly topped the music charts and gave the world cult classics and popular trends. During his career, he grossed millions and sold record-breaking amounts of music.
Many renowned Jackson as one of the most prosperous artists to grace the music world. His estate has a projected net worth of $600 million, according to Celebrity Net Worth. Between 1985 to 1995, the pop star earned about $100 million annually. It was mostly from touring, endorsements, merchandise and record sales.
Posthumously, Jackson remained one of the most notable and profitable musical artists worldwide. He has sold over 750 million albums, including the 35 million units sold after his death. Jackson’s most important asset was his musical catalog, the copyright value of his songs is estimated at $100 million, according to Celebrity Net Worth. Jackson purchased the entire Beatles catalog for $47.5 million, which merged with Sony and holds an estimated value of about $2 billion.
Over the course of his life, Jackson grossed about $500 million from his own music, videos, concerts and endorsements. However, he had reportedly amassed $500 million worth of financial debt. He supposedly spent between $30 and $50 million annually on his lifestyle. More, he accumulated massive fees for lawyers and publicists during court trials. 
Jackson’s family attempted to divvy up his money and estimate. His will specifically bestowed 40 percent of his assets to his three children. His will also delegated 20 percent to various children's aid organizations, while the remaining 40 percent went to support his mother, Katherine. After Katherine's death, Jackson’s will awards the children that same 40 percent. 
Jackson’s daughter Paris, 19, took to Instagram and posted a heartfelt tribute to her father Tuesday. She posted a childhood photo and a message regarding her late father, stating that he was "the love of [her] life" and taught her "how to dream."
birthday wishes to the love of my life, the one person who showed me what passion truly was, the one that gave me solid morals to live by and how to dream. i will never feel love again the way i did with you. you are always with me and i am always with you. though i am not you, and you are not me, i know with all of my being that we are one. and our souls will never change in that way. thank you for the magic, forever and always.
A post shared by Paris-Michael K. Jackson (@parisjackson) on Aug 29, 2017 at 1:37am PDT
"Birthday wishes to the love of my life, the one person who showed me what passion truly was, the one that gave me solid morals to live by and how to dream. I will never feel love again the way I did with you. you are always with me and I am always with you. though I am not you, and you are not me, I know with all of my being that we are one. and our souls will never change in that way. thank you for the magic, forever and always," she wrote.
"You are always with me and I am always with you," she continued. "Though I am not you, and you are not me, I know with all of my being that we are one. And our souls will never change in that way. Thank you for the magic, forever and always."
the og squad
A post shared by Paris-Michael K. Jackson (@parisjackson) on Aug 9, 2017 at 10:56pm PDT
Paris attended The MTV Video Music Awards Sunday and presented Fifth Harmony and Gucci Mane an award for the best pop video for "Down." She used her time on stage to suggest that there should be "zero tolerance" for Nazism.


Social media criticized Pastor Joel Osteen for apparently not allowing misplaced Hurricane Harvey victims to use his massive Houston-based Lakewood church for shelter over the weekend. Many questioned why the wealthy pastor refused to house the victims or publicly donate funds to relief efforts.
Osteen, 54, has an estimated net worth of $40 million, according to Celebrity Net Worth. He is also listed as the fifth-richest pastor in America, according to Belief Net. He is the senior pastor of the Houston-based Lakewood Church and claimed his position after his father and former head pastor died in 1991.
The Houston-based pastor once made an estimated $200,000 from running the church. However, he relinquished his salary in 2005. His sermons are televised worldwide and he is a best-selling author whose books have appeared on the New York Times Best Seller’s list.
His first book released in 2004, "Your Best Life Now: 7 Steps to Living at Your Full Potential," has sold more than 10 million copies, according to the Star-Telegram. His second book, "Become A Better You," grossed him $13 million, according to Celebrity Net Worth. Osteen’s book deals and tours reportedly earned him about $55 million annually.  
Social media criticized Pastor Joel Osteen for not letting misplaced Hurricane Harvey victims seek shelter in his massive Lakewood church. His mansion is valued at $10.9 million.
He is pictured at SiriusXM Studios on Oct. 3, 2016 in New York City. Photo: Getty Images
"I am what I am today because of what I believed about myself yesterday," his book read. "And I will be tomorrow what I’m believing about myself right now."
After an estimated $95 million in renovations, Osteen and his congregation moved into the formally known Compaq Center in 2005. The Lakewood church now seats almost 16,000 people and has about 40,000 members. The building is made up of wall-to-wall carpeting and indoor waterfalls.
Osteen’s church isn’t the only seemingly affluent property attached to his name. The Houston pastor, his wife Victoria and three children live in a 17,000 square-foot mansion, worth an estimated $10.5 million in River Oaks, according to Newsmax. His home reportedly contains six bedrooms, six bathrooms, three elevators, a pool house, five fireplaces, three elevators and a guest house.
In an interview with Oprah Winfrey on her show "Next Chapter," the Lakewood pastor talked about his wealth and how he grossed much of his money from book sales. Besides the books, he has a series of calendars, daybooks and other items that earn income. 
"It’s interesting how people usually know who’s sincere and who’s not over time — we don’t ask for money and people send in millions of dollars to help us keep the broadcast on the air," Osteen told Winfrey. "We don’t take a salary from the ministry, it comes from books and other things like that."
Winfrey asked Osteen if he "makes any apologies" for his wealth. Osteen suggested that God was responsible for his possessions and wealth. He claimed it was because his family often donated to the less fortunate.
"I really don’t, Oprah. We just feel like this is God’s blessings," he said. "You know, we’re big givers, we live what we preach, we’ve given millions of dollars. And I don’t think there’s anything wrong with having a nice place to live and being blessed."


A flight arrived at its San Francisco destination nine hours delayed this week after a rat was spotted on board the plane. The Sunday flight from Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi to San Francisco International Airport had to redirect to the terminal where it was later fumigated, as per safety protocol.
The flight was originally scheduled to depart at 2:30 a.m. IST,  according to FlightAware. However, the plane did not depart until 12:02 p.m., making it more than nine and a half hours late. News of the flight interruption was  first reported Monday by the Times of India:
“Just when the plane was taxiing, the rat was spotted. By the time fumigation was being done, the maximum flying time for the crew — four sets of pilots are needed for this ultra-long haul flight — or flight duty and time limitations (FDTL) kicked in. The airline had to, at the last minute, look for a replacement crew, said a source.”
The fumigation process for the aircraft took upwards of six hours. It was not immediately clear Monday where on the plane the rat was seen or how it managed to get on the flight, though an official called the occurrence “universal” and said that rodents “follow the large storage cases in which food trays are kept.” From there, they are unwittingly lifted into aircraft.
According to the Times of India, Air India’s new chairman Rajiv Bansal has requested a detailed report of the incident.
A 2014  report from the Wall Street Journal about the frequency of rodents appearing on flights confirmed that the issue is not altogether rare. According to an official associated with a state-run pest-control company, it received “requests to fumigate four or five planes each month.”
The plane was reportedly carrying 172 passengers seated in economy and another 34 in business class. Additional time needed to locate two commanders and two co-pilots to fly the plane compounded the delay.
A similar incident delayed a  British Airways flight in March after a mouse was found on board the plane from Heathrow Airport in Longford, England, to San Francisco International Airport, causing an hours-long delay. One official pointed to the potential dangers posed by four-legged stowaways.
“Rats on board an aircraft can lead to a catastrophe if they start chewing up electric wires of a plane,” said a senior commander who spoke with the Times of India about Sunday’s event. “If that happens, pilots will have no control on any system on board leading to a disaster.”
Air India did not immediately return International Business Times’ request for comment.
A flight arrived to its San Francisco destination nine hours delayed this week after a rat was spotted on an Air India plane. In this photo, An Air India domestic flight takes off from Sardar Vallabhbhai International Airport in Ahmedabad on May 12, 2012.  Photo: SAM PANTHAKY/AFP/GettyImages


Jason Mitchell, the actor best known for his depiction of rapper Eazy-E in 2015’s “Straight Outta Compton,” was reportedly detained after an altercation aboard a Delta Air Lines flight over the weekend. Video of the incident was obtained by TMZ and later posted online.
The Sunday incident occurred after Mitchell arrived late to a first flight, for which he had a first class ticket, and was offered a seat below first class on a subsequent flight, a representative for Delta Air Lines told International Business Times Monday.  TMZ reported Sunday that Mitchell originally claimed his seat aboard the carrier was double booked.
“The passenger was late checking in and missed his original flight from Las Vegas to Salt Lake City,” the airline told IBT. “He was placed on standby on the next flight and confirmed into Delta Comfort+, on the only available seat. On that flight, 2252, he got into a verbal altercation with the crew, before ultimately exiting the aircraft and being taken into custody by law enforcement.”
The airline added: “He was told prior to boarding, there were no 1st class seats available on the flight.”

During the incident, Mitchell could be heard yelling profanities at both airline staff as well as passengers in the first class area of the plane’s cabin. “P----,” “f--- you” and other insults were among those heard from Mitchell during multiple video clips of the altercation. At one point, a first class passenger could be heard asking Mitchell to leave the plane so it could depart.
In a second clip obtained by TMZ, which appeared to be taken before the above video, Mitchell could be heard threatening to “smack the f---” out of another passenger. It was not clear Monday what the circumstances around the exchange entailed.

TMZ also reported that local law enforcement had to be called. While Delta Air Lines refused to press charges, Mitchell was reportedly handcuffed and detained.
“Eyewitnesses say Mitchell eventually got off the plane, but not before cops had to get involved. Law enforcement sources tell us,” the site reported. “Mitchell was cuffed and detained when he finally left the aircraft, but Delta refused to press charges and he was released.”
In an apparent response to the public incident, Mitchell on Monday posted a profanity-laced meme that referenced a  scene from 1998’s stoner comedy Half Baked.
pic.twitter.com/UApOndmTtj
&mdash; Jason Mitchell (@JasonMitch) August 28, 2017

Representatives for Mitchell did not immediately return IBT’s request for comment.
Jason Mitchell, the actor best known for his depiction of Eazy-E in 2015’s “Straight Outta Compton,” was reportedly detained after an altercation aboard a Delta Air Lines flight over the weekend. In this photo, recording artist Common, actors Jason Mitchell, Neil Brown Jr. and Aldis Hodge attend the 2016 MTV Movie Awards at Warner Bros. Studios on April 9, 2016 in Burbank, California. Photo: Photo by Emma McIntyre/Getty Images for MTV


Financial institutions' drive to become more "experience-driven" is opening the door to potential competition from global technology giants, according the World Economic Forum.

In a report published last week, the WEF said the challenge to banks and insurers is down to large technology firms "hollowing out the value proposition of these institutions" by carrying out more core functions, even as banks and insurers lean ever more heavily on them to compete.
The report, titled "'Beyond Fintech': A pragmatic assessment of disruptive potential in financial services," also notes that fintech start-ups, while achieving success in terms of changing the basis for competition, have had less impact than expected in disrupting the competitive landscape.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
Jesse McWaters, lead author of the report and project lead (disruptive innovation in financial services) at the WEF, said: "The partnership between banks and large tech companies risks not staying a reciprocal one. Financial institutions increasingly rely on technology firms for their most strategically sensitive capabilities, but can so far only offer their ongoing business in return."
The report drew on interviews and workshops with hundreds of financial and technology experts, examining cloud computing, customer-facing artificial intelligence and 'big data' customer analytics as three capabilities that are becoming critical to the competitive differentiation of financial institutions.
All three are domains where technology giants like Amazon, Google and Facebook have far deeper experience than their financial services counterparts and where scale effects will make it difficult for financial institutions to catch up, the report noted.
As a result, many banks and insurers are turning to technology firms to provide these core functions. For instance, Amazon Web Services (AWS) provides services to dozens of finance companies, including Aon, Capital One, Carlyle, Nasdaq, Pacific Life and Stripe.
Brazil's Banco Bradesco Facebook app allows customers to conduct day-to-day banking from the social network, and relies on its customer data analytics to target users. Capital One and Liberty Mutual's 'Alexa solution (a voice-activated personal assistant), which allows customers to check balances, pay bills and track spending through these devices, is another example.
While these partnerships can accelerate innovation, the report points out that they also pose a risk should large technology players choose to enter financial services in direct competition with retail banks and insurers.
"Technology giants would be able to pick and choose their points of entry into financial services; maximising their strengths like rich datasets and strong brands, while taking advantage of incumbent institutions' dependence on them," McWaters added.
As a result, financial institutions will likely need to walk a challenging line between capitalising on the services of large technology players and becoming dependent on them.
Other dilemmas are likely to surface too. For customers, the entry of large technology firms into financial services could mean entrusting both their financial and non-financial data to the same company. For policy-makers it would raise serious questions about how best to avoid both anti-competitive behaviour and the inappropriate use of personal data in decision-making.
The WEF recommends a move away from a focus on the potential competitive threat of fintech firms, which have deeply influenced the direction of innovation in the industry, as doubts were surfacing about their ability to directly challenge incumbent financial institutions.

Big tech, not fintech, is causing the greatest disruption to traditional finance.  Photo: iStock
Robo-advisers, which provide automated investment advice to customers at low fees, provide an instructive example of incumbents responding to fintech. Early innovators like Betterment and Wealthfront have shown significant growth, with assets under management of $6.7 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively, at the end of 2016.
However, they have been dwarfed by incumbents that have created their own robo-advisory offerings, such as the Vanguard Advisor platform, which had $47 billion in assets under management as of the end of 2016.
Another of the report's findings notes the emergence of distinct financial systems in China, Europe and the U.S., raising concerns for international regulatory coordination.
The report observed that, in China, large technology companies like Ant Financial (a subsidiary of Alibaba) and Tencent (the parent company of WeChat) have emerged as leading providers of a range of financial services – a striking departure from the traditional bank-led model dominant in the US.
Meanwhile in Europe, the forthcoming enactment of the Second Payment Services Directive (more commonly called PSD2) is expected to open up banks' customer data, creating an environment of more active competition between incumbents and new entrants.
"Technology is not driving a global convergence in customer experience, instead divergent customer demand and regulatory priorities are creating distinctly regionalised financial ecosystems," said Bob Contri, Industry Leader at Deloitte Global Financial Services, and an adviser to the report.
"This could pose a serious challenge to regulatory coordination, as regulators struggle to understand the disparate impact of global regulations on each region."
 


Vietnamese carrier VietJet became famous for their flight attendants wearing sexy bikinis during their travels, but the employees won’t don the salacious outfits when they fly to Indonesia. The flight attendants will be fully clothed when they fly from Ho Chi Minh City to Jakarta in December, the Jakarta Post reported Wednesday.
There was controversy around the airline in 2012 when they held a salacious contest in the middle of the flight. They were fined 20 million Dong, which translates to about $880, because of the public relations stunt, News.com.au wrote. They were not given permission by the Vietnam’s aviation authorities first.
When Ibnu Hadi, the ambassador of Indonesia, caught wind that VietJet was flying to Jakarta, he made sure the flight attendants would be covered up.
“I’d like to explain that the bikini (stunt) was only for one event. It was for the airline’s launch of their new route to Nha Trang, which is a resort city so that’s why they wore bikinis,” he said, according to a statement quoted by Indonesian broadcast program Liputan 6. “(The airline) has been reprimanded by their (the Vietnamese) government for their stunt.” He added: “VietJet is a budget airline and they will open a route to Indonesia without the bikinis. The opening of the route is still being discussed. Hopefully before the close of this year.”
VietJet flight attendants will not wear bikinis when they fly to Indonesia.  Photo: Getty Images
The flight attendants only wear bikinis for special occasions, according to VietJet’s deputy director for commercial affairs Jay L Lingeswara. “We strongly believe and are committed to offering the best and suitable services to the Indonesian market,” he said, according to the Jakarta Post.
Bikinis or not, VietJet is raking in the dough. Nguyen Thi Phuong Thao, the CEO of VietJet, became Vietnam’s first female billionaire. “I’ve never sat down and calculated my assets,” Thao said in a March 2016 interview with Bloomberg.com. “I’m just focused on how to boost the company’s growth, how to increase the average salary for my employees, how to lead the airline to gain more market share and make it number one.”
Their success can be attributed to their PR stunts and scandalous outfits. “They've been clever about their marketing,” aviation analyst Greg Waldron of FlightGlobal told the BBC in February. “This gave them huge publicity all over the world.”
In the future, VietJet could go international. “There's no doubt that they are the dominant low-cost carrier in Vietnam,” he said. “The question is whether they can really expand that model overseas.”
But they would have to focus on their strategy. “These business models are not like McDonald's, where you can just replicate the model elsewhere,” he said. “With airlines, it's a lot more challenging: if they go internationally, this would add a huge amount of complexity to their business model. Long-haul flights would again be a completely different game.”
Currently, VietJet flies to 35 countries. Having their flight attendants wear modest attire could potentially be their first step in going international.
Follow me on Twitter @mariamzzarella


As the cost of prescription drugs continues to rise in the nation that already pays the most in the world for medications, federal legislators and ballot-measure committees are proposing ways to curb those prices. But pharmaceutical companies, worried their profit margins will decline under the pending proposals, are spending millions of dollars against the initiatives — and in one political bellwether state, they are employing a controversial tactic that uses shell companies to let them evade longstanding campaign finance disclosure laws.
In Ohio, the drug industry faces Issue 2, the Ohio Drug Price Relief Act — a citizen-initiated ballot measure designed to prevent state agencies, including the state Department of Medicaid, from purchasing drugs at rates any higher than the lowest amount paid by the federal Department of Veterans Affairs, which negotiates with drug companies and saves between 20 and 24 percent on drug costs. Proponents of the measure say it would save taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars per year, while detractors say it would actually raise drug prices and reduce access to medications.
To oppose Issue 2, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), the biggest trade organization in the U.S. representing major drug companies, created a political action committee on May 1 called Ohioans Against the Deceptive Rx Ballot Issue. On the same day, PhRMA also founded a limited liability corporation of the same name and registered at the same address;  under normal circumstances, it would not be required to disclose its donors. Campaign finance reports document only one donor to the ballot measure committee: the linked LLC. With the LLC’s individual corporate donors being hidden, PhRMA is wading into a legal gray area: The committee is revealing its donor, the LLC, but not the true sources of the funds given to the LLC.
"We’ve said from the start that our campaign was primarily being funded by the pharmaceutical companies," said Dale Butland, spokesman for Ohioans Against the Deceptive Rx Ballot Issue, responding to questions of secrecy.
“Certainly, setting up an LLC to launder drug company money into fighting the ballot measure looks like an effort to evade Ohio's transparency and disclosure laws,” Brendan Fischer, director of federal and Federal Election Commission reform at the nonpartisan Campaign Legal Center, told International Business Times in an email.
Donors Use Corporations To Hide Their Identities
PhRMA’s Ohio maneuver spotlights how so-called “dark money” groups are creating new ways to get around state campaign finance laws after two federal court decisions in 2010, most notably Citizens United, allowed unlimited corporate and union money in elections. These 501(c)(4) “social welfare” nonprofits, which are supposed to spend less than half their resources on political issues but are rarely held accountable by the gridlocked Federal Election Commission (FEC), are not required to disclose their donors. Independent political operatives have used these organizations to fund super PACs, which are required to disclose their contributors, while hiding the names of the original donors.
Another method of hiding political donors’ identities, which is becoming increasingly common, is using limited liability companies as “ghost corporations” to fund super PACs and even campaign committees. In March 2016, the gridlocked FEC was evenly split on whether to investigate big donations to a Mitt Romney-supporting super PAC made in 2011 by mysterious LLCs. Because of the tie vote, the commission closed the case, signaling to donors that the sources of money funneled through LLCs would not be scrutinized.
But the plaintiffs who filed a lawsuit demanding the FEC investigate the pro-Romney LLC donations — the Campaign Legal Center and fellow government watchdog Democracy 21 — sued the FEC for its inaction, and in March 2017, a federal district court quashed the FEC’s attempt to have the case thrown out.
The Campaign Legal Center contends that hiding donors this way at the federal level violates the Federal Elections Campaign Act, which prohibits “straw donors.” Section 325 of the FECA reads, “No person shall make a contribution in the name of another person or knowingly permit his name to be used to effect such a contribution.” Violating this provision at the federal level can be a criminal offense. (Here, “person” refers to an individual, partnership, committee, association, corporation, labor organization, or any other group.)
“Failure to enforce the straw donor provisions would be extremely troubling,” said Adav Noti, Campaign Legal Center's senior director for trial litigation and strategy. “The straw donor bans exist for the obvious reason of preventing people from giving money in secret... If you can hide your contributions, you’re completely undermining the entire purpose of financial disclosure.”
In a more recent instance of straw donations, a California real estate agent formed Children of Israel LLC in 2015 in order to launder the political contributions of one individual. The LLC ended up giving $150,000 to a super PAC supporting then-presidential candidate Mike Huckabee, $400,000 to a pro-Ted Cruz super PAC and the maximum allowed amount for an individual — $334,000 — to the Republican National Committee. In April 2016, The Intercept discovered the source of the LLC’s money via a twice-amended filing from the RNC: Saul Fox, a California private equity CEO whose firm itself is an LLC.
Ashley Balcerzak of the Center for Responsive Politics found that 840 LLCs donated roughly $21 million to presidential campaigns and super PACs in 2016, nearly double the amount spent in 2012.
This year, the FEC asked Donald Trump’s campaign to clarify who was behind 140 different LLCs that gave money — a total of $91,000 — directly to his campaign in the 2016 election. But most of the LLC money that entered the presidential race went towards independent spending groups, mostly super PACs. Outside groups supporting Trump took in $1.6 million from LLCs.
Activists rally during a protest against the price of EpiPens, outside the office of hedge fund manager John Paulson, August 30, 2016 in New York City. Photo: Drew Angerer/Getty Images
A Booming ‘Ghost Company’ In Ohio
Ballot measure committees in states like Ohio and California have no contribution limits but are required to report their contributors. Through LLCs — or nonfunctioning companies that act as ghost corporations — major pharmaceutical companies are hiding their names as they bankroll an expensive effort to crush the Ohio Drug Price Relief Act.
One detail that could embarrass the corporate donors is the fact that, despite the name of the anti-Issue 2 corporation — Ohioans Against the Deceptive Rx Ballot Issue LLC, a “wholly-owned subsidiary of PhRMA” — not one of PhRMA’s member companies is actually headquartered in Ohio. Most of the donors are PhRMA members, based on the available information and statements from the “No on 2” group’s communications director.
While most donors remain secret in the Ohio effort, two companies voluntarily disclosed their donations to the LLC in recent corporate reports. According to the Columbus Dispatch, California-based Amgen gave $6.3 million from 2016 through June 2017, and Biogen, headquartered in Massachusetts, gave $1.5 million last year. This accounts for roughly half of the $15.8 million total that PhRMA’s LLC raised in just May and June to fight Issue 2. With a November 7 election, the funds will almost certainly continue to flow heavily.
The coalition backing the “No on 2” effort includes the Ohio Hospital Association, the Ohio Chamber of Commerce and the Columbus branch of the NAACP.
In 2016, PhRMA set up a very similarly named committee, Californians Against the Misleading Rx Ballot Measure, which raised over $111 million for its campaign against a California initiative that, like Ohio’s, would have blocked that state from paying higher drug prices than those negotiated by the Veterans Affairs Department. The trade group set up a political action committee in California to which pharma companies donated directly — so PhRMA had to disclose these donors. Merck, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson gave over $9 million each; Amgen gave $7.6 million; and 19 other drug companies gave $1 million or more. The PhRMA-run committee spent nearly all of the millions it raised, and the measure failed to pass, with 53 percent of voters shooting it down. All donors except for Genentech and Gilead Sciences are PhRMA members, and only a handful of companies out of more than 30 total corporate donors are headquartered in California.
U.S. customers pay the world's highest drug prices. A Walgreens pharmacy in Wheeling, Illinois.  Photo: Scott Olson/Getty Images  One Big Donor Backs Issue 2
Supporting Issue 2 is a committee called Ohio Taxpayers for Lower Drug Prices. The nonprofit took in close to $3.7 million through June, almost entirely from the Los Angeles-based AIDS Healthcare Foundation run by Michael Weinstein, the financier behind a similar 2016 California ballot measure. His controversial foundation gets most of its revenue from “adjacent businesses” — pharmacies and clinics — that provide primary care to roughly 41,000 patients, according to the New York Times Magazine. This income funds free care for more than 700,000 international HIV patients.
Ohio Taxpayers for Lower Drug Prices argues that the measure would save Ohio residents $400 million per year. Sen. Bernie Sanders, for whom lowering drug costs is a top priority, has endorsed Issue 2. Sanders’ own bill in the U.S. Senate to allow drug imports from Canada would save the federal government more than $6 billion, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office.
Holding Big Pharma Accountable
An Ohio voter and proponent of Issue 2 filed an official complaint with the state elections commission against PhRMA, its ballot committee and its LLC on August 2. The suit alleges that PhRMA’s LLC “is a political action committee under Ohio law, because it is a combination of two or more persons with a primary or major purpose to oppose [the ballot measure] through express advocacy.” Therefore, the suit says, the LLC is in violation of the law for failing to register as a PAC with the Ohio Secretary of State; if it did register, it would be required to disclose details on its donors.
“These three entities have deliberately concocted a scheme to attempt to hide the identities of the individual drug companies that have contributed millions of dollars in an effort to defeat ODPRA,” reads the complaint. “The people of Ohio deserve to know the identities of these drug companies.”
“If the LLC's major purpose is to act as a pass-through to funnel pharma's money into the ballot fight, then the LLC may have to register as a political committee and file disclosure reports,” said Fischer.
Ohio’s campaign finance handbook says that LLCs may make contributions, but such groups need to accompany any donation with detailed information of each partner, owner or member and their allocated portion of the contribution. Recipients of these funds need to itemize each individual donation.
The Ohio secretary of state’s office, however, says the practice is legal, since state campaign finance law does not restrict donations based on tax designation, including 501(c)(6) organizations like PhRMA’s LLC. But if the office is incorrect, and PhRMA has broken the law, there needs to be “proper enforcement that should involve disclosure of donors and some sort of penalty,” said Noti.
Fischer said he doesn’t see any legal problems with the AIDS Healthcare Foundation funding the “Yes on 2” ballot committee. Since the foundation’s revenue comes from its own business operations, there’s nothing else to disclose. If other donors were funneling money through the foundation, that would be a problem, Fischer said. Some individual donors gave small amounts to the ballot committee, but this does not appear to be happening with the foundation itself.
As the ballot fight continues, the drug industry faces another battle as well: A lawsuit filed in June by the Ohio attorney general alleges that pharmaceutical companies Purdue Pharma, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Johnson & Johnson, Endo Health Solutions and Allergan — all PhRMA members except Endo — sponsored marketing campaigns that misled doctors and patients about the dangers of opioid addiction and overdose. Allergan, Johnson & Johnson and Purdue combined to give nearly $16 million to the PhRMA-run ballot measure committee that successfully opposed the California ballot measure last year.


Uber on Sunday selected Dara Khosrowshahi, the chief executive of an online travel platform Expedia Inc, as the company’s new CEO. Ending the company’s contentious search, Khosrowshahi was chosen by the board of directors at Uber Technologies Inc [UBER.UL] following the board meetings over the weekend, according to two sources having the knowledge of the decision, reports said.
He would replace former CEO Travis Kalanick, who was forced to step down in June following a tiff with a shareholder.
Khosrowshahi, 48, an Iranian-born American businessman has been the CEO of Expedia since 2005 when the global online travel platform saw rapid expansion. He completed his graduation from Brown University, a private Ivy League research university in Providence, Rhode Island, and he has previously worked at media and internet company InterActiveCorp (IAC), and investment bank Allen & Company.
Khosrowshahi was picked among three finalists after a weekend of board meetings, according to anonymous sources, the New York Times reported. Earlier on Sunday, the leading candidate, former General Electric (GE) CEO Jeff Immelt, announced on Twitter that he had "decided not to pursue a leadership position at Uber," after it was made clear that he did not have enough support from the board, sources familiar with the decision-making process told the Washington Post.
In his Twitter post, Immelt added: "I have immense respect for the company & founders - Travis, Garrett and Ryan" (the first names of Kalanick, Garrett Camp and Ryan Graves). The board had been quite supportive of another top contender Meg Whitman, the CEO of Hewlett Packard Enterprise, who also said earlier this month that she was not keen on taking the job. But speculations suggested she resurfaced as a leading contender after Immelt's withdrawal. 
Khosrowshahi is respected in the Silicon Valley for handling the huge expansion of Expedia Inc. to over 60 countries, reports suggested. After he took over Expedia, he successfully battled recessions that hampered people's travel budgets and upstarts like Airbnb, which attempted to take away its business. Before working at Barry Diller's IAC, he worked in the banking industry.
He has been known for his outspoken criticism about President Donald Trump. Earlier this year, he condemned Trump’s travel ban that mainly barred travelers from Muslim majority countries from entering the country. "It is important to have safe borders, but at the same time, we can’t forget what brought us here. This is an immigrant nation," he told the Financial Times earlier this year. The Iranian-born businessman moved to the United States along with his family at the age of four as a refugee after the Iranian revolution.
Following his selection, sources familiar with the matter told the Washington Post he would help the struggling ride-share company in two important ways. Firstly, Khosrowshahi is considered to be low-key and "even-keeled" as compared to Uber's former CEO, who has had several instances where he was known to fly into fits of anger while handling a situation.
"My whole life, anytime I've faced a high-pressure decision, my model for mature behavior has been, 'what would Dara do'? He's one of the humblest and most even-keeled people I know," Ali Partovi, an entrepreneur, and technology investor, who is Khosrowshahi’s second cousin, told the Washington Post. The two were said to have attended primary school together in Iran.
Secondly, if Khosrowshahi accepts the offer, he would have his hands full. Since Uber has been embroiled in controversies for about a year, he would be responsible for transforming the company’s work culture and business. Several controversies about Uber made the headlines in the last eight months including sexual harassment and discrimination allegations against the ride-share giant that led to the resignation of the former CEO, according to Forbes.


United Airlines faced a bizarre lawsuit Friday, wherein a customer named William J. Dicks accused one of the airline's workers of humiliating him with unsolicited sex talk over his name.
According to a report in the New York Post, the worker taunted the Milwaukee man for nearly 48 minutes. 
Dicks was “reminded of the trauma he suffered as a child when he was teased because of his last name” during the Feb. 15 phone call, which he made to the airline to get information about his flight the next day to New Orleans, the lawsuit filed in Wisconsin federal court says, according to the New York Post.
The worker allegedly told Dicks during the call that his last name was “controversial” but that “he liked it.” He also asked him if he “was alone" and "what he would do to the agent if they were alone together.” The worker also asked Dicks whether he used “protection” with his then-girlfriend, the lawsuit claims.
The worker later asked Dicks details about his social media accounts so that he could check out his photos. 
In the lawsuit, Dicks claimed the agent’s “statements went entirely beyond information pertinent” to his flight. “Though utterly humiliated, [Dicks] remained on the phone with [United’s] reservation agent until he gained his necessary flight information,” the court papers say.
Dicks said in the lawsuit that he feared the reservation agent might try to get in touch with him again or even show up at one of the airports in Milwaukee or New Orleans as he had all his personal information.
According to Dicks, he had informed United Airlines and the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission about the incident but he got “very little information.”
The lawsuit alleges the embarrassing phone call caused Dicks' “emotional well-being and sense of self-worth to suffer.” The disturbing phone call also led to his break up with his girlfriend, the New York Post reported.
Dicks is now suing for invasion of privacy, unlawful use of telephone and obscene or harassing telephone calls. 
International Business Times reached out to United Airlines for comments, but the airline is yet to respond to the incident. It is also unclear whether the reservation agent still works with the airline.
This is not the first time that United Airlines has come under fire from a customer. The latest incident comes amid a series of controversies surrounding the airline in the United States.
Earlier this week, a Virginia woman claimed United Airlines staff denied her access to medical supplies she needed for her 18-month-old special needs son following a delay on a Norfolk-bound flight.
The 24-year-old woman said that her infant son, Easton, suffered from chromosomal conditions and the staff did not allow her access to her baggage. However, the airline denied the allegation, and said in a statement to International Business Times: "United Flight 1735 from Chicago O’Hare to Norfolk required a new aircraft following a mechanical issue with the initial aircraft. During the delay, a customer requested that we retrieve her checked baggage as it contained supplies for her son. Due to the aircraft change, our customer had to retrieve her checked bag at baggage claim, which prevented her from flying to Norfolk.”


A new study has revealed the value of purchasing cheap flights over other potential vices to buyers looking to score a deal. According to the survey, a significant percentage of Americans — nearly half — value discounted airfare more than they do sex.
A  Priceline survey reported Wednesday by Travel and Leisure surveyed men and women between the ages of 18 and 69 regarding their feelings about cheap flights. Forty-four percent of respondents who booked a flight in the last year said that “the feeling that they get when they save money on a flight is better than sex.”
Thirty-seven percent of respondents reported feeling happy overall about saving money on airfare, and a quarter of those polled reported feeling accomplished after purchasing discounted flights.
Travel and Leisure reported that 69 percent of respondents said booking a cheap flight was better than binge watching, and 59 percent reported that it was better than a first date. Another 70 percent of those surveyed for the poll said that they favored purchasing a cheap flight over drinking beer or wine.
Forty-four percent of Americans who booked a flight in the last year said that “the feeling that they get when they save money on a flight is better than sex.” Photo: Alexandre Vanier/Pixabay
According to  separate data from Priceline included in a Wednesday press release, 70 percent of Americans consider themselves “masters” of finding flight deals. Ninety percent reported feeling that they’d gotten the best possible deal on airfare while booking in the last year. But the booking company said that in spite of confidence of buyers in their own ability to track down cheap flights, shoppers may be “leaving money on the table.”
Priceline listed several ways that potential flyers can ensure they’re getting the best possible deal on flights. The booking site pointed to Cheap Flight Day — which falls on Aug. 23 but is more of a window of time than a single day — as one of the best ways that travelers can save.
As International Business Times  previously reported, Cheap Flight Day is the time around which most airlines begin to lower their fares after coming off of a peak travel period in the summer and continues through November. Airlines are known to drop their fare premiums significantly during the period of time.
Online travel company CheapOair this week released  projected savings on flights to premiere destinations. Purchasing airfare during the timeframe could lead to hundreds of dollars saved on international flights and $20-50 in savings on domestic travel. International destinations listed by CheapOair for which buyers could look to save on travel were Paris, Rome, Bangkok, Madrid and Barcelona.
In addition to taking advantage of seasonal discounts, Priceline also advised buyers to pay attention to the days of the week they’re booking.
“Americans believe Tuesday is the cheapest day of the week to book a flight according to the survey and the most popular day for priceline.com bookings,” the company said. “However, the cheapest day of the week to book holiday travel according to priceline.com data is actually Friday followed closely by Thursday!”


Confederate flags are reportedly seeing a surge in sales. Alabama Flag & Banner, the last Confederate flag retailer in the United States, claims that the controversy from Charlottesville, Virginia, has benefitted its sales.
The small shop has seen an increase in sales following the protests in Charlottesville over the removal of Confederate General Robert E. Lee's statue, according to CBS News. However, sales will likely remain steady as the push for the removal of more Confederate monuments occur, CBS News reported. 
Belinda Kennedy, the owner of Alabama Flag & Banner, spoke with International Business Times Friday about the sales spike she's seen within her Huntsville, Alabama, business. 
"By and large, the comments I hear from customers coming into our store, over the phone or by email are buying flags in order to offset the small minority who are demanding the removal of monuments, changing names of streets, schools, and buildings, wanting to deface mountains, and general trying to revise history," Kennedy told IBT. "The sales we are seeing are from all 50 states and several different countries."
"I have no intention of stopping our manufacturing," Kennedy said. "We are currently the only U.S.-based manufacturer of the flag.  Our customer base includes mom-and-pop shops that do not want to sell China-made products but do want to continue to carry a full line of historic flags."
She added, "We are their only source for some of these flags.  I do not see the demand for these flags decreasing any time in the near future."
The sales boost shouldn't come as a surprise. Retailers nationwide have halted the production of Confederate flags because of push-back from people in opposition to it. Convicted shooter Dylann Roof's 2015 rampage at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina, became a cause of concern for major retailers. This incident led retailers to rethink selling Confederate flags to consumers.
Amazon, Walmart, Etsy, eBay and Sears announced its intentions to place a ban on the sale of Confederate flags following the Charleston controversy. A Google spokesperson told Recode in 2015 that the tech company also planned to remove the Confederate flag from advertisements and Google Shopping.
The removal of Confederate monuments will likely move forward. A list of government officials in support of the removal of Confederate monuments is expanding country-wide, according to Reuters. Mayors of Baltimore and Lexington, Kentucky, intend to follow through with removal plans. Officials in Memphis, Tennessee, Dallas and Jacksonville, Florida, also announced its plans to push for the removal of Confederate statues. 
The flag has served as a symbol associated with racism for many. However, those in support of the flag advocate its significance in U.S. history. Confederate flag enthusiasts have had a harder time obtaining it because of the nationwide production halt, as a result. 
The removal of Confederate statues nationwide has likely increased the demand for shops like Belinda's to cultivate more flags. 
"We started having an influx in business and none of the major manufacturers were willing to sell the stock they had — they weren't willing to continue production on Confederate flags," Kennedy told AL.com in a 2015 interview. "My responsibilities to my customers is to fill their needs when they want it and I had customers wanting it. I wasn't going to turn them away as I felt I had been turned away. We just decided to start cranking them out of our presses, cutting and sewing."
Kennedy added, "It's no different from a Betsy Ross flag, a Bennington flag, [or] any of the historic flags. It's simply a historic flag. It's not hate, it's history. It's a symbol of things that happened in the past and hopefully, we've learned from the past. The people that are making it a racial issue are pushing an agenda." 
The demand for Confederate flags, pictured July 1, 2017, has increased after the protests in Charlottesville.  Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


A Georgia woman who was prohibited from boarding an American Airlines flight Wednesday because of her oxygen tank claimed she was unable to get home. Betty Lewis told local news that she was stuck in St. Louis after the airline refused to let her get on her flight and went as far as to suggest she spend hundreds of dollars on a different tank that she cannot afford.
Lewis told Fox-affiliate KTVI that she was able to board a United Airlines flight Aug. 10 from Atlanta to Chicago but was unable to continue to get back home after attempting to board on American Airlines. The news station identified Lewis as “oxygen tank dependent.”
“They told me that I could not take it on with me!” Lewis said. “That I could not board the plane with oxygen on. I’m like, you got to be kidding me.”
Reached for comment by International Business Times, the airline said that the type of oxygen tank that Lewis uses is not permitted on flights, as per Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulations.
“This type of oxygen tank is not permitted on any commercial aircraft under federal regulations. This is not an airline policy, but set by the FAA,” an American Airlines representative told IBT. “She did not fly to St. Louis on American — so I can’t speak to why she was permitted to fly with the oxygen.”
The airline did not provide any other details to IBT about how the incident was handled.
A Georgia woman was prohibited from boarding an American Airlines flight Wednesday because of her oxygen tank. In this photo, an American Airlines plane sits on the tarmac of McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas, Nevada on February 15, 2017. Photo: RHONA WISE/AFP/Getty Images
KTVI said it reached out to United Airlines about why Lewis had been able to board a flight if her oxygen tank fell outside of FAA regulations and was reportedly forwarded to the carrier’s policy.
Lewis was in St. Louis after traveling by car from Chicago to visit her aunt, she said. She was scheduled to fly home from St. Louis Lambert International Airport before her plans were foiled. American Airlines provided her with hotel accommodations for the evening, and she was told to return Thursday to make other flight arrangements. However, Lewis was told upon returning that she should purchase a tank that can cost up to $400.
Lewis said that she can’t afford a flight with another carrier, and it was not clear Friday whether she had been able to get home.
American Airlines has made headlines in recent weeks for several other incidents. The airline is presently facing a lawsuit by from a woman who claims one of the carrier’s flight attendants deliberately  destroyed her wedding dress. In a separate incident, a man was served what he described as “the worst meal I’ve ever been offered in a premium cabin” after  ordering a lobster roll. The airline later told IBT the meal was not up to its standards and issued an apology.


Blockchain  platform  MultiChain  1.0 has been released, and with it details of a wide-ranging partner programme.
MultiChain 's partner programme, which includes the likes of Accenture,  Cognizant  and Medici Ventures, is split into  platform partners  who develop applications for third parties on the  MultiChain  platform, and  product partners  who are using  MultiChain  in their own proprietary solutions.
MultiChain is currently being used for three main classes of blockchain use case: lightweight financial systems, internal data security, and interorganisational record keeping or aggregation.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
This categorisation is informed by founder Dr Gideon Greenspan's close analysis of the blockchain space, as well as continual feedback from MultiChain users (the release of MultiChain1.0 was actually delayed to accommodate a long list of feature requests from users).
A governing factor in deciding how blockchains might best be deployed concerns the privacy of data transacted on them. Asked what he considers to be the best approach to privacy, Dr Greenspan said: "I think the strongest technology currently out there for privacy in blockchainasset transactions is zero knowledge proofs, as implemented in zk-SNARKs.
"These are designed to hide everything about a transaction: the entities, assets and quantities involved. That kind of combination isn't present in any of the other technologies which solve only part of the privacy problem."
Zero knowledge proofs, where the proofs themselves are visible to everybody but what's being proved is invisible, have a downside in terms of their computational burden, said Greenspan, but in the long run they look like the strongest candidate for a privacy technology to be integrated into MultiChain.
Adding layers of privacy is one approach; another is the modified version of a distributed ledger presented by R3 Corda, where data is only shared between parties that need to see it.
"The Corda architecture is interesting," said Greenspan. "Essentially it doesn't have a blockchain; there is no global picture that everybody sees in terms of data or transactions. Instead everyone sees just those pieces of information that their transactions depend upon.
"I think this approach goes some way to solving the privacy problem, although not completely. People are still seeing transactions that don't involve them, because their own transactions depend on others' past ones. But Corda is also working on leveraging Intel's secure computing environment to achieve something quite similar to zero knowledge proofs, using CPU hardware rather than cutting edge cryptography."
"What you lose with these techniques is this ability for all the participants to see the whole picture, and often you want them to have that picture - not just what they've got, but what other people have, and what else is going on in the blockchain.
"But overall I think Corda is a well designed architecture which suits a certain set of heavyweight financial use cases very well."
Asked if he saw any future collaboration between R3 and MultiChain, Greenspan said there could be a possible integration point with the Corda architecture's notion of notary services. This is a kind of pluggable interface where you can choose how the spending of unspent transaction outputs are notarised and who notarises them, in order to prevent a double spending. "You can have all sorts of systems to provide that notification and it would certainly be possible to provide a notary services solution based on MultiChain."
Taking a step back, Greenspan said that table-thumping conversations around blockchainarchitectures reflect the immaturity of the space. "If you look at other complicated software tools, for example in the database space, there are tons of trade-offs between different platforms; each design decision gives you certain things, and takes away others.
"One classic trade-off is between relational and non-relational databases. You get advanced indexing and querying for free in relational databases, but you lose scalability for dealing with really large data sets.
"So it's just the same with different types of blockchain for different sets of use cases. I think the decision for which blockchain to use for a particular use case should be made on technical rather than tribal considerations, on how well that particular blockchain architecture suits what you want to achieve."
Crypto news is the gift that just keeps giving: a typical week might include the SEC stepping on ICOs, Bitcoin forking or Ethereum being hacked. Greenspan said the recent Parity bug plays a little to the strengths of MultiChain, which is not a smart contracting platform, focusing instead on more straightforward types of transactions.
"The Parity bug underlines the danger of taking some code written by a human being, however talented, and trying to make that code unchangeable and immutable," he said. "People make mistakes when programming, and many of those mistakes are only discovered once a program is in use – sadly that's just a fact of computing life."
In the long term methodologies and stronger tools will be developed to solve this for Ethereum, while in the meantime new types of blockchain such as Tezos are in the offing, defined around formally verifiable code rather than general purpose code.
"One of the ideas behind the Tezos architecture is that it's going to provide a much more restrictive programming model for writing smart contracts. So the behaviour will be more predictable and more easily formally analysed."
Ethereum smart contracts are often beset by a variety of uncertainties such as re-entrancybugs, where a piece of code runs fine unless it calls some other piece of code, which then unexpectedly calls back into it.
"Reentrancy is a common thing to worry about when you are writing software; you need to decide whether a piece of code is reentrant or not. Reentrancy can create all sorts of unpredictable behaviour if you don't think about it deeply and formally."
Providing a more restrictive programming language and more restrictive paradigms can prevent these types of problems, for example by forcing the programmer to declare whether or not a function can be re-entered or not.
"Building a great smart contracting platform is about designing a language where security is the number one consideration," noted Greenspan. "For now with Ethereum, the languages that people use are pretty close to JavaScript or Python, which are very easy for programmers to work with, but don't lead naturally to thinking about all these security issues and preventing them from happening."


If you follow the news in the crypto space – Bitcoin divided, Parity wallets hacked – it's not surprising the recent Tezos fundraiser attracted so much attention. Tezos is a smart contract blockchain platform created by Arthur and Kathleen Breitman, which recently raised $232m (£177.9m, €196.9m).
It's worth remembering two key problems Tezos sets out to solve. It presents a way to carry out decentralised upgrades to its protocol via an on-chain voting system, addressing the governance problem inherent to decentralised systems and the likelihood of contentious forking scenarios. It also proposes a more restrictive programming model for writing smart contracts, so their behaviour will be more predictable and more easily formally analysed.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
The recent Parity bug was a reminder that even the most talented coders can make mistakes and smart contracts require formal methods of verification. "We had an eye from the beginning on formal verification and formal methods," said Arthur Breitman.
"Even if you're a great programmer bugs are going to happen, and the only way we can guard against this is by using formal methods: rigorous mathematical proofs that a program does what we want it to do."
"The most advanced proof assistant, Coq, is written in OCaml, the same language used to develop Tezos, so there are affinities between the two communities".
Tezos is also presenting a decentralised systemthat can deploy upgrades automatically, like in Chrome or Windows, "but instead of having the upgrades signed by your vendor – because there is no central vendor – the upgrade is, in some sense, signed by everyone who is using the protocol".
He made a clear distinction between the Tezos governance system and its proof of stake consensus. "To have a system like this you need to start with proof of stake [PoS] because proof of work creates a political class or miners whose interest may differ from token holders.
"But PoS, by itself, isn't sufficient for governance. There is a misconception that PoS consensus can be used as-is for governance.
"If you try to use consensus over chain branches as governance you end up with a kind of Keynesian beauty contest. You win if you follow the herd, and that doesn't have anything to do with merit. It doesn't have anything to do with what branch you prefer, it has to do with what branch you think is the Schelling point, the most natural one."
Arthur explained the Tezos governance system starts off with proposals, which anyone can make. They are then rated using approval voting. "Several proposals are made and people who own tokens indicate the ones they like and dislike.
"You then take the one with the highest approval rating and you submit it to another vote to pass it. Tezos requires something like a 70% majority in order to adopt a proposal, which then undergoes testing for a month. If the testing phase goes well, then a second confirmationvote is held before adoption."
"Crucially, there is no penalty if you support a version that doesn't end up winning."
He said this is only the very first layer, and the process will look to improve the governance model itself, as well as the ledger. For instance, some proposals and decisions that are not critical will not require a full referendum vote.
"You can have something like elected representatives making decisions over some narrow technical aspects of the ledger, for instance. So we can progressively build on that very simple governance layer, a more complex and better adapted governance structure."
Asked about the ICO, the team made the point that a high volume of tokens must be distributed in order to set up a wide proof of stake network. Co-founder Kathleen Breitman said: "Proof-of-stake lacks the elegant distribution that Bitcoin has. So the easiest way to bootstrap the network was this type of fundraiser, with the side benefit of endowing a non profit with funds that can help promote these technologies – in this case for quite some time."
She said it's important to distinguish this process from people who might be thinking about doing a Series B for their company and decide it's easier to just crowdfund it.
Arthur Breitman added that some people said it was irresponsible not to "cap" the funds raised. But to have done so would have meant the majority of tokens would have been snapped up by professional ICO scalpers looking only to make a quick arbitrage, rather than reaching a network of participants.
Arthur Breitman, co-founder and CTO of DLS, said: "When we started, a whole coterie of people in the space insisted there ought to be a cap on the fundraiser. Otherwise it's irresponsible they said, never exactly articulating a good reason why. They've made up this idea that some sort of self-imposed cap is a kind of duty, and attempt to back their argument with poorly understood business principles sprinkled with moralistic undertones. Not having a cap felt like crossing a picket line."
Breitman believes imposing a cap of, say, $5m when people want to contribute $50m turns the process into race whereby a professional industry of ICO scalpers grab all the tokens to book some 1,000% returns.
"The absurd practice of letting professional scalpers capture most of the value of these projects is basically killing analysis technical due diligence in the space. At best, it's often reduced to superficial indicators, like the number of stars on GitHub, instead of actually doing an in-depth analysis of the value proposition of a technology, or how well it's implemented."
Regarding the distribution of tokens across participants in the fundraiser, he said there were some 30,000 wallets created.
"The Gini coefficient, a statistical measure of disparity within a statistical sample, is about 0.87, similar to the Ethereum fundraiser, a bit higher than the distribution of wealth in the US – so it's not a surprising number."
In terms of next steps, Arthur said from technical standpoint there needs to be a few security audits, and the network needs to be polished ready for launch. "I think the path to doing that is very clear, whereas the path to growing Tezos into a much larger project is still a little new," he revealed.
Kathleen added: "We've been helping out the Foundation by reaching out to people who might be a good fit for the team and the ecosystem. The next three or four months you are probably going to hear a bit from the dev team, but the next month or so it will heads down and getting the right people at the table."
This article was first published on Aug. 7, 2017


Financial technology provider FlexTrade has launched a best execution platform to ensure the best possible results for clients when orders are executed, planned, monitored and proven during the full trading life cycle.
Andy Mahoney, head of sales at FlexTrade UK, said: "Our FlexTRADER EMS is built for best execution. With MiFID II approaching, we have tied together our 3rd party integration program, expanded into fixed income, and added enhancements to our TCA application, FlexTCA, to provide our view on best execution across the asset classes."
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
The platform provides clients with a customised workflow to help them to achieve best execution, said a statement. This workflow provides traders with data from both transactional and market sources along with market intelligence from integrated third parties, all whilst capturing the complete trade in real-time to later provide data for analysis.
In addition, the site provides relevant news and content regarding MiFID II legislation, including FlexTrade's customised MiFID II compliance solution, answers to commonly asked questions regarding inducements and informative blog post updates.
With only four months to go until the MiFID II's 3 January 2018 implementation date, buy-side firms are facing huge changes in disclosure and transparency requirements, which could upend their data management architectures. It's fair to say this is something firms are wrestling with.
By raising the bar on market transparency, MiFID II has created a huge data management problem for buy-side and sell-side firms, particularly for investment managers. They need to take in a lot of data from the various venues to provide disclosures to their clients and to their national competent regulators. Transaction reporting is necessary for all financial instruments on a T+1 basis, but while MiFID I had 20 fields, MiFID II raises the number to 65.


Trade finance giants HSBC is working with IBM to develop a cognitive intelligence solution combining optical character recognition with advanced robotics to make global trade safer and more efficient for thousands of businesses.
HSBC's Global Trade and Receivables Finance (GTRF) team facilitates over $500bn of documentary trade for customers every year, and in doing so must manually review and process up to 100m pages of documents, ranging from invoices to packing lists and insurance certificates.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
The new solution uses IBM's analytics technology, including intelligent segmentation and text analytics, to identify, digitise and extract key data within these documents before feeding it into the bank's transaction processing systems; boosting accuracy whilst freeing up staff for more value-adding activities, said a statement.
Natalie Blyth, HSBC's Global Head of GTRF, said: "The average trade transaction requires 65 data fields to be extracted from 15 different documents, with 40 pages to be reviewed. By digitising this process we will make transactions quicker and safer for both buyers and suppliers, leading our industry forwards, and we will reduce compliance risks through an enhanced ability to manage huge volumes of data."
Roger Welch, Industry (Financial) Expert and Solution Architect for IBM Analytics ECM practice, said: "The problem is how to capture semi-structured documents with highly variant content through an analogue process, and no-one has the perfect answer. In our experience, no trade finance solution has come as far or done as much as this new solution."
HSBC is currently using the technology to analyse English-language import and export bills in several markets in Asia, Europe, the Americas and the MENA region. The team aims to enhance the solution so it can read a wider range of documents and languages including Chinese, French and Spanish
"We are continuously investing in technologies that will improve the way we work for the benefit of our customers and our people," added Blyth. "HSBC wants to be the leading bank for innovation, and initiatives like this one are key to achieving our goal."


Eleven banks have passed a major milestone in the digitisation of documentary trade finance. They have developed a prototype application on R3's distributed ledger platform, Corda, that has the potential to significantly reduce inefficiencies and costs by streamlining the processing of sight letters of credit.
Bangkok Bank, BBVA, BNP Paribas, HSBC, ING, Intesa Sanpaolo, Mizuho, RBS, Scotiabank, SEB and U.S. Bank have been collaborating with R3 and technology partner CGI over the last year on numerous trade finance projects, building and testing applications.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
Using lessons learnt from these projects, the group has now developed a trade finance application on Corda that incorporates shippers and carriers. Several R3 member institutions intend to pilot the platform with the goal of making it widely available in 2018, said a statement from R3.
David Rutter, CEO of R3, said: "Like so many of the processes and systems banks are forced to use today, the infrastructure that supports trade financing is extremely outdated and prone to risk and error. The work we have been doing with our members over the last year has shown that this challenge no longer needs to stand in the way of giving businesses access to the services they need to trade across borders. The application we have built is the first of its kind and we look forward to rolling it out to our Corda users across the world."
Marguerite Burghardt, Global Head of the Trade Competence Center at BNP Paribas, added: "While LCs have not progressed as much as the open account business in recent years, they remain a good way to finance trade and mitigate risks. If the industry manages to make the whole process fully digital, transparent and STP, this could mean renewed development and wider access to this financing technique."
Vivek Ramachandran, Head of Growth and Innovation, Commercial Banking at HSBC, said: "The prototype integrates a standardised user interface that allows carriers and shipping companies to prepare and validate shipping details when they onboard goods and deliver them to the buyer – even if they are on a different technology platform. We believe that offering optionality in terms of the systems and technologies participants use, and ensuring interoperability between these technologies, will significantly advance efforts to digitise trade.
"To further enhance the prototype, we'll continue to work with established and emerging title registry providers to ensure this solution can provide a secure and legal title transfer of goods in a live environment, and anticipate piloting the app on the R3 network before the end of the year."
R3's distributed ledger platform, Corda, has been built specifically for the financial services industry. The technology offers the ability to simplify the complex links and networks involved in the trade and trade finance market by providing a shared and synchronised database of transactions between businesses across geographies.
Despite the growth of open account business, traditional trade finance remains vitally important, particularly to facilitate international trade. According to the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), commercial letters of credit still account for 38% of the trade finance product mix. In an effort to meet customer demand and address growing margin pressures, banks have been collaboratively developing a solution to drive greater efficiencies, reduce cost and simplify today's existing processes.
Ivar Wiersma, Head of Innovation Wholesale Banking at ING, said: "This application has the capacity to make the overall trade flow, currently hampered by outdated processes, faster and more cost effective. This is a great step forward in the process of digitalising and standardising the documentary trade finance process from start to finish, connecting multiple parties in the trade finance chain with the feature of interoperability of the different technologies these parties use."
Jim Bidwell, Head of Trade Services Product Management at RBS, said: "Distributed ledger technology has huge potential to improve customer experience and reduce costs across Trade Finance, which has remained largely unchanged for many years. This initiative is a great demonstration of how we can collaborate to develop innovative solutions for our customers."
Craig Weeks, Senior Vice President and Manager of U.S. Bank's International Banking Group, said: "We're excited about the potential of distributed ledger technology to increase transparency and efficiency across the trade finance lifecycle. This work has proven the viability of the technology to effectively manage the process and we're very much looking forward to testing this in an operational setting."


Zurich-based Solidum Partners has completed a private catastrophe bond transaction, $14.8m of notes which it believes is first such securitisation to be settled using a private blockchain.
The transaction was issued using Solidum Partners Guernsey-domiciled transformer vehicle Solidum Re ICC Limited, with one cell named Dom Re IC Limited hosting the underlying reinsurance contract and acting as the issuer for the notes.
Insurance-linked securities (ILS) are essentially financial instruments which are sold to investors whose value is affected by an insured loss event.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
Solidum Re is the "ILSBlockchain" permission grantor and blockchain sponsor, said a statement. Using this mechanism the ILSBlockchain has replaced the role of a traditional settlement system such as Euroclear or DTC for this note issue. Dom Re required an alternative to Euroclear as it was becoming increasingly difficult to access efficiently for smaller private placement note issues.
Dom Re IC Limited issued $14,800,000 Principal-at-Risk, Participating Notes, due 2023 with the ISIN GG00BYP34764, an asset-backed securitisation of a reinsurance contract, to a total of six investors. Solidum Re acts as the paying agent and common depository of the permanent global note.
The investors subscribed for the notes, paying into a Guernsey trust where Artex Risk Services (Guernsey) Limited acts as trustee. On the issue date the paying agent created cryptographically-certificated notes on the ILSBlockchain and then the investors were able to execute, peer-to-peer with the paying agent, delivery-vs-payment transactions on the ILSBlockchain to purchase the newly created notes.
Investors now hold their notes, cryptographically confirmed, on the ILSBlockchain. Secondary market traders wishing to purchase notes can do so by becoming participants on the ILSBlockchain and can then execute direct peer-to-peer delivery-vs-payment transactions to buy and/or sell notes seamlessly on the ILSBlockchain. Equally broker-dealers can also become participants on the ILSBlockchain in order to intermediate trades between the other participants, said a statement.
Cedric Edmonds, director of Solidum Re, said: "It was a case of necessity being the mother of invention! Without the excellent support and highly flexible services of the service providers in Guernsey, most notably Artex who picked up the baton at a late stage from another service provider and then ran amazing swiftly with it, completing this would not have been possible – my thanks go out to them."
Mark Helyar, non-executive director of Solidum Re and Of Counsel, Bedell Cristin added: "I am delighted that Solidum Re ICC has concluded this latest transaction. It is not an exaggeration to describe the new Dom Re IC structure as a ground breaking, global first, not only for the ILS sector but for dematerialisation of listed securities generally.
"Guernsey is once again the jurisdiction of choice for innovation in the ILS sector and I anticipate this model will be widely adopted".
Paul Eaton, Business Development Director of Artex, said: ''It has been a great experience to work alongside Cedric and Solidum for this innovative transaction which makes best use of Guernsey's strengths and demonstrates the range of services that Artex is able to offer our clients".


The much anticipated Filecoin token offering has gathered some $52m (£39.9m) of investments from Silicon Valley heavyweights ahead of the start of the sale on Thursday 10 August.
Filecoin, which will be used to power a large decentralised file storage system linked to the iconic IPFS protocol, is unique within the ICO space because it ticks a bunch of regulatory boxes with US regulator the SEC.
Filecoin is also the first ICO to take place on CoinList, the ICO platform developed by Protocol Labs and AngelList to be compliant with the SEC. Filecoin's ICO will demonstrate the use of SAFT (Simple Agreement for Future Tokens) under SEC Reg. D, 506(c).
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
The whole thing is SEC compliant because only accredited investors can take part in the token sale; this means banks and recognised investment institutions, or high net worth individuals (HNWIs) with $200,000 to invest. It also sidesteps a major point of contention around ICOs, which sell tokens in systems that are yet to be built. Filecoins will not be distributed until after minimum of six months has passed (another box tick according to the SEC's exemption Rule 144), and those who hold off for longer are rewarded.
Juan Benet, founder of IPFS and CEO Protocol Labs, wanted to express his sincere apologies to those who will not qualify as accredited investors and therefore will not be able to take part in the sale.
He said: "It does have one huge side effect, or bad effect, which is that a lot of people that are used to contributing to these sales and have helped fund a lot of things like Ethereum, unfortunately they will not be able to participate. We wish we could include them.
"The accredited investor qualification based on net worth, assets, or income is a rule of thumb that the SEC has had for a long time. This rule is easy to apply across industries and across investor groups, but it definitely cuts too coarsely.
"This completely excludes some of the groups most capable of investing in these kinds of projects, for example, cryptography and game theory PhD students, and it includes lots of people who may have a lot of money but do not know a thing about crypto networks. This is obviously too coarse, and not a very accurate classification of who is capable of doing the due diligence on these projects.
"But at the same time, it's not clear how to improve the system. How else might the SEC get better certainty that investors truly knew what they were doing, understood the risks, and so on? How might they prove people truly were able to make the right call? Would one rather have them administer tests on cryptography, game theory, distributed systems, technology startups, and so on? This could end up worse."
So Filecoin placates the SEC thanks to a standard investor accreditation process, and avoiding the obligatory token pre-sale, raising funding for a network that does not yet exist. If when the network is launched the tokens are not securities themselves, then the restriction does not apply, and the tokens can be sold far and wide, said Benet.
"We think that when there is a token pre-sale, meaning when a group is raising funds before the network launches or before the token becomes usable, then the sale may constitute the sale of securities. For this case, we created the SAFT [Simple Agreement for Future Tokens], an instrument that is a security in the US, and covers the risky 'invest in the creation of the network' part.
"We think this route will be very useful for lots of participants in the industry, both network creators and prospective investors. It helps clear up uncertainties and charts a path toward more compliant token sales. Investors have clarity over the risks of their investment, they have stronger protections – in the form of liquidation, and network creators have clarity over whether or not what they're doing is a sale of securities."
Unsurprisingly, some very astute lawyers are closely following the ICO space. Speaking about the Filcoin ICO, Stephen Palley, a lawyer in the Washington D.C. office of Anderson Kill, said: "Can you comply with securities laws and raise significant amount of money selling tokens? Maybe so.
"The fact Filecoin has pre-sold $52 million to the likes of Sequoia and Union Square Ventures demonstrates the depth of interest in coin-based investments in the VC community.
"If Filecoin is able to successfully raise additional funds with an SEC compliant offering on CoinList that may be something of a turning point in the use of token sales for funding. It suggests that token sales may be something more than a way to raise large sums of money by skirting regulations.
"Another distinguishing factor is that Filecoin is more than 'a whitepaper and a dog' as one twitter wag has described some ICOs. IPFS is an established and (in my view) useful technology and the tokens will provide access to something that has current and existing utility. Time will tell if it's a wise investment or sound technology.
"From a US legal standpoint, they appear to have taken pains to be compliant. Those efforts have so far not impeded their ability to raise a significant amount of money."
Preston Byrne, a technology lawyer with expertise in blockchain/virtual currency/distributed ledger, was less lenient in his judgement.
Byrne said: "On one hand, Filecoin is marketing the early phases of this ICO as an investment opportunity. On the other, the project's private placement memorandum states that once the genesis block is hashed, the resulting coin should 'not be considered a security under U.S. securities laws' and somehow loses its character as an investment.
"ICO projects can't have it both ways. While selling the initial phases of an ICO to accredited investors, as is being done here, is undoubtedly an improvement over the status quo, this does not change the fact that the substance of any ICO investment is the underlying coin and coins are, for better or worse, treated by nearly everyone as investments and not as software licenses.
"When they become available to trade on public marketplaces I would expect UK rules regarding unfair trade practices and financial promotions would apply to their sale."
The dynamics of ICOs are fascinating, but Filecoin itself – like Ethereum – deserves to be classed as a game-changer. Filecoin creates useful proof of work, called proof of replication; the ability to store and share files when they are needed. Once the network is live and these tokens are being put to use to store files in a decentralised manner, this could drive a demand for storage hardware.
Benet said: "This is something that I'm surprised isn't being talked about more right now. I think it's a big story that the storage manufacturers need to hear more about.
"Large companies don't really understand a lot of this stuff yet, but we know there will be massive demand for lots of storage hardware, hard drives, solid state drives and so on. So it will be like the huge demand for Bitcoin mining hardware, but for disks.
"We do expect there will be some big centralised miners that will have a lots of storage and economies of scale. But there will also be a large cloud of small miners all over the world."
This article was first published on Aug. 4, 2017


The National Settlement Depository (NSD), Russia's central securities depository, and Waves Platform, have started to develop a blockchain platform to support digital assets. The new platform architecture will securely host and store tokenised and crypto assets, settling transactions and providing identification for owners of cryptocurrency wallets.
Development of the platform is already under way and the first prototype will be presented during first half of 2018. Project implementation depends not only on technical development but on the development of a legislative framework that mitigates the risks of crypto asset ownership and ensures that the service is user-friendly.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
Eddie Astanin, Chairman of the Executive Board, NSD, commented: "The crypto-asset market is rapidly growing and rightfully attracting enormous attention from traditional institutional investors, post-trade infrastructure and financial regulators around the world.
"In partnering with Waves, our goal is to create a secure and user-friendly accounting infrastructure for digital assets. We consider the platform would not only provide technological and legal protection of all parties involved, but also extend variety of post-trade services for investors, custodians and new institutions emerging in this sector of economy. It is also important to synchronise our efforts with the work of regulators in this field".
Sasha Ivanov, a founder and CEO of Waves Platform, pointed out: "The ability to work with new types of financial instruments will be of interest to a wide circle of market participants, including banks, pension funds and retail investors.
"Collaboration with NSD is important for us with regard to all new and existing instruments, allowing us to ensure a high level of reliability, technological efficiency, and risk protection. NSD's expertise and deep knowledge of market infrastructure will allow us to create a unique product for crypto asset record-keeping, meeting the requirements of a broad spectrum of market players."


Bank-owned financial messaging provider SWIFT will provide US institutions with a gateway to The Clearing House's real-time payments (RTP) platform. As instant payments become more ubiquitous in the US, SWIFT will provide an interface to manage the requirements of sending and receiving domestic instant payment transactions on behalf of customers, said a statement.
The Clearing House (TCH) is building a new clearing and settlement system to support domestic instant payments in the US, allowing consumers and businesses to send and receive payments in real-time and directly from their accounts at financial institutions. It will also include data and non-payment messages that financial institutions can use to build digital commerce solutions.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
SWIFT's solution for the US market will provide banks with the opportunity to leverage a single platform, Alliance Messaging Hub (AMH) for both SWIFT high-value payments and low-value TCH real-time payments.
AMH is an orchestration layer that includes a gateway to the TCH RTP network, as well as other gateways and API's which allow financial institutions to connect to other non-SWIFT networks.
Financial institutions can leverage AMH to support instant payments, simplifying adoption to our customers. The solution will be commercially available by early 2018.
Ignacio Blanco, director, Strategic Relationships at SWIFT, said: "SWIFT is working together with communities worldwide to support the global shift towards real-time payments, and we are pleased to be at the forefront as the US market evolves. The Clearing House is making great strides in accelerating the speed of transactions, and we are committed to playing our part in helping the financial community to operate as efficiently as possible."
Steve Ledford, SVP Product and Strategy at The Clearing House, added: "Given its reach and expertise in payments, SWIFT is a great collaborator as we bring a wide-scale real-time payments system to the US market. Achieving our vision of broad adoption of real-time payments will only be possible when the majority of US institutions are able to participate, and SWIFT will be instrumental in helping us meet this goal."
SWIFT's global instant payments strategy is burgeoning, the US announcement builds on SWIFT's earlier success in Australia and in Europe. In 2015, SWIFT was awarded the contract to deliver the messaging infrastructure to underpin Australia's new payments platform, NPPA, which is expected to go live later in 2017.
Earlier this year, SWIFT announced the launch of an instant payments messaging solution, first for the European market, and elsewhere. It will allow instant payments to be made over the SWIFT network and provide customers with a single gateway to connect seamlessly to multiple instant payments systems.
Amongst others, it will offer connectivity to the Eurosystem's TARGET Instant Payment Settlement (TIPS) and will support the delivery of the future Eurosystem single gateway to TIPS, TARGET2 (T2) and TARGET2 for Securities (T2S) platforms, as laid out in the Eurosystem's Vision 2020.


DENVER -- After two deadly blasts near oil and gas sites in the fast-growing suburbs here, local communities across this political swing state have been considering new rules to regulate fossil fuel development in their midst. But in remarks to oil and gas executives as he leads the Senate GOP's national fundraising effort, Republican U.S. Sen. Cory Gardner — whose seat is considered a top 2020 pickup opportunity for Democrats — slammed the local efforts, asserting that the spate of municipal initiatives are being pushed by well-funded “special interests” from the coasts.
“We know there are big threats on the horizon — we know that there are risks of overregulation, we know that there are risks of special interest groups that are trying to drive ballot initiatives and other regulations at the local level that will drive out common sense economies, and we have to make sure we are all aware of the dangers that that poses to the incredible jobs that we have been able to create,” Gardner told energy executives in Denver. “Ballot initiatives that would ban hydraulic fracturing — we have to make it very clear that that is not in the interest of Colorado. When it comes to policies that are trying to be enacted by interests — well-funded interests — from New York or Los Angeles in local municipalities, that we make it clear that this is what’s happening.”
Gardner — who has received more than  $1.1 million worth of campaign cash from oil and gas donors — portrayed the industry’s fight against local regulations as a David-versus-Goliath battle during his appearance Thursday at the annual conference of the Colorado Oil and Gas Association (COGA). The industry group has helped direct more than  $80 million worth of fossil fuel industry spending on Colorado politics in just the last four years, and it has successfully lobbied to block tougher state regulations of the industry. The group’s event came just as Thornton officials passed a measure to restrict drilling in residential neighborhoods; Ft. Morgan officials imposed a moratorium on injection wells and Erie officials approved a separate ordinance designed to reduce chemical odors that residents say have been wafting over the community from nearby oil and gas rigs.
Cory Gardner has received more than $1 million from oil and gas interests. Photo: Photo by Doug Pensinger/Getty Images
Those local initiatives are the latest examples of how conflicts over regulating fossil fuel development have become political flashpoints in states across the country. New York and Maryland have banned fracking, while other states such as Texas have passed a law to block local communities from imposing new environmental regulations.
Few states have seen as passionate a debate over the situation as Colorado. With a population influx fueled by its natural beauty and robust job growth in sectors outside the extractive industries, the state has become ground zero in the battle over energy development, as unsuspecting communities suddenly face the prospect of their residential neighborhoods becoming industrial zones.
To ward off local pushback in the past, fossil fuel firms have relied on industry-friendly Colorado officials in both parties.
A few years ago, Colorado's Democratic Gov. John Hickenlooper — a former oil industry geologist — watered down legislation to increase environmental fines and he threatened to sue local communities that attempt to regulate drilling and fracking. More recently, Colorado Republican Attorney General Cynthia Coffman,  whose campaigns have been supported by groups bankrolled by the fossil fuel industry, filed a lawsuit to block such regulations in Boulder, one of the state’s most populous counties.
Those moves came before the deadly blast near an oil well this spring in Firestone and a later blast at an oil tank in Weld County. This week’s COGA conference at the Colorado Convention Center, though, suggested that the fatalities have not radically altered the political dynamic in the state.
For instance, during a discussion about the possibility of future safety or environmental regulations, Colorado Senate Republican leader Chris Holbert told the conference, “I can’t promise to you that nothing bad will happen, but the 18 Senate Republicans are here as your friends,” according to the  Denver Post. The comments came only a few months after Holbert’s Senate Republican caucus helped fossil fuel lobbyists block legislation to set oil and gas rigs further back from schools. After the Firestone explosion, those Senate Republicans also blocked a bill to require energy companies to disclose maps that would tell homeowners if they are living near oil and gas facilities. The Colorado Senate GOP's main fundraising group has received more than $1.1 million from fossil fuel industry donors in recent years.
Meanwhile, on the Democratic side, Hickenlooper this week reversed his earlier support for the mapping initiative while his appointed lieutenant governor, Donna Lynne, expressed gratitude to the assembled oil and gas executives, heaping praise on the industry despite the deadly blasts.  
“Colorado can’t proclaim that we’re a jobs state if we don’t recognize the importance of our business partners, and you clearly here at COGA are partners,” Lynne said. “We believe we have in this state the best health and safety practices in the oil and gas industry, and that kind of engagement and collaboration deserves recognition because it is sometimes not the norm when politics can infect an issue or an event — including when we have tragedies.”
The statement from Lynne, who is considering a 2018 run for governor, highlighted a schism in the Democratic Party that could be an issue in primaries in Colorado, and in other energy-rich states across the country. It was a fissure that was exemplified at the COGA conference by U.S. Sen. Michael Bennet.
During his remarks, the Democratic lawmaker lauded the industry’s innovation and expressed support for lifting the oil export ban and for developing the Keystone XL pipeline, but he implored oil and gas executives to own up to the facts about climate change. He also told reporters that the intensifying fight between local communities and the industry “is a challenge that should not be minimized.”
“You have two very legitimate property interests that are at stake here, the oil and gas industry has a legitimate property interest, and local communities and homeowners have legitimate property interests, and either fortunately or unfortunately, it is in conflict and we have to work our way through that,” Bennet said. “It would be better if people didn’t have to resort to lawsuits to deal with this, and it would be better if we could find a path forward. But I think it’s unreasonable to not expect that this conflict will continue.”
CORRECTION: An earlier version of this report incorrectly said Gardner was up for reelection in 2018. He is up for reelection in 2020, and currently chairs the National Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee. 


Blockchain technology company Blockstream has unveiled a satellite system that will bring Bitcoin connectivity to almost everyone on the planet.
Billions of people all over the world struggle to connect to the internet; in many cases the cost of bandwidth relative to their income makes it prohibitive to do so. In addition to poor infrastructure and poverty, there are also places with lots of political instability, censorship and state control.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
Blockstream CEO Dr Adam Back said: "There are lots of places with internet problems, and sometimes whole countries get cut off due to wars or political instability and at those times the only kinds of connectivity that leak out of these countries are satellite communications and sat-phone and things like that.
"And there is also an interesting coincidence between countries with infrastructure challenges and unstable currencies - so there is also a demand for access to global internet money."
Blockstream Satellite allows anyone to operate and maintain Bitcoin nodes across two thirds of the Earth's landmass, with additional coverage areas soon to come online to reach almost every person on the planet by the end of the year.
Adam Back said: "A high level way to look at it is, you've got the global GPS system for navigation; this is a global Bitcoin system so people can use Bitcoin everywhere."
The Blockstream Satellite network currently consists of three geosynchronous satellites that cover four continents - Africa, Europe, South America, and North America. Ground stations called teleports uplink the public Bitcoin blockchain data to the satellites in the network, which then broadcast the data across the globe.
Setup costs are low, less than $100, which can be reduced further by using a recycled satellite dish - a regular TV satellite dish will do. There is no ongoing bandwidth cost once you've got it up and running. Blockstream Satellite brings the costs down by using GNU Radio, an open source software development toolkit which eliminates the need for specialised hardware. Performance is enhanced with Fast Internet Bitcoin Relay Engine (FIBRE).
Chris Cook, head of satellite at Blockstream explained that rather than launching new satellites which is expensive and time consuming, the company is leasing time on existing commercial satellites.
Cook said: "We had a look at the feasibility of launching satellites but were thinking, why launch our own satellite when there are plenty of interesting communication satellites up there that have capacity."
He pointed out that typically satellite equipment costs many thousands of dollars, but that using GNU Radio is major cost saving innovation. This involves a USB connection to the computer, and then it's a programmable radio, like analogue to digital radio processing equipment, which can be used to process all kinds of different signals.
He added: "One of the other cost-saving advantages is that existing TV dishes can be re-used and the system of designs use very small dishes, particularly the ones that are 46 cm or 18 inches in diameter - so they are very common and very unobtrusive."
Dr Back added: "A user or a local business can run a full node, receive all the data and then when they go to send a transaction, they can pay the bandwidth cost for that. A Bitcoin transaction is pretty small, like 250 bytes."
He said bidirectional satellite equipment which can be purchased quite cheaply on eBay could be added. Other communication channels people could use include local Wi-Fi, mesh networks, SMS gateways, dial up, or other kinds of low bandwidth, high distance radio equipment.
For example, a small business on the side of the road with a little petrol generator and a satellite dish on the roof, using a Rasberry Pi to receive the blockchain data and with a Wi-Fi hotspot, can manage to transact globally on the Bitcoin network.
As well as bringing more nodes and more decentralisation to the global Bitcoin network, Blockstream Satellite provides extra redundancy and an additional layer of reliability for blockchain data in the event of a network partition.
Back said from the perspective of miners and Bitcoin businesses generally, "if you're doing high value Bitcoin things or doing mining, you really want to make sure that you're on the Bitcoin network proper. Occasionally there will be internet disruptions where a transatlantic cable is cut or something like that and for a period of even hours you can have network splits. The satellite is a truly redundant link that protects against those kinds of issues for users and businesses."
Using a sail-over connection is also interesting in regard to places where Bitcoin's legal status is unclear, or a government wants to impose capital controls, filter the internet and so on. Back pointed out that the system leaves practically no footprint.
"If a government were looking at the internet connection or if it were going through a government-operated firewall or something, there would be no evidence of participating Bitcoin just coming down from the satellite. And the actual transactions will be very small so they leave a much smaller footprint and be much easier to lose in noise. So it's certainly much more possible to use Bitcoin privately, anonymously, and robustly."
The business of downloading full Bitcoin node software has also been made less onerous in recent times. One of the recent releases introduced pruned modes and there's a no-relay option as well. "If you turn on all the bandwidth saving options and the disk storage options, your footprint is much smaller because it doesn't have to store the historic data, only the current data which will fit in a gigabyte of local storage. So you basically need something like an SD card or something like that, even on a Rasberry Pi," said Back.
Looking ahead, Blockstream intends to add more features and programmability, so that smart phone wallet authors and Bitcoin application developers can also broadcast data by the satellite. Back added: "If it was a particular application that needs to send a message to a recipient that can be broadcast by the satellite too for a small Bitcoin fee."


To fill the position of Secretary of the Army, President Donald Trump first turned to the familiar world of billionaire business leaders and nominated Vincent Viola for the job. But Viola, who made his fortune on Wall Street and owns the National Hockey League’s Florida Panthers, abruptly withdrew his nomination in February, citing difficulties extracting himself from his businesses.
Next, Trump turned to another reliable source of allies — the grassroots of the Republican party — and nominated Tennessee State Senator Mark Green for the position. But Green, a former Army flight surgeon,  withdrew his name from consideration in May, citing “false and misleading attacks” based on controversial statements he made regarding gay and transgender rights.
So for his third try at finding his Army secretary, Trump took a different tack. He headed to the swamp, the one he promised to drain, and found a lobbyist.
Trump nominated Gulf War veteran and West Point graduate  Mark Esper for the Army Secretary post in July, but his confirmation hearings have not yet been scheduled. However, what’s sure to come up in those hearings is the  seven years Esper led the government relations department at Raytheon, where Esper was the top lobbyist at one of the largest defense contractors in the world. This year, Raytheon has already spent millions of dollars lobbying the Department of the Defense, where Esper will work if confirmed by the Senate. 
A man holds up a "Drain the Swamp in Washington DC" sign as Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump attends a campaign event on the tarmac of the airport in Kinston, North Carolina, Oct. 26 2016.  Photo: Reuters
One of Trump’s first actions as president was to institute  ethics rules for his administration that were largely based on rules implemented at the beginning of the Obama administration. But in spite of Trump’s promises to “drain the swamp,” a few critical differences between the two ethics regimes mean that Esper can be Trump’s Army Secretary, but couldn’t have been Obama’s.
Lobbyists taking positions in government, and government employees taking positions at lobbying firms, is nothing new in Washington: It’s so common that movement between the two camps is referred to as the “revolving door.” But under Obama’s ethics rules, lobbyists weren’t able to join an executive agency they lobbied for two years. The Trump administration has no such rule, and the administration is taking advantage of that omission: one watchdog group determined a quarter of ex-lobbyists in the administration lobbied on issues they  worked on in the prior two years.
The de facto rescinding of the two-year rule is why Esper can jump straight from Raytheon (he was listed as a  lobbyist on the company’s most recent lobbying disclosure ) to an agency that Raytheon is lobbying for federal funds and contracts.
If confirmed, Esper will become yet another Trump administration official who is presiding over agencies, departments and offices being lobbied by their former employers, or in the case of ex-lobbyists, former clients.
A member of the public walks past an advertisement for Raytheon at the Australian International Airshow in Melbourne, March 10, 2009.  Photo: Reuters
Many of these officials have signed ethics agreements that forbid them from working on issues that could affect their ex-employers for either a year, or two. Others have been granted waivers for those ethics agreements, waivers which were originally kept secret for months until the White House relented to the increasingly public  protests of the Office of Government Ethics and released  them at the end of May.There are federal statutes on the books that prevent executive-branch staffers from working on any matter that they might have a direct financial interest in. But while officials are expected to recuse themselves from matters directly related to their previous employers, no standardardized recusal process exists across the executive branch, and an individual instance of recusal at the White House doesn’t create a public paper trail.
The White House has evaded specific questions from International Business Times,  as well as other outlets, about who has recused on what issues, instead replying to questions with general statements about the administration's commitment to ethics.
“The White House takes seriously the need for appointees to resign, recuse and divest where required,” Natalie Strom, a White House spokesperson, told IBT in an email. “The White House Counsel's Office worked closely with all White House officials to avoid conflicts arising from their former places of employment or investment holdings. To the furthest extent possible, counsel worked with each staffer to recuse from conflicting conduct rather than being granted waivers, which has led to the limited number of waivers being issued.”
But while the White House Counsel’s office is in charge of the ensuring proper recusals from actual or perceived conflicts of interest, the office itself is not immune from ethical entanglements. Stefan Passantino, the Deputy Counsel to the President and the White House’s “designated agency ethics official” has provided paid legal services to two Trump administration  cabinet members in the last two years: Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson and Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, according to Passantino’s public financial disclosure.
Passantino also provided services for Icahn Capital, which is led by legendary investor and Trump confidant Carl Icahn. (Passantino recused himself from any matters dealing with Icahn on Jan. 20, according to the New Yorker’s Ryan Lizza.) Until last week, Icahn served as a “special adviser” to the president, a legally ambiguous role that meant the administration's ethics rules didn’t apply to him. It also meant that since he was never serving in an “official role” at the White House, there was no exact date of his departure. But Icahn seemed to have  resigned from the role in advance of a  New Yorker investigation that found Icahn may have tried to use the position to enrich himself.
Former Office of Government Ethics Director Walter Schaub, who now works for the campaign legal center, tweeted that the New Yorker story was “a perfect window into how the White House Counsel is enabling the Administration to dodge ethics.”

Blackstone CEO  Stephen Schwarzman served in a similar non-official adviser role not covered by ethics rules as chairman of the White House’s Strategic and Policy Forum until last week, when the advisory  panels were disbanded amid criticism of Trump’s response to a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville.
In addition to the murky ethical questions surrounding Trump’s unofficial advisers, the White House has decided to not publicly release the White House visitor logs, which makes it difficult to tell which lobbyists and business executives may be meeting with White House staff. (On Tuesday, the Secret Service agreed to  stop erasing White House visitor log data until a lawsuit brought by Public Citizen seeking access to those records can be decided.)
While there are many obstacles that prevent the public from knowing exactly what issues are being worked on, by whom, in the executive branch, and whether ethics rules are being fully enforced, what is publicly available are lobbying records. By examining those records, IBT has compiled a list of executive branch officials who are running, or part of, agencies that are being lobbied by their former employers or clients. There is no indication that the people are on this list have broken any laws, or their ethics agreements, which have required them to recuse themselves.
Instead, the list, which is not comprehensive, shows where a specific kind of ethical entanglement can occur in this administration. It is is simply a survey of Trump’s swamp and a compilation of some of that swamp’s murkiest waters.
White House Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs   Amy Swonger
After serving as a congressional aide to Republican Senators Mitch McConnell and Trent Lott last decade, and working a stint in Vice President Dick Cheney’s office, Amy Swonger traveled through Washington’s busy revolving door to become a lobbyist in 2008. After working at two lobbying firms, Ernst & Young and Invariant LLC (the latter of which was run by Hillary Clinton fundraiser Heather Podesta), Swonger joined the White House in March to  lead the Trump administration’s Senate legislative affairs team. In 2015 and 2016, Swonger had nearly 40 lobbying clients across a diverse set of industries. Records show that in 2017 roughly half of those clients, 18 in total, have lobbied the White House Office or the Executive Office of the President, which contains the White House Office.
According to White House ethics rules, Swonger cannot work on issues related to her former clients for two years. This presents Swonger with a complicated web of conflicts and recusals to navigate, which she has done without the help of an ethics waiver, according to public ethics waiver disclosures. Swonger’s recent clients that have lobbied the White House include NextEra Energy, Dow Chemical, Pfizer, Dish Network, National Association of Real Estate Trusts, Marathon Oil, Marriott International, Johnson & Johnson and the Securities Industry and the Financial Markets Association.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson speaks about the chemical weapons attack in Syria during a meeting with Mexican Foreign Minister Luis Videgaray at the State Department in Washington, D.C., April 5, 2017. Photo: Reuters
Rex Tillerson spent 31 years at oil giant ExxonMobil before becoming Chairman and CEO of the company in 2006. The former engineer resigned his position on December 31, 2016 to lead the Trump administration’s State Department. As he’s been running the U.S.’s diplomatic corps, and demonstrating himself to be one of the most  media-averse secretaries of state in recent memory, Exxon has been lobbying the State Department.
Exxon lobbying filings from this year that list the State Department as a lobbied organization have a price tag of $3.4 million. Records show that Exxon lobbied on issues that would fall under the purview of the State Department, including “Discussions related to the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA)” and “Discussions related to energy infrastructure and investment.”
So far in 2017, Exxon has listed eight registered in-house lobbyists in its filings, and it employs another eleven lobbying firms to fight for its interests in Washington. But that's hardly the extent of the company's influence. The dues it pays to industry trade associations also help pay for the lobbyists those associations hire.  Exxon is a member of the American Petroleum Institute, which also has a  multi-million dollar a year lobbying apparatus. The API didn’t lobby the State Department in 2016, but it has listed the department as one of its lobbied agencies in both of its filings in 2017, the year Tillerson took the helm.
Some of the areas it lobbied include “efforts related to the renegotiation of NAFTA,” and “efforts related to the export of natural gas, petroleum and petroleum products.” Exxon is also a member of the Brazil-U.S. Business Council, which lobbied the State Department on the “promotion of U.S.-Brazil trade and investment relations.”  
Tillerson signed an ethics pledge filed with the Office of Government Ethics that said “for a period of one year after my resignation from ExxonMobil, I will not participate personally and substantially in any particular matter involving specific parties in which I know ExxonMobil is a party or represents a party, unless I am first authorized to participate."
Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao
Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao (R) looks on as President Donald Trump speaks following a meeting on infrastructure at Trump Tower, in New York City, August 15, 2017.  Photo: Getty Images/ Drew Angerer
Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao, who was labor secretary in the George W. Bush administration, served on the board of Alabama-based Vulcan Materials from February 2015 until she resigned the position to serve in the Trump administration.
Vulcan calls itself the “nation’s largest producer of construction aggregates,” which means it is a huge supplier of gravel, sand, and crushed stone — products that are needed in vast quantities to build highways and other infrastructure projects. Since the government has a central role in these kind of projects, Vulcan often lobbies the Department of Transportation. In the first two quarters of 2017, Vulcan has hired four lobbying firms and one of them, Ice Miller Strategies, has lobbied the Transportation Department on just one issue: the reauthorization of the Federal Highway Administration, which  manages federal funding of  maintenance and construction of highways.
Chao’s  ethics agreement states only that she will “not participate personally and substantially” in any matter that has a “direct and predictable effect” on Vulcan until her deferred stock is redeemed. There is no mention of a year-long, or two year-long, recusal from matters related to Vulcan in Chao’s ethics agreement. Chao is also the wife of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. 
Secretary of Defense James Mattis
Defense Secretary Jim Mattis addresses a news conference during a NATO defense ministers meeting at the Alliance headquarters in Brussels, Feb. 16, 2017.  Photo: REUTERS/Francois Lenoir
Defense Secretary James Mattis was the first member of Trump’s cabinet confirmed by the Senate, which voted 98-1 to confirm the retired Marine general and former U.S. Central Command leader. Mattis left the Marines in 2013, and soon joined the boards of several organizations and companies, including  scandal-plagued biotech startup Theranos and General Dynamics, one of the nation’s largest defense contractors and the receipient of $14.5 billion worth of federal contracts in 2016,  according to the General Services Administration.
General Dynamics, like most large military contractors, spends millions of dollars a year on lobbying the Defense Department to secure contracts and steer business its way. Of the $7.2 million dollars on lobbying General Dynamics has spent this year, filings representing $6.2 million of that total list the Defense Department as one of the lobbied entities. The company lobbies on a variety of topics, but a survey of company lobbying filings show the company is mainly lobbying on appropriations. One filing identifies lobbying issues as “Department of Defense issues and funding (research & development and procurement) related to: shipbuilding; submarines; ground vehicles; aircraft; communications systems; defense intelligence programs; ammunition and weapon systems; military information support operations.”
In his ethics agreement letter, Mattis said he would not participate in any matter involving General Dynamics for a year. He also said he would divest all of his General Dynamics stock and vested stock options.
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross
Wilbur Ross testifies before a Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee confirmation hearing on his nomination to be commerce secretary at Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., Jan. 18, 2017. Photo: REUTERS/Carlos Barria
Billionaire investor and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross’s efforts to disentangle himself from his financial conflicts was trickier than most Trump administration appointees due to the sheer size of Ross’s personal holdings. His  financial disclosure form filed in December listed current positions with more than 50 organizations and companies. One of those companies, a Luxembourg-based steel and mining firm called ArcelorMittal, has been lobbying the Commerce Department this year. Ross became a director at ArcelorMittal in 2008, and in 2017 the company’s U.S. division has spent more than a million dollars on lobbying.
The ArcelorMittal lobbying filings that list the Commerce Department as a lobbied entity indicate the company was lobbying on international trade matters, including “Chinese government policies promoting steel overcapacity and unfair trading practices,” “strong enforcement of U.S. trade laws,” and issues related to “currency manipulation,” “global steel overcapacity” and NAFTA. Ross signed an  ethics agreement that said he would not involve himself in matters involving ArcelorMittal, and a number of other companies he held positions in, for a year after his resignation from those companies.
National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn
Gary Cohn, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. president and chief operating officer, arrives for a meeting at Trump Tower to speak with President-elect Donald Trump in New York, U.S., Nov. 29, 2016.  Photo: REUTERS/Lucas Jackson
Gary Cohn jumped straight from his job as the president of Goldman Sachs to become Trump’s top economic advisor and director of the White House’s National Economic Council (NEC). In doing so, he got a $285 million payout from the investment bank that included favorable terms on stock options that raised concerns among ethics experts.
Last week,  IBT reported that Cohn’s NEC had been lobbied by at least three trade associations and industry groups that count Goldman Sachs as a member. They included the Investment Company Institute, the Managed Funds Association, and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. Together, the three groups spent $3.6 million on government lobbying in the first two quarters of 2017.
Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt

David Bernhardt was a lobbyist for lobbying firm Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck in the late nineties before joining the Department of the Interior during the Bush administration. He then returned to Brownstein as a partner and eventually launched the firm’s  Energy, Environment and Resource Strategies Division. Earlier this year, Bernhardt took one more trip through the revolving door, returning to government to become the number two official at Trump’s Interior Department, which oversees the National Parks Service, as well as all federally-owned land. His ties to oil and gas industry clients led a Democratic Congressman to call him a “walking conflict of interest.”
Two of Bernhardt’s immediate former clients have lobbied the Interior Department through Brownstein in 2017, including California’s  Westlands Water District, which sued the Interior Department four times while a Bernhardt client, and the  Navajo Nation.
While not clients of Bernhardt specifically, other clients of Bernhardt’s firm, where he was a partner, have also lobbied the Interior Department this year. These include mining and oil and gas interests like Gemfield Resources, Statoil, WPX Energy, and Taylor Energy Company, among others.  
One client that did hire Brownstein to lobby the Interior Department  this year is the Governor’s Office of the State of Colorado, which has never hired a federal lobbying firm before this year, according to federal filings. Those filings indicate that Gov. John Hickenlooper, a Democrat, spent a total of $70,000 of taxpayer money to hire Brownstein to lobby the Justice Department, the Interior Department, the EPA and Congress on “issues related to federal funding for national service programs” and fiscal year 2017 and 2018 appropriations. Hickenlooper also hired Brownstein to lobby Congress on “issues related to healthcare.”
Hickenlooper’s office said the decision to hire Brownstein had nothing to do with Bernhardt, who is a Colorado native.
“Our office hired a lobbying firm after the new administration came in, anticipating that we would need to build key relationships with the new administration. We recognized we would be navigating possible changes in the federal approach to issues of importance to states including energy policy, health care, marijuana and the environment to name a few. We wanted to ensure Colorado had a voice as these issues were discussed,” Hickenlooper’s press secretary Jacque Montgomery told IBT in an email.   
“Our decision had nothing to do with Mr. Bernhardt, who left for the Department of Interior after we hired BHFS. We think it's important to work with a firm that has ties to Colorado.  BHFS is the only lobbyist with headquarters in Denver,” Montgomery said.
In his  ethics agreement, Bernhardt said he would refrain from involving himself in matters dealing with his former firm, and former clients, for one year.
Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Energy and Environmental Policy Mike Catanzaro

As a registered lobbyist for lobbying firm CGCN in 2015 and 2016, the former Congressional and White House staffer and EPA Associate Deputy Administrator Michael Catanzaro represented a variety of oil and gas, mining and energy clients. Earlier this year, he joined the NEC as the Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Energy and Environmental Policy. As several of his former CGCN clients have lobbied the NEC in 2017, including Boeing, Koch Companies, Microsoft, General Motors, Financial Services Roundtable, Investment Company Institute and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the White House granted Catanzaro  an ethics waiver that allowed him to break his ethics agreement in order to “participate in broad policy matters and particular matters of general applicability relating to the Clean Power Plan, the WOTUS rule,” also known as the EPA’s clean water rule, and “methane regulation.”
Department of Homeland Security Deputy Chief of Staff Chad Wolf
Former Wexler Walker lobbyist and Bush-administration TSA official Chad Wolf lobbied Congress on behalf of Analogic Corporation in 2015 and 2016 and pushed the company’s  airport security technology. In December of 2016, Analogic announced that its new ConnectCT screening system would  undergo TSA testing (that  testing is still ongoing ). A few months later, Wolf became the chief of staff at the TSA. Then, In July, Wolf was promoted to Acting Deputy Chief of Staff at the Department of Homeland Security, the TSA’s parent agency.
Two of Wolf’s former clients have lobbied the Homeland Security Department in 2017. One is robotics and automation technology company ABB, which lobbied the agency on “Energy Efficiency,” and “Grid Security & Resilience,” according to  federal records. The other is the National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM),  which lobbied DHS on “high skill immigration,” “green cards,” and “visa processing.”


Back in September 2006, the U.S. experienced what became known as the "spinach crisis." Following the discovery of an outbreak of E.coli linked to uncooked spinach, it took over two weeks to trace the tainted product to a single 50-acre farm in California, by which time every bag of spinach in the US had been pulled from the shelves. There were three deaths, hundreds taken ill, and it took many years for the U.S. spinach industry to recover.
There is no clear and transparent way for bad products to be surgically removed from the ecosystem of retailers and suppliers (a recent salmonella outbreak linked to papayas was first detected on 17 May and not traced until 26 July).
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
IBM has a blockchain solution to deal with food safety and traceability, and it has teamed up with major food brands like Walmart, Dole, Golden State Foods, Kroger, McCormick and Company, Nestlé, Tyson Foods, Driscoll's, McLane Company and Unilever to build it out.
Blockchains create an end-to-end, tamper-proof ontology when it comes to checking and recording stuff. It could be argued that IBM's blockchain work with supply chains, trade finance, and provenance tracking is world leading. In addition, it's a use case that's well-suited to Hyperledger Fabric's general purpose blockchain and its privacy channels architecture.
IBM and Walmart started working on blockchain pilots last year: one in China with pork, and one in the US with mangoes. When the technology was demonstrated at a Walmart shareholders meeting, the process of tracing a pack of sliced mangoes, which had taken Walmart just shy of a week, was done in two seconds using a blockchain.
Brigid McDermott, vice president of Blockchain Business Development, IBM Research, said: "In addition to having the full view of where the consignment of mangoes came from, we also got visibility of where it was in between. What if the contamination wasn't from the farm; what if it was the processing plant; what if it was the distribution center?
"You have all of these details, end to end, farm to retailer, or farm to fork. So now you can quickly and surgically take problem items out of the food system, protecting the health of the global population, as well as being a much better financial approach for the companies involved."
The Walmart proof of concept [PoC] involved just the one mango supplier and the one pork supplier; now IBM is building out beyond linear PoCs into the food supply ecosystem, said McDermott. But she also pointed out that it's not just about going after Fortune 100 suppliers and retailers. "You also have to be able to have the one-acre farmers join the system. You have to get the regulators join the system, the logistics companies and so on."
The aim is for the blockchain to hold an immutable record of where something comes from, what time it arrives, what time it leaves, what temperature it is and more. "Because we are talking permissioned blockchain, Dole can say it wants information about a transaction with Walmart to go to Walmart, but doesn't want Kroger to see that," she said.
"This is about taking the datasets that you have, whether they are in SAP or in EDI, and using standards like the GS1 standard, taking this information and putting it onto the blockchain so that you can share with comfort with confidence because you have that trust."
Transparency and traceability are interesting facets of blockchain-style databases. Transparency could also allow retailers and the brands they stock to show consumers at the end of the chain that products are sustainably sourced and free of additives etc. This kind of Fair Trade blockchain model is already being explored by start-ups like Provenance in the UK, which is working with the Co-op. One possible direction would be evolving towards an open model, an easy-to-use QR code and interface and publicly verifiable blockchain.
McDermott said: "Our view is that this system should be as open as possible for folks to engage in. But because the data is sensitive, if you send information you want to know for sure who you are talking to.
"But you bring up an interesting point, which is governance. The IBM Blockchain Platform is about how do you develop, govern and operate a blockchain network. So we are providing the tools that allow folks to do that."
The IBM Blockchain has a governance policy set up by the founder or founders of the network. The system uses a voting process that collects signatures from members in order to govern the invitation of new members, the distribution of smart contracts and creation of transactions channels. McDermott said that in the case of the permissioned food safety blockchain, the exact rules for enrolment have not yet been figured out.
"That's why this collaboration with these influencers and innovators in the market is so important. It's not about IBM coming out and saying this is the right way to do this; it's about understanding from the participants and the ecosystem itself," she said.
The IBM Blockchain Platform is based on Hyperledger v1.0 and includes tools like Hyperledger Composer and "IBM Developer Journeys" for blockchain, featuring free open-source code, documentation, APIs, architecture diagrams and one-click deployment Git repositories to fast-track building – all designed to get IBM customers up and running in minutes.
As previously alluded to, the IBM blockchain approach explores democratic governance tools using votes cast via signatures of existing participants on the chain. The whole thing runs off the IBM Cloud protected by the various battle-tested security that comes with it. IBM Blockchain Platform starts at $0.50 per hour for enterprise clients. To support blockchain ecosystems among different organisations, the cost of the network can be shared across all network members, said an IBM statement.
Asked approximately how much she expects the blockchain offering to generate in the coming year, McDermott said "a lot we hope."
In addition, IBM is also helping to expand the blockchain ecosystem across academia to meet the demand for skills in this area. Resources on offer include software, training and professional partnerships free of charge to more than 1,000 universities in the IBM Academic Initiative. There is also six months of access to the IBM Cloud for use of the blockchain sandbox to help students hone development skills.
IBM is also working with select universities including Fordham, University of Arkansas and University of British Columbia to fund research grants, develop customised curricula and host workshops and hackathons.


Former CIA agent Valerie Plame Wilson — an outspoken critic of President Donald Trump on social media —  joined a chorus of voices online who are petitioning the president have his Twitter account removed from the platform. But Wilson has taken her campaign a step further by crowd-funding for enough of a stake in the company to get him kicked off Twitter herself.
Wilson — on behalf of anti-nuclear weapons group  Global Zero — started a GoFundMe campaign last week that hopes to raise a $1 billion dollars to buy stake in the social media company. Wilson wrote on the  campaign page that she hoped to raise enough money to purchase a controlling share of the social media company, which she said might afford her enough power to have the president removed from the platform.
“Donald Trump has done a lot of horrible things on Twitter,” the campaign reads. “From emboldening white supremacists to promoting violence against journalists, his tweets damage the country and put people in harm's way. But threatening actual nuclear war with North Korea takes it to a dangerous new level.”
The campaign added, “Twitter is a publicly traded company. Shares = power. This GoFundMe will fund the purchase of a controlling interest in Twitter. At the current market rate that would require over a billion dollars — but that's a small price to pay to take away Trump's most powerful megaphone and prevent a horrific nuclear war.”
Wilson started campaign that hopes to raise a $1 billion dollars to get Trump kicked off Twitter. In this photo, Valerie Plame Wilson attends the premiere of 'Countdown To Zero' at the Paley Center for Media on July 20, 2010 in New York City. Photo: Photo by Michael Loccisano/Getty Images
The company had raised nearly $50,000 of its $1 billion goal as of Thursday afternoon after a week of campaigning. However, the  Associated Press reported that as of Wednesday, a majority stake in the company would cost approximately $6 billion. While $1 billion would make her the company’s largest shareholder, the AP also noted that Wilson would “fall far short of gaining a controlling interest” in Twitter.
In the event that the campaign doesn’t raise enough money to buy a “significant stake” in Twitter, the campaign noted, proceeds raised would be donated to Global Zero.
White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders responded to the campaign in a statement that called the campaign “ridiculous.”
“Her ridiculous attempt to shut down [Trump’s] first amendment is the only clear violation and expression of hate and intolerance in this equation,” the statement said.
Wilson tweeted an apparent response to the claim on Twitter Wednesday.
“Lots of trolls yelling & screaming that #BuyTwitter #BanTrump campaign ‘suppresses free speech.’ They're wrong. Here's why: Free speech has limits,” she wrote. “Can't yell ‘FIRE!’ in a crowded theater to cause a stampede. Can't incite violence.”
She added, “1st Amendment only stops gov't interference w/ your speech. @Twitter isn't the gov't & this isn't a public square.”
Wilson resigned from the CIA in 2005 after working as an undercover operative until 2003. Her identity was leaked by associates of former President George W. Bush’s administration that year in apparent retribution for criticisms of the Bush administration made by her husband, Joseph Wilson.


Most data turns out to have a greater value than the sum of the parts. There's a story about a global courier firm that said it saw a large drop off in its monthly orders at some point in 2007, not too long before the bottom fell out of the global economy. Traditional economic forecasting did not see an issue, but had there been some visibility into trade finance data at that time it would have shown many contracts had been cancelled, affording us some warning of what was ahead.
Macro-economic forecasters and statistical analysts know that trade data provides the most precise window into the global economy there is. Trade finance data has always been a notoriously opaque part in the supply chain, but we are now seeing end-to-end digitisation, as a multitude of banks and software providers test out trade/supply blockchains and other digital platforms.
Supply chains have traditionally transacted using antiquated processes and physical letters of credit, bills of lading and purchase orders. This is now being rapidly digitalised, making it easy to aggregate and also access.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
Christian Lanng, CEO Tradeshift (a trade finance and supply chain solution working with HSBC and Santander), said: "Over the next two to five years we are going to see massive digitalisation of that global trade dataset. It's moving from offline to online. It also means you can trade on it in a whole different way, leverage it in different ways. You can use it for research and in other contexts."
Tradeshift supports over 100 different transacting types, like bills of lading, letters of credit, invoices, purchase orders and more. Lanng said one of the main reasons you are seeing lots of data aggregation is because of cloud computing, which has driven down the cost of the procedure. "All this is built on open powerful platforms. We have open APIs. We can build third party applications that can leverage this data."
Today there's whole industry that revolves around alternative data that can be cleaned and readied for use by alpha-hungry asset managers and hedge funds. But while a company like Visa has one of the most valuable datasets on the planet, it would never reveal transaction data about its customers. The same could be said about Maersk, which has at its fingertips a snapshot of more than half the world's supply chains.
So while the platforming of supply chains and the use of shared ledgers will undoubtedly make this data more immediate and more granular – the question is will it ultimately become more accessible?
Tony Nash, CEO at data analytics firm Complete Intelligence, says trade datasets are a very good proxy of global supply/demand, but trade finance remains a missing piece.
"Trade lets us know exactly what's happening on supply chains, you know exactly what's happening with finished goods. The problem with trade finance today is that there is huge amount of opacity. Individual banks and trade finance firms aren't really that willing to surrender their trade finance data, so anything around trade finance that's public is really estimated.
"I think blockchain will bring some transparency to trade finance and actual aggregate values, and will do it in a much more real time sense. A lot of this information is so far delayed that you don't really know what's going on."
"There isn't a global source for this stuff. We've got goods data; we've got some services data, and all this currency commodity macro data. Trade finance adds a very interesting layer in terms of the timing of impacts and how they impact the cyclical nature of trade."
Those who follow the enterprise blockchain space know that data privacy is sine qua non – as much between participant banks running nodes as anyone else. Professional data collection and curation players are well aware of this fact. But they see the potential and are watching the space closely.
Tammer Kamel, CEO of Quandl, a well-known provider of data insights to the asset management industry, said: "Almost all our hedge fund customers covet supply chain insights. While Quandl has some data now that illuminates part of the picture, gaps remain. Blockchain adoption could well be what throws more light on things.
"That said, most supply chain participants have strong incentives to keep the details of their business operations confidential. In this space, as in others, we are watching blockchain adoptions closely to see what powerful data will emerge as the by-product."
Blockchain technology is very much in the offing and there are likely to be many variations in design as different use cases are fully explored. Amber Baldet, blockchain programme lead at JP Morgan, has overseen the creation of an extremely security-conscious modification of the Ethereum public blockchain called Quorum, which is aimed at enterprise uses. However, she said some blockchain uses – and she used global trade as an example – will likely see lots of value in the future by being spread across very large networks of users.
"Everybody is looking at supply chain on blockchain. If you only want to internalise receivables flows or letters of credit – markets between a relatively small number of banks – then you are fine using an enterprise blockchain solution purpose built for a small group of semi-trusted parties," said Baldet.
"But if you think that over time you want to add thousands or millions of end point suppliers to this thing; not only corporates, but perhaps actual vendors making fabrics and very little shops ... any sufficiently adopted sort of permissioned chain starts to look a lot more like a public chain."
This type of blockchain, while not open to the entire world, might become so adopted that we will gradually see security/utility trade-offs. At some point this seems to bleed into the old internet/intranet argument often invoked by opponents of private blockchains.
Jeremy Epstein, CEO of Never Stop Marketing has spent some time thinking about the intersection of big data and blockchains and how this might play out. He sees this phase of blockchain construction as similar to the big excitement in the late 90s around corporate intranets. "Over time, there will be a realisation that the real value is in permissionless, or the internet version of the blockchain. I think what you'll start to see is new supply chains that are being built around these sort of public blockchains," said Epstein.
He pointed out that companies like Google and Facebook lead the way in artificial intelligence and machine learning at the moment partly because they have access to the most data. But that might change with a more open, decentralised internet.
"In the short term, big companies with massive amounts of data are going to have an advantage. But I think eventually we will see the value of the public blockchain; the ease of innovation on top of it, that's the real differentiator.
"Collaboration is going to happen as more and more of these small players start jumping on, creating nodes and micro-niche apps. It could be a Kenyan coffee supply chain node on this global coffee supply chain.
"Big companies can't innovate at the micro level because it's not valuable or profitable for them. But some entrepreneur in Nairobi can. And all of a sudden the data on public blockchains starts exploding. So if I'm going to analyse what's happening in the global coffee market, I can look at this public blockchain; I can put my AI and machine learning algorithms on top of it," he said.
"The more data wins, and eventually there's going to be more data in the public blockchains. No private organisation or even private ecosystem is going to be able to compete with billions of people."


 SeaWorld San Diego officials confirmed Thursday that a pygmy sperm whale under the company's veterinarian care died, according to NBC-affiliated station KNSD. The female calf, which was only a couple months old, died Wednesday. 
The pygmy sperm whale was discovered in July by bystanders at La Jolla Shores in San Diego. Passersby recorded video of the beached whale, but they also alerted lifeguards and local animal rescue organizations of the incident. Bystanders waited with the calf until animal care specialists from SeaWorld San Diego arrived at the scene. The death was reportedly sudden because the animal began to show signs of improvement.
Jody Westberg, head of the SeaWorld's animal rescue program, issued a statement about her team's thoughts on the whale's death.
"We're just heartbroken about the loss of this little calf," Westberg said, according to the Times of San Diego.
"Her passing was very emotional for all of us," Westberg added. "We gave her everything we had and truly hoped she would have survived. Our rescue team poured their hearts into trying to give her a second chance at life."
David Koontz, the park's communications director, issued a statement to International Business Times Thursday about the whale's death. 
"It saddens me to report that the stranded pygmy sperm whale calf rescued by SeaWorld San Diego on La Jolla Shores Beach on July 28 passed away suddenly last night at approximately 11 p.m.," Koontz told IBT. "The calf had remained in critical and guarded condition since her rescue, but had been showing steady signs of improvement, even gaining 8 pounds, over the last 27 days."
Koontz added, "While SeaWorld’s rescue team and veterinarians understood that the odds of the calf’s long-term survival were not favorable, they did everything they could for her including providing around-the-clock care over the past month."
The female calf beached itself July 28 when it was only three weeks old. SeaWorld San Diego's veterinarians and animal care specialists reportedly provided rehabilitative services to care for the pygmy sperm whale. However, the park's staff weren't certain if the whale would survive. 
"This is an extremely critical period for the calf and it is too early to determine her long-term prognosis," Koontz said in July, according to SD News. "In consultation with National Marine Fisheries Service, SeaWorld’s animal care staff continues to evaluate the young whale’s overall health. "The calf is also being fed a cetacean baby milk formula every three to four hours."
Jim Milburry, a public relations officer for National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Fisheries, issued a statement to IBT Thursday about the likelihood of the whale's survival.
"While uncommon off the West Coast, strandings of this species, and the closely related dwarf sperm whale, frequently occur in the Southeastern United States," the NOAA told IBT. "Historic attempts to rehabilitate these species have had little success, with only a single animal ever having been successfully released. As a young calf, this animal had many challenges to overcome, and ultimately succumbed despite the best efforts by SeaWorld."
SeaWorld's Animal Rescue program has helped to save the lives of more than 30,000 animals. The company's rescue program has spanned 50 years, which includes rescue services available 24 hours daily.  
"The SeaWorld Rescue Team is on call 24/7/365 to care for ill, injured and orphaned animals, often in need of lifesaving care," SeaWorld San Diego's website reads. "For more than five decades, this dedicated team has provided a second chance at life to more than 30,000 animals, always with the goal of rehabilitating them and returning them to the wild."
SeaWorld's Rescue Team has gone to great lengths to rescue animals in the past because the company recognizes that "no two cases are ever the same," according to its website. Care experts have created nutritional formulas to hand-feed animals and fixed turtles' cracked shells with everyday items, among other specialized services. 
Not all care efforts at SeaWorld are successful. A killer whale at the San Diego park reportedly died August 15 from either a respiratory bacterial infection or lung disease, according to a statement from SeaWorld. Veterinarians were forced to euthanize the whale, Kasatka, after suffering for several years. Kasatka was diagnosed with a lung condition in 2008. 
A beached pygmy sperm whale at SeaWorld, pictured February 24, 2010, in San Diego died after a month of veterinarian care. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


Listed blockchain boutique Coinsilium Group is launching Terrastream in Gibraltar, to build out a blockchain-powered platform that operates in the off-shore haven's proposed distributed ledger technology regulatory framework.
The Terrastream platform will offer tokenised applications in several industry sectors, including, but not limited to, the precious metals and natural resources extractive industries, said a statement.
Coinsilium has held meetings with senior representatives from Gibraltar Financial Services Commission (GFSC), and expects to find the support of a conducive regulatory framework within the jurisdiction. Apparently, Gibraltar is expected to become the first jurisdiction globally to develop a regulatory framework for blockchains.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
In May 2017, Gibraltar Finance released a consultation document as part of its process towards establishing this regulatory framework. The operative date is expected to be no later than 1 January 2018. Coinsilium has appointed specialist Law Firm ISOLAS to advise on the structuring of Terrastream and its funding efforts.
Malcolm Palle, executive chairman of Coinsilium, said: "Gibraltar has an impressive track record of successfully identifying opportunities in early trends and has built a solid reputation in the gaming and fintech industries.
"Coinsilium's subsidiary Terrastream will be one of the first blockchain-focused companies to support Gibraltar's regulatory initiative and we expect the DLT Regulatory Framework to provide investors and industry participants alike with the confidence and certainty to embrace and support the development of many exciting blockchain ventures in the future. We look forward to updating investors on further developments with Terrastream at this exciting time for Coinsilium."


Enterprise Ethereum Alliance stalwart DFINITY is coming out the bushes with its "infinite blockchain cloud computer", slated for release later in the autumn.
The DFINITY decentralised cloud computer is similar in concept to Ethereum, but combines the deterministic properties of blockchains and digital signatures with random number generating algorithms to propagate a "blockchain nervous system" that can power everything from proof of stake systems to decentralised Uber.
DFINITY Stiftung is  the not-for-profit organisation dedicated to the research and development of "DFINITY" blockchain technologies, which is based in Zug, Switzerland. DFINITY will launch a multi-thousand node demonstration network in Fall 2017 that showcases some of its new technology in action.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
DFINITY will unleash the power of supply chain transactions, Internet of Things, financial markets and exchanges, charities, and intellectual property management, to name a few, on an unbounded, open and secure platform, said a statement.
One aim of the new network is to slash enterprise IT costs by reducing the human capital involved in supporting the development, maintenance and administration of traditional enterprise IT systems, it said. These enterprise systems, being collated on the same super massive virtual computer, will also be able to interoperate and incorporate the functionality provided by other services with ease. DFINITY will also enable the development of a new kind of "open source business" involving autonomous software that is updated via inbuilt governance systems and fulfill roles today performed by the likes of eBay or Uber.
DFINITY president and chief scientist Dominic Williams said: "The quality of our rapidly expanding team is unparalleled within the industry and composed of real superstars. We are building a NASA for decentralization with research centers in Silicon Valley and Switzerland that will rapidly advance the new Internet 3.0 paradigm."
He said the DFINITY network incorporates an algorithmic governance system that allows it to be fully adaptive with respect to economics, upgrades and other requirements, and manage the open environment it creates to ensure it is hospitable for corporate and mainstream applications.
The team behind the project, which dates back to 2014, includes notable cryptography  scientists and engineers such as Timo Hanke (AsicBoost) and Ben Lynn (the "L" from the "BLS" cryptography applied by "Threshold Relay").


A Virginia woman claimed this week that she was denied access to medical supplies she needed for her 18-month-old special needs son by United Airlines staff following a delay on a Norfolk-bound flight.
Shelby Davis, 24, said that airline officials during the delay denied her requests for access to her checked baggage, which contained needed formula for her son. After repeated requests, she was reportedly told she could retrieve her luggage from baggage claim but would not be allowed to reboard, which stranded the family in Chicago as they awaited another flight.
The Virginia Beach mother said that her infant son, Easton, suffered from chromosomal conditions that delayed his development and caused him breathing issues, the  Virginian-Pilot reported Wednesday. After spending the weekend visiting Davis’ boyfriend, the two were on their way home from O'Hare International Airport Monday evening when their flight was delayed due to a mechanical issue.
“United Flight 1735 from Chicago O’Hare to Norfolk required a new aircraft following a mechanical issue with the initial aircraft,” the airline told International Business Times in a statement. “During the delay, a customer requested that we retrieve her checked baggage as it contained supplies for her son. Due to the aircraft change, our customer had to retrieve her checked bag at baggage claim, which prevented her from flying to Norfolk.”
The airline said it put Davis on “the next flight to Norfolk” and issued her a refund. It did not provide any additional details about the incident or how it was being handled internally.

As it was the first time Davis had traveled with her son, she said she brought enough formula and the necessary equipment to hold them over until Norfolk. But Davis left an extension for the feeding tube as well as extra formula in the family’s checked luggage, and the flight delay meant she would need more formula for her son. She said he had become “pretty fussy” and was “chewing on his fingers and crying and sweating” because he was getting hungry.
Davis claimed that despite her requests that United Airlines staff allow her access to her baggage, the airline refused. Gate staff reportedly told her the request defied the carrier’s safety policies. When a supervisor got involved, Davis was told that she could go get her luggage herself but that she would not be able to reboard the flight.
Davis opted to retrieve her luggage before later spending the night with her boyfriend to await a new flight. According to the Virginian-Pilot, Davis arrived Tuesday evening and missed a day of work worth $100 in wages. She also claimed she was hung up on several times the following day because representatives for the airline didn’t like her “tone.” Davis said that she’ll opt to drive over flying next trip.
Remarkably, Monday’s incident involving Davis and her son was not the first time the airline failed to accommodate a special needs child. A family whose daughter suffered from Spastic Quadriplegic Cerebral Palsy  claimed in January that the girl — who could not sit up on her own and was extremely small her for age of 2 — was forced to be strapped in across her family’s laps lying down after a single flight attendant failed to make an exception for the girl, as per United Airlines policy if a passenger cannot sit up on his or her own.
United Airlines has faced no shortage of public relations headaches as of recent, with its most public incident this year being one in April when Dr. David Dao was bloodied and dragged off of an overbooked flight after refusing to forfeit his seat.
A Virginia woman claimed this week that she was denied access to medical supplies she needed for her 18-month-old special needs son. In this photo, a United Airlines aircraft passes by a Continental Airlines aircraft as it taxis to takeoff from the runway of Ronald Reagan National Airport August 16, 2006 in Washington, DC. Photo: Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images


An airline flight was diverted Tuesday after hitting bad turbulence, according to CBS affiliate KMOV. The turbulence resulted in the injuries of three people on board. 
SkyWest Airlines Flight 3167 was in route from Atlanta to Chicago before it met a wave of turbulence. The airline took precautionary action and landed the plane at St. Louis Lambert International Airport (STL) in St. Louis, Missouri. Flight 3167 was operating under American Eagle  — an American-based airline that allows several airlines to fly under its brand.
A SkyWest flight attendant and two passengers sustained injuries from the turbulence. However, no further incidents occurred upon landing. Paramedics met Flight 3167 at the tarmac to transport the three injured people to the local hospital. 
A representative from SkyWest Airlines issued a statement to International Business Times Tuesday about the emergency landing in St. Louis.
"SkyWest Flight 3167, operating as American Eagle from Atlanta to Chicago, diverted to St. Louis after it briefly encountered unexpected severe turbulence," SkyWest told IBT. "The flight landed without incident in St. Louis, where paramedics met the aircraft."
SkyWest added, "A flight attendant and two customers were transported to a nearby hospital for evaluation. The safety of all onboard our aircraft is our primary concern. Both American Airlines and SkyWest are taking care of our passengers and crew at this time."
A representative from American Airlines did not immediately return IBT's request for comment. 
SkyWest Airlines isn't the first to suffer from turbulence issues in-flight. American Airlines hit a wave of extreme turbulence early August, according to USA Today. The severe turbulence that plagued Flight 759 caused injury to at least 10 people. United Airlines also faced severe turbulence in July, according to Business Insider. Turbulence on United Flight 1031 caused injury to nine passengers and one crew member. 
How dangerous is turbulence? Turbulence is listed as the most common form of in-flight injury, according to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Turbulence causes injury to approximately 58 people annually, but a bumpy ride shouldn't create cause for concern among passengers and airline crew members. 
"Flying is the safest way to travel. Passengers can easily prevent injuries from unexpected turbulence by keeping their seat belt buckled at all times," the FAA wrote in a press release.
Airline pilots determine methods to reduce turbulence ahead of their flights. According to The Washington Post, pilots utilize multiple sources to help plan for possible turbulence.  
"They receive weather forecasts and reports before liftoff and real-time intel from other pilots and air traffic controllers mid-flight," the publication reported August 9. "Using this data, they can determine which patches of sky and altitudes to avoid. In addition, new aircraft can automatically sense the turbulence at the moment of impact and report the details back to the ground."
Weather is constantly changing, which can sometimes make early predictions irrelevant. Therefore, unpredicted turbulence has the ability to occur. According to a blog post from airline pilot Patrick Smith, turbulence levels are graded on a scale from "light" to "extreme."
"When we pass on reports to other crews, turbulence is graded from "light" to "extreme,'" Smith wrote on his website, Ask The Pilot. "The worst encounters entail a post-flight inspection by maintenance staff. There are definitions for each degree, but in practice, the grades are awarded subjectively."
A flight operating under American Eagle Airlines, pictured January 24, 2017, experienced turbulence that caused injury to 3 people on board. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


Crowdsourced investment manager Quantopian has two foundational principles: first, that there is quantitative talent all over the world, and second, that quantitative managers need to continually find new strategies.
Jonathan Larkin, Chief Investment Officer, Quantopian said: "Quantitative and technically capable people aren't only found in financial centres where traditional hedge funds have hired and employed people."
"Quantitative trading is a production problem because quantitative strategies don't last forever. The markets are very competitive. Strategies work for a while but over time become more widely known and deployed.
"Because of that, alpha in the strategy gets competed away. Therefore in order to be successful you have to have very large research output: it's not enough to just find a good strategy, you need to continually find good strategies over time."
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
Quantopian has brought the internet to bear to the research production problem. This has turned out to be a highly scalable solution. The platform has doubled its community year over year and has over 140,000 members now around the world.
When someone has created a strategy that has survived Quantopian's rigorous analysis and testing, the author may achieve a capital allocation. The largest single allocation Quantopian has made to date has been $10m, said Larkin. "I can tell you when a community member gets the first email inviting him or her to our diligence process to discuss a strategy that they have developed, and that we have discovered, vetted, and validated, it's an extraordinarily exciting moment for them."
The algorithm authors and community members own their IP from day one and they retain ownership of their code and research, which is encrypted on the Quantopian platform. Quantopian licenses strategies it believes are exceptional.
An author of a licensed strategy is typically paid 10% of the net profits of his or her strategy. Hypothetically, in the case of a $10m allocation to a strategy that produces a net annual return of 10% (or $1m in net profits), the author would be paid $100,000. As such, even at these initial allocation levels, an author can earn a meaningful payout.
Larkin makes the point that finance is a latecomer to the crowdsourcing game.
Crowdsourcing has proved very effective in other domains, starting back with the Netflix Prize in 2006. Today you can find people doing varying activities, like protein folding, through crowdsourced websites.
In order to harness the wisdom of crowds successfully, certain features need to be present. One of the necessary features is standardisation. In the case of finance, standardisation comes from the use of performance analytics. "At Quantopian we use a range of studies and performance analytics to evaluate strategies," said Larkin. "We can take very diverse strategies and analyse them in a standardised way, looking at metrics such as Sharpe ratio and exposure to common risk factors. Finance lends itself very well to standardisation."
"A second feature is independence: the crowd must do independent work. Quant finance practitioners are very cautious to protect their IP and their strategy ideas; because of that, when authors create the core of their strategies they do it in isolation.
"A third criterion is that the whole must be greater than the sum of the parts. Modern portfolio theory tells you that when you form a portfolio of uncorrelated strategies, mathematically, the whole will be more valuable than the individuals."
Quantopian has an active community with over 10,000 posts on the community forum last year. The platform also offers free educational content; there are some 50 lectures available. "We bring together people around the world to discuss challenges and opportunities in strategy development," said Larkin.
"This is a difficult business. Only a small percentage of community members will likely get an allocation to their strategies. However, everyone who comes to Quantopian is better off for it because they have the opportunity learn something. They have the opportunity to get exposure and insight to a field which historically has been closed off except to a very narrow segment of the population."
Concluding, Larkin warned of the many failure modes in the design, research and implementation of quantitative strategies such as overfitting, and ensuring data is high quality and without look-ahead bias.
"Data integrity is essential. You must keep it point-in-time," he said, "and you need many datasets. Those datasets need to be integrated, symbol mapped to a single identifier over time, time aligned, and properly corporate action adjusted. This aspect of quantitative investing is not very glamorous or exciting, but it is absolutely essential. Quantopian does this in a world class way, for free, for our community members."


London headquartered big data specialist Neudata has released the much-anticipated version 2 of its online Neudata Scout digital data intelligence platform. Neudata provides hedge funds and other institutional investment managers with metadata about the vast array of alternative datasets available for selecting and back testing the most appropriate sources for alpha generation.
It takes a lot of resources to back test some datasets and a lot of them are quite dirty and need a lot of work to be tagged and structured. There are only a few well-funded data-centric funds that have those in-house capabilities; many are now realising the importance and playing catch-up.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
The flip side is that many companies, which are not established data providers, are looking to monetise their data and do not yet have a network of clients. This is where Neudata can come in to assist them.
Appraising version 2 of the platform, Rado Lipuš, founder and chief executive officer of Neudata said: "We listened carefully to feedback from our audience of quantitative investment managers and greatly enhanced the functionality and new features available on the Neudata Scout platform.
"We expanded the navigation and filtering components so that managers can more easily pinpoint relevant data sources for a specific investment universe, or search for specific stocks, products or even brands.
"Also among the new features is a robust content management capability for users to add relevant and useful notes. All of this makes it easier for investment professionals to perform critical functions such as discovering, assessing and selecting the best sources of data sets for their particular investment research needs."
Many of Neudata's clients log in to the Neudata Scout platform on a daily basis in order to identify the latest alternative datasets and source providers that are continuously being added, he said.
Data providers span the universe from early-stage, still below-radar data providers compiling unique data, to established data providers assembling novel datasets for a limited number of investment management clients, to larger "exhaust-data" providers who often incidentally collect and aggregate less mainstream data that can be incredibly useful to investors.
Neudata recently hired Stephen Morse, former head of global financial data partnerships at Twitter, as an advisor based in New York City, bringing Neudata's alternative data intelligence platform to US hedge fund managers and other institutional investors.


Gaurav Chakravorty, co-founder of AI investment advisors qplum, likes to use sporting analogies to illustrate changing trends within finance. The way high frequency trading (HFT) seemed to work like magic in the old days reminds him of Manchester United under Sir Alex Ferguson.
Between 1993 and 2013 Manchester United won the English Premier League 13 times, an incredible record. The truth was Ferguson used a machinery that other clubs had not yet happened upon. He would scout clubs in Europe for talented youngsters and be willing to pay top dollar for young stars without a proven track record at a big club. The best example is Christiano Ronaldo. This "technology" when it worked looked amazing. But today almost every club uses the same method so it no longer works like it did for Manchester United – just look at Paul Pogba."
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
"So it's the same with HFTs," said Chakravorty. "In the crisis years they may have made a bunch of money. Now it's completely about using machine learning methods. They [the media] tend to make the focus of HFT all about latency, how fast you are. I mean fast helps. But it's sort of like being tall on a basketball court. It definitely helps but you don't win matches by being tall."
Chakravorty, a veteran of HFT, also says that describing it as a trading strategy is like saying that microwaving food is a recipe. Machine learning is key to what HFT actually does, which is attempting to ascertain the size of orders as they are being placed into the marketplace. "Inferring the real intent of market participants is what HFT is about. It used to be a much simpler problem back in the day when people were just placing orders without really thinking. Now it's tougher.
"So you would try to see different statistics: how long has the order been in the book, whether it has been placed just after a market event, or if it's just been placed when the market opens. And you try to gauge whether the size is abnormally large compared to other sizes. So every single feature of those orders would be passed into this robo-brain, which would give you a guess of what is going to happen."
Chakravorty explained there has now been a kind of cross-pollination where firms like Goldman Sachs Asset Management and some hedge funds have started using machine learning algorithms that HFT uses. "Sometimes they would get an ex-HFT guy to come in and redesign the execution system. So when they have to place an order of size 200,000 they break it up into small chunks of size 100 so that nobody can see that order, and place it at just the right time. Strictly speaking if everybody is using the same algorithms then there is no way to distinguish a dumb order from a smart one."
These days Chakravorty spends a lot of time explaining how deep learning algorithms can be applied to finance. We have seen an evolution from trend following in the 1980s, to more complex statistical arbitrage in the 90's, which was followed by machine learning and HFT coming to the fore around 2005. Most recently, big increases in computing power combined with the sheer amount of data available have provided the scale for deep learning approaches.
Rather than learning to predict things in a kind of hardcoded, supervised manner, deep learning techniques operate more like a human brain, filtering through data and learning the important signals. For example, a person driving down a road that hits a pothole will probably slow down; they don't have to hit 100 of them.
In order to try and encode the social science component of why a person might click on a certain advert, or trade a certain stock, deep learning algorithms use layers of nodes, some of which filter lots of data into summaries and then learn to make assumptions from these.
"Actually summarising data is an easier problem than making predictions," said Chakravorty. "It's about trying to learn how people trade. We are building this huge brain-like thing, which is looking at all the data in the markets and figuring out what are the summaries and from those summaries can I predict what will happen?"


Six passengers aboard a JetBlue Airlines flight Monday from New York to Palm Beach, Florida, were evaluated by medics and two who were taken to a hospital for a burning sensation in their eyes after mechanical issues forced an emergency landing at Raleigh-Durham International Airport in North Carolina.
Wake County EMS spokesman Jeffrey Hammerstein confirmed the report Monday to the Associated Press and noted passengers reported both a burning sensation in their eyes and headaches. None of the medical issues were life-threatening.
Flight tracker  Flightaware reported that the aircraft departed LaGuardia Airport in New York at 7:29 a.m. EDT. After being diverted to the North Carolina airport, the plane eventually landed at Palm Beach International Airport at 4:52 p.m. — more than six hours late to its destination.
JetBlue did not provide specifics of the incident. A representative for the New York-based company did not immediately return International Business Times’ request for comment.
There have been multiple reports of odors grounding JetBlue flights in recent months.
On Aug. 16, two JetBlue crew members reportedly fell ill aboard a flight from Boston to Charleston, South Carolina. The carrier later told IBT that the source of the odor was nail polish.
Six days earlier, a JetBlue flight from Boston to San Diego was  forced to make an emergency landing in Buffalo after a gasoline smell from the wing of the plane caused dizziness for the pilot and two flight attendants.
“They were saying that there was an incident on the plane where somebody was having a medical issue,” passenger Michael Feuerstein told  Fox-affiliate WFXT in Boston. “People were having headaches on the plane. There were children. The smell could be smelled from the wings of the plane to the actual back of the plane.”
Feuerstein also said he saw “fluid leaking from an overhead baggage compartment,” according to reports.
A JetBlue spokesman said that the incident was under investigation.
In July, a JetBlue flight from John F. Kennedy Airport in New York to Buffalo was forced to make an air return to JFK shortly after takeoff due to an odor in the cockpit. In June, a JetBlue flight from Newark, New Jersey, to West Palm Beach, Florida, was forced to land in Atlantic City, New Jersey, after smoke filled the cockpit.
Two passengers aboard a JetBlue flight were taken to the hospital after the plane made an emergency landing. In this photo, JetBlue Flight 386 departs for Cuba on August 31, 2016 from Fort Lauderdale National Airport in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.  Photo: RHONA WISE/AFP/Getty Images


Public-private partnerships are frequently portrayed, especially  by President Donald Trump, as an easy infrastructure fix for cities and states with tight budgets. But horror stories of so-called “P3s” gone wrong have been making headlines for the past decade, often as a result of contractual clauses that prove costly for governments or keep information from the public eye. They don’t have to be that way.
The U.S. is just beginning to catch up to many of its fellow developed nations in its use of P3s to finance infrastructure, and with  $4.6 trillion in construction needs on the table and a White House that’s fully embraced such financing, that trend is sure to pick up. Below are five examples of P3 contracts that drew public ire, and how future dealmakers can avoid such pitfalls.
In Virginia, The State Government Couldn’t Compete With Its Private Partner
As part of its deal with the state of Virginia, Elizabeth River Crossings OpCo LLC — a consortium  led by Sydney-based investor Macquarie Group and the Swedish firm Skanska A.B., along with American construction firms Weeks Marine Inc. and Kiewit Construction Co. — received contractual assurance that its toll income would maintain some stability over the course of the 58-year agreement.
Although the  frequently-asked-questions section of the ERC’s site says “there is no guaranteed compensation” for the state’s construction of competing roadways, a 2012 analysis by the firm of the project  obtained by the Washington Post suggests otherwise. The analysis, according to the Post, ensured that ERC would be “made whole” by a non-compete agreement, citing the potential for $774 million in total compensation from the state if several nearby transportation projects came to fruition. (In five states, strict non-compete agreements, in which the government is contractually barred from constructing a competing roadway, are outlawed. But non-strict agreeements, in which a concessionaire like ERC can petition for compensation, are commonplace.)
As part of the deal with Elizabeth River Crossings OpCo LLC, the state of Virginia had to pay the consortium in the event that it built roadways or tunnels that would compete with the private operators for tolling revenue. Above, a woman was photographed along the Elizabeth River in Portsmouth, Virginia, as Hurricane Sandy hit the state, Oct. 28, 2012.  Photo: Reuters
Corporations engaging in P3s likely learned from the Dulles Greenway project’s fallout that inserting non-compete agreements in their contracts is a great way to keep revenues afloat with a steady stream of elevated tolls or other payments for use of the asset. (The private consortium operating the Dulles Greenway  defaulted one year into its 42-year agreement with the Virginia DOT after the state finished a competing project ahead of schedule, siphoning off the Greenway’s traffic.)
Shahrzad Habibi, research and policy director at the contracting think tank In the Public Interest, told International Business Times that clauses forcing transportation departments to pay for renovating or building nearby developments “tie the hands of the city or state government for a long time” and “should certainly give a city [or state] pause before entering into such an agreement.”
“It’s not a business agreement. It’s an agreement between a government and a corporation,” she said. “It’s a government that’s representing the people. At the end of the day, you’re inserting private interests into public infrastructure.”
John Buttarazzi, an adjunct professor at Georgetown University’s McCourt School of Public Policy, disputed the notion that P3s aren’t business transactions, but stressed the importance of skilled negotiation on the part of the government entity.
“When it comes to non-compete clauses, they’re negotiating points. If a company wants a non-compete clause, the city [or state] should get something [in return],” he said. “They need to have good advisers. The companies that do this, they know P3s — they live and breathe P3s. The [government] staff, as smart as they are in their departments, they probably only do one P3 in their career.”
Pennsylvania Leased Its Bridges, But Still Paid For Them
In 2015, a  consortium led by the Melbourne-based Plenary Group and three subsidiaries of the Chicago construction conglomerate Walsh Group launched a 28-year project to reconstruct and maintain 558 of Pennsylvania’s  4,350-plus ailing bridges, many of them rural. Instead of requiring drivers to pay tolls to cross them, the  agreement required the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation to provide the consortium, Plenary Walsh Keystone Partners, with  $35.8 million in regular “availability payments” and $224.7 million in periodic milestone payments and contributions to the consortium’s Mobilization Fund. The remaining financing stemmed from  $721.5 million in  private activity bonds issued by the U.S. Department of Transportation and $59.4 million in equity from the consortium.
Although the deal cost taxpayers 30 percent less than the renovations would had the state reconstructed the bridges itself, the cost to PennDOT drew  criticism for potentially giving Plenary Walsh an incentive to spend only enough money on construction of bridges for them to function optimally within the consortium’s 25-year maintenance period, according to a  report on the project from the Bipartisan Policy Center. (Other  estimates peg the discount at 20 percent.)
Pennsylvania avoided user fees when it struck a P3 deal to repair hundreds of predominantly rural bridges, but that didn't mean the state got a slew of free renovations. Above, the 114-year-old Pond Eddy Bridge over the Delaware River between Shohola Township, Pennsylvania, and Pond Eddy, New York, was photographed July 21, 2014.  Photo: Reuters
As Habibi told IBT, availability payments are just one funding mechanism that debunks the myth of a corporation swooping in to cover infrastructure expenses at no cost to taxpayers.
“You and I are the ways these things get paid back. It doesn’t matter whether it’s a P3 or public funding,” Habibi said, adding that governments may be attracted to P3s with availability payments because the financing method appears less costly than it actually is. “If you’re a city and you issue a bond, that debt shows up on your balance sheet. But if you’re paying an availability payment, that doesn’t show up on your balance sheet, but you’re still obligated to pay that availability fee.”
According to Buttarazzi, while such misconceptions have certainly been prevalent among state and local governments using P3s, they’ve more recently adjusted their thinking.
“Sometimes political leaders fall into a trap where they don’t have enough money, and they look at these firms and say, ‘They have the money.’ But the firms are looking at the rate of return, because they want to make money as well,” he said. “Now they understand that it’s alternative financing, but it’s still financing… The government’s transferring risk that it otherwise might have.”
P3 projects using availability payment models made up 29 percent of closed deals between 2008 and 2013, but 61 percent of projects at the pre-launch stage in the latter year relied on availability payments for financing and as a way to “reduce exposure to revenue volatility,” according to a 2015 Treasury Department  report on the market for P3 deals in infrastructure. As alternatives, the Treasury suggested several other financing mechanisms that allow governments and private companies to shoulder the costs more equally, such as price caps, limits on the return on investment and sharing of profits.
When The Indiana Toll Road Was Up For Grabs Again, The State Kept Its Advisory Report Secret
The Indiana Toll Road project suffered  multiple problems: sharp declines in bridge quality, quickly rising tolls, the concessionaire’s bankruptcy and a subsequent refusal by then-Governor Mike Pence to take the road back, among others. Throughout those debacles, the Indiana Toll Road Concessionaire Company, headed by Macquarie and Spanish infrastructure company Cintra S.A., and the Indiana Finance Authority — like entities in many other P3 deals — had broad contractual authority to shield aspects of the deal from public records requests.
A provision on information disclosures in the Indiana Toll Road’s  contract begins with a note of transparency, requiring compliance with the state’s open records laws, but that transparency is followed by a litany of caveats that effectively let the ITRCC decide what ought to be public — and allowed the IFA to protect those decisions.
As part of an effort to promote the White House's infrastructure plans, Vice President Mike Pence headed to the home of many large stakeholders in American infrastructure projects, including one in his home state. Above, he was photographed petting a kangaroo on a visit to the Taronga Zoo with wife Karen and daughters Charlotte and Audrey in Sydney, April 23, 2017.  Photo: Reuters
When IBT sought, through a Freedom of Information Act request, access to a report  conducted by the auditor KPMG that assisted the IFA in deciding on a lessee to replace the bankrupt toll road operator between late 2014 and early 2015, the IFA rejected the request on the grounds that the information was proprietary. It  did the same when a group of northern Indiana counties bidding for a takeover of the road sought the same report a year and a half earlier. In May of 2015, the IFA  approved the sale of the ITRCC to the Australian firm IFM investors for  $5.725 billion.
Texas Blocked Release Of Traffic Projections For State Highway 130
Texas’ State Highway 130 Concession Company, which manages a barren 41-mile stretch of roadway connecting Dallas to San Antonio, makes for a solid case against the shielding of records and reports on P3 finances and analysis from public view. The consortium, formerly led by Cintra, the San Antonio-based firm Zachry Construction Corp. and the Australian investor Hastings Funds Management,  emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy in late June after paying the Texas Department of Transportation  $100 million to raise the speed limit to 85 miles per hour in an effort to attract more drivers.
It’s unclear whether or not the Texas DOT or the consortium knew, or at least suspected, that the road would be virtually vacant, as the latter refused to release its traffic projections, even after the San Antonio Express-News filed a FOIA request. The DOT and the Texas Attorney General’s Office had declared the information proprietary, wrote Express-News reporter Katherine Blunt in an extensive  report on the project.
Among myriad other issues associated with the project, including the concessionaire's bankruptcy, the Texas Transportation Department blocked the release of analysis that may have foreseen State Highway 130's absent traffic. Above, cars were photographed traveling on an almost deserted snow covered downtown highway after an overnight storm dropped five inches of snow in Dallas, Feb. 4, 2011.  Photo: Reuters
The state had the right to withhold the report, as its  contract stated explicitly in language similar to that of the Indiana Toll Road, with a public access-friendly introduction devolving into secrecy-oriented conditions that give the consortium wide discretion to decide what they’d like released.
“If Developer or its Affiliates believe(s) information or materials submitted to TxDOT constitute trade secrets, proprietary information or other information that is not subject to… [or] is excepted from disclosure under the Public Information Act, Developer or its Affiliates shall be solely responsible for specifically and conspicuously designating that information by placing ‘CONFIDENTIAL’ in the center header of each document or page affected, as it determines to be appropriate so as to clearly identify any specific proprietary information, trade secrets or confidential commercial and financial information.”
Chicago’s Parking Meter Deal Was Fast And Furious  —  And Cost The City Dearly
In addition to a non-compete agreement and an open-records provision nearly identical to that of the Indiana Toll Road contract, the city of Chicago’s parking meter  contract with a concessionaire led by the investment bank Morgan Stanley requires the city to pay the concessionaire if, for any reason, the city needs the parking spaces for some other purpose. Those uses include, per the contract, “street closures, the closure of a street to vehicular traffic, emergency parking bans, weather related closures, sidewalk closures related to building construction, sidewalk construction or repair, street construction or repair, utility work and similar activities.”
That measure was just one of many issues for the city in the development and execution of the deal. As detailed in a 2013  report by the Chicago Inspector General, the rush to approve the lease under budget deadline pressure led the city to give up its parking meters for 75 years for about half of their actual value. Parking meter rates doubled and in some cases quadrupled in just five years under the agreement. Prior to the Chicago City Council hearing on the deal, “no analysis was produced that examined the public policy and financial implications of the lease agreement,” according to the report. The City Council’s approval came just three days after the Morgan Stanley-led consortium won the bid for control of the meters, and, “as many aldermen pointed out,” the Inspector General report continued, “this left little time for public discussion or scrutiny of the parking-meter lease agreement.”
As they struggled to close ballooning budget deficits amid the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, many state and local governments found themselves tempted to follow the example of Chicago. Above, parking meters run by LAZ Parking for Morgan Stanley were pictured in Chicago, March 18, 2009.  Photo: Reuters
In an interview with IBT, Habibi emphasized the importance of lengthy public discussion and extensive independent analysis as governments and private firms iron out these massive, multi-decade deals.
“Before you even get to the contract phase, you have to have a really, really robust analysis… a super robust value-for-money analysis that not only looks at the costs but looks at what the community values as well,” Habibi said, adding that “ample public input” is necessary for any type of infrastructure project. The government should be sure it “has sufficient financial and legal expertise to be able to negotiate the project before the deal is signed,” and should consider “disadvantaged communities to make sure they have access to infrastructure,” she said.
But the mandate that the city pay for closure of the metered spaces remains in the amended 2013 version of the contract. According to Buttazarri, that’s part of the deal that comes with privatization.
“Too often, people talk about P3s and they understand the public part and they understand the private part, but it’s a balance between two parties,” he said. “These are business transactions.”  
Still, Buttazarri echoed Habibi when asked whether the city should’ve slowed down approval of the agreement.
“Whether it’s Chicago’s parking meters or other projects, people think the most difficult part of P3s is the finance. It’s not. In the end, that’s just math,” he said. “In the end, the most important thing is including the public and the stakeholders in the process.”


A New Mexico woman aboard an Allegiant Air called an extended delay on the tarmac at the Albuquerque International Sunport last week “false imprisonment” in extreme conditions.
Celena Kwitkowski alleged that passengers were held Thursday for well over three hours on a hot plane without water or lavatory access. The airline said the incident resulted from a “minor mechanical issue” as well as “an altercation between passengers.”
“They need to apologize for us, they need to take responsibility and ownership,” Kwitkowski  told Albuquerque NBC-affiliate KOB4. “As far as I'm concerned, this was false imprisonment.”
KOB4 reported Friday that Allegiant Air Flight 471 to Las Vegas was scheduled to leave around 5 p.m. MDT. But a  record from Flightaware states the Thursday evening flight did not depart well after 8:00 p.m., making the flight more than five hours late to its destination.
“Approximately around 7:30-ish, people were getting aggravated,” Kwitkowski said. “It started getting warm on the plane because the air was not on. Before 9:00, they actually locked the bathroom doors and said we were not allowed to use the bathroom.”
Video recorded by Kwitkowski on her cellphone and shared with KOB showed tension during the delay, during which time she alleged that an elderly man asked a flight attendant if he could leave the plane. A clip from the exchange revealed a flight attendant told the man that if he exited the craft he would not be allowed to reboard.
“It was burning hot,” Kwitkowski said. “They had no air on this airplane. We were melting.”
Allegiant Air told the news outlet there was a “combination of factors” that led to the delay and added that the incident was a “highly unusual situation.” 
“Initially, there was a minor mechanical issue which caused a delay after passengers had boarded.  It took longer than expected to address, so delayed the flight a little over an hour,” Allegiant Air told KOB4. “After the aircraft pushed back, it returned to the gate due to an altercation between passengers. Local law enforcement was called to escort the individuals involved off of the aircraft, and those passengers' bags were also removed. There were a few other passengers who were not involved, but also requested to deplane at that time. All told, this activity delayed departure about another hour.”
The airline then addressed an inquiry made about air conditioning aboard the plane. Allegiant Air said that while it would have been running because the aircraft was powered, the strength of the airflow in the plane’s cabin would have been “quite a bit lower at the gate or taxiing than it is once the aircraft gets up to full power in flight.”
In spite of Kwitkowski’s allegations, the airline maintained that it did, in fact, provide its passengers with both tap and bottled water.
“Our logs and reports do show that the crew supplied water (what's called a 'poor service' where cups of water are distributed) during the initial delay,” the airline said. “Also, at the time the flight returned to the gate, the crew requested Allegiant station staff to bring bottles of water to the plane, which were distributed to passengers.”
Kwitkowski told KOB4 that she has type 2 diabetes and wasn’t feeling well after the plane finally arrived at its Nevada destination. The airline apologized to passengers aboard the flight in a statement to International Business Times.
“We regret that this delayed our passengers and impacted their comfort, but thank them for their patience and understanding,” the airline said. “Please also be aware that because of the inconvenience caused by these delays, passengers were issued vouchers towards future travel on Allegiant.”
A woman aboard an Allegiant Air called an hours-long delay on the tarmac at the Albuquerque International Sunport “false imprisonment.” In this photo, an Allegiant Air jet carrying members of the New Orleans Fire Department comes in for a landing at McCarran International Airport on September 6, 2005 in Las Vegas, Nevada.  Photo: Photo by Ethan Miller/Getty Images


Six days after the deadly white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, Steve Bannon was asked to leave his post as chief strategist to President Donald Trump. By that evening, Bannon was hosting an editorial meeting as chairman of Breitbart News, which he has described as “  the platform of the alt-right.” But even as he returned, advertisers were fleeing the site known for publishing conspiracy theories and racist, sexist and anti-immigrant content.
In the aftermath of Charlottesville, high-profile CEOs quit their White House advisory posts in protest of the president’s equivocal comments about white supremacists, and companies scurried to distance themselves from white nationalist and neo-Nazi clients —  causing them to move to  underground, and less popular, online services.
After a  tweet pointed out that domain registrar GoDaddy provided neo-Nazi site the Daily Stormer its web address, the company, and then Google’s domain services,  cut off the site because its racist and anti-Semitic content violated their terms of service. Two days later, Cloudflare, the company that provided the site with security protections,  dropped the Daily Stormer, the first time it had ever cut off a client for political reasons.
Airbnb had  banned white nationalist users in anticipation of the Unite the Right events in Charlottesville. In response to a Digital Music News  article on August 14, the Spotify music streaming service  canceled the accounts of numerous neo-Nazi and white supremacist bands. Gamer chat app Discord  banned Daily Stormer and other white supremacist channels. Facebook  removed links to a particularly offensive Daily Stormer article and, along with Reddit, is “actively  banning groups and pages linked to far-right extremists,” according to the Guardian. And earlier this year, the Germany-based audio streaming service Soundcloud took down the accounts of the prominent “alt-right” website AltRight.com and several others that publish racist and bigoted content, which violates the company’s Terms of Use.
Thousands of protesters march in Boston against a planned "Free Speech Rally" just one week after the violent "Unite the Right" rally in Virginia left one woman dead and dozens more injured on August 19, 2017. Photo: Spencer Platt/Getty Images
The recent efforts to “de-platform” white nationalists come after an online group of anonymous activists began chipping away at Breitbart’s ad revenue months ago. Calling itself Sleeping Giants, the group has been urging companies, on Twitter, to pull their advertising from Breitbart News since last November, shortly after the presidential election.
The creators realized that many companies — which buy ad packages through Google AdSense, Facebook and Taboola — often unknowingly have ads running on the Breitbart website. Some companies buying Facebook ads, for example, have no idea that the ads will also appear on other sites outside of Facebook, one founder of Sleeping Giants told International Business Times. (He maintained his anonymity but was reached through the main, verified Sleeping Giants Twitter account.)
“We’ve had a lot of complaints,” the founder said. “Companies were very angry that they weren’t warned” about where their ads would end up.
The Sleeping Giants team began its campaign by tweeting at various companies, letting them know their ads appeared at Breitbart and explaining how to get rid of them. The tactic was a surprising success. Many companies blacklisted Breitbart from its ad buys, and a growing number of Twitter users took note and helped inform companies of their ad placement at the far-right hub of the racist “alt-right.”
“We didn’t think this would be more than two weeks long, so to say that it’s met or exceeded our expectations is not even close,” said the Sleeping Giants organizer. The primary Sleeping Giants Twitter account boasted nearly 105,000 followers as of August 22.
Now, roughly eight months after Sleeping Giants began this effort, nearly  2,600 companies have removed their ads from Breitbart. The flow of deserting companies has quickened since the Charlottesville rally, the organizer said. These days, 15 to 20 companies are dropping Breitbart each day. Among those that have ditched Breitbart are Aveda, CVS, Etsy, Kellogg and TurboTax. Amazon, however, remains a holdout, despite  employee efforts to persuade the company to remove its ads.
Sleeping Giants tweeted this screenshot of an Amazon Prime ad on the Breitbart News site, January 24.  Photo: Sleeping Giants
It’s hard to determine how much ad revenue Breitbart, a private company, has lost. But Media Radar  found that from March to May, Breitbart lost 90 percent of its advertisers, as well as some of its traffic. Alex Marlow, editor-in-chief of Breitbart News,  told the New York Times Magazine that the Sleeping Giants campaign is causing “severe” internal problems. “It’s a fight,” he told the Times. The loss of ads from large companies must hurt, notes the Sleeping Giants member. “With programmatic advertising, if you have fewer large advertisers it drives down the cost per impression… You can tell [Breitbart is] getting paid way less for placement.”
Sleeping Giants is also trying to get Disqus, the company that Breitbart pays to power its comment section, to stop providing services to the site. The company has clear terms of service that ban hate speech, yet it still maintains Breitbart’s comment sections. “That’s a real head-scratcher,” says the Sleeping Giants organizer. Breitbart’s readers  engage with its comment section, known for its incendiary content, ten times more than readers of the New York Times website.
Advocates of de-platforming have contradicted the criticism that they’re violating First Amendment protections for free speech. “These are private and public businesses; they’re not the government,” said the Sleeping Giants member. When clients sign a private company’s community guidelines, they acknowledge that their accounts may be terminated if they don’t adhere to the rules, and prohibitions against hate speech are common.
Some companies don’t enforce their terms well enough, says Sleeping Giants. “If you have terms of service and lay them out clearly, you need to follow them. [Businesses] have to decide whether it’s morally right to make money from clients that denigrate people or organize violent rallies.”
President Trump’s inflammatory comments have cost his own company as well. The Trump Organization — in which he is still invested — has seen 17 charities cancel Mar-a-lago events in recent days. The Cleveland Clinic, American Red Cross and the Susan G. Komen Foundation are among the nonprofits that have said they will hold their events elsewhere.
Breitbart, the Daily Stormer and other white nationalist websites are taking heat from other companies, but will likely continue to have a steady, albeit small, following. A recent  poll from ABC News/Washington Post found that 9 percent of Americans think it’s acceptable to hold neo-Nazi or white supremacist views; two-thirds of Republicans  approve of how Trump handled the Charlottesville crisis, per a recent CBS poll. And other individuals affiliated with Breitbart — namely, deputy assistant to the president  Sebastian Gorka, who reportedly pledged lifetime allegiance to a neo-Nazi hate group in Hungary, and special assistant to the president  Julia Hahn, who was one of Bannon’s top writers at Breitbart — remain in the White House.


Joining a host of similar reports in recent weeks, a Delta Air Lines flight was diverted Tuesday after an odor was detected in the plane’s cabin. Delta Air Lines Flight 981 from Boston to Atlanta was reportedly diverted to John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York “out of an abundance of caution.”
The source of the odor remained unclear Tuesday evening, the airline told International Business Times in a statement that maintenance technicians evaluated the plane and were making the necessary repairs. According to a representative for the carrier, the aircraft landed safely and without incident.
“We are rebooking customers on alternate flights,” the airline said. “Safety is always Delta's number one priority and we apologize to our customers for the inconvenience.”
The  Aviation Herald reported Tuesday that there were 158 passengers on board the flight. The plane was near JFK when the crew reported fumes in the back of the plane. And though the flight was diverted, they did not declare the incident an emergency.
“The aircraft turned around and was descending through about FL150 when the crew declared emergency,” the Herald reported. “The aircraft continued for a safe landing on JFK's runway 22R, vacated onto runway 31L, advised that no further assistance was needed and taxied to the apron.”
Incidents of odors disrupting flights or passengers have made frequent headlines in recent weeks, most notably in incidents involving budget carrier JetBlue Airways. The airline last week said that  two of its crew members fell ill aboard a Wednesday flight and later pointed to nail polish as the source of the odor. The Associated Press reported at the time that it was the third incident in involving an odor being reported on JetBlue Airways flights in just a week.
A similar  incident occurred on a JetBlue Airways flight from California to Florida earlier this month. The plane was diverted to an airport in Oklahoma City after an odor emitted from the cockpit. After eight ambulances arrived on the scene, five of the flight’s 135 passengers were treated for breathing problems.​
Joining a host of similar reports in recent weeks, a Delta Air Lines flight was diverted Tuesday after an odor was detected in the plane’s cabin. In this photo, passengers wait for a Delta Airlines flight in Terminal 5 at Los Angeles International Airport, May 4, 2017 in Los Angeles, California.  Photo: ROBYN BECK/AFP/Getty Images


Looking to book your next vacation? Cheap Flight Day, which is slated for Aug. 23, will kick off discounted airfare and continue through November, according to reports. It’s not so much a day as it is a period of time, say experts, but travel companies maintain that savings could be significant.
The quasi-holiday marks the time around which most airlines begin to lower their fares after coming off of a peak travel period during summer months. Some airlines drop their airfare premiums by 10 to 20 percent, which can mean substantial savings for some potential travelers, Forbes reported this week.
Data reported by online travel agency CheapOair found that the average price savings for popular travel destinations would fall 14 percent for domestic travel and 30 percent for international travel, according to a Tuesday  press release from the company.
“As summer quickly comes to a close, so does the busiest time of the year for travel,” Sanjay Hathiramani, Global SVP of Supplier Relations for CheapOair, said in a statement. “Kids are back to school, the weather starts to cool down and people are gearing up for the holidays. As the demand for airfare decreases, so do the fares.”
According to the travel company, purchasing international flights during the window could potentially lead to hundreds of dollars in savings. Flying to Manila, Philippines, could potentially save a traveler $300, while tickets to Madrid or Barcelona in Spain could be slashed by $250 and $200, respectively. Rome and Bangkok fares could fall by $200 and $250, and a trip to Paris could see potential savings of $150 if purchased during the timeframe.
As for domestic flights? Savings to some of the most popular destinations in the nation — including Los Angeles, Boston and Nashville — could see between $20-50 in savings depending on the city. While not nearly as steep as the savings on international flights, significant savings could add up for individuals looking to purchase more than one ticket.
“Cheap Flight Day isn't just one day of deals — it’s the start of the off peak season,” Hathiramani said. “Fares are going to continue to stay low until Thanksgiving. Especially for those looking for deals to international destinations, the time to book your tickets are during this window, beginning at the end of August.”
Cheap Flight Day certainly has its critics. George Hobica, the founder of airfarewatchdog.com,  told Condé Nast Traveler earlier this month that the rumor of a premier day of the year to buy flights has been around “been around for a decade” and called it “huge disservice to the public because people want a formula.”
However, Rick Seaney, the CEO and co-founder of farecompare.com, told Condé Nast Traveler that the discount is found in departure dates that fall within the golden window, rather than the dates of purchase. He also noted that days of the week are important when booking flights.
“Tuesday, Wednesday, and Saturday for date of departure are usually on the cheaper end,” he said.
Seaney’s claim was in part corroborated by Amanda Festa, a Cheapflights.com editor, who  told Refinery29 that the best time to book travel at a discount is between late September and early November. She also recommended shopping around for potential bargains.
“Don't fear buyer’s remorse: Do be aware that, by U.S. law, airlines must offer you the chance to hold a price or cancel a purchase on any non-refundable ticket bought at least seven days in advance for a 24-hour period,” Festa said, noting that it allows shoppers the “opportunity to keep shopping just in case you can score an even better deal.”
Cheap Flight Day, which is slated for Aug. 23, will kick off discounted airfare and continue through November. In this photo, aircraft flying overhead were photographed on November 29, 2010 in Raleigh, North Carolina. Photo: Photo by Bruce Bennett/Getty Images


A bodyguard reportedly fired his weapon on an airplane while passengers boarded around 8 a.m. Monday morning in Berlin.
A gun went off inside the jet bridge when passengers boarded a flight from Berlin’s Tegel Airport to Cologne, Germany. It was a German bodyguard who accidentally fired his pistol while he boarded the airplane, according to Germany’s The Local Monday.
The man reportedly worked for the Berlin Office of Criminal Investigation. He was tasked with protecting a "high ranking" Iraqi diplomat and new to the job, according to The Local.
The bullet ripped a hole in the jet bridge, which connected the terminal to the plane. Passengers were reportedly unharmed during the incident.
Travelers took to social media and described Monday's incident. Passenger Jürgen Trittin, a representative for the Green Party, shared his experience on Twitter.
Verzögerung im Abflug, weil einem Personenschützer in der Fluggastbrücke am Eurowings-Flieger die Pistole beim Entladen losging ... pic.twitter.com/P5fkZJw5ZC
&mdash; Jürgen Trittin (@JTrittin) August 21, 2017
Another flier said he sat three seats away from the bodyguard who fired his weapon. The passenger claimed that the bodyguard was "very nervous." He lamented about how guns should be kept safely with the captain in the cockpit.
The flight was reportedly delayed about 90 minutes before taking off. Police are investigating the incident to see if any violations occurred.
Federal Police spokesman Thorsten Peters told local Berlin newspaper The Berliner that "luckily, no one was injured" during the incident.
"We need to now investigate why the shot was fired. It is certainly unusual that something like this happened," a police spokesman said.
This wasn’t the first time an official fired a gun on an airplane. A gun carried by a U.S. Airways pilot reportedly went off on a flight to South Carolina in 2008, this was the first time a weapon issued under a federal program to arm pilots went off, authorities told CBS News.
The accidental gunshot happened aboard Flight 1536 from Denver, Colorado, to Charlotte, North Carolina. Passengers were unharmed by the incident, Greg Alter of the Federal Air Marshal Service told CBS News.
"We know that there was never any danger to the aircraft or to the occupants on board," Alter said.
The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) started the Flight Deck Officer program to train cockpit personnel after terrorists took over a flight during the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks. The program intended for pilots and other flight personnel to defend themselves should an attack occur.
Mike Boyd, who manages an aviation consulting firm The Boyd Group in Colorado, told CBS News that the TSA was put in an awkward position once Congress approved the program.
"The TSA has never been real supportive of this program," Boyd said. "It's something I think Congress kind of put on them.
Boyd claimed he supported the program to arm pilots with guns. However, he added that the incident could have been much worse.
"If somebody who has the ability to fly a 747 across the Pacific wants a gun, you give it to them," he said. "If that bullet had compromised the shell of the airplane, gone through a window, the airplane could have gone down."
A german bodyguard reportedly fired his gun during a flight Monday. The Air New Zealand charter flight is pictured coming into land at the O'Hare International Airport on Oct. 26, 2014 in Chicago, Illinois.  Photo: Getty Images


Sunglasses, headphones, neck pillows: these are all possible items that could be left behind at an airport. But when it comes to Dublin Airport, the objects in the lost and found bin are much more bizarre. Included in the strange mix were a headstone with the ironic epitaph, “You will never be forgotten,” a turtle and a toilet seat.
So how did someone just leave behind a headstone? A few years ago, the owner “misplaced” the item at a drop-off point to the departures area, DAA spokeswoman Audrey O'Hagan told The Herald Monday.
Also left in the departure entrance of the airport were human ashes, false teeth, a life-size mannequin and a glass eye. These items could be retrieved within a year of being abandoned, The Herald wrote.
Among the more popular items to be discarded were crutches and wheelchairs. O’Hagan joked to The Herald that the airport staff wondered if there were “some miraculous recoveries have taken place within the terminals.”
Strange items, including a gravestone, have been left behind at Dublin Airport over the years. Photo: Getty Images
As for the live turtle, it wasn’t forgotten. A passenger attempted to smuggle the turtle in their pocket. When security guards discovered it, the turtle was handed over to a family member who was not going on the flight. The animal was not harmed.
It seems like people attempted to bring everything, including the kitchen sink. While this is normally a metaphor, airport staff once caught a traveler attempted to sneak a kitchen sink in their hand luggage.
Most recently, a passenger left behind a set of “cast iron dungeon keys” June 11 and a month later a “brown envelope” was found. The Herald didn’t reveal what items the “brown envelope” contained.
While people leave behind strange items at the airport, some might argue flight attendants must follow some bizarre rules. In Russia, a flight attendant is suing Russia’s top airline Aeroflot for discrimination. She claimed she was demoted because she was “old, fat and ugly.”
“Right now there’s a policy that a flight attendant has to be sexually attractive,” Yevgeniya Magurina told the Associated Press Monday. “But our role onboard is different: it’s to ensure safety, not to be an object of sexual desire. This is wrong and hurtful.” She added: “No one cares about professionalism — you have to be young, slim and pretty.”
 Magurina, 42, said the airline stopped making her size last year. A few months later, she was demoted without being notified. She had showed up to go on an international flight, but wasn’t able to take the job. Previously, she had been a senior flight attendant, but was downgraded to a junior attendant, which meant she wasn’t given the coveted jobs.
“You scan your pass, the names of the crew light up and you see your position. No one [had] even told me,” she told the AP.
A spokesperson for Aeroflot didn’t take the lawsuit seriously, saying it was “a routine employee vs. employer dispute that has been deliberately inflated to the scale of a public campaign aimed at tarnishing the airline’s reputation.”
Follow me on Twitter @mariamzzarella


Once again, there were no winning tickets for Saturday night’s Powerball drawing. With the lottery prize standing at an estimated $650 million, this jackpot could go down as the biggest prize in American lottery history.
The drawing for this week’s Powerball jackpot will happen Wednesday at 10:59 p.m. EST, according to the Multi-State Lottery Association. Ticket holders will be able to tune into local stations to watch the drawing live.
The winning Powerball numbers called on Saturday were 17, 19, 39, 43, 68 and the Powerball number was 13. Since no one claimed the winning ticket Saturday, the jackpot has increased from $535 million. The pot has been growing since June 10, after 21 consecutive failed draws. 
The #Powerball jackpot has swelled to an incredible $650 million for the Wednesday August 23rd drawing. Learn more: https://t.co/QY76RGHfdl pic.twitter.com/mXDAAQRrxb
&mdash; Powerball USA (@PowerballUSA) August 21, 2017
The current jackpot ranked as the third largest U.S. lottery to date. The nation’s biggest pot totaled $1.6 billion in 2016, and three different ticket holders claimed the prize.
Winners can opt to receive their massive win fall a few different ways: through an annuity to be paid out over a 29-year span, or in a lump-sum. Either way, the winner gets charged taxes on their win fall.
If a winner opted to receive the lump sum, they'd gross $411.7 million. The federal government would claim 25 percent of the jackpot (foreigners get taxed 30 percent), which would leave the winner with either a one-time payment of $308.8 million or $16.25 million annually, according to USA Mega, a site that monitors Powerball statistics.
There has been a total of four Powerball winners in 2017, two of whom opted to remain anonymous. California resident Jeff Lindsay claimed the winning power ball ticket June 10 and chose to receive an annuity of $447.8 million, the seventh-largest jackpot in Powerball history.
"We are obviously thrilled with this tremendous stroke of good luck and are still getting our arms around what it means for us," Lindsay told Powerball June 10.
"We are private people and do not want to change who we are or become public figures and ask that people appreciate and respect our privacy," the family told Powerball. "In order to help manage what has already been a somewhat overwhelming process, we have engaged a number of financial, legal and other advisors to guide us and help us make the best decisions possible."
They added, "Once things calm down, we plan on working closely with our team of advisors to determine how to properly manage and invest this newfound wealth to ensure that we can support our family and causes that are important to us for many generations to come."
It’s worth noting that the odds of winning are considered low at 1 in 292 million. In fact, according to the National Weather Service, the chances of getting struck by lightning are considered higher at 1 in 600,000.


Johnson & Johnson lost yet another lawsuit Monday to a woman who claimed prolonged use of Johnson's Baby Powder resulted in her getting ovarian cancer.
The Los Angeles superior court ruled in favor of California resident Eva Echeverria, and ordered the company to pay $70 million in compensatory damages and $347 million in punitive damages.
The alleged cancer risks linked to its talc-based products have embroiled the company in over 4,800 similar claims in the United States, Fortune reported.
In 2016, Johnson & Johnson lost three lawsuits over claims its talc products caused ovarian cancer in women.
Echeverria’s lawyers argued that Johnson & Johnson deliberately refrained from putting up a warning label on their products regarding the harmful effects of its talcum powder on ovaries, and instead continued to encourage women to use it for their personal hygiene.
The results of several studies to determine if talcum powder can cause ovarian cancer have been inconclusive.
Most of these studies focused on whether the chance of a woman getting ovarian cancer increased if particles of talcum or baby powder traveled through the vagina, uterus, and fallopian tubes to the ovary via sanitary napkins, diaphragms, condoms or direct application, American Cancer Society reported.
Johnson & Johnson baby powder has been linked to ovarian cancer. In this photo, Johnson & Johnson's products are seen in New York, Dec. 16, 2004.  Photo: Getty Images/ Chris Hondros
While the International Agency for Research on Cancer, which is a part of the World Health Organization, has stated that talcum powders containing asbestos (a substance that was earlier used in talcum powders but has been banned since 1970s in the U.S.) is “possibly carcinogenic to humans; the National Toxicology Program, formed by  collaboration of governmental agencies such as the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Food and Drug Administration has not fully reviewed talc (with or without asbestos) as a possible carcinogen.
There is also a good explanation why medical experts have failed to make a decision on whether talcum powder can be linked to ovarian cancer, despite a vast number of studies conducted on the same.
“Several studies have suggested that using talcum powder increases the risk of ovarian cancer by 30 to 60 per cent. However, these studies interviewed women who already had ovarian cancer and asked them to remember whether they used talcum powder a long time ago. Their memories might not have been accurate, and they might have mistakenly thought they used more talc than they did in an effort to explain their cancer,” states an article on iHeard, a site run by Cancer Council Australia.
However, a study conducted in May 2016 by National Center for Biotechnology Information, found that 63 percent of the women who participated in the study (2,041 cases with epithelial ovarian cancer and 2,100 age-and-residence-matched controls) had sprayed themselves with talcum powder. They also admitted that the more popular choice when it came to using talcum powder for personal hygiene was Johnson & Johnson Baby Powder.
In the 1990s, Johnson & Johnson started targeting women belonging to minority groups as users of its baby powder. The company’s marketing slogan at the time — “A sprinkle a day keeps odor away” — revolutionized the uses of baby powder.
As a result, studies indicate that a higher percentage of African American women (44 percent) use talcum powder for feminine hygiene than either white (30 percent) or Hispanic (29 percent) women, Consumer Safety reported.
However, Johnson & Johnson has maintained that its products have been scientifically proven to not be carcinogenic in nature.
"We will appeal today's verdict because we are guided by the science, which supports the safety of Johnson's Baby Powder," the company said after the California jury gave its verdict.
 


A Russian flight attendant is suing for discrimination after she claimed she was given less prestigious job opportunities at Russia’s top airline Aeroflot because of her looks, the Associated Press reported Monday. Yevgeniya Magurina joked about the fact she was in the “old, fat and ugly” group, but was serious about not getting to work on international flights because of her physical appearance. Two other women took Aeroflot took court, too.
“Right now there’s a policy that a flight attendant has to be sexually attractive,” Magurina told the AP. “But our role onboard is different: it’s to ensure safety, not to be an object of sexual desire. This is wrong and hurtful.”
The first hint Magurina, 42, got from Aeroflot that she wasn’t “fit” for her job was when she tried to get a new uniform last year. They didn’t carry her size anymore, a Russia size 48, which translates to a size 10 in U.S. clothes. While a size 48 fits Magurina in the waist, it does not in the bust. Before, she would just order a size lager and get it tailored.
Next, any flight attendant who wanted to a chance to staff a “special business class crew” had to be weighed and photographed.
A Russian flight attendant sued Aeroflot, claiming she was discriminated against because she was "old, fat and ugly." Pictured: Flight attendant on Qatar Airways Boeing 777 jet airliner on display at the International Paris Air Show in Le Bourget outside Paris on June 22, 2017. Photo: Getty Images
Ultimately, Magurina, who previously held a title of a senior attendant, was downgraded to a lower-ranking role. She wasn’t briefed about the demotion. Instead, she found out at the airport when she was getting ready for one of her flights. “You scan your pass, the names of the crew light up and you see your position. No one [had] even told me,” she told the AP.
Magurina argued the only reason she was demoted was because of her age and physical appearance. “No one cares about professionalism — you have to be young, slim and pretty,” she said.
Aeroflot didn’t take Magurina’s accusations seriously, saying the lawsuit was “a routine employee vs. employer dispute that has been deliberately inflated to the scale of a public campaign aimed at tarnishing the airline’s reputation,” Vladimir Alexandrov, the company’s deputy CEO for legal matters, told the AP.
When the publication asked Alexandrov why they did not carry larger sizes, he argued a flight attendants job is “physically and psychologically demanding” and added Aeroflot does not reveal their “internal rules and regulations.”
Local courts were also dismiss missive of the flight attendant’s suit. Russia’s higher court will reportedly make a ruling on the case Tuesday.
It wasn’t that long ago the U.S. held unfair physical standards, too.The ideal flight attendant was described as “petite; weight 100 to 118 pounds; height 5 feet to 5 feet 4 inches; age 20 to 26 years,” according to a New York Times article in 1936. This rule remained steadfast until the 1970s and the weight requirement wasn’t officially dropped until the 1990s. 
American Airlines suggested their flight attendants maintain a “fresh appearance” in the section titled “Female Uniform” of their September 2011 “Flight Attendant Image Standards.” The airline said, “makeup should be freshened as necessary, but never in view of the customer.”
Follow me on Twitter @mariamzzarealla


President’s Donald Trump’s large family and multiple residences are reportedly responsible for depleting funds necessary to pay “hundreds of agents” needed to protect the family and the properties. Secret Service Director Randolph “Tex” Alles said there’s nothing to be done about the high cost of maintaining the Trump family’s security, as the Secret Service’s “responsibility is required in law.”
USA Today  broke the story in a report published Monday that said “more than 1,000 agents have already hit the federally mandated caps for salary and overtime allowances that were meant to last the entire year.” The report pointed to Trump’s frequent weekend travels to his respective East Coast properties — as well as the travel expenses of his adult children for business — as the reason for the depletion of Secret Service.
Speaking with USA Today, Alles revealed an unusually high number of White House associates in Trump’s orbit who require protection — up 31 from the Obama administration. According to Alles, Trump requires security for 42 people, with 18 of those individuals being members of his family.
“The president has a large family, and our responsibility is required in law,” Alles told USA Today. “I can't change that. I have no flexibility.”
The report noted that agents are being overworked and are required to travel constantly, and Alles said that the conditions have led to departures in the Secret Service ranks. But back pay for their work may not be possible even with congressional approval for additional funding. Per the report:
“The compensation crunch is so serious that the director has begun discussions with key lawmakers to raise the combined salary and overtime cap for agents, from $160,000 per year to $187,000 for at least the duration of Trump's first term.
“But even if such a proposal was approved, about 130 veteran agents would not be fully compensated for hundreds of hours already amassed, according to the agency.”
Trump’s frequent trips to his properties were previously revealed to be  extremely costly, and the administration has been cagey about whether such trips are intended for government business or for leisure.
A  report from Politico earlier this year found that the president’s trips to his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida cost taxpayers around $3 million per trip. To date, the president has taken seven trips to the Palm Beach property since his inauguration. USA Today reported the Secret Service has been required to pay $60,000 on renting golf carts at both properties to protect the president.
According to  Is Trump At Mar-a-Lago? — a website from the Center for American Progress Action Fund — the president is estimated to have cost taxpayers $32 million in trips to Mar-a-Lago and Bedminster alone.
The Secret Service has nearly reached its limit for the entire year protecting the president and his associates. In this photo, US President Donald Trump (R) walks away after naming US Army Lieutenant General H.R. McMaster (L) as his national security adviser and Keith Kellogg (C) as McMaster's chief of staff at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida, on February 20, 2017. Photo: Photo credit should read NICHOLAS KAMM/AFP/Getty Images


An American Airlines passenger left the airport in handcuffs Saturday after he tried to open the plane’s door while it was still descending, CBS-affiliate WCCO-TV reported the following day. The plane was flying from Los Angeles to Minneapolis.
Click here to watch the “crazy” video.
The incident was caught on a cell phone video, thanks to passenger Richard Munassi. He whipped out his mobile device when he heard the unruly passenger cause a commotion.
At first, Munassi thought the incident was a fight between two passengers. “There was a lot of yelling and screaming. I thought perhaps two of the passengers had gotten into maybe a fist fight,” he told WCCO.
It wasn’t long until he realized a passenger was trying to open the exit door while the plane was descending. “It wasn't immediately after (the pilot) letting us know that we were in descent. It was a couple of minutes afterward, so he had a plan to open that door as we were getting close to the ground,” Munassi said.
A "crazy" video showed a passenger attempt to open the plane's door mid-flight. He was arrested when they landed. Photo: Getty Images
A different passenger, Salman Elmi, said he heard someone threaten physical harm against the man trying to open the door. “It was a crazy experience,” Elmi told WCCO. “I just hear shouting, ‘I'm about to punch him.’”
It’s unclear how flight attendants were able to calm the irate man down, but WCCO noted they “subdued” him. When the plane finally landed, it was rough.
“We came in hot, probably the hottest landing I've ever been on and I fly all the time,” Munassi recalled. “Everyone was dead quiet on the flight. You could cut the tension with a knife.”
The man who tried to open the door was not identified. In the video, he can be shown wearing sunglasses. He was escorted off the plane by police officers and reportedly didn’t show any emotion. He didn’t resist arrest and went with them calmly. He didn’t say a word, either.
Elmi and Munassi agreed American Airlines handled the incident well. “I think American Airlines did a great job, especially the pilot of the plane kind of keeping everything in order and keeping everyone calm,” said Munassi.
A frequent flyer, Munassi is not afraid to fly with American Airlines again. “Honestly, I'm just happy that I'm here today and nothing happened to our flight and I'm happy to be here,” he said.
The incident will be investigated by the FBI since it occurred in the air, a Minneapolis−Saint Paul International Airport (MSP) spokesperson told WCCO.
American Airlines did not provide additional information when asked for comment. “You will have to contact the FBI for additional details,” they said in statement through email to International Business Times Monday. The FBI did not immediately respond to IBT for a comment.
This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.
Follow me on Twitter @mariamzzarealla


A man who forked over more than $1,000 for what should have been a comfortable flight from London to South America said, instead, he was forced to sit in a puddle of urine for 11 hours. Andrew Wilkinson, 39, said he noticed the stain and the unmistakable smell as soon as he sat down.
"I got to my seat and saw that there was a wet patch," he told Britain's LAD Bible in a story published Monday. "It was about the size of two decks of cards laid side by side. At first, I thought it was water but the smell was so distinct it could only have been urine."
Wilkinson said when he initially alerted a crew member to the stain, he was given wipes to clean it himself. He ended up sitting on a blanket for much of the flight. When he needed a fresh blanket to put beneath him, he said, the flight attendant was unhelpful in finding him a new one. Wilkinson also requested that his seat be moved.
"I was in economy and it was full but they could have bumped someone up from business to first class and freed up a seat that way," he told LAD Bible. "I said to the stewardess, 'You're obviously going to move me into business, aren't you? I can't really sit here.'"
Wilkinson's request was ultimately denied and he was stranded in the seat for the remainder of the flight. A photograph shared by Wilkinson showed the visible yellow spot on the plane's gray seat.
"She said she would see what she would do but I wasn't moved. And then she commented, 'You are going to work me hard on this flight, aren't you?'" he recalled. "So, I was left to sit in a urine-soaked seat for over 11 hours when I paid £1,242 for a return fight with BA [British Airways]." 
Wilkinson took his formal complaint to British Airways and said he was unsatisfied with their response.
"I was given 5,000 Avios points," he said. "I just do not think that is good enough compensation for sitting in someone else's wee for over 11 hours."
The points awarded to Wilkinson are only enough for a one-way flight to Paris, according to LAD Bible.
"We were very concerned to hear about this and have been in touch with our customer to apologize and make amends," British Airways told International Business Times in a statement Monday. "The cleanliness of our aircraft is of the utmost importance to us and our planes are cleaned thoroughly after every flight. We also perform frequent spot checks to make sure our cleaners are maintaining our high standards."
Andrew Wilkinson said he was forced to sit in a puddle of someone else's urine on a British Airways flight. The plane here is shown leaving Heathrow Airport in London, May 28, 2017. Photo: Getty Images


An Uber driver from Chicago was held on $100,000 bail Saturday over demanding sex from a 19-year-old girl after locking her inside the cab.
Muhammad Fahim, 44, was charged with three counts of unlawful restraint for the incident that happened July 14. After the teenage girl was picked up by Fahim, the passenger found the details of her logged request had somehow been deleted.
When the teen offered to pay her driver in cash, Fahim pressured her to have sex with him. When the passenger refused, Fahim refused to let her off his cab, repeatedly locking the doors, and driving around. The teenager jumped out of the moving cab, when the cab driver slowed down the car at one point, according to the assistant state's attorney Mikah Soliunas, Chicago Tribune reported. It was not clear, however, if the teen got hurt after jumping off the cab. 
Uber spokesman confirmed to the Tribune that Fahim was removed as a driver. He also said the incident was “troubling.”
A Chicago Uber driver was held on $100,000 bail Saturday after being charged for locking a 19-year-old girl inside his cab and demanding sex.Above is an illustration of a smartphone displaying a picture with the logo of the news taxi app 'Uber' near the Cuatro Torres 'Four Towers' business area, Oct. 14, 2014 in Madrid, Spain.  Photo: Getty Images/ Pablo Blazquez Dominguez
However, Uber was prompted to take the action more than a month after the incident. Law enforcement officers tracked the driver’s name to the incident when they stopped his vehicle for a traffic violation at the 500 block of North Dearborn Street, Chicago, on Thursday and ran a background check.
This is by no means the first incident of indecent behavior by an Uber driver that has made the headlines. In a similar incident, a woman living in the East Village neighborhood of New York accused her Uber driver of raping her after she fell asleep in the cab on Aug. 17.
The 47-year-old driver allegedly took the 31-year-old woman back to his apartment and sexually molested her after the latter passed out in his cab. When she woke up and realized that she was not in her apartment, she confronted the driver. According to Tribune Media affiliate New York's Pix 11, the driver simply said, "I used protection — please don't call the police.”
Earlier this month, Inspector Neil Billany, head of Metropolitan Police’s taxi and private hire team in the United Kingdom wrote a warning letter to Uber, accusing it of putting the reputation of its brand before the safety of its passengers. Among the cases cited by Billany’s letter was an instance where an Uber driver was allowed to retain his job even after an allegation of sexual assault against him.
As a result, the driver ended up committing a “more serious” act of sexual stack on a woman passenger later on. In another instance, a driver used pepper spray that he was carrying during a road-rage argument. “Firstly it seems they are deciding what to report (less serious matters/less damaging to reputation over serious offenses) and secondly by not reporting to police promptly they are allowing situations to develop that clearly affect the safety and security of the public,” Billany wrote in his letter, according to a report published by Fortune.
Uber has since denied the allegations made by the police. Uber's General Manager for London Tom Elvidge said in a blog post: "Uber does not routinely report incidents retrospectively to the police on behalf of others  — we advise those involved to make a report themselves and then assist the police with any subsequent inquiries."
"We believe the choice of whether or not to make a police report should sit with the reporter/victim,” Elvidge said. "We understand that there could be all sorts of reasons why they may or may not wish to report the incident to the police and have worked closely with women’s advocacy groups on this issue.”


Tech companies have rallied together to take stringent action against white supremacist groups in the wake of the Charlottesville violence that left a woman dead.
While Facebook has taken down the “Unite The Right” page, Google and GoDaddy have de-registered the domain of the racist site Daily Stormer.  
Even Apple got into the act, cutting Apple Pay support for websites that sell white supremacist merchandize. Apple CEO Tim Cook even publicly voiced his disagreement with President Donald Trump’s ambivalent stand of assigning blame to both sides.
“I disagree with the president and others who believe that there is a moral equivalence between white supremacists and Nazis, and those who oppose them by standing up for human rights,” Cook wrote in an open letter.
But this is not the first time tech companies have stood up against what we can call cyber evils — the use of technology for nefarious purposes.
There have been many examples in the past. For example, cyber bullying has been a concern for far too long. But the incidents have failed to stop — just  this February teenager Mallory Grossman killed herself because of cyber bullying.
A bigger threat emerged with the rise of the Islamic State group (ISIS), which used technology and social media not only to publicize itself, but also to spread fear and target victims.
Yet, in 2017, we are still debating whether a Facebook post of an ISIS image is legal.
The fact remains that despite tech companies being proactive recently, it is quite easy to find racist content online. This content generally violates many social networks and tech companies’ terms of usage, but it still exists online and is quite easy to find.
According a survey done by the Pew Research Center, 60 percent of users have been called offensive names online, while 25 percent have seen someone being physically threatened. In addition to this, 24 percent have witnessed someone being harassed for a sustained period of time.
White supremacist memes and even comments, like the one by a Massachusetts police officer attacking the victims, are widely available. The truth is, although tech companies have begun cracking down on such content, they are already fighting a losing battle.
With the massive amounts of data that social networks, for example, receive, it is almost impossible to monitor content spewing hate and inciting violence. Facebook, for example, has close to 2 billion monthly users, while YouTube has 1.5 billion. Even if these users post status updates and comments on videos just once a day, that would still mean Facebook deals with 24 billion posts in an year, while YouTube will have 18 billion comments to filter. While that is a lot, the actual number is much bigger. 
Even if social networks and tech companies like Apple were hypothetically able to monitor all such content, there is the concern about freedom of speech and censorship. Social networks are generally expected to be free spaces with a high level of freedom of expression.
“If an internet service provider wants to deny me the opportunity to read offensive speech like the Daily Stormer, that’s a problem," said Nate Cardozo, senior staff attorney at the Electronic Frontier Foundation. "There doesn’t seem to be any suggestion the Daily Stormer was hosting illegal content, just terrible content. We should be able to see it and reject it."
If tech companies were going to bring down a heavy hand on such content, they would probably use bots for such a purpose. The problem with bots or any other supervisory mechanism is that they won’t be able to differentiate between posts condemning an act or even a satire.
But with the violence and deaths, pressure is mounting on tech companies. Germany, in April, proposed a 50 million euros fine on tech firms offering a platform for cyber hate, while a group that fights against cyber hate, the Anti-defamation League, has proposed setting up its center in Silicon Valley.
Many organizations believe that the current crackdown might not be enough as such offensive content will surface again, in a different form, as has happened before. The Daily Stormer, for example, has tried to make a comeback with a Russian domain, which was then shut down. But it can still come back.
“Racism and bigotry will not be eradicated if we merely force them underground,” said Anthony Romero of the American Civil Liberties Union. And that is the challenge that the tech industry faces, and it seems to have no viable answers.
While the companies definitely need to stop the flow of hate, there seems no technology or paradigm available for them to do it without raising fears of censorship or issues of proper monitoring. 
It is a problem they will continue to grapple with, till the next Charlottesville.


A couple aboard a Southwest Airlines flight who engaged in a sexual act mid-flight was questioned by local authorities upon landing but will not face charges, according to reports. The airline told International Business Times that the incident occurred on a Saturday flight from Atlanta to Las Vegas and apologized to other passengers aboard the flight.
“On Saturday, two passengers traveling on Southwest flight 3246 from Atlanta to Las Vegas were engaged in inappropriate activity,” Southwest Airlines told IBT by email. “Our Crew became aware of the situation and approached the Customers to address the behavior. The situation escalated and the Crew contacted local authorities to meet the flight.”
The two individuals, who were not identified in reports, were reportedly told to refrain from sexual activity aboard the flight but continued to engage in the behavior, Fox-affiliate KVVU reported Saturday. Shortly after the plane landed around 8 a.m. Saturday morning, the couple was questioned by the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police. 
“Upon arrival into Las Vegas, local law enforcement questioned the passengers involved,” the airline told IBT. “Southwest does not condone this type of behavior and we apologize to the other passengers onboard who were potentially exposed to this activity.”
KVVU reported that neither a complaint was filed nor were any arrests made. The episode will be forwarded to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and FBI, which handles crimes committed in the United States airspace.
“Nobody on the flight wanted to file charges,” said Lt. John Liberty, watch commander for the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, according to NBC-affiliate KSNV. “The flight crew left and did not even file a statement so we have nothing to charge them with. They were identified and all the information will be turned over to the FBI.”
“The reports are they were involved on the flight and were asked to stop and they just couldn't control themselves,” Michael Oram, McCarran International Airport spokesman, told KSNV before the plane landed.
Oram said no video of the incident surfaced on social media. It was not clear Sunday where on the plane the act occurred or specifically what it entailed, but Oram told KVVU that the two individuals “were all over each other.”
Earlier this year, a video of two adults who engaged in a similar stunt went viral. The incident occurred aboard a Ryanair flight from Manchester to Ibiza, and a woman could be seen in the video straddling a man who was later revealed to be a stranger she met the same day. The woman later said that the viral incident — which a friend described as a “lapdance” — left her “mortified.” The airline said at the time that an investigation was underway.
“We are looking into this matter,” Ryanair said in a statement after the video surfaced online. “We will not tolerate unruly, disruptive or inappropriate behaviour at any time and any passengers who appear to behave in an unacceptable manner may be liable for further sanctions.”
An unidentified couple aboard a Southwest Airlines flight who engaged in a sexual act mid-flight was questioned by local authorities upon landing but will not face charges. In this photo, A Southwest Airlines jet takes off at Midway Airport April 3, 2008 in Chicago, Illinois. Photo: Photo by Scott Olson/Getty Images


The auto industry seems to be ready for disruption. It is an industry that has functioned largely without changes for the past hundred years, but with the emergence of technologies such as artificial intelligence, self-driving and robotics, the basic paradigm of the industry is expected to change.
Robotics, for example, has been used for a long time in the auto industry, but not at the rate that it are being applied currently. Tesla, the biggest disruptor in the automotive industry, has set the trend for increasingly robot-run factories.
The Tesla Gigafactory 1 is located at a site which was previously a General Motors automotive factory that employed more than 50,000 people. In contrast, the Gigafactory 1 employs just 10,000 people and uses robots and automation to make its cars, such as the newly launched Model 3. The company employs robots such as the self-navigating Autonomous Indoor Vehicles (AIVs).

It also uses a lot of Automated Guided Vehicles (AGVs) which are used for transporting equipment from one section to the other.
The car assembly is done with the help of robotic arms instead of by tool-wielding humans.

While the Tesla Gigafactory 1 is just one of many examples of auto companies increasingly employing robots in production, it is the strongest indication that as the auto industry moves toward automation and robotics, human employment in the industry is set to decrease. In other words, the auto industry will not be a large scale employer and as the industry progresses and competition with brands such as Tesla rises, companies will increasingly opt for robot-run factories like the Gigafactory 1.
Artificial intelligence (AI) will also play a large part in the future of the automotive industry. According to the Information Handling Services (IHS) Technology's Automotive Electronics Roadmap Report, the use of AI based driver-assistance systems in vehicles is set to jump from 7 million a couple of years ago to 122 million by 2025.
"An artificial-intelligence system continuously learns from experience and by its ability to discern and recognize its surroundings. It learns as human beings do, from real sounds, images and other sensory inputs. The system recognizes the car's environment and evaluates the contextual implications for the moving car," said Luca De Ambroggi, IHS Technology's principal analyst for automotive semiconductors, according to a report by Computerworld.
AI-based systems are set to become basic systems for vehicles and in combination with technologies such as speech recognition, gesture recognition, eye tracking, driver monitoring and virtual assistance, these systems are expected to make driving safer and also more automated.
Since cars are increasingly expected to be equipped with hardware such as camera-based machine units, radar-detection units and driver evaluation units, AI will serve as the connecting interface between the regular car machinery and such hardware — e.g., advance brake warnings using object detection feedback from the onboard cameras.
This technology is expected to change the way we drive. According to Gartner, there will be 250 million connected vehicles on the roads by 2020, which will be using AI in some way or other.
Self-driving, a technology which is still not mainstream and yet has major auto and tech players investing in it, is set to change the auto industry in the biggest of ways. With many car makers aiming to achieve full autonomy by 2021, the end of driving as we know it might be near.
With cars such as the Tesla Model 3 equipped with semi-autonomous features, which let the car be driven using automation on highways, the move toward the end of human driving seems to have begun.
Apart from taking over control from human drivers, self-driving has the potential of changing the notion of car ownership as it stands. Currently, you buy a car and drive it yourself or hail a cab.
The problem with lending out cars is, in some ways, due to the inconsistency of human driving. Once driving becomes safer, thanks to a universal standard of safety followed by self-driven cars, this might not be an issue.
Think about a world in which driving is no longer necessary. Since the cars will be driven via automation, chances are that people might actually lend their cars out when they are not using them. These cars could be used by ride-hailing services such as Uber and returned to the owner at the time of his/her usage.
Another paradigm is that since self-driven cars would be available 24 hours, a person could simply order a car to his/her door rather than keep one in the driveway. Automotive transport could transform into a utility like electricity or water supply.
According to the MIT's Milken Institute’s AgeLab, “When the brightest-eyed autonomous vehicle advocates talk about self-driving cars transforming society as we know it, what they’re imagining, first and foremost, is the death of car ownership.”


President Donald Trump has mostly surrounded himself with advisors and a Cabinet who boast billions in personal wealth. On Friday, perhaps lost amid the high-profile exit of chief strategist Steve Bannon, financier Carl Icahn, the wealthiest of Trump's circle, announced he would no longer serve as a special advisor on financial regulation after criticism from biofuel advocates and Democratic lawmakers claimed his policy recommendations could help his own investments.
In a letter to Trump on his personal website, Icahn, an 81-year-old corporate raider with a net worth of roughly $16 billion, denied any conflict of interest with his businesses, claiming he "never had access to nonpublic information or profited" from his position after accusations from several Democratic lawmakers, who claim he pushed for changes in biofuel policy for his “own personal gain.” He also claimed he was resigning to avoid "partisan bickering."
"I never had a formal position with your administration nor a policymaking role," read the letter to Trump. "And contrary to the insinuations of a handful of your Democratic critics, I never had access to nonpublic information or profited from my position, nor do I believe that my role presented conflicts of interest. Indeed, out of an abundance of caution, the only issues I ever discussed with you were broad matters of policy affecting the refining industry. I never sought any special benefit for any company with which I have been involved, and have only expressed views that I believed would benefit the refining industry as a whole."
Icahn stepped down before the New Yorker published a report Friday by Patrick Radden Keefe that cited Bush administration ethics lawyer Richard Painter's claim that Icahn could be in "legal jeopardy" and that he is "walking right into possible criminal charges" for pressuring the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to change federal regulations that affect oil refiner CVR Energy. Icahn reportedly holds an 82-percent stake in the Sugar Land, Texas-based company, acquiring a controlling interest in 2012.
The federal regulations stem from Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), a law signed in 2005 requiring transportation fuel to contain a minimum volume of renewable fuels. According to the New Yorker report, when the price of Renew Identification Numbers (RIN) began fluctuating in 2013, CVR Energy was spending over $200 million a year on credits.
In March, the New York Times reported that Icahn had discussed ethanol rules with Scott Pruitt prior to Pruitt becoming head of the EPA. Icahn also spoke with Trump and his top economic advisor, Gary Cohn, about ethanol.
As a candidate in the 2016 Presidential Election, Trump had said he would nominate Icahn for secretary of the treasury. The position ultimately went to banker Steve Mnuchin, who is reportedly worth $300 million.
Phone calls to CVR by International Business Times on Saturday were not answered.


A woman and her 70-year-old father who were en route to visit an ailing relative Wednesday were reportedly kicked off a Frontier Airlines flight after the two expressed their dissatisfaction with the airline during a private conversation. While the Orlando family maintains they did nothing wrong, the airline claims they were using profanities while talking about flight crew. The airline told International Business Times that an investigation is still underway.
Whitney Miller, 25, and her father, Eric Miller, were discussing how “miserable” they were traveling with the budget carrier but were unaware that a flight attendant behind them was listening to their conversation, local news station  WKMG, a CBS affiliate, reported Wednesday. The Millers allege that the flight attendant approached other flight crew who then aggressively asked the family if there was an issue.
“They would lean over the back of the chair in front of us, get their face right up to here and they would simply ask, ‘Do we have a problem?’” Eric Miller told WKMG.
“It was, ‘No, do you have a problem? Do you want to be removed from the aircraft?’” Whitney Miller said. “We responded, ‘No.’ We didn't know what was going on, what's happening. Please tell us what's happening.”
In a phone interview, Frontier Airlines representative Richard Oliver told IBT that the situation escalated after the family was approached about their comments, which were overheard by the flight’s crew. At that time, Oliver said, the Millers used language to refer to flight attendants that included “stupid,” “rude,” and “b-----.”
The Millers were asked to leave shortly thereafter. Frontier Airlines refunded their tickets, and the family is now reportedly planning to drive to their location. The airline told IBT that its account of the incident was corroborated by interviews with several flight attendants and a pilot seated nearby in the cabin.

A video recording caught the few moments after the altercation as the family was being escorted off of the plane. Interviewed by WKMG, the woman who filmed the clip claimed she neither knew the family nor heard the Millers say anything inappropriate. The unnamed woman did, however, claim that the flight attendant was eavesdropping on their conversation.
According to the passenger who recorded the video, clapping heard while the Millers were being escorted off the plane was in support of the family. The airline, however, told IBT that other passengers heard in the video were clapping because the altercation had been diffused and the flight could finally depart.
“Our Flight Attendants are customer service and safety professionals who are trained to recognize situations that may impact comfort and safety of passengers and crew onboard our aircraft,” the airline said in a statement. “The behaviors and comments exhibited by these passengers prior to departure were inappropriate; and as a result they were asked to leave our aircraft. Safety and security of our passengers and crew is our number one priority.”
Frontier Airlines has been one of few carriers that have managed to skirt negative press currently dogging the airline industry. In the last week alone, JetBlue has seen  several incidents of crew aboard its flight falling ill as the result of mysterious odors. A  16-year-old girl spoke about being sexually assaulted during a United Airlines flight after which her alleged assaulter walked free. And earlier this week, two planes — Delta Air Lines and American Airlines aircraft —  collided on the tarmac at New York’s John F. Kennedy Airport, causing both damage and delays.
A young woman and her 70-year-old father who were en route to visit an ailing relative Wednesday were reportedly kicked off a Frontier Airlines flight after the two expressed their dissatisfaction with the airline during a private conversation. In this photo, a Frontier Airlines plane sits on the tarmac at the Pittsburgh International Airport July 9, 2008 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  Photo: Photo by Jeff Swensen/Getty Images


Amid growing tensions following a “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, that saw white supremacists, neo-Nazis and members of the Ku Klux Klan, several technology companies have announced bans on members of the respective hate groups. The bans come on the heels of President Donald Trump condemning “both sides” and the “alt-left” after a woman was left dead and several more injured by a man who rammed his car into a group of counter-protesters at the rally.
For several companies, the fallout and outrage over the weekend’s events prompted corporate decisions to oust any employees or clients who used the respective products. The list of companies that have taken action is growing.
Apple
Apple CEO Tim Cook this week pledged $1 million in donations to the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) and the Anti-Defamation League, and Apple pledged to match two-for-one employee donations to human rights groups the end of September, the  Guardian reported Thursday.
"We must not witness or permit such hate and bigotry in our country, and we must be unequivocal about it," Cook wrote in a memo to his staff this week. "This is not about the left or the right, conservative or liberal. It is about human decency and morality."
He added, "I disagree with the president and others who believe that there is a moral equivalence between white supremacists and Nazis, and those who oppose them by standing up for human rights. Equating the two runs counter to our ideals as Americans."
Cloudflare
Internet security startup Cloudflare announced Wednesday that it had terminated the account of the Daily Stormer, an online hub for content espousing white supremacy and neo-Nazism. The same day the company’s co-founder and CEO Matthew Prince  wrote a blog post explaining the decision to cease “proxying the site’s traffic” and “answering DNS requests for their sites.”
“The tipping point for us making this decision was that the team behind Daily Stormer made the claim that we were secretly supporters of their ideology,” Prince wrote.
“Our team has been thorough and have had thoughtful discussions for years about what the right policy was on censoring,” he continued. “Like a lot of people, we’ve felt angry at these hateful people for a long time but we have followed the law and remained content neutral as a network. We could not remain neutral after these claims of secret support by Cloudflare.”
Facebook
On Wednesday, Facebook banned both the Facebook and Instagram accounts of a white nationalist who was part of a Vice News documentary that premiered Monday on the Charlottesville rally. A Facebook spokesperson confirmed to the Associated Press the same day that accounts managed by Christopher Cantwell were removed.
In addition to using language that disparaged minority groups, Cantwell said the death of Heather Heyer — the woman killed at the “United the Right” rally — was “justified.”
“I'm not even saying we're nonviolent,” he said. “I'm saying that f—ing we did not aggress. We did not initiate force against anybody. We're not nonviolent — we'll f—ing kill these people if we have to.”
Cantwell was later seen  openly weeping Wednesday in a video posted to YouTube after he learned there was a warrant out for his arrest.
GoDaddy
The Daily Stormer, which used its platform to promote Saturday’s rally in Virgina, was banned by GoDaddy’s site Sunday. GoDaddy, a web domain registrar, hosted the Daily Stormer’s domain until public outcry about events that unfolded over the weekend seemingly forced the server’s hand.
We informed The Daily Stormer that they have 24 hours to move the domain to another provider, as they have violated our terms of service.
&mdash; GoDaddy (@GoDaddy) August 14, 2017

“We informed The Daily Stormer that they have 24 hours to move the domain to another provider, as they have violated our terms of service,” the  GoDaddy wrote in a tweet Sunday.
Google
After the Daily Stormer was barred from its GoDaddy domain, the site temporarily moved to a Google domain — but not for long.
Reached for comment, the tech giant on Monday  told NPR: “We are cancelling Daily Stormer's registration with Google Domains for violating our terms of service.”
Tech companies “certainly have the right to make their own judgments about what’s in the terms of service and whether it’s being violated,” said Mike Yang, former general counsel at Pinterest Inc. and a former deputy general counsel at Google.
Business Insider reported Monday that per a source close to Google, the company did not want its platform used to incite violence.
OkCupid
Facebook was not the only tech site to ban Cantwell following his controversial appearance in Vice’s Charlottesville documentary. Upon learning that the white supremacist had an account on its server, dating website OkCupid also banned Cantwell.
We were alerted that white supremacist Chris Cantwell was on OkCupid. Within 10 minutes we banned him for life.
&mdash; OkCupid (@okcupid) August 17, 2017

“We were alerted that white supremacist Chris Cantwell was on OkCupid,” the  site tweeted Thursday. “Within 10 minutes we banned him for life.”
Spotify
The music-streaming service Spotify this week also announced it was working to remove accounts and music on its site linked to hate group. After Digital Music News on Monday published an aggregated list of white supremacist bands that used the service, Spotify quickly issued a ban.
“Spotify takes immediate action to remove any such material as soon as it has been brought to our attention,” the  company said in a statement. “We are glad to have been alerted to this content — and have already removed many of the bands identified today, while urgently reviewing the remainder.”
Twitter
On the heels of announcements of permanent bans of the Daily Stormer by Google and GoDaddy, Twitter too announced that it had suspended accounts linked to the white supremacist hub,  Reuters reported Wednesday.
“We may suspend an account if it has been reported to us as violating our Rules surrounding abuse,” the  Twitter notes on its support page. “When an account engages in abusive behavior, like sending threats to others or impersonating other accounts, we may suspend it temporarily or, in some cases, permanently.”
Uber Technologies
Ride-share company Uber sent a memo internally to both its drivers and employees Thursday that stated that there was “simply no place for this type of bigotry, discrimination, and hate.” The memo specifically addressed Saturday’s rally and noted that the company would “act swiftly and decisively to uphold our Community Guidelines, including our policy against discrimination of any kind — this includes banning people from the app.”
uber letter sent to drivers and employees re: nazis pic.twitter.com/1GpG3O0yUj
&mdash; ಠ_ಠ (@MikeIsaac) August 17, 2017

“Now more than ever we must stand together against hatred and violence,” the company added. “Thank you for making our community one that we can all be proud of.”
The Ku Klux Klan protests on July 8, 2017 in Charlottesville, Virginia.  Photo: Photo by Chet Strange/Getty Images


A class action lawsuit filed against Nestlé Waters North America, Inc. Tuesday claimed Poland Spring Bottled Water is “a colossal fraud.”
Eleven bottled water drinkers accused Poland Spring of a “colossal fraud perpetrated against American consumers.” They filed the 325-page lawsuit in a Connecticut federal court. According to the suit, 11 individuals spent thousands of dollars on Poland Spring in the past few years and are seeking $5 million in damages for a national class.
The suit alleged Poland Spring’s parent company Nestle bottles groundwater and claims it is spring water. The claims questioned whether Poland Spring water sources met the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) definition of a spring.
Bottled water at the Poland Spring bottling plant in Hollis, Maine November 23, 2005. Poland Spring's parent company, Nestle, is being sued by 11 consumers on the grounds that they have been bottling groundwater.  Photo: John Patriquin/Portland Press Herald via Getty Images
The FDA defined spring water as water “collected only at the spring or through a bore hole tapping the underground formation feeding the spring.” According to the suit, Nestle obtains Poland Spring water from some sites that are “phony” or “man-made” and do not meet the FDA’s qualifications to be a spring.
The bottled water drinkers said the spring in Poland Spring, Maine, has been dry for almost 50 years. The lawsuit claimed Poland Spring water sources in Hollis, Fryeburg, Denmark, Dallas Plantation, Pierce Pond Township and Kingfield may not be legitimate either.
“For more than twenty years, Nestle Waters’ marketing and sales of Poland Spring Water has been a colossal fraud perpetrated against American consumers. To consumers, ‘spring water’ from a naturally occurring spring signifies purity and high quality and commands a premium price compared to Defendant’s non-spring drinking water products or filtered tap water,” the lawsuit said.
“To illicitly capture that premium, Defendant, since it began selling the Poland Spring brand in 1993, has bottled common groundwater and illegally mislabeled it as ‘100 percent Natural Spring Water,’” it added.
“The claims made in the lawsuit are without merit and an obvious attempt to manipulate the legal system for personal gain,” a Nestle Waters North America statement said. “It meets the U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulations defining spring water, all state regulations governing spring classification for standards of identity, as well as all federal and state regulations governing spring water collection, good manufacturing practices, product quality and labeling.”
This is not the first time Poland Spring faced legal action regarding its quality of water. The company settled a class action lawsuit in 2003 that alleged Poland Spring Water does not come from a spring. The company did not agree with the claims but paid $10 million in discounts and contributions to charity.


JetBlue Airways said Thursday that two of its crew members fell ill aboard a Wednesday night flight from Boston to Charleston, South Carolina. According to the airline, the cause of the odor was nail polish. A representative for the budget carrier confirmed the incident to International Business Times in a statement.
“The crew on JetBlue flight 1667 reported an odor in the cabin,” the airline told IBT. “The aircraft was inspected and the odor was determined to be nail polish remover.”
Airline spokesperson Doug McGraw  told the Associated Press that the employees were told to check-in with medical professionals upon the flight landing in South Carolina. No passengers were affected by the odor during the flight. 
Odors have been a frequent perpetrator named in incidents in which crew or passengers have fallen sick on JetBlue Airways flights. Wednesday’s incident was the third in a string of events involving an odor on its flights in just a week, the AP reported. JetBlue Airways said it installed carbon air filters to reduce odors on its aircraft.
One of the airline’s flights from Boston to San Diego, California, last week was forced to make an emergency landing in Buffalo, New York after crew members fell sick. Two flight attendants and the flight’s pilot were transported to a hospital near the Buffalo-Niagara International Airport,  MassLive.com reported at the time.
“They were saying that there was an incident on the plane where somebody was having a medical issue,” passenger  Michael Feuerstein told Fox-affiliate WFXT in Boston. “People were having headaches on the plane. There were children. The smell could be smelled from the wings of the plane to the actual back of the plane.”
In a separate interview with the Cheektowaga Chronicle,  Feuerstein said upon landing that the firefighters called to the scene “walked on board with a carbon monoxide detector to the very back of the airplane where after that it started beeping, extremely, extremely, rapidly.”
A JetBlue Airways flight from California to Florida earlier this month was diverted to Oklahoma City after a foul odor coming from the cockpit caused five of its 135 passengers to experience trouble breathing, IBT  previously reported. Passengers were reportedly treated with oxygen tanks to stabilize their breathing after eight ambulances arrived on the scene at the Will Rogers World Airport.
JetBlue Airways said Thursday that two of its crew members aboard a Wednesday night flight from Boston to Charleston, South Carolina fell ill. In this photo, travelers walk past the tails of JetBlue airplanes in the airport terminal at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport in Arlington, Virginia. Photo: Photo credit should read SAUL LOEB/AFP/Getty Images


A teen girl who was allegedly groped during a United Airlines flight from Seattle to Newark, New Jersey, last month joined her mother in speaking publicly about the incident. The 16-year-old — whose identity along with her mother’s was withheld at their request — said her alleged assaulter robbed her of “peace of mind.”
The girl said she was asleep when a man began touching her during the overnight flight, which she boarded alone July 23. In an  interview with CBS News published Thursday, the girl — who was en route to New Jersey after winning admission to a young women’s leadership academy at Princeton — spoke about her ordeal.
“I could feel his hand on my thigh, and one of his hands had like, came between my legs and he was rubbing in between my legs and then he tried to put his other hand underneath my pants and I kind of woke up and was like ‘What are you doing?’” she said.
As International Business Times previously reported, a federal complaint of the incident stated the man — who was identified by the girl as 28-year-old Vijakumar Krishnappa — removed his hand from the teen’s leg when she woke up. But when she again nodded off, he allegedly “put his hand on her groin and inner thigh, and began rubbing the Victim through her clothing.”
When the teen notified a flight attendant about the incident, she was moved to another row. But the girl told CBS that she felt like “he could see wherever I was sitting.”
Both the girl and her mother said that the teen’s assaulter walked free after deboarding the flight. While the company’s policy requires that the carrier notify the authorities of all incidents of misconduct, United Airlines reportedly breached its protocol in handling the incident. It wasn’t until the girl’s mother notified a United terminal supervisor by phone that the FBI, which handles crimes committed in the United States airspace, became involved and was able to track down the passenger later that day.
Reached for comment by IBT, the carrier did not give a direct response to comments made by the girl and her mother about its handling of the incident.
“The safety and security of our customers is our top priority,” the airline told IBT. “We take these allegations seriously and continue to work closely with the proper authorities as part of their investigation.”
“I literally thought I was going to die,” her mother said. “I'm 3,000 miles away. My child says she's been sexually assaulted and I'm asking her questions and she's like, disoriented, I'm like, ‘Where is he? Do you see him?’ And she said, ‘He just walked by me.’ And I said, ‘Get the police! Get United!’”
“He had no right to touch me. He had no right. I guess I would say he took my peace of mind,” the teen told CBS. “I don't feel safe.”
Krishnappa — who is a doctor visiting the U.S. on a fellowship — is out on bail, according to CBS. If convicted, he could face up to two years in prison and a fine of $250,000 as well as deportation. Krishnappa’s attorney told CBS that he “adamantly denies the charges and deserves to be considered an innocent man.”
A teen girl was allegedly groped during a United Airlines flight from Seattle to Newark, New Jersey, in July. In this photo, United Airlines planes sit on the tarmac at San Francisco International Airport on July 8, 2015 in San Francisco, California.  Photo: Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images


A new study from financial information company Sageworks confirmed that accounting-related services are the most profitable job industry. Jobs within this industry include accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping and payroll services. 
The study evaluated the most profitable industries over a 12-month time span, which included pre-tax net profit margins for privately held companies.
"Not all private companies are necessarily shooting for high profitability," Sageworks Analyst Libby Bierman said in a press release. "Maybe their industry is price sensitive and rely on volume for growth (like grocery stores) or maybe they are sinking profits back into the business for R&D (growth companies)."
Bierman added, "But in most instances, higher profitability is better, and the industries atop this list are getting more from their business investment than others."
Sageworks evaluated specialty services to amass its list of the top 20 profitable industries. Here is the full list of the study's findings:
1. Accounting, Tax Preparation, Bookkeeping, and Payroll Services  — 18.4 percent (Net Profit Margin)2. Lessors of Real Estate  — 17.9 percent3. Legal Services  — 17.4 percent4. Management of Companies and Enterprises  — 16.0 percent5. Activities Related to Real Estate  — 14.9 percent6. Offices of Dentists  — 14.8 percent7. Offices of Real Estate Agents and Brokers  —  14.3 percent8. Nonmetallic Mineral Mining and Quar  —  13.2 percent9. Offices of Other Health Pract  —  13.0 percent10. Religious Organizations  —  12.4 percent11. Medical and Diagnostic Laboratories  — 12.1 percent12. Land Subdivision — 12.1 percent13. Automotive Equipment Rental and Leasing — 12.0 percent14. Warehousing and Storage — 11.0 percent15. Death Care Services — 10.8 percent16. Other Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services — 10.6 percent17. Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services — 10.3 percent18. Specialized Design Services  — 10.2 percent19. Other Schools and Instruction — 9.8 percent20. Support Activities for Road Transportation  — 9.7 percent
Many of the top earners on this year's list are service-related industries that possess particular certification and education requirements upon entry, which is why these industries are permitted to charge customers with a premium fee for its services. These industries — Accounting and Legal Services, etc. — also don't require the need to maintain and purchase expensive inventories or equipment. 
The healthcare and dental industry secured a spot on the Sageworks list, but these are industries that require expensive inventory and equipment to be both purchased and maintained. However, Bierman pointed out that the demand for healthcare-related services makes up for the cost and maintenance of essential equipment and inventory needs.
"Obviously healthcare and dental practices do have to invest considerably in technology and supplies," Bierman said. "Their services are inevitably in demand even during slow economic times, which reduces pressure on their profitability levels."
For years, accounting-related services have proved to be a consistent winner on the several profitable industries lists. Why does this industry continue to remain on top? Omar Khedr, an author of a 2015 top industries list created by the National Center for Education Statistics, cited job stability as a reason for the industry's success. 
"The Accounting Services industry presents a stable field for recent graduates, especially for accountants and auditors who will go on to earn statutory titles, such as Certified Public Accountant (CPA)," Khedr wrote, according to Accounting Today. "The industry is closely tied to the health of the overall economy, which has been accelerating in recent years."
Bierman told International Business Times Thursday that the industry's business model also enhances its success.
"While there are probably a few contributing factors, a significant driver of that profitability is the industry's business model," Bierman said. "These firms don't have huge inventories to buy or maintain, and they do not have to invest as much into R&D. Rather their assets are their experience, certifications and talented staff. That human capital allows them to operate with high gross margins."
Consultant Allan Koltin pointed out to Accounting Today in 2016 that Level 1 services (compliance services) are slowly dying within the industry. Level 2 (estate planning and tax solutions), Level 3 (advisory work and consulting) and  Level 4 (wealth management) services are likely to be in higher demand because they involve necessities that clients are willing to pay advisors more for.  
"A Level 1 service is a service a client doesn’t want but needs. A Level 2 service is a service a client both wants and needs, and hence, will pay value for," Koltin said. 
It pays to secure a position within the accounting-related services industry. According to Salary.com, the annual salary on average ranges from $49,647 for an entry level accountant to $144,901 for an accounting director.
A new study finds that accounting-related services tops the most profitable industries list, pictured October 12, 2011. Photo: Getty Images


An unfortunate but perhaps humorous oversight led to the prominent appearance of male genitalia on Bing’s homepage Thursday morning. The search engine featured a picture of a beach as its splashed image, with one Twitter user noting that a quick zoom revealed a large phallus drawn into the sand.
“Lol there's a penis carved into the sand on http://bing.com homepage,” developer  Andrew Lyle tweeted Thursday with a link to a screengrab on Imgur, a photo-sharing platform. The image had more than 1.2 million views by Thursday afternoon.
"There's a penis carved into the beach in Bing's background image," the August 17, 2016 photo on Imgur was captioned. Photo: Imgur
Visitors to Bing will fail to find the image in question, as it appeared to have been scrubbed from the site. Responding to Lyle’s tweet, user MisterMajikBear wrote, “It looks like they edited it out.”
However, as one Twitter user pointed out and International Business Times confirmed, there is another penis-shaped silhouette that makes an appearance in the photo. Coral around the beach, which  Gizmodo noted is Zlatni rat beach on Brač Island, Croatia, revealed another phallus.
two actually! pic.twitter.com/obo702qy9v
&mdash; Timur Khamidov (@khamitimur) August 17, 2017

According to a Quora response  pointed to by Motherboard, Vishal R Joshi — who claimed to have worked at Microsoft when the question was  answered in 2013 — wrote that the site refreshes images on its website daily.
The Register, a British technology website, appeared to confirm the legitimacy of the original photo posted to Imgur Thursday: “Our probing investigative team in the UK earlier had a stiff drink, took a close look, and verified this was legit and not a prank Photoshop.”
Bing did not immediately have a comment on the photo when reached by IBT.


American Airlines faced a lawsuit Tuesday after a woman alleged that the airline's flight attendant deliberately destroyed her wedding dress in August 2015. The court papers claimed Yewande Oteh of Cherry Hill, New Jersey, decided to sue the airline after it failed to prevent or investigate the incident.
Oteh was flying from Philadelphia International Airport to her destination wedding in Montego Bay, Jamaica, when the incident took place. The lawsuit claims that flight attendant Melanie Masters put something into the overhead bin where her dress was stored just after an argument between the two. The lawsuit alleged that Masters conspired with co-workers to stain her gown with red wine. Oteh and her family are suing American Airlines for more than $300,000, alleging that the airline over the “willful and wanton” actions on its part.
Court documents, obtained by the Courier-Post, reveals Oteh's complaint that describes her ordeal began when authorities asked her to remove her gown from a checked bag at the Philadelphia airport. She said a ticketing agent told her that there would be room to hand the dress in the aircraft's closet. However, after she boarded the flight Masters did not allow her to store her dress in the closet, saying that it was not for passengers to keep their items. 
Masters "became indignant and agitated, and began to talk to the plaintiff in a hostile aggressive way, instructing her that the closet space was not for passengers," the lawsuit claims.  
Oteh was later told to store the dress in an overhead bin. Oteh, who was traveling with her then-would-be-husband and their 9-month-old son, saw the flight attendant reopen the bin while conversing with two of her co-workers.
“It was [Oteh’s] belief that the flight attendants were placing something in the bin and making fun of [Oteh] and her wedding gown,” reads the lawsuit, according to the Courier-Post.
When Oteh arrived in Jamaica she found that her dress was covered with wine stains. The incident made Oteh “emotionally distraught” and forced her to cancel planned events with her guests, the lawsuit claimed. 
Oteh’s mother, Yvette Sterling reportedly said: “American Airlines and its personnel robbed us all of this once-in-a-lifetime experience.”
In a statement to International Business Times, American Airlines confirmed about “reviewing the lawsuit,” but no other detail was given out.
Over the last few months, American Airlines found itself in hot water with several passenger complaints. Earlier this month, actress Lana Dunham slammed American Airlines flight attendants for "having a transphobic talk." In another incident that took place in July, a woman claimed that she was forced by a flight attendant to sit next to a man who masturbated while she slept during a flight to Paris.


Two flights from two different airlines collided Tuesday evening on the tarmac at New York’s John F. Kennedy Airport. The carriers told International Business Times in respective statements that the incident occurred after a Delta Air Lines plane struck an American Airlines plane Tuesday evening.
American Airlines Flight 290 to Dublin was reportedly stationary on the tarmac and awaiting departure clearance when the wing of Delta Air Lines Flight 2503 to Seattle came into contact with the tail of the other plane. The Delta Air Lines plane was attempting to maneuver around the other aircraft at the time of the collision,  Forbes reported Wednesday.
“While on taxi, the wing of flight 2503 came in contact with the tail of another aircraft,” Delta Air Lines told IBT Wednesday. “The flight returned to the gate and passengers deplaned normally. We’re sorry for the inconvenience to customers.”
&quot;We had a big jolt, and he has a big scrape on his left wing,” the American pilot told controllers… via @forbes https://t.co/a9yWW6WRZ0
&mdash; Christine Negroni (@cnegroni) August 16, 2017

“The Delta at our three o’clock we are pretty sure his winglet, ran into us as he passed behind us,” the American Airlines captain reported during the collision, per a statement to IBT. “We had a big jolt, and he has a big scrape on his left wing.”
American Airlines told IBT that no passengers or crew were injured during the event. Passengers aboard the American Airlines flight were transferred to a different plane and later successfully departed. 
Delta Air Lines spokeswoman Betsy Talton told Forbes that there were 160 passengers aboard its flight. The American Airlines flight reportedly carried 121 passengers.
“We’re sorry for the inconvenience to our customers,” Talton told Forbes, refusing to comment further after citing a potential federal safety investigation.
Both planes showed visible signs of damage, with  photos obtained by Forbes indicating that the damage to the American Airlines craft was much more severe. Repair of the American Airlines plane could reportedly take at least a week, according to a mechanic who assessed photos of the damage for Forbes.
Two flights from two different airlines reportedly collided on the tarmac at New York’s John F. Kennedy Airport on Tuesday. In this photo, planes sit on the runway at John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) on June 5, 2017 in New York City.  Photo: Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images


PepsiCo's Chief Executive Officer Indra Nooyi is being pressured to exit President Trump's business council from online racial justice organization Color Of Change (COC), according to CNN.
Following the events that occurred in Charlottesville, Virginia, six CEOs — including those of Intel and Under Armour— announced their departure from Trump's advisory council. Nooyi, a powerful minority woman in business, has not deterred from her post. What does Pepsi have to gain financially from associating with Trump?
According to Business Insider, CEOs were willing to join Trump's business councils as a way to help the president make better decisions about American business. As an Indian-born businesswoman, Nooyi has claimed that hiring more minorities is "a business imperative," according to CNBC. Nooyi could have joined to bring her business beliefs at PepsiCo into action within Trump's business council, which currently has 36 percent of its senior executives as people of color. 
However, PepsiCo's stock is currently down, according to Bloomberg. Additionally, Americans are consuming fewer soda products as it is, a separate report from Bloomberg found. InvestorPlace reported that sales for Nooyi's company were below Coke in July. 
Nooyi is now the only person of color that holds a position within the president's advisory council. Her decision to continue working alongside Trump has led COC to address a letter to her and other CEOs still involved, but the letter primarily targeted her and IBM CEO Ginni Rometty.
"Any cooperation with Donald Trump on business matters or otherwise, will be an endorsement of his hate-filled and racist rhetoric which runs counter to the family-friendly values of your company," the letter read. "We believe that it is in your best interest to quit the Business Council before you and your company are indelibly sullied with the hateful and divisive actions of the Trump administration."
COC has urged its 1 million advocates to apply pressure on Pepsi to dump Trump in its latest campaign. CEOs from Merck & Co. (Kenneth C. Frazier), Disney (Bob Iger), Uber (formerly Travis Kalanick) and Tesla (Elon Musk) quit Trump's Business Council with the help of the organization's pressure.
The campaign pleaded, "In the wake of Trump's tacit response to Charlottesville — a response that has been applauded on stormfront — it is reprehensible that any CEO would continue to carry water for this administration."
Nooyi spoke in a similar tone to COCs following the events in Charlottesville Saturday. She tweeted a response to the events, saying, "Heartbroken by the violence in #Charlottesville. Hate and intolerance are a betrayal of what we stand for as Americans."  
Heartbroken by the violence in #Charlottesville. Hate and intolerance are a betrayal of what we stand for as Americans.
— Indra Nooyi (@IndraNooyi) August 13, 2017
The PepsiCo CEO initially voiced her support for Hillary Clinton during the election period. In speaking with The New York Times after the election concluded, Nooyi congratulated Trump for his win. She also added, "The process of democracy happened. We just need to let life go on."
Since joining Trump's business council in December, she has not provided comment publicly on her involvement. CEOs from Walmart and Campbell Soup Company are also receiving pressure from COC, but neither corporations seem as if they are willing to budge. 
A representative of PepsiCo did not immediately return International Business Times' request for comment.
Pepsi, pictured July 11, 2017, receives pressure from Color Of Change to exit Trump's business council. Photo: Getty Images


Uber has started settling its multiple disputes with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) — the government agency for consumer protection — which announced Tuesday it has agreed to 20 years of FTC privacy audits. The settlement was a result of an investigation into Uber’s doxing — publishing private information online — of journalists critical of the company.
Uber was also under investigation for a God View tool which provided its employees access to user data. This was called ‘public stalking’ by high-profile users such as entrepreneur Peter Sims. The company also had a secret method of blocking users called Greyballing. It showed only ghost cars, i.e. those which were present only in the app rather than real cars, allowing Uber to skirt law enforcement officials when not operating in zone allowed by a city’s authorities.
“Respondent has engaged in a number of practices that, taken together, failed to provide reasonable security to prevent unauthorized access to Rider and Driver personal information… “It is further ordered that, in connection with its compliance with the Provision of this Order titled Mandated Privacy Program, Respondent must obtain initial and biennial assessments,” the FTC document said in addition to ordering privacy assessments by a third party.
Uber has to report to FTC for the first 180 days and then go for an assessment every two years for following 20 years.
But, is your user data, including the most important location data on the app safe?
Uber submitting to an FTC assessment for the first six months means the data will go into the hands of a government authority. Furthermore, it is not yet known whether the data from private assessor will have FTC oversight.
But one thing is certain. The kind of access Uber employees have to your data will be under strict scrutiny.
"Uber failed consumers in two key ways: First by misrepresenting the extent to which it monitored its employees’ access to personal information about users and drivers, and second by misrepresenting that it took reasonable steps to secure that data. This case shows that, even if you’re a fast-growing company, you can’t leave consumers behind: you must honor your privacy and security promises," FTC Acting Chairman Maureen Ohlhausen said in a statement.
Since there are no federal privacy laws, the government currently cannot hold Uber’s feet to the fire when it comes to following its own stated privacy policy. Yet the FTC has been trying its best — besides Uber, Google, and Facebook in the past have been ordered to undergo 20 years of privacy audits.
Uber itself has previously been fined $20 million by the FTC for misleading them about how much money they could make.
"People always complain that this is a slap on the wrist compared to Europe. But there's only so much the FTC can do." Woodrow Hartzog, a professor of law and computer science at Northeastern University School of Law, told Wired Tuesday.


Following the Charlottesville attack which highlighted the surge of violence among the white nationalist groups in America, tech companies are looking at the ramifications of letting hate groups use their platforms and services. After GoDaddy de-registered the domain of the racist site the Daily Stormer, and gaming chat app Discord shut down the accounts associated with the attack, social networking sites Facebook and Reddit have started targeting hate groups.
The social networking companies confirmed to CNET on Tuesday they would ban groups that violate their hate-speech policies. The Charlottesville attack received widespread condemnation, however, some far-right and Neo-Nazi groups celebrated the attack on the social platforms. These incidents triggered social networking companies to take stringent action against those inciting violence on their platforms.
The subreddit, r/physical_removal, received scrutiny from Reddit — moderators and people posting on the threads were flagged by the social network.
While both Facebook and Reddit have a history of racist content being posted on their platforms, the recent attack has made even them step up vigilance against these groups. Facebook removed the Charlotteville’s "Unite The Right" page and all links to an article attacking Charlottesville victim Heather Heyer on the racist website the Daily Stormer, except the ones condemning the article.
While the Daily Stormer itself has gone down due to domain de-registration by Google and GoDaddy, Facebook has banned a number of far-right groups, such as:
A Facebook representative told CNET the company will actively target hate groups and attempt to stop them from organizing on the platform. Echoing Facebook's sentiments, Reddit said in a statement to the publication: "We are very clear in our site terms of service that posting content that incites violence will get users banned from Reddit. We have banned /r/Physical_Removal due to violations of the terms of our content policy.”
While banning of such groups has drawn criticism as it is being seen by some as an attack on free speech, in light of incidents such as the Charlottesville attack, it has become necessary for social networks to take action against hateful or racist content.
While hate groups will simply migrate to other platforms, removing them from public ones such as Facebook will make them not so easy to access.
For instance, the Daily Stormer has moved on to the Dark Web, according to Reuters, the domain de-registration.  This means that people will not have access to it on the mainstream internet, but will continue to remain accessible for its dedicated users.
This only serves to reduce public exposure to violent ideologies and hides such discussions as the one that triggered the Charlottesville attack.


Uber will reportedly introduce a newly enhanced version of Uber for Business, according to TechCrunch. The Uber for Business update was confirmed Tuesday by the company, which will offer custom travel programs and new regulations. 
The revamped version intends to provide new tools to make it easier for employers to manage travel options for its employees. While the service's updated guidelines are easier for companies to use, employees will no longer be able to utilize the service for personal needs after-hours, as stricter regulations on employee use will be enforced. 
"The dashboard is where you'll manage all your ground transportation and customize how people can use your Uber for Business account," Uber's website explained in a note on how its new travel accommodations would be executed. 
This program can help employers determine the type of car that can be requested, expense allotments for riders, when Uber can be used by workers and location limits that can be accessed. Regulations like these can be purchased by companies through customizable programs.
The ride service claimed its new rules will work because companies and its employees "don't have to worry about out-of-policy rides." According to an Uber for Business informational booklet, Companies will now have access to real-time reporting, which will help employers to further implement its transportation policies through the service. Available reports include monthly savings costs, automatic receipt forwarding and a detailed trip dashboard, among other options.
Uber claimed its updated service will provide an enhanced experience for employees, too. Employees will be able to "forget about pre-booking rides, picking up rental cars, waiting in taxi lines, or finding parking." Employees can be notified of rides within the Uber app, but those who don't have a smart phone or an Uber account will still be able to utilize the program.
Uber for Business will also benefit employees who require ride accommodations (i.e. individuals with disabilities), which can be directed to the driver through customized notes. However, companies will now have the ability to decide which workers will be given the opportunity to receive the Uber for Business benefits. 
A press representative issued a statement to International Business Times Tuesday from Julie Herendeen, who is the head of marketing and strategy for Uber for Business. Herendeen said that the new features are available today.
"Business travelers were amongst Uber's earliest adopters, and organizations needed streamlined billing, reporting and management tools for their employee's Uber usage," Herendeen said. "That's why we launched Uber for Business three years ago."
Uber for Business emerged three years ago and promised to make the transportation needs of employees and their companies smoother and cost-effective. According to ZDNet.com, "Uber for Business has won over a large share of business travel with 65,000 customers. In just the last six months of this year, revenue on the platform has tripled."
Dell, Goldman Sachs, TripAdvisor and Evernote are among a list of more than 65,000 companies that utilize Uber for Bussiness today.
According to a post published on Uber's blog, Uber for Business was created "to help organizations perfect the way they move the people that matter to them. And while our initial focus was on driving business travel efficiency through features like monthly billing and reporting, it didn’t take long before we realized that organizations needed Uber for a lot more."
Uber, pictured October 14, 2014, plans to release an updated version of Uber for Business that features custom travel programs. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


Those looking to secure a spot at the Cheeto pop-up restaurant in New York may be in for some disappointment: reservations are completely booked. The Spotted Cheetah, which opened Tuesday and was scheduled to run only through Thursday, will feature gourmet meals centered around the orange snack. Its waiting list has reportedly already amassed more than 1,000 individuals hoping to get a seat.
The limited-run, Cheeto-focused pop-up only budgeted for 300 seats, all of which are currently spoken for, the  Wall Street Journal reported Tuesday. Plates are priced from $8 to $22 and include the Flamin’ Hot and White Cheddar Mac n’ Cheetos, Cheetos Crusted Fried Pickles + Creamy Ranch and Flamin’ Hot Limón Chicken Tacos.
“I’m thrilled that you have shown interest in my restaurant,” reads an email sent to users who are waitlisted for the restaurant. “The Spotted Cheetah, and seem to love Cheetos (almost) as much as I do. Unfortunately, at this time all of the spots are full. If we have a table open up, we’ll give you a ring.”

Ryan Matiyow, a senior director of marketing at Frito-Lay, told the Journal that the demand for the restaurant  “was a surprise to us in a big way.” Matiyow previously  told AdWeek that the team behind the restaurant was “inspired by Cheetos fans and popular restaurants nationwide.”
“As all of you (hopefully) know, I have a passion for cheesy, crunchy and downright delicious food,” reads a message attributed to Chester Cheetah, the brand’s fictional mascot, on the restaurant's website. “After years of cooking up dishes infused with my cheesy snacks, I was over the moon to discover that Cheetos connoisseurs had started sharing and liking their own.”
The message continued, “All of the Cheetos sushi rolls, Cheetos bagels and cheesy Cheetos pizzas gave me a brilliant idea: recruit the most dangerously cheesy celebrity chef, Anne Burrell, to help elevate my almost-purrfect Cheetos recipes for the very first Cheetos restaurant, The Spotted Cheetah.”
Would-be patrons may still have a shot at tasting the offerings of the Cheeto-themed menu, however. A Spotted Cheetah Digital Cookbook is available for  free download on the restaurant's website.
The Spotted Cheetah is located at 211 West Broadway in New York. A representative for the Spotted Cheetah did not immediately return International Business Times’ request for comment.
The Spotted Cheetah's waiting list has reportedly already amassed more than 1,000 individuals hoping to get a seat. Photo: The Spotted Cheetah


UPS announced Tuesday its plans to incorporate virtual reality (VR) technology into its training program for new drivers, according to CNN. New drivers will reportedly not be allowed to step foot behind the wheel until they can successfully pass.
VR will help to provide drivers with a more realistic training experience by allowing trainees the ability to drive the company's 10,000-pound truck through advanced technology. Trainees will understand how to maneuver in UPS trucks on city streets as they learn how to spot road hazards. The tests are slated to last roughly three to six minutes.
UPS shared a video about its training program to the company's YouTube page, which was also promoted through UPS' Twitter account. The package delivery company claims its method will use VR technology to help enhance driver safety.
The video's caption explains that UPS has decided to push the use of VR in its training program because the company wants to use "the latest and best technology to protect its on-road employees and the communities they serve."
"The headset is realistic down to the finest details. We're using #virtualreality to teach driver safety training," UPS said in a tweet Tuesday.
The headset is realistic down to the finest details. We're using #virtualreality to teach driver safety training. https://t.co/UtCRS7fR0H
— UPS (@UPS) August 15, 2017
A UPS representative issued a statement to International Business times Tuesday about this newly implemented company policy from Laura Collings, who serves as a training and development manager for the company. 
"UPS is completely committed to driver safety. We have been for more than 100 years," Collings said. "That's why we use the best and latest technology to ensure the best training for our drivers. Our goal is to have the safest drivers on the road."
Collins added, "VR headsets will replace the touchscreen devices we currently use to teach student drivers about road hazards. VR is far more realistic, engaging and memorable. This technology is a big step forward in driver safety. We are studying applications for Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality in other types of training as well as for use in our operation."
The VR program will be executed at all nine of UPS Integrad training facilities in the United States. UPS Intergrad has training facilities located in Atlanta, Georgia and West Boylston, Massachusetts, among seven other cities nationwide. 
UPS recognized they needed to enhance its training program to engage new employees, especially those in younger age demographics. The UPS Integrad fact sheet reads, "We realized that we needed to make an adjustment when our younger drivers began needing significantly more time to become proficient in the required skills, and more of them were leaving the company during their initial training period."
"The VR rollout to the nine UPS Integrad locations starts in September. It won't be all at once. But it will be pretty fast. It may take a couple of months," Kyle Peterson, a press representative for UPS, told IBT Tuesday.
UPS isn't the only company that is using VR technology to train its employees. According to Business Insider, multinational retailer Walmart announced in June that it will begin to use VR headsets to prepare employees across the US for the job. Walmart, who launched its first training academy in 2016, reportedly plans to implement this training practice by the end of the year. 
UPS, pictured October 24, 2014, won't allow new drivers to drive company trucks until the pass the VR training course.  Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


Airbnb announced Tuesday its decision to place a permanent ban on white supremacists from booking lodging through its services, according to The Independent. 
Airbnb co-founder Nathan Blecharczyk confirmed the new policy in an interview with Bloomberg TV. Blecharczyk's announcement comes on the heels of the violent protests that broke out among alt-right supporters and counter-protesters in Charlottesville, Virginia over the weekend. The co-founder asserted that his company will cancel reservations after he was alerted to a large gathering of white supremacists in Charlottesville. 
Blecharczyk told Bloomberg TV that the "hate displayed this week has been shocking."
"We make every one of our users sign a pledge when they sign up that they will not discriminate and exhibit hatred," he added. "Whenever we become aware of such examples they are permanently banned from [the] platform."
According to BuzzFeed, Airbnb will not only ban alt-right supporters from making reservations, but the company has begun the process of deactivating the accounts of said individuals.  
A statement on Airbnb's new policy change was issued to International Business Times Tuesday from the company's CEO Brian Chesky. Chesky said "the violence, racism and hatred demonstrated by Neo-Nazis, the alt-right, and white supremacists should have no place in this world."
"Earlier this month, we learned that some people were organizing to stay in and hold a series of after parties at several Airbnb listings while in town to attend this terrible event," Chesky said. "As we explained to members of the media who contacted us last week, we require those who are members of the Airbnb community to accept people regardless of their race, religion, national origin, ethnicity, disability, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, or age."
Chesky added, "When we see people pursuing behavior on the platform that would be antithetical to the Airbnb Community Commitment, we take appropriate action. In this case, last week, we removed these people from Airbnb. Airbnb will continue to stand for acceptance and we will continue to do all we can to enforce our community commitment."
Jason Kessler, a blogger and organizer of the "Unite the Right" rally in Charlottesville, noticed Airbnb's new policy change leading up to the protest. He took to Twitter August 7 to encourage his followers to boycott Airbnb because he saw the company's actions as a violation of white supremacists' civil rights and alleged that "free speech and civil rights under attack" by Airbnb. 
Kessler said in the Twitter video post, "You see this thing going that's going on with Airbnb. Anybody who is not just in the alt-right, but who is conservative, right-wing or cares about civil liberties should start boycotting Airbnb. Airbnb are canceling people's reservations to stay in Charlottesville ... based on political ideology."
Free speech and civil rights under attack by #Charlottesville government & AirBnb #UniteTheRight https://t.co/mVP7VKgSQN
— Jason Kessler (@TheMadDimension) August 7, 2017
Airbnb Community Commitment, which launched in 2016, is signed by all people who choose to use its services. The community guidelines entail that the company plans "to fight bias and discrimination in the Airbnb community." Its decision to ban white supremacists from utilizing its services falls in line with Airbnb's Community Commitment agreement.
The policy claims that if users choose to opt out of the agreement, they "will not be able to host or book using Airbnb and will have the option to cancel your account. Once an account is canceled, future booked trips will be canceled." According to the agreement, users can, however, be reinstated. The policy states that "if in the future you accept the commitment to inclusion, you’re welcome to come back."
Airbnb, pictured April 21, 2015, bans white supremacists from using its services. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


Kim Kardashian’s wildly successful KKW Beauty line is bracing for the release of a new product: Powder Contour & Highlight Kits dropping August 22. Ahead of next week’s launch, the 36-year-old beauty mogul told fans in a series of Snapchats that they’re “stressing me the f—k out” in response to criticism of her makeup swatches.
“Okay guys, I get it. I didn’t know how to f—ing swatch powders before at the beginning,” Kardashian said. “I’m learning, but you’re stressing me the f—k out.”
She added, “At least the product — at least we can back it up. Just wait until you get it. You’ll be pleasantly surprised. I’m not worried.”
The “Keeping Up with the Kardashians” star shared the Snaps while preparing for a shoot with Mario Dedivanovic, her close friend and KKW collaborator. The beauty maven posted the Snaps in response to critics who pointed out that Kardashian had poorly swatched her Powder Contour & Highlight Kits in previous videos.
#kim #kimkardashian #kimkardashianwest #newyork #london #paris #kkw #losangeles #kuwtk #kardashians #lifestyle #beauty #glam #makeup #mua #makeuptutorial #contour #contouring #highlight #kkwbeauty #swatch #makeupbymario
A post shared by Kim Kardashian Snapchats _ (@kimksnapchats) on Aug 14, 2017 at 9:45pm PDT
Ahead of the launch of her Powder Contour & Highlight Kits, Kardashian came under fire Tuesday for defending past racist comments made by beauty blogger Jeffree Star, with whom Kardashian has worked in the past. Star  wrote on Twitter that Kardashian’s swatches for the new product looked like “chalk.” Kardashian on Monday came to his defense in a series of Snapchats.
“Guys, I see that my fans are totally hating on someone like Jeffree Star for being, you know honest about my struggle swatches,” she said. “But because of his remarks I'm learning from the best, like from Mario, how to swatch properly.”
Fans were quick to point to Star’s past racist commentary while also noting that both Kardashian’s children and husband are African American.
“Kim K., like so many other white women who have black children/spouses, has the luxury of overlooking racism when it's convenient for her,”  wrote one Twitter user.
Another user  tweeted, “Can someone tell Kim K that having a black husband and biracial kids doesn't make her the authority on what black people should forgive.”
Kardashian apologized Tuesday for telling fans to look beyond Star’s racist commentary.
“I really wanted to apologize to you guys and my fans for defending a situation that I didn’t know enough about,” she said. “I just feel a bit naive and I do really want to apologize for me feeling like I had the right say ‘get over it’ in a situation that involves racism. I don’t really feel like I have the right to speak on that. I really, really, really am sorry.”
Kim&#39;s Apology &amp; Explanation In Regards To Jeffree Star Commentg Last Night 1 of 2 #kim #kimkardashian #kimkardashianwest #newyork #london #paris #kkw #losangeles #kuwtk #kardashians #lifestyle #beauty #glam #makeup #mua #makeuptutorial #contour #contouring #highlight #kkwbeauty #jeffreestar #sorry
A post shared by Kim Kardashian Snapchats _ (@kimksnapchats) on Aug 15, 2017 at 9:25am PDT


In 2015, then-Gov. Mike Pence made the controversial decision to keep the Indiana Toll Road under the control of a consortium of private corporations, which was  represented by a local lobbying firm that had funneled large donations to Pence’s gubernatorial campaign. This year, the same lobby firm signed up to press the Donald Trump administration on behalf of IFM Investors — the same foreign company that Pence originally approved to run the toll road consortium.
In fact, documents reviewed by International Business Times show the lobbying firm that bankrolled Pence has been in direct contact with the vice president on federal infrastructure policy. The firm has lobbied Pence on behalf of Melbourne-based IFM as Pence has  explicitly extolled IFM in his work spearheading a White House plan to privatize roads, bridges and airports. That trillion-dollar initiative, which Trump is scheduled to promote on Tuesday and which could  enrich foreign investors, comes as Trump has  said he is focused on “putting America first.”
In response to IBT's questions, White House spokesperson Natalie Strom said in a written statement that Trump “has made it clear that his priority is investment in American infrastructure” and that White House staff “welcome foreign companies who recognize that under President Trump, building American infrastructure is a good investment.” She pointed to a January  memorandum pushing for the use of American steel in future pipeline projects.
Last week, an IBT investigative  report documented how Pence, in 2015, rejected local counties’ bid to reclaim the 155-mile-long Indiana Toll Road, after the private consortium operating it declared bankruptcy. In making that decision, he also rejected Democratic U.S. Sen. Joe Donnelly’s  request that he consider having the state disband the private consortium and take back the road. State records reviewed by IBT show Pence received more than  $116,000 from Bose, McKinney & Evans LLP — the parent company of Bose Public Affairs Group LLC, which served as the  lobbying  firm for the consortium.
Fast forward less than two years later: Only weeks after Pence was sworn in as vice president, and had  visited Australia to pitch foreign investors on the Trump administration’s privatization plan, Bose  registered to lobby for IFM in Washington. The company lobbied specifically on “infrastructure investment,” a gig that netted Bose  $80,000 so far this year.
In subsequent federal documents filed as Pence continued to advocate for privatization, Bose  listed “Vice President of the U.S.” as one of the people it contacted on behalf of IFM in its lobbying on the Trump administration’s “plan as it related to publicly-stated infrastructure investment.” Bose has also expressly lobbied Pence on other issues, such as health care policy, on behalf of the insurance giant UnitedHealth Group, other  filings show.
Lisa Gilbert, the vice president of legislative affairs at the consumer rights advocacy group Public Citizen, said while Pence’s connection to the firms was “unsavory” and “raises red flags,” no conflict-of-interest or ethics rules had been breached, and the use of such ties is a commonality in Washington.
“The vice president absolutely has influence on policy,” she said, when asked whether IFM and Bose’s specific targeting of Pence was unusual. “That in itself is not shocking, nor is it shocking that they’d lobby him directly because of their past relationship.”
In a crowded market for infrastructure, she noted, the potential beneficiaries will do what they can to get ahead of the competition.
In a statement, IFM Executive Director Tom Osborne asserted that “infrastructure procurement involving the private sector is generally subject to significant probity processes, which ensure that governments of all levels are selecting the best value-for-money proposals from competitive fields of bidders.” Osborne did not address questions related to Pence’s history with the firm, or its lobbyist’s history with Pence, and whether that raised conflicts-of-interest or ethics concerns, or how IFM is working with the White House to shape infrastructure policy.
Bose did not immediately return requests for comment from IBT, nor did Pence’s office.
During Pence’s April visit to Australia — which took place during the same quarter in which Bose reported that it had lobbied Pence — the vice president explicitly  promoted IFM, and as recently as June, representatives for Australian firms like IFM have returned the favor,  paying the White House visits to try to influence the administration’s infrastructure initiative. IFM’s chief executive openly acknowledged his firm’s attempts to benefit from the White House’s infrastructure policy plans, telling a  newspaper that his corporation wants to invest in American infrastructure under the privatization plan that Pence has been pitching..
In addition to federal records stating IFM directly appealed to Pence when lobbying on infrastructure, another  filing shows — through its other main lobbyist, Mayer Brown LLP — IFM lobbied the National Economic Council. The council’s director, Gary Cohn,  previously served as president and chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs, another frequent participant in public-private partnership infrastructure projects. Goldman raked in  millions of dollars in fees for its work on the original 2006 deal to privatize the Indiana Toll Road.
Bose and IFM are not the only foreign corporate interests linked to Indiana that have been lobbying the Trump administration on its infrastructure privatization plan.
Sydney, Australia-based Macquarie Group — the investment firm that partnered with Goldman on, and bankrupted, the Indiana Toll Road — is also pushing its infrastructure agenda in Washington. And it has good reason to: As a previous IBT  report on public-private infrastructure projects found, Macquarie has been a leading investor in similar projects in Dallas, Denver and Norfolk, Va. and in a bridge connecting New York’s Staten Island to northeast New Jersey.
A federal lobbying  form for the second quarter of this year showed Macquarie, through the firm K&L Gates LLP, lobbied the House, Senate and Department of Transportation on “issues related to asset recycling,” a common term for infrastructure privatization. A former Macquarie executive, DJ Gribbin, now works on infrastructure policy at Trump’s NEC. He previously  served  as the Department of Transportation’s general counsel and as chief counsel of the Federal Highway Administration under President George W. Bush.
Spanish transportation infrastructure giant Cintra SA, another member of the bankrupted Indiana Toll Road consortium, has also been busy on the lobbying front. This year, Cintra paid SB Capitol Solutions close to $40,000 to lobby on “legislation, authorization and appropriations bills related to issues of private company financing for transportation infrastructure,”  lobbying  forms show.
Cintra, along with its parent company, Ferrovial SA,  is a member of the Association for the Improvement of American Infrastructure (AIAI).  Documents reviewed by IBT show that group lobbied Trump’s White House, the National Economic Council and the Department of Transportation to “increase federal financial incentives for the use of public-private partnerships for infrastructure” and “support for the greater use of public-private partnerships for infrastructure projects in policy proposals from the presidential administration.”
The group also  lobbied to “streamline and expedite environmental reviews for infrastructure projects,” a priority that is expected to be  enshrined by Trump’s infrastructure-related executive order on Tuesday.
AIAI’s lobbying went through the public-private partnerships-focused firm ThinkP3 LLC — which is  run  by former Republican congressional staffers.
“There is certainly a race to be a part of the infrastructure plans that the White House is creating,” Gilbert, of Public Citizen, said. “The list of unfunded plans is massive.”
Asked whether IFM, Bose, Macquarie, Cintra, Goldman and others’ connections to leaders in the White House provided their lobbyists with an advantage, Gilbert added, “any relationship gives you an edge.”


An official in Richland County, South Carolina, raised some eyebrows for a comment he made at a staff meeting in which he told his employees to end their lives. He was later forced to resign.
Assistant County Administrator Kevin Bronson made the comment to the emergency medical service people he oversees after they complained about their working conditions.
“If it’s that bad, you can leave. You can leave or go kill yourself,” Bronson told his employee Saturday, according to WSOC, an ABC news affiliate in Charlotte, North Carolina.
“The room erupted in emotion,” an employee, who asked to remain anonymous, told WSOC. “People were crying. People were yelling at him. One, we just lost a deputy because of suicide. Two, I don't think he understands the gravity of the situation. We're not here for the money, we're here because we love what we do .”
The meeting had around 100 people in it.
Bronson handed in his letter of resignation Monday after his comments caused a firestorm among emergency service personnel, firefighters and police, according to WCSC, a CBS news affiliate in Charleston, South Carolina.
“My disrespectful words hurt and offended many people in the Richland County Government, especially the EMS workers, EMS workers across this country and surviving friends and families of loved ones of suicide,” Bronson wrote. “I am sorry … (it was a) horrible and terrible thing for me to say.”
Bronson said in the statement that he had hoped to stay in the position to right his actions but deemed that inappropriate.
Richland County Administrator Gerald Seals also released a statement condemning the comments.
“While public recounting of the incident has been mischaracterized, the fact that such comments were made will not be tolerated. Although this Assistant Administrator promptly apologized, more needed to be done — and he has been disciplined. On behalf of Richland County, I also apologize for what happened and regret that an employee in the Administrator’s Office spoke in such a manner,” said Seals.


Air Berlin announced Tuesday it was filing for insolvency after its main shareholder, Etihad Airways, said it would no longer support the company financially. Air Berlin said it would continue operating its flights despite the court filing.
Insolvency occurs when a corporation can no longer pay its debts and meet its financial obligations with lenders. It refers to the financial state of the organization, whereas bankruptcy refers to the actual legal process that attempts to resolve insolvency.
“Etihad has notified Air Berlin of the fact of the fact that it will not provide any further financial support,” Air Berlin said in a statement Tuesday. “The board of directors of Air Berlin PLC has, after close evaluation, determined that Air Berlin PLC has no longer a positive continuation prognosis.”

Etihad said it decided to withdraw funding from Air Berlin after the German carrier’s operations deteriorated at an “unprecedented pace,” Bloomberg News reported Tuesday. Air Berlin lost more than $3.1 billion in just over six years.
Two board representatives at Etihad resigned. By filing for insolvency, Air Berlin became the second major European airline to fail in just four months. Etihad Airways also pulled funding from Italian carrier Alitalia in May.
Air Berlin was set to continue its flights by way of an emergency government loan of 150 million euros. Germany’s Economy Minister Brigitte Zypries said the emergency loan should allow the carrier to continue operating for three months, according to Bloomberg News. The loan would also secure the jobs of 7,200 workers while the company decided on its future.
Lufthansa, one of the carrier’s main rivals, was also said to be in talks to buy part of the corporation. Discussions between the two corporations were going well, according to Zypries, who expected a deal to be struck within just a few months.
“Lufthansa has played a canny waiting game over a number of years,” Jonathan Wober, an analyst at the CAPA-Centre for Aviation, told Reuters. “[It] is now well-placed to cherry pick those parts of Air Berlin’s operations that suit it best without buying the whole loss-making enterprise.”
Air Berlin said it would continue operating its flights like these, shown in Berlin Aug. 5, 2017, by way of an emergency government loan. Photo: Getty Images


A local doctor was credited with saving a life this week after he helped a woman who is believed to have overdosed Friday on a Minneapolis-bound Spirit Airlines flight from Boston. Dr. Anil Punjabi, a Boston cardiologist, and a number of other crew and passengers worked to keep the woman alive for 25 minutes as the plane made an emergency landing.
The woman, who was not identified, visited the plane’s lavatory for a lengthy period of time before other passengers alerted crew aboard the flight, Fox-affiliate  WFXT reported Monday. When she returned to her seat, she was slumped over and began turning gray before passengers realized the woman wasn’t breathing. That’s when Punjabi was called to help.
Working with Punjabi, the crew and nurse — as well as an EMT trainee — worked to keep the woman breathing by administering CPR for the better part of half an hour before the plane could safely land. While attempting to keep her alive, they allegedly found a needle hidden in the woman’s bra.
"We were down on the ground within 25 minutes, but at that time she was completely unresponsive,” Punjabi told the station.
He added, “It's not an uncommon sight. Even if you walk around Boston, there are certain areas you know that are affected by this more than others. It was actually pretty shocking that this would happen on a plane.”
Pointing to the prevalence of the opioid epidemic, Punjabi said that Narcan — which is used for opioid overdoses — is a necessary tool for airline staff to be able to effectively treat passengers who suffer overdoses aboard flights.
The number of opioid-related overdoses that resulted in death has more than quadrupled since 1999, according to the Centers For Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The  CDC reported an estimated 91 Americans die daily from an opioid overdose, which includes prescriptions opioids and heroin — but that figure could actually be significantly higher.
As International Business Times  previously reported, the American Journal of Preventive Medicine published a new study earlier this month revealing opioid- and heroin-related deaths nationwide to be 24 percent and 22 percent higher, respectively, than previously recorded.
A representative for Spirit Airlines did not immediately return International Business Times’ request for comment.
A local doctor was credited with saving a life this week after he helped a woman who is believed to have overdosed on a Minneapolis-bound Spirit Airlines flight from Boston. In this photo, a Spirit Airlines plane takes off at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on May 9, 2017 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.  Photo: Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images


Netflix scored a major win Monday, stealing Shonda Rhimes, creator of shows like “Grey’s Anatomy” and “Scandal,” away from ABC. Rhimes, in a multiyear deal, will produce new series and projects for the streaming service.
Specifics of the deal, which include bringing over Rhimes' production company, Shondaland, weren’t disclosed, but is likely in excess of $40 million. The Wall Street Journal, who first reported the deal, said Rhimes was making over $10 million a year in her four-year deal with ABC. The new contract’s timeline is similar, but worth more, Deadline reporter Nellie Andreeva wrote Monday.
Carnegie Mellon University information systems professor Rahul Telang didn’t want to speculate on a number, but said the writer would likely earn a large sum of money. A major move like this was predictable for Netflix. “This was likely to happen. The market is getting more competitive,” said Telang to International Business Times Monday.
ABC’s parent company, Disney, announced last week it would pull it’s movies from Netflix and will start its own streaming service around Disney, and another one around another one of its properties, ESPN.
Netflix spent $5 billion on content last year and is expected to spend over $6 billion this year. In addition to Rhimes, Netflix hooked David Letterman for a show and acclaimed directors Joel and Ethan Coen to create a Western show for Netflix.
Amazon’s streaming service is also spending a great deal of money on content like inking a $50 million deal earlier this year for the right to carry 10 Thursday night NFL games. Last year, Amazon spent over $3 billion on content, according to USA Today.
How long it will last for companies to spend so much on content remains to be seen.
“The more they spend the more they need to recoup,” said Thom Gencarelli, chair of the communications department at Manhattan College, to International Business Times Monday. “In the long run they will need to figure out how much the need to charge subscribers … and it comes down to how much people are willing to pay.”
For artists, the appeal of the streaming service is money and creative liberty. Without advertisers, Netflix producers have full artistic license — unrestrained by television censorship for nudity or violence. Netflix also doesn’t have commercial breaks, so shows don’t need to run on a rigid network clock like they would on ABC. More, episodes in a series don’t have to be the same length.
“They made her an offer she couldn’t refuse … and she will have full creative control without a network looking over her shoulder,” said Gencarelli.
Rhimes said that freedom was one aspect of why she took the deal.
“I was looking for — the opportunity to build a vibrant new storytelling home for writers with the unique creative freedom and instantaneous global reach provided by Netflix’s singular sense of innovation,” said Rhimes in a press release from Netflix.
Rhimes began Shondaland in 2005 with her producing partner, Betsy Beers, who will also move over to Netflix from ABC. Shondalfand’s first major hit was “Grey’s Anatomy,” which still runs on the channel. Rhime’s ABC shows will stay on the channel for now. She had a little over a year left in her contract with ABC, who allowed her to sign with Netflix.
Rhime’s publicist and representation did not respond for comment. Spokespersons for Netflix said they had nothing more to add beyond the press release.​


Following the death of a longtime Spirit Airlines baggage handler, his widow is suing the airline over his injury. Nazem Amine was 88 years old when he suffered a hernia in 2015 after lifting 500 pieces of luggage in a single shift. Amine died in July at the age of 90 from a heart attack. His wife, Siham Amine, said Spirit was responsible for the downward spiral of his health that ultimately resulted in his death.
Nazem had worked as a handler for Spirit for 16 years when he had a hernia. His 53-year-old wife filed a federal lawsuit in January when her husband was still alive but in a wheelchair, seeking compensation for medical expenses resulting from his hospitalization for a hernia, congestive heart failure and colitis.
The airline, however, said the Michigan Workers Compensation Board had not yet ruled on whether the heart attack was caused by the hernia, and additionally, that the compensation board had already paid the medical bills related to the hernia.

“We got not one apology from workers’ compensation or Spirit Airlines,” his son, Mike Amine, told the Detroit Free Press. “My dad never got to win at this… He never got his day in court… I feel like they did him wrong.”
The family said its patriarch was in great condition until suffering a hernia during his strenuous shift. A former Bronze medal winning Olympic wrestler, Nazem insisted on working well into his old age.
“He would say, ‘I don’t want anyone taking care of me. I want to take care of myself,’” Mike Amine told the Detroit Free Press. “Not only did he work full time, he worked overtime. And he didn’t just meet and greet people. This guy actually moved 500 pieces of luggage — in a day. That’s the kind of dedication he had to work.”
His widow is seeking $721,000 from Spirit Airlines, according to the lawsuit. Half of that would go toward Medicare.
“He was a worker. He was a go-getter. He wanted to bring home a paycheck,” said the Amine’s lawyer, Bryan Schefman. “Any guy who is 88 years old and can lift 500 bags seems to be in pretty good health. He died from secondary complications relating the complete meltdown of his physical status.”


Passengers aboard a recent Southwest Airlines flight competed in a “toilet paper race” orchestrated by flight attendants for the airline. The competition — which pitted the aisles against each other for a chance to be the first to deplane — was captured on video by one of the flight’s passengers and was posted to Facebook earlier this month.
Marcie Villarreal was a passenger on the flight from Raleigh to Denver and recorded the event mid-competition. In a 24-second clip posted to Facebook, passengers could be seen gently unrolling toilet paper passed from the front of the cabin to the back. Flight attendants could be heard commentating in the background over the flight’s intercom.

“I've been flying different airlines my whole life, and just when I think I've seen it all, your flight attendants decide to do a ‘toilet paper race,’” wrote Villarreal‎ in the video’s caption. “[H]ands down the funnest flight ever and I was even traveling with my baby. You rock, Southwest! Keep doing what you're doing!”
In a statement to International Business Times, a Southwest Airlines representative said: “We encourage our creative flight attendants have fun with customers and love that they help customers have a great time onboard.”
The video, which was shared to airline’s official Facebook page August 2, was liked nearly 7,000 times, was shared by 1,700 users and garnered well over 500 comments. Many commenters shared their experiences while flying with Southwest Airlines, and an overwhelming majority praised the airline for its service.
“Southwest has fun and creative employees always a treat when I fly with them,” wrote one user.
“I was on a flight to Seattle and we did the same thing! Love Southwest!” another person wrote, revealing that this is perhaps not the first occasion that the pastime has been used on the carrier’s flights.
A third individual wrote, “Before reading the entire post I thought this was just another fight on the plane!!! I am glad I had the wrong assumption! This looks so much fun, love it!!!”
“Good speed. Great form,” Southwest Airlines wrote Friday when it shared Villarreal‎’s video on its Facebook page. “These Passengers may have a future in professional toilet paper roll racing.”


Starting Monday, a Tesla Tiny House showcasing the company’s energy offerings will tour Australia. It will be towed by a Model X car and powered fully by renewable energy and show how the company’s Powerwall and solar tiles can power an entire home.
“We want to bring the Tesla Tiny House to you, so you can fully experience what it means to be self-powered. Our next stop could be in your town, tell us where you'd like to see us,” the company stated on its website.
The Tesla Tiny House is an endeavor by the company to educate the public on generating, storing and using renewable energy for homes.
The Tiny House weighs 2 tonnes and measures 6 meters x 2.2 meters x 4 meters. It gets 2 kilowatts of energy from a system of 6 panels using a single Tesla Powerwall unit. The exterior of the house is made with locally sourced, chemical free sustainable timber. The interior comprises of a design studio and a configurator, which will let customers calculate their home needs. The Tiny House will also have Tesla staff at hand to answer questions.
It already has a booked schedule, which includes the Australian cities of Melbourne, Brisbane and Sydney.
A Tesla spokesperson told Electrek Sunday, “The tour is designed to provide a one-on-one educational experience on how to integrate Powerwall and solar to seamlessly power an entire home 24/7, allowing Australian consumers to gain control and understanding of their power use.”
But, why is this product showcase touring Australia and not the United States, the prime market for Tesla products? The company has not explained this yet. But, chances are Tesla is targeting Australia since it has the world’s largest penetration of rooftop solar power with 15 percent of the 1.5 million households.
Tesla has just started showcasing its offerings and isn’t yet offering its products in Australia since, SolarCity, which it acquired last year only provided its services in U.S. and Mexico. The possibility is that depending on demand, Tesla may soon start offering solar installations in Australia.
The company is also setting up commercial offerings in Australia and is in the process of setting up a 100 megawatts/129 megawatt-hours energy storage. The facility, set up in South Australia will be the world's largest lithium-ion facility. Tesla CEO Elon Musk has promised to deliver a large-scale Powerpack system to the government of South Australia in 100 days or make it free.
Tesla has been diversifying into markets other than the U.S. for a long time and given the present administration’s stance on renewable energy, it makes sense for the company to do so.
The company revealed plans to set up Gigafactories in China and Europe in its earnings call on Aug. 3. The company has also set up an increased focus on solar and will be powering all its Supercharging stations for its cars with solar energy.
Tesla’s solar technology has a large potential globally, with large countries such as India and China not just interested in producing solar energy but actively working towards its mass production.


DineEquity (NYSE:DIN), the parent company of Applebee’s and IHOP announced it would be closing up to 160 restaurants Thursday in a bid to shore up profits. It will also bring in a new chief. One of the reasons the company feels that its profits are down was a failed attempt to win over millennial diners.
“Over the past few years, the brand’s set out to reinvent Applebee’s as a modern bar and grill in overt pursuit of a more youthful and affluent demographic,” said John Cywinski, president of Applebee’s in a call with analysts this week. “(It was) a clear pendulum swing toward millennials.”
WATCH: American Airlines Flight Hit By Turbulence, Aisle Littered With Drinks, Food
DineEquity felt that by pushing so hard for a new millennial demographic, it alienated its “Middle America” core demographic.
“I think, in retrospect, we may have tried too hard to attract new guests. That left some of our fans shaking their heads, asking ‘What happened to Applebee’s?’” Patrick Lenow, a spokesman for DineEquity told the Washington Post Friday.
Applebee’s plans on returning its attention to “value-seekers” and “traditionalists.” The company wants to bring some older popular menu items and dump new ones such as a turkey sandwich with sriracha chile lime sauce, according to the Washington Post. Applebee’s wants to bring back all-you-can-eat specials and will focus on discounts like the “2 for $20” special.
READ: Lyft And Taco Bell Offer New Late-Night Ride And Food Service
In the second quarter this year, DineEquity pulled in $20.9 million, down from $26.4 million in the same quarter last year. Stephen P. Joyce will lead the company starting in September. Joyce previously was the CEO of Choice Hotels.
DineEquity aims to close around 135 Applebee’s locations and around 25 IHOP locations out of its 3,700 franchises. DineEquity hopes to close underperforming locations that possibly damage the brand and older locations. According to Grub Street Thursday, the company also seeks to open 20 to 30 new Applebee’s, mostly overseas, and 80 to 95 IHOP locations in the U.S. The new locations might help off set job losses from the closing. The company overall employs 28,000 people.


United Airlines came under fire once again this week as news broke that a 5-year-old Cavalier King Charles Spaniel named Lulu  died in the cargo hold on a flight from Houston to San Francisco. The family of the dog said the plane was held on the tarmac for two hours August 6, on which day temperatures reached  above 90 degrees in the city. In an exclusive interview with International Business Times, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) responded to the dog’s death.
“It’s tragic,” Daphna Nachminovitch, a PETA spokesperson, said of Lulu’s death. “Our hearts go out to the family and obviously the dog.”
Details of the dog’s cause of death remained unclear Saturday. However, Nachminovitch was quick to point to reports that named United Airlines as the most frequent offender in animal deaths on flights, which federal law requires carriers to report. Nachminovitch added, “The bottom line is that animals are not luggage, so we don’t want to see them put in cargo.”
Read:  Dog Dies In United Airlines Plane Cargo Hold After 2-Hour Tarmac Delay
PETA noted the importance of pet owners in educating themselves about what occurs while animals are being transported by airlines. In the case of Lulu, the Rasmussen family claimed the  animal was cleared for travel by a veterinarian before the trip. But the family couldn’t have accounted for the two-hour delay on the tarmac while their flight awaited departure from the George Bush Intercontinental Airport, at which time PETA said the dog should have been removed from the cargo hold.
“It’s really important for people to educate themselves on what’s happened in the past with airlines — on this dog’s tragic death, obviously, given that there was a delay,” Nachminovitch said. “The airline should have absolutely gotten the dog out of cargo without delay. A dog is not a suitcase.”
“In addition to the absolute terror of being in cargo and being handled like cargo, obviously conditions in cargo are not suitable for a living being,” she added. “There are a few airlines that have stopped offering that service and only offer in-cabin transport, and that is absolutely what we suggest people do. Cargo can mean the difference between life and death.”
Nachminovitch specifically addressed Lulu’s breed — one that has a snub nose — as being at high-risk in cargo holds as a result of its shorter air passages. She named pugs, boxers and other breeds with similar facial structures as being equally vulnerable in extreme weather conditions.
PETA acknowledged that there are size restrictions to animals that are able to enter airline cabins with their owners — perhaps with an exception being service animals — and that such restrictions may vary between carriers. But Nachminovitch noted that an alternative to flying an animal in cargo would be to leave the pet with a trustworthy guardian, or depending on the travel distance, to drive rather than fly.
United Airlines issued a public apology after news of the dog’s death and claimed that an internal review was underway.
“We are so sorry to learn of Lulu's passing and have reached out to our customer to offer our condolences and assistance,” the airline said in a statement issued to IBT. “We are deeply upset any time an animal suffers an injury while traveling with us and especially grieved in the rare instance that one passes away. We are conducting a thorough review of this incident.”
“The only effective way to keep animals safe is not to fly them in cargo — plain and simple,” Nachminovitch told IBT of United Airlines’ announcement of a “thorough review.” She pointed to the widely  publicized incident of a rabbit dying while being transported by United Airlines earlier this year as reason to be wary of any significant changes to its policies on animal handling.
Read: United Airlines Rabbit Dies On Flight After Celebrity Bought World's Largest Bunny
“According to the statistics that are publicly available, [United Airlines appears] to be responsible for one-third of all animal deaths on U.S. flights in the last five years. And that’s a very, very high rate,” Nachminovitch said.
PETA estimated that 53 animals, excluding Lulu, died on flights between January 2012 and February 2017. A  report from the U.S. Department of Transportation issued in February found that United Airlines had the highest number of animal deaths during transport last year at nine. On its  website, the animal rights organization estimated that “more than 300 animals have died in cargo holds since 2005, including 74 on United flights.”
“The most important thing for people to know is this is not an isolated incident. This has happened frequently over the last few years. It will continue to happen,” said Nachminovitch. “Our advice to travelers is please don’t let the next death be your dog or your cat.”
In an exclusive interview with International Business Times, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) responded to the death of a dog while in the care of United Airlines. In this photo, a United Airlines aircraft passes by a Continental Airlines aircraft as it taxis to takeoff from the runway of Ronald Reagan National Airport August 16, 2006 in Washington, DC. Photo: Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images


A man who posted a picture of his grilled cheese lobster roll aboard an American Airlines flight later went viral after he wrote a scathing review about the quality of the dish. Travel blogger Ben Schlappig wrote a blog Thursday about the airline’s food, and American Airlines on Friday issued an apology and stated the food was “not up to our standards.”
In a piece on his travel blog One Mile at a Time, Schlappig wrote, “I’m actually being too generous with the title in calling it a ‘lobster roll.’ It was more like a ‘lobster’ ‘roll.’”
Read: Man Sues American Airlines After 14-Hour Flight Next To Obese Passengers
“I have low expectations of American’s catering,” he said. “Yes, even in business class on their ‘premium’ A321 transcon flights. But yesterday I was served what might just be the worst meal I’ve ever been offered in a premium cabin.”
He added, “I was a bit surprised to see a lobster roll on the business class menu between Los Angeles and New York. However, I saw it on the menu before my flight and figured I had to pre-order it, since I was very curious to see how good of a job they’d do preparing it.”
Travel blogger Ben Schlappig wrote a travel blog about the airline’s food on Thursday, and American Airlines responded to the incident in a statement to International Business Times Friday. Photo: Ben Schlappig/One Mile at a Time
Schlappig went on to compare photographs of a lobster roll he ordered while flying in the Etihad Residence with a photograph of the dish he ordered while flying with American Airlines, which was reportedly described as a “lobster roll with sweet potato chips.”
Schlappig said that when the dish was delivered, he “thought there was a mistake.” He described the exchange on his blog:
“I’m sorry, I think there’s a mistake. I ordered the lobster roll.”“Yes, that’s it.”“This is the lobster roll?”“Yes.”
Website Flyer Talk on Twitter dubbed the dish “so gross it went viral.”
American Airlines’ “lobster roll” looks so gross it went viral. https://t.co/9qFdftVovM pic.twitter.com/LwfvglPn6J
&mdash; FlyerTalk (@FlyerTalk) August 11, 2017

“Not that it’s the flight attendant’s fault, but she didn’t seem to have the slightest clue as to how that might be disappointing,” wrote Schlappig. “What was even worse was when I opened the sandwich. There was about as much lobster meat on the sandwich as you’d get in a tub of butter. It sort of tasted like they took soggy pieces of bread and then spread butter with tiny particles of lobster on it.”
Read: American Airlines Flight Reportedly Delayed For Hours Over 'Urine Smell'
Reached by International Business Times for comment regarding the incident, American Airlines said the food was “not up to our standards” and issued an apology to Schlappig.
“We apologize to Mr. Schlappig for his experience,” American Airlines told IBT. “During his flight, he was served the lobster grilled cheese with tomato soup instead of the lobster roll. The meal he was served is not up to our standards and we have shared his feedback with our teams for review.”
Travel blogger Ben Schlappig wrote a travel blog about the airline’s food on Thursday, and American Airlines responded to the incident in a statement to International Business Times Friday. In this photo, American Airlines planes are viewed at Philadelphia International Airport on July 7, 2017 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.  Photo: Photo credit should read DANIEL SLIM/AFP/Getty Images


Hermetise, a high-end European skin care line, reportedly uses kopi luwak (aka cat poop) as a key ingredient in its skin care line, according to Refinery29. 
Hermetise's Kopi Luwak Anti-Pollution Oxygen Brightening Treatment promises to give consumers an age-defying face lift with its 3-step process, which doesn't come cheap. Those willing to invest in the product can purchase the three items individually at $1,660 each or pay $4,994 for all products in the treatment. What makes this treatment so expensive?
SEE ALSO: Kylie Jenner's 'Vacation Edition' Lip Kit: How And When To Score The Collection
Kopi luwak is the most expensive coffee worldwide. The coffee's known benefits include skin firming, reduced inflammation and decreased redness. However, the creation process for this coffee is what makes it more of a rarity.
A Civet — an Asian cat-like mammal — poops out coffee cherries that are then harvested into kopi luwak. However, it's highly-valued in Indonesia because the animal is rare, rather than because of the taste of its fermented coffee. NPR reported in 2012 that the fermentation outcome somewhat resembles an "Oh Henry! bar," but they claim that it's "not even as rare as it used to be" because farmers have implemented unethical harvesting practices.
According to a press release Hermetise obtained by Bustle, "The Civet likes to eat cherry beans and while they love the taste, they are unable to break down the seed during digestion which produces a particular fermentation. When the Civet does his, 'business' what is left is newly fermented beans which farmers then collect, wash, dry, sort, and finally roast them into this expensive and extraordinary coffee."
Hermetise's treatment combines 24k gold, advanced oxygen and age-defying ingredients alongside its kopi luwak infusion to create what it describes as a strong age treatment. On the website, the brand claims the product is "designed to clear and protect skin from environmental pollutants by delivering potent film-forming, water-holding and soothing effects."
SEE ALSO: 10 Skin Care Myths That Need Clearing Up
Reviews have been left for the treatment on the product's page and appeared to show that consumers believed the kopi luwak treatment is worth the investment. Feedback on the skin care line is viewable from January 2017 onward, with no reviews hitting below four stars.
"This is my go to skincare product for a smoother, younger looking skin," one customer wrote in the reviews section. "Massaging this gel into the skin is so satisfying and relaxing. It has great age defying properties. I totally love this product because my skin has never felt this younger and radiant.."
Another customer claimed they are getting their money's worth, saying, "I have been using the product for a month now and I love the way it made my skin feel. I feel good about the product using organic ingredients and the scent being subtle but pleasant."
A third reviewer added, "Kopi Luwak Anti-Pollution cream is the new discovery for me and I loved it. The product is the best thing I have ever used. Results appear after one week."
One reviewer claimed to have "deducted" a star for presentation. The customer wrote that the product was "good and effective too. However, I deducted one star because it makes my skin a little bit greasy. Also, the product packaging doesn't look good."
Hermetise isn't the first to create a beauty treatment with feces in it. According to a report from The Huffington Post in 2012, celebrities like Tom Cruise and Victoria Beckham have discovered benefits from receiving bird poop facials.
In a related creation, YouTuber Michelle Phan also showed her followers how to make face masks out of cat litter, which reportedly makes a difference in the clearness of one's complexion.
Cat, pictured July 27, 2010. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


Newsweek is hosting a Structure Security event Sept. 26-27 in San Francisco. Photo: Newsweek Media Group  Most data turns out to have a greater value than the sum of the parts. There's a story about a global courier firm that said it saw a large drop off in its monthly orders at some point in 2007, not too long before the bottom fell out of the global economy. Traditional economic forecasting did not see an issue, but had there been some visibility into trade finance data at that time it would have shown many contracts had been cancelled, affording us some warning of what was ahead.
Macro-economic forecasters and statistical analysts know that trade data provides the most precise window into the global economy there is. Trade finance data has always been a notoriously opaque part in the supply chain, but we are now seeing end-to-end digitisation, as a multitude of banks and software providers test out trade/supply blockchains and other digital platforms.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
Supply chains have traditionally transacted using antiquated processes and physical letters of credit, bills of lading and purchase orders. This is now being rapidly digitalised, making it easy to aggregate and also access.
Christian Lanng, CEO Tradeshift (a trade finance and supply chain solution working with HSBC and Santander), said: "Over the next two to five years we are going to see massive digitalisation of that global trade dataset. It's moving from offline to online. It also means you can trade on it in a whole different way, leverage it in different ways. You can use it for research and in other contexts."
Tradeshift supports over 100 different transacting types, like bills of lading, letters of credit, invoices, purchase orders and more. Lanng said one of the main reasons you are seeing lots of data aggregation is because of cloud computing, which has driven down the cost of the procedure. "All this is built on open powerful platforms. We have open APIs. We can build third party applications that can leverage this data."
Today there's whole industry that revolves around alternative data that can be cleaned and readied for use by alpha-hungry asset managers and hedge funds. But while a company like Visa has one of the most valuable datasets on the planet, it would never reveal transaction data about its customers. The same could be said about Maersk, which has at its fingertips a snapshot of more than half the world's supply chains.
So while the platforming of supply chains and the use of shared ledgers will undoubtedly make this data more immediate and more granular – the question is will it ultimately become more accessible?
Tony Nash, CEO at data analytics firm Complete Intelligence, says trade datasets are a very good proxy of global supply/demand, but trade finance remains a missing piece.
"Trade lets us know exactly what's happening on supply chains, you know exactly what's happening with finished goods. The problem with trade finance today is that there is huge amount of opacity. Individual banks and trade finance firms aren't really that willing to surrender their trade finance data, so anything around trade finance that's public is really estimated.
"I think blockchain will bring some transparency to trade finance and actual aggregate values, and will do it in a much more real time sense. A lot of this information is so far delayed that you don't really know what's going on."
"There isn't a global source for this stuff. We've got goods data; we've got some services data, and all this currency commodity macro data. Trade finance adds a very interesting layer in terms of the timing of impacts and how they impact the cyclical nature of trade."
Those who follow the enterprise blockchain space know that data privacy is sine qua non – as much between participant banks running nodes as anyone else. Professional data collection and curation players are well aware of this fact. But they see the potential and are watching the space closely.
Tammer Kamel, CEO of Quandl, a well-known provider of data insights to the asset management industry, said: "Almost all our hedge fund customers covet supply chain insights. While Quandl has some data now that illuminates part of the picture, gaps remain. Blockchain adoption could well be what throws more light on things.
"That said, most supply chain participants have strong incentives to keep the details of their business operations confidential. In this space, as in others, we are watching blockchain adoptions closely to see what powerful data will emerge as the by-product."
Blockchain technology is very much in the offing and there are likely to be many variations in design as different use cases are fully explored. Amber Baldet, blockchain programme lead at JP Morgan, has overseen the creation of an extremely security-conscious modification of the Ethereum public blockchain called Quorum, which is aimed at enterprise uses. However, she said some blockchain uses – and she used global trade as an example – will likely see lots of value in the future by being spread across very large networks of users.
"Everybody is looking at supply chain on blockchain. If you only want to internalise receivables flows or letters of credit – markets between a relatively small number of banks – then you are fine using an enterprise blockchain solution purpose built for a small group of semi-trusted parties," said Baldet.
"But if you think that over time you want to add thousands or millions of end point suppliers to this thing; not only corporates, but perhaps actual vendors making fabrics and very little shops ... any sufficiently adopted sort of permissioned chain starts to look a lot more like a public chain."
This type of blockchain, while not open to the entire world, might become so adopted that we will gradually see security/utility trade-offs. At some point this seems to bleed into the old internet/intranet argument often invoked by opponents of private blockchains.
Jeremy Epstein, CEO of Never Stop Marketing has spent some time thinking about the intersection of big data and blockchains and how this might play out. He sees this phase of blockchain construction as similar to the big excitement in the late 90s around corporate intranets. "Over time, there will be a realisation that the real value is in permissionless, or the internet version of the blockchain. I think what you'll start to see is new supply chains that are being built around these sort of public blockchains," said Epstein.
He pointed out that companies like Google and Facebook lead the way in artificial intelligence and machine learning at the moment partly because they have access to the most data. But that might change with a more open, decentralised internet.
"In the short term, big companies with massive amounts of data are going to have an advantage. But I think eventually we will see the value of the public blockchain; the ease of innovation on top of it, that's the real differentiator.
"Collaboration is going to happen as more and more of these small players start jumping on, creating nodes and micro-niche apps. It could be a Kenyan coffee supply chain node on this global coffee supply chain.
"Big companies can't innovate at the micro level because there it's not valuable or profitable for them. But some entrepreneur in Nairobi can. And all of a sudden the data on public blockchains starts exploding. So if I'm going to analyse what's happening in the global coffee market, I can look at this public blockchain; I can put my AI and machine learning algorithms on top of it," he said.
"The more data wins, and eventually there's going to be more data in the public blockchains. No private organisation or even private ecosystem is going to be able to compete with billions of people."


When SpaceX’s latest cargo mission to the International Space Station (ISS) lifts off Monday, among the rest of its payload will be something that has possible ramifications for future long-term space travel: an experiment to design computers that are resistant, if not immune, to the effects of radiation in space.
Called Spaceborne Computer (SBC), the year-long experiment is a joint effort between NASA and Hewlett Packard Enterprise. It is a supercomputer which HPE has developed for the space agency “to run a high-performance commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) computer system in space,” according to a statement the company sent to International Business Times. “The goal is for the system to operate seamlessly in the harsh conditions of space for one year – roughly the amount of time it will take to travel to Mars,” it added.
This kind of an experiment is important because “radiation is likely to have a number of unanticipated effects on complex computer systems. This experiment helps identify critical failure points in electronic systems, as well as potential software ‘patches’ that can prevent them,” according to NASA. Closer home, it has potential applications on Earth as well, where radiation events like solar flares can endanger computer systems.
TRENDING: Apple Postpones September Launch Of iPhone 8
Canadian Space Agency astronaut Robert "Bob" Thirsk, Expedition 20 Flight Engineer, sets up the A31p for the Iris experiment in the Destiny Laboratory on board the International Space Station. Photo: NASA
On its website, NASA said the experiment will help devise ways to use software to protect the computers aboard ISS and future spacecraft without the need for bulky, expensive shielding for protection from radiation.
“One of the goals of the experiment is to find a set of software parameters that allow the COTS supercomputer to continue to function and produce correct results in the harsh environment of space.  To clarify, nothing at all has been modified with any of the hardware or the open-source operating software.  In order to HARDen with software, several layers of detection, correction, and protection have been created.  Success would be a set of software parameters that produce correct results for a year,” Mark Fernandez, Americas Technology Officer of SGI at HPE, told IBT.
In essence, the experiment will involve the SBC running data-intensive applications, while power consumption is monitored and dynamically tuned. And this will be done on not one but four identical machines, two of which will operate on the ISS and the other two in HPE engineering laboratories in Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, serving as control samples.
After a year on board the ISS, SBC-1 and SBC-2 will return to Earth, where they will be compared with the two Earth-based Computers.
“We then will do the typical failure analysis on Earth that we do with all failed and returned systems.  Maybe an engineering change would prevent such a failure.  Maybe it was a specific vendor and we need to tighten specifications.  All the usual things we do/learn from failed systems in order to make them more reliable in the future. These changes will affect not only space systems but all of the Earth-based systems from HPE,” Fernandez said.
POPULAR NOW: Norovirus Outbreak On Cruise Ship Sickens 91 Passengers
An isometric view of the Spaceborne Computer developed by Hewlett Packard Enterprise for NASA. The computer will go to the International Space Station as an experiment to withstand the effects of radiation on computing using software. Photo: NASA/Hewlett Packard Enterprise
The four super-computers use “2-socket ‘pizza-box’ servers from the HPE Apollo 40 family with Broadwell class processors and a high-speed 56 Gigabit per second interconnect. With a speed of over 1 TeraFLOP, while it's not going to give serious competition to the world’s fastest supercomputer, this really is a supercomputer,” he added, providing the specifications of the machines.
According to NASA, the systems are likely to generate about 5.4 MB of data every day, which will be stored on the solid state disks in the systems. However, the space agency added it was “desirable to download these files daily for safekeeping and analysis.”
Eng Lim Goh of HPE is the principal investigator for the project. It will be sent to the ISS on a SpaceX Dragon spacecraft that is scheduled to take off Aug. 14, aboard a Falcon 9 rocket, from Cape Canaveral, Florida. And this is just the first phase of this experiment, HPE said in its statement.
“Future phases of this experiment will eventually involve sending other new technologies and advanced computing systems, like Memory-DrivenComputing, to the ISS, once we learn more about how the Spaceborne Computer reacts in space. If astronauts are going to make it to Mars one day, they’re going to need the most sophisticated computing system possible at their disposal and we will continue to work towards that,” the company said.


A biography on Elon Musk, the billionaire entrepreneur who runs Tesla and SpaceX, was published in 2015 but seemingly, the man has only just read a copy (or maybe he read it earlier but was provoked now by a Business Insider tweet). And while he called the book “mostly correct,” Musk took issue with some of the anecdotes in it, particularly its depiction of how he parted ways with his long-time assistant Mary Beth Brown.
Titled “Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future,” the biography was written by Ashlee Vance, a business columnist. In the book, Vance said Musk gave his assistant a two-week leave when she asked him for a significant raise, during which time he would assess the nature of her duties. When she returned, Musk told her she was no longer needed, gave her 12 months’ salary as severance package and never spoke to her again. According to the book, Musk offered her another job at the company (SpaceX), but she never returned to the office again.
TRENDING: Apples Postpones September Launch Of iPhone 8
In a series of tweets Thursday night, Musk contested this version of events, calling this one “of all the bogus anecdotes” in the book, the one that “troubles” him the most.




While the barrage of tweets began as a reply to a Business Insider story, Musk also took a shot at TIME for writing a story based on the same anecdote.

Maye Musk, Elon’s mother, got into the fray as well, agreeing with her son and calling some of the book’s contents “glaringly wrong.”

Soon after the book was first published, Musk’s ex-wife Justine Musk wrote about an incident between her and Musk, and without taking sides, compared it with the alleged way in which Mary Beth was fired.
“This reminds me of something similar he once said to me, many years ago, after I came back from a week's visit with my family in Canada -- that his life had operated quite smoothly in my absence.  He was letting me know that I was an incompetent house manager. (He was not wrong.)  So of the different stories I have heard behind MB's departure from SpaceX, this is the one that resonates with me. (Although you would *never* use the word 'incompetent' in association with MB!),” she wrote on Quora.
But it wasn’t all seriousness. Musk made light of some other anecdotes he said were wrongly presented in the book.


POPULAR NOW: Video Shows Stingray Eating A Squid
And when someone asked him what he saw himself as, if not a ninja, his reply implied that among his other talents, Musk is perhaps good at tailoring too.

Another Twitter user asked him if there was a list of “bogus anecdotes” from his biography.

Someone else then asked Musk about updates to his latest venture, the Boring Company that plans to drill tunnels in urban areas to speed up public transport.

With the Tesla Model 3 just rolled out, an upcoming Falcon 9 launch Monday that will carry a Dragon resupply mission to the International Space Station, and the first Falcon Heavy test scheduled for November, Musk has a lot to keep him occupied while he waits for Godot.


A Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurant in downtown Dallas temporarily closed Tuesday after mice were spotted. The mice managed to crawl through a hole in the wall of the 100-year-old building. 
The closure announcement comes on the heels of video footage of the rodent sighting went viral after a Chipotle customer posted it on Twitter. However, the announcement didn't emerge until three weeks after the incident. 
SEE ALSO: How Will Chipotle's Latest Food Crisis Affect Its Earnings?
Quinn Kelsey, communications and public relations manager for Chipotle, issued a statement Thursday to International Business Times about the closing. Chipotle, which has over 2,200 locations, plans to investigate the construction of the building.
"We have temporarily closed the Chipotle restaurant in Dallas’ historic West End District at 208 North Market Street so we can continue to thoroughly assess the construction of this 100-year-old building," Kelsey told IBT. "Employees have been given the option to relocate to nearby Chipotle locations while our teams are evaluating the building.
"We regret any inconvenience and will reopen only when we are certain the building meets all Chipotle standards for operation."
According to the Dallas Morning News, management had removed the rodents from the restaurant. A crew of professional were also recruited to help repair the hole the rodents entered the Chipotle through. 
SEE ALSO: What Is E. Coli? Utah Doctors Refuse To Test For Bacterial Infection Despite Deaths And Possible Outbreak
Twitter user Bahadir Koslei took to Twitter in July to share the footage, saying, "@ChipotleTweets checkout this video of your West End Dallas location. Alive rodents in your restaurant isn't how you do business. @CBS11." His friend also shared the video from the July sighting on Twitter, saying, "My friend @BahadirKoseli took this video at lunch today at Chipotle in Dallas (West End) @ChipotleTweets literally explain this please."
@ChipotleTweets checkout this video of your West End Dallas location. Alive rodents in your restaurant isn't how you do business. @CBS11 pic.twitter.com/abj9JzhBtk
— Bahadir Koseli (@BahadirKoseli) July 18, 2017
A representative of Chipotle responded to Koslei's friends' tweet, saying, "That's concerning. Please contact http://chipotle.com/email-us."
The video footage went viral the day after the post was published on Twitter. Mice in the video are seen moving past a table, crawling up a wall and a third was laying motionless on its side.
The Denver-based company, which was founded in 1993, has come under fire for health code issues, most notably for an E. coli outbreak in 2015.
After the outbreak, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced plans to investigate in  a statement.
"The FDA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) along with state and local officials are investigating two separate outbreaks of E. coli O26 infections that have been linked to food served at Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurants in several states."
Chipotle reportedly closed 43 restaurants in Washington and Oregon after news broke of the initial outbreak.
A norovirus outbreak also plagued the fast food chain in July, which CNN reported that a sick employee was responsible for spreading the infection at a Virginia location.
Small Business Trends reported in July that the outbreak provided a "PR nightmare" that "is far from over."
Chipotle, pictured February 8, 2016, closed in Dallas after mice were spotted in the restaurant.  Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


In an incident that was still being investigated Wednesday, a toilet flush at Orlando International Airport in Florida over the weekend reportedly delayed thousands of travelers. Reports stated that an individual attempted to flush items down the toilet, which caused a backup and subsequent sewage leak.
Carpets were pulled up and a hazmat team was called in to deal with flooding. The  Orlando Sentinel reported Wednesday that normal operations had resumed Tuesday after days of delayed travel. Officials reportedly found that the items flushed included clothing and packets of paper towels.
Read: Naked Models Pose As Flight Attendants In ‘Disgusting’ Ad Promoting Travel Site
Officials said the incident may have occurred after an individual in the international arrivals area of Terminal 1 attempted to flush the contents of a suitcase, ABC affiliate  WFTV reported Wednesday. According to the local station, “The flooding caused passengers flying into Orlando from outside the country to be bused to a customs area on the opposite side of the airport Saturday, Sunday and Monday,” with the aftermath affecting thousands of travelers.
I&#39;m digging into the mystery behind a huge sewage spill at @MCO over the weekend. It affected customs at Airside 1. pic.twitter.com/QCETOyeEvX
&mdash; Field Sutton (@FSuttonWFTV) August 8, 2017

“It was certainly an inconvenience to some, but we moved very quickly,” airport spokeswoman Carolyn Fennell told the Orlando Sentinel. She added that some airplanes that were scheduled to arrive at the terminal were able to be rerouted to other gates to minimize travel delays.
Speaking with WFTV, witness Mike Ortiz said he was held on the tarmac while the incident was being investigated.
“As soon as we landed, they immediately told us that there were problems with the terminal and we would have to sit there on the tarmac for a while,” he said. “There were carpets ripped up and there were floor fans trying to air out what was, I guess, some flooding going on.”
Read: Man Sues American Airlines After 14-Hour Flight Next To Obese Passengers
The Orlando International Airport addressed the incident in a series of tweets Sunday.
As all processing being done through 1 Customs hall, appreciate passenger patience as we work to get you to next step in your journey. 2/2
&mdash; Orlando Intl Airport (@MCO) August 6, 2017

“Peak travel time & a maintenance issue on the Airside 1 Int'l Arrivals Hall is causing processing delays for passengers,” the airport said. “As all processing being done through 1 Customs hall, appreciate passenger patience as we work to get you to next step in your journey.”
The individual who flushed the items down the toilet was not identified Wednesday, and multiple sources reported the airport was working to identify the person responsible. Representatives did not immediately return International Business Times’ request for comment.
A toilet flush at Orlando International Airport in Florida over the weekend reportedly delayed thousands of travelers. In this photo, Passengers wait in line at the low-cost carrier Air Tran ticket counter December 13, 2002 at Orlando International Airport in Orlando, Florida. Photo: Photo by Chris Livingston/Getty Images


BMO Capital Markets, a financial services firm, downgraded Starbucks (NASDAQ: SBUX) shares from outperform to market perform Wednesday after its research showed that there were too many Starbucks. There are, on average, over three Starbucks in a one-mile radius of every other Starbucks.
“Cannibalization likely has increased,” wrote BMO analyst Andrew Strelzik in the company’s analysis. “Strong new store performance appears to be coming — at least in part — at the expense of existing store traffic.”
WATCH: 'Heroic' Customer Tackles Armed Robber At Starbucks
Starbucks opened 650 U.S. stores in the fiscal year 2016. BMO feels that the high number Starbucks locations in a given area are hurting each other’s sales. BMO’s analysis suggests that the pace of U.S. development should slow down.
“Seventy-five percent of Starbucks locations in California now have a store within a one-mile radius,” Strelzik told CNBC Wednesday. “There are now 3.6 Starbucks locations within a one-mile radius of the typical Starbucks in the U.S. relative to 3.3 and 3.2 stores in 2014 and 2012 respectively.”
California represents Starbucks’ largest market accounting for 20 percent of its U.S. stores. In New York, there is an average of 23.5 Starbucks within a one-mile radius of any given Starbucks.
Starbucks, however, said in an investor conference call in July that it feels that it isn’t facing cannibalization from oversaturation.
“We're able to track quite accurately the cannibalization results that happened from those new stores, and what we've seen over many years is very, very little impact of net new cannibalization of those new stores,” said Scott Harlan Maw, the company’s chief financial officer.
BMO research lowered its 12-month stock price target to $56 from $64. Starbuck shares fell 1.6 percent on Wednesday after the downgrade.
NEW: If Pence Shapes Trump’s Infrastructure Plan, Who Would Profit? Who Would Pay?
“Starbucks continues to produce record financial and operating results quarter after quarter, and open a new class of over 2,000 stores around the world every year, that continue to outperform competitors and deliver industry-leading …profit, starting virtually from the day they open their doors,” Starbucks spokesperson Reggie Borges told Business Insider Wednesday. “Clearly we believe that there's still a long runway for growth for new stores in the U.S. and globally.”
Starbucks currently has 13,612 stores in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. The coffee chain had to close around 600 underperforming stores in 2008 after adding almost 10,000 U.S. stores that year.


A new Cheetos restaurant is underway in New York City with help from Food Network chef Anne Burrell, according to reports. The Spotted Cheetah, an obvious reference to Cheetos mascot Chester Cheetah, is slated to whip up Cheetos-inspired dishes when it opens between Aug. 15-17 as NYC Restaurant Week comes to a close. 
Fans of the Frito Lay brand have cultivated their own versions of Cheetos-inspired foods for the digital web, including DIY Mac'n Cheetos and Hot Cheetos Tacos. However, The Spotted Cheetah will be the first-ever restaurant that will reimagine the way Cheetos can be prepared, with dishes that include fried green tomatoes breaded with a white cheddar Cheetos crust and Cheetos mix-ups crusted Chicken Milanese.
SEE ALSO: What Is Cyclosporiasis? Food-Borne Parasitic Infection On The Rise In US
In a press release, Burrell proclaimed her excitement for cultivating unique recipes centering around the popular cheese-flavored chip.
"As a long-time Cheetos fan, I'm thrilled to join forces with a snack brand that is truly an iconic American staple. I had so much fun curating this specially crafted, one-of-a-kind menu for the first Cheetos restaurant – I can't wait to see guests' reactions!"
The three-course menu at the 211 W. Broadway location features items between $8 to $22. The 11 Cheetos-inspired dishes will also boast popular Cheetos flavors: Cheesy, Flamin' Hot, Cheddar Jalapeño, Flamin' Hot Limón and others. 
The restaurant's menu will bring familiar food items to a Cheetos dust finish. Cheetos Crusted Fried Pickles with Creamy Ranch, Flamin’ Hot Limón Chicken Tacos, Cheetos Meatballs and Cheetos Sweetos Crusted Cheesecake are a few of the items slated to hit the menu. Pictures of what fans can expect from the restaurant's original recipes can be found here.
The Spotted Cheetah, a Cheetos restaurant in NYC, is taking reservations now! Book your spot! https://t.co/4rr8am5cDM pic.twitter.com/Y8zc8oFyd0
— Chester Cheetah (@ChesterCheetah) August 8, 2017
Joining the wait list is the only way to nab a table at The Spotted Cheetah, as reservations are no longer available.
SEE ALSO: Is Fast Food Packaging Harmful? Chuck Schumer Wants FDA To Investigate
"Our fans have inspired us with their creativity and playfulness. We’ve seen their love for Cheetos exhibited through innovative dishes, desserts and beverages, which motivated us to create a restaurant that would bring a full Cheetos culinary experience to life," Ryan Matiyow, senior director of marketing for Frito-Lay, said in a press release. "The Spotted Cheetah is a fun and delicious way for Cheetos to celebrate a variety of favorite flavors in an upscale and playful culinary setting that will wow our guests."
Burrell, 47, has worked with some of the top restaurants in New York City. Her trademark spiky blond hair may be familiar to television audiences who have seen her appear on Food Network’s "Iron Chef America" and as a judge on "Beat Bobby Flay."
While Cheetos may not be a restaurant staple yet, Burrell's creation could change that. Devoted Cheetos fans are on board for the journey, with several individuals taking to social media to show their support.
Free Beacon's Executive Editor Sonny Bunch shared his excitement for The Spotted Cheetah on Twitter, saying, "Things I want to do before I die in a nuclear explosion: 1. Visit the Cheetos restaurant. End of list. I've lived a full life."
Another user tweeted, "none of my friends wanna go to the cheetos pop-up restaurant with me next week and i've never felt so betrayed."
A third user wrote in a tweet, "A Cheetos-themed restaurant is opening in New York City this weekend. I already have a reservation. It's about them using Cheetos."
Chef Anne Burrell, pictured February 26, 2017, will open up a Cheetos-themed restaurant in New York City for 3 days. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


Reality star and beauty mogul Kylie Jenner situated herself as a force in the makeup market, with her lip kits reportedly bringing in millions of dollars since their initial launch in 2015. But the figure may be significantly higher than previously estimated, as famous Kardashian momager Kris Jenner revealed retail sales of Kylie Cosmetics products to be at $420 million in just 18 months on the market.
Read:  Kylie Jenner's Potential Net Worth Could Make Her The Richest 'Kardashian'
The figure was revealed to WWD in an interview with Kris Jenner at her Los Angeles home last week and was published Tuesday. WWD called it “the first time the Jenners have disclosed the scale of Kylie’s business,” and Kris Jenner reportedly provided “documentation” to support the claim. Comparing Kylie Cosmetics with other industry leading brands, WWD pointed out the significance of the brand’s swift rise to the top:
“For perspective, the Estée Lauder Cos. Inc.-owned Tom Ford Beauty was said to have reached revenues of $500 million after a decade, and the brand is considered to be one of the two fastest growing in Lauder’s portfolio, along with Jo Malone. Bobbi Brown, also part of the Lauder stable, took 25 years to reach the billion-dollar mark in 2016, with L’Oréal’s Lancôme finally hitting the milestone in 2015 after 80 years.”
The 19-year-old’s many successful entrepreneurial endeavors — including clothing lines, brand endorsements and multiple reality TV shows to which she’s currently tied — made her youngest person to land on Forbes’ list of  The World’s Highest-Paid Celebrities earlier this year. Kylie Jenner is estimated to have a  net worth of approximately $18, while her older sister Kim Kardashian has an estimated net worth of $51 million. Given the trajectory of the starlet’s businesses, Kylie Jenner could be well on her way to becoming the richest among her Kardashian sisters.
Read:   Kardashian And Jenner Sisters React To 'Life Of Kylie' Premiere On Social Media
Kylie Jenner previously  spoke with Refinery 29 about the launch of her eponymous line of cosmetics and told the website that her love of lip kits and liners spurred her interest in starting a brand of her own.
“I’ve been obsessed with lipliners and lipsticks and I can’t leave the house without them, so probably just my obsession with it,” she said of founding Kylie Cosmetics.
“It’s all me and I literally went to the factories and sat with the chemists,” she continued. “There wasn’t really a struggle, it was just the waiting process [that was hard] and figuring out what exactly people would like and what would be on trend a few months later, but I just followed my heart I was sitting there. I would give them an idea of what I wanted, they would make it, then I would try it on and be like ‘Oh it needs more gray, or more pink.' Then they go back, make it right in front of my face. It was dope.”
Kris Jenner revealed retail sales of Kylie Cosmetics products to be at $420 million in just 18 months on the market. In this photo, Kylie Jenner attends the 'Rei Kawakubo/Comme des Garcons: Art Of The In-Between' Costume Institute Gala at Metropolitan Museum of Art on May 1, 2017 in New York City. Photo: Photo by Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images


Delta Air Lines removed passengers from a flight at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport Wednesday after two of the plane's tires deflated on the runway, according to ABC-affiliated station WSB-TV. 
Delta flight 5508 was preparing to depart the runway for Tulsa, Oklahoma when employees discovered the error. Airline employees evacuated passengers from the plane and had them hop on a bus to return to the terminal. All customers were placed onto a new flight.
WATCH: American Airlines Flight 383 Catches Fire Just Before Take-Off
Video obtained from the incident by WSB-TV showed that the local fire department had arrived at the scene to aid the situation. According to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, 46 passengers and four crew members were on flight 5508. However, no injuries or fatalities were sustained.
Lisa Hellerstedt — a representative from ExpressJet, which is a partner with Delta Air Lines — told International Business Times Wednesday that "maintenance is currently evaluating" what happened on Delta flight 5508. 
According to Fox affiliate WAGA-TV, Delta Air Lines released a statement Wednesday about the aborted flight at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport, which illustrated how passengers "safely" departed the aircraft to board a new flight.
"ExpressJet flight 5508, operating as Delta Connection from Atlanta to Tulsa, aborted takeoff at approximately 9:22 a.m. ET at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport after two tires deflated," the statement read.
SEE ALSO: Is Delta Better Than American Airlines? Best Airlines In The World Announced By TripAdvisor
The statement continued, "Passengers were safely deplaned through the main cabin door and transported back to the terminal on buses as maintenance crews work to tow the plane off the runway. Passengers have been accommodated on another aircraft that will continue on to the original destination."
A spokesperson from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) issued a statement Wednesday to IBT about Delta flight 5508. The FAA plans to launch an investigation into the incident.  
"ExpressJet 5508, a CRJ 900 aircraft, cancelled takeoff from Runway 8 Right at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport after the crew reported a blown tire," FAA told IBT. "Passengers deplaned via stairs and were bussed to the terminal...The FAA is investigating."
According to 2016 report Wired, airplane tires rarely have issues because of its durability. Wired reported that "The typical airliner tire can handle a 38-ton load. It can meet the ground 500 times before needing a re-tread, a refresh it can take on seven times in its life." However, Delta Air Lines has been plagued with problematic tires before, which includes video footage that surfaced in June 2011 and May 2013 of a Delta flights that experienced a tire blow out during takeoff. 
Delta Air Lines, pictured July 14, 2016, had two tires deflated on the runway as the plane was preparing to take off for Tulsa, Oklahoma.  Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


Blackwater founder Erik Prince, the brother of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, has been promoting a plan in major media outlets to turn the war in Afghanistan over to private military contractors. But largely missing from the debate about Prince’s plan is that the former Blackwater CEO currently leads a military contractor that would profit from the proposal and enrich its shareholders — which include the Chinese government.
Prince made his pitch to the American people Monday with an  op-ed in USA Today and an extended one-on-one interview with host Erin Burnett on CNN.
Read: Betsy DeVos Invested In Military Tech Contractor Run By Son-In-Law, While Brother Shaped Afghan War Policy
Both USA Today and CNN named Prince’s current company, Frontier Services Group (FSG) — unlike the Wall Street Journal,  which ran a Prince op-ed pushing his plan in May with a one-sentence bio that failed to mention his current position — but neither outlet mentioned that FSG is a security contractor partially owned by the Chinese government.

Prince’s proposal is to win the war in Afghanistan through privatization of the military effort there, but it’s also a sales pitch for the services of his industry and his company. FSG has openly allied itself with the foreign policy goals of the Chinese government and has pursued the creation of a private air force — the same type of air force Prince advocates in his plan.
That plan calls for 5,500 private contractors to advise Afghan combat forces. Prince wants to make those private security forces “military employees of the Afghan government,” he explained to CNN host Burnett on Monday. Current  Defense Department policy states that private security contractors cannot engage in combat, but can use deadly force in self-defense.
“Imagine them as a skeletal structure that provides leadership, intelligence, medical, communications and logistic support to all those Afghan battalions so it works reliably,” Prince said. He said the security forces that would be used in his plan could be foreign — like his company, which has its headquarters in Hong Kong and is traded on the Hong Kong stock exchange.
The private contractors he wants to deploy to Afghanistan “could be Americans,” he said.
“They could be foreign nationals. They could be NATO allies. They can be from the global SAF community of professionals,” Prince told CNN, using the acronym for Security Assistance Forces (SAF).
The private contractors could potentially be from the company Prince leads. Prince became the  chairman of FSG in 2014, and he’s currently its largest shareholder,  according to the company’s 2016 annual report. Another substantial shareholder is CITIC Group, a state-owned Chinese conglomerate.
FSG markets itself as a logistics provider in Africa and South Asia, but it also builds  military bases, provides  “security solutions” in war zones and, according  to a report by the Intercept, was, through Prince’s clandestine efforts, trying to build a private air force.   
While Prince is a former American servicemember (he was a Navy SEAL), his company is working to help  China achieve one of its most important foreign policy goals: the “One Belt One Road” initiative, which is an ambitious plan to link China to Europe through  $5 trillion  in infrastructure investment in more than 60 countries.
Afghan security forces keep watch in front of their armoured vehicle in Kunduz city, Afghanistan, Oct. 4, 2016.  Photo: REUTERS/Nasir Wakif
“2016 saw FSG take substantive steps to grow in existing markets as well as aligning our strategy to better serve China’s One Belt One Road development policy,” Prince wrote in his  most recent annual letter to shareholders, dated March 22, 2017. Looking forward to 2017, Prince wrote, “we are looking forward to extending our work along the One Belt One Road region. Our aircraft reach can extend air operations, medevac and air cargo on demand through the entire region.”
Afghanistan is a critical part of the One Belt One Road plan, which is why Bloomberg reported last year that China was  the number one investor in Afghanistan.
“Without Afghan connectivity, there is no way to connect China with rest of world,” Chinese ambassador to Afghanistan Yao Jing said in a speech given at the completion of a Chinese-built rail route in Afghanistan last year.
Reports have indicated China’s military, which  has expansive mineral and oil rights in Afghanistan, is conducting  joint operations with Afghan troops inside the country.
Prince “rejects criticism that he and others would profit” from the plan, USA Today reported, instead saying his plan would “represent a cost savings for American taxpayers.” Earlier this year, he told the Financial Times his company was “not serving Chinese foreign policy goals, we’re helping to increase trade.” 
The White House is reportedly “considering” Prince’s plan. The proposal does not  appear likely to become U.S. strategy anytime soon, although the non-military members of the Donald Trump administration seem especially keen on it. Trump Senior Adviser and son-in-law Jared Kushner, along with chief strategist Steve Bannon, who hosted  Prince regularly on his Breitbart radio show, reached out to Prince about the proposal. In July, Bannon presented Prince’s ideas to Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who decided to leave the plan out of a review of the U.S. military’s policy in Afghanistan, the  New York Times reported.
Prince said on CNN that his discussions with White House staff occurred because President Trump read his Wall Street Journal op-ed and wanted to know more. The two have a history (apart from their mutual connection to Betsy DeVos): Prince donated  $100,000 to a pro-Trump super PAC last year and met with the president during the transition,  according to Bloomberg. The Washington Post reported that Prince tried to  establish a Trump-Putin back channel in January, just days before Trump took office.

Prince rose to fame after starting and leading Blackwater, the private security force that changed its name —  twice — apparently to avoid the negative publicity associated with allegations of misconduct. Those allegations included the conviction of former guards on murder and manslaughter charges in U.S. courts for  killing 14 unarmed civilians in Baghdad in 2007, convictions which just last week were tossed by  a federal appeals court. Blackwater agreed to pay  $42 million in fines to the State Department for export violations, which included illegal weapons exports to Afghanistan. Prince left Blackwater in 2009.
In addition to calling for more private security contractors in Afghanistan, Prince is advocating a 90-plane private air force that would “provide air support... against Taliban insurgents,”  USA Today reported. Prince explained his emphasis on air support on CNN Monday.
“[Afghan military forces] need air power. Less than 40 percent of the U.S.-provided air power to the Afghan forces still even functions, because the maintenance and training has been such a failure,” Prince said.
His own company could provide that air power: He recently submitted a business proposal to the Afghan military to set up a private air force, the  Military Times reported last week. Prince has been pursuing the idea for some time, according to  the Intercept.
The Intercept last year documented the billionaire’s efforts to circumvent laws around exporting weapons by fitting agricultural aircraft with surveillance and weapons technology and sending them to clients in Africa. Austrian company Airborne Technologies, which Prince had a 25 percent stake in at the time, made the modifications, the Intercept reported.


A Kazakhstan-based travel company stirred controversy last week after releasing an ad spot featuring naked women posing as flight attendants. The ad for Chocotravel quickly went viral, with critics on social media calling it out for apparent sexism. The company responded to the ad's mixed reviews in a statement to International Business Times.

The ad — which was uploaded to several social media outlets that included Facebook and YouTube — prominently featured the exposed bodies of several models, who wore only caps and scarves standard to the uniforms often worn by stewardesses. Their breasts were obscured by a search bar that stretched the length of the frame while they covered their lower abdomens with their hats. A similar video was also released with nude men posing as pilots, though the latter received far less outrage. A caption on both videos promised “the service of buying air tickets without extra charges!”
Read:  Gay Father Plans To Sue United Airlines After Being Accused Of Molesting Son On Flight
A spokesperson for Chocotravel issued a statement to IBT in response to the controversy.
“Our business is online and we believe that our customers are advanced users,” Nikolay Mazentsev, Chocotravel's ticketing service director, told IBT. “The main goal of our ad campaign was to raise awareness over significant fees on airline tickets. We did not want to offend anyone. We tried to play on the association of ticket price without markups with naked men and women, where naked = no markup. At all times pilots and stewardesses were considered to be symbols of beauty, grace and attractiveness, that is why we decided to make to commercials with males and females.”
Mazentsev said the company intended to use paid advertising to reach broader audiences with both videos but decided against it after the video managed to go viral organically after Nurken Rzaliyev, an employee of Chocotravel’s parent company Chocofamily, shared it August 3 on Facebook. Mazentsev seemed to be unphased by backlash to the video, instead noting “top international mass media wrote about the controversy it created.”
Read:  Video Shows Malia Obama Being Carted Out Of Lollapalooza In Chicago
Rzaliyev issued his own response to critics in an  interview with AdWeek Friday.
“There’s definitely no sexism,” Rzaliyev said. “Opinions were divided, but attention was made to the problem of high ticket prices.”
The video posted to Rzaliyev’s Facebook page had amassed more than 21,000 views as of Wednesday afternoon. On the company’s YouTube account, the video had well over a million views and hundreds of comments.
A controversial ad spot for Kazakhstan travel company Chocotravel has raised more than a few eyebrows after it featured nude models posing as flight attendants. The video surfaced in early August. Photo: Chocotravel/YouTube


If you follow the news in the crypto space – Bitcoin divided, Parity wallets hacked – it's not surprising the recent Tezos fundraiser attracted so much attention. Tezos is a smart contract blockchain platform created by Arthur and Kathleen Breitman, which recently raised $232m (£177.9m, €196.9m).
It's worth remembering two key problems Tezos sets out to solve. It presents a way to carry out decentralised upgrades to its protocol via an on-chain voting system, addressing the governance problem inherent to decentralised systems and the likelihood of contentious forking scenarios. It also proposes a more restrictive programming model for writing smart contracts, so their behaviour will be more predictable and more easily formally analysed.
Newsweek is hosting an AI and Data Science in Capital Markets conference on December 6-7 in New York.  Photo: NewsweekMediaGroup
The recent Parity bug was a reminder that even the most talented coders can make mistakes and smart contracts require formal methods of verification. "We had an eye from the beginning on formal verification and formal methods," said Arthur Breitman.
"Even if you're a great programmer bugs are going to happen, and the only way we can guard against this is by using formal methods: rigorous mathematical proofs that a program does what we want it to do."
"The most advanced proof assistant, Coq, is written in OCaml, the same language used to develop Tezos, so there are affinities between the two communities".
Tezos is also presenting a decentralised system that can deploy upgrades automatically, like in Chrome or Windows, "but instead of having the upgrades signed by your vendor – because there is no central vendor – the upgrade is, in some sense, signed by everyone who is using the protocol".
He made a clear distinction between the Tezos governance system and its proof of stake consensus. "To have a system like this you need to start with proof of stake [PoS] because proof of work creates a political class or miners whose interest may differ from token holders.
"But PoS, by itself, isn't sufficient for governance. There is a misconception that PoS consensus can be used as-is for governance.
"If you try to use consensus over chain branches as governance you end up with a kind of Keynesian beauty contest. You win if you follow the herd, and that doesn't have anything to do with merit. It doesn't have anything to do with what branch you prefer, it has to do with what branch you think is the Schelling point, the most natural one."
Arthur explained the Tezos governance system starts off with proposals, which anyone can make. They are then rated using approval voting. "Several proposals are made and people who own tokens indicate the ones they like and dislike.
"You then take the one with the highest approval rating and you submit it to another vote to pass it. Tezos requires something like a 70% majority in order to adopt a proposal, which then undergoes testing for a month. If the testing phase goes well, then a second confirmationvote is held before adoption."
"Crucially, there is no penalty if you support a version that doesn't end up winning."
He said this is only the very first layer, and the process will look to improve the governance model itself, as well as the ledger. For instance, some proposals and decisions that are not critical will not require a full referendum vote.
"You can have something like elected representatives making decisions over some narrow technical aspects of the ledger, for instance. So we can progressively build on that very simple governance layer, a more complex and better adapted governance structure."
Asked about the ICO, the team made the point that a high volume of tokens must be distributed in order to set up a wide proof of stake network. Co-founder Kathleen Breitman said: "Proof-of-stake lacks the elegant distribution that Bitcoin has. So the easiest way to bootstrap the network was this type of fundraiser, with the side benefit of endowing a non profit with funds that can help promote these technologies – in this case for quite some time."
She said it's important to distinguish this process from people who might be thinking about doing a Series B for their company and decide it's easier to just crowdfund it.
Arthur Breitman added that some people said it was irresponsible not to "cap" the funds raised. But to have done so would have meant the majority of tokens would have been snapped up by professional ICO scalpers looking only to make a quick arbitrage, rather than reaching a network of participants.
Arthur Breitman, co-founder and CTO of DLS, said: "When we started, a whole coterie of people in the space insisted there ought to be a cap on the fundraiser. Otherwise it's irresponsible they said, never exactly articulating a good reason why. They've made up this idea that some sort of self-imposed cap is a kind of duty, and attempt to back their argument with poorly understood business principles sprinkled with moralistic undertones. Not having a cap felt like crossing a picket line."
Breitman believes imposing a cap of, say, $5m when people want to contribute $50m turns the process into race whereby a professional industry of ICO scalpers grab all the tokens to book some 1,000% returns.
"The absurd practice of letting professional scalpers capture most of the value of these projects is basically killing analysis technical due diligence in the space. At best, it's often reduced to superficial indicators, like the number of stars on GitHub, instead of actually doing an in-depth analysis of the value proposition of a technology, or how well it's implemented."
Regarding the distribution of tokens across participants in the fundraiser, he said there were some 30,000 wallets created.
"The Gini coefficient, a statistical measure of disparity within a statistical sample, is about 0.87, similar to the Ethereum fundraiser, a bit higher than the distribution of wealth in the US – so it's not a surprising number."
In terms of next steps, Arthur said from technical standpoint there needs to be a few security audits, and the network needs to be polished ready for launch. "I think the path to doing that is very clear, whereas the path to growing Tezos into a much larger project is still a little new," he revealed.
Kathleen added: "We've been helping out the Foundation by reaching out to people who might be a good fit for the team and the ecosystem. The next three or four months you are probably going to hear a bit from the dev team, but the next month or so it will heads down and getting the right people at the table."


A gym in Atlanta has barred police officers and members of the military from entering the facility — and employed some vulgar language to do so. The EAV Barbell Club in East Atlanta hung a sign from its door that read “No f----- cops.”
The gym’s owner, Jim Chambers, stuck by the ban.
“We’ve had an explicitly stated ‘No cop’ policy since we opened,” Chambers told WXIA-TV. “We also don’t open membership to active members of the military.”
TRENDING: Video Shows Malia Obama Being Carted Out Of Lollapalooza In Chicago
Chambers identified himself as a “lifelong political activist” and said the sign represented a political statement. Chambers told WXIA that the people who typically work out at the gym were minorities who were “uncomfortable with the presence of law enforcement.”

Chambers took down the sign for now, but only because of the expletives. He said he’d be putting it back up with cleaner language and planned to still enforce the ban.
“It was really just that the vulgarity in that sign and that seems to bring it out for people,” he told WXIA. “I don’t want the other folks there to take the heat that I’m willing to take.”
The Atlanta Police Department said the policy would not deter its officers from doing their job.
“Were we to respond to an emergency there, this sign would not stop us from lawfully doing our job,” the department told WXIA.
Chambers, however, denied he or his patrons would ever need the police department’s services.
“If they have a warrant, they can go anywhere they want,” he said. “But we’re not breaking the law.”
EAV Barbell’s police ban echoed a similar incident that occurred in Brooklyn, New York last week when a Dunkin’ Donuts employee refused to service two police officers.
“I don’t serve cops,” the unidentified employee said, according to the New York Post.
The store was harshly criticized for the alleged behavior. Mayor Bill de Blasio and NYPD commissioner James O’Neill condemned the incident, while de Blasio called it “illegal” and “unacceptable.”
Read: Video Captures Police Officers Rescuing Dogs From 167 Degree Car
“I don’t know the details and I wasn’t there, but if it’s what you describe, it’s someone being stupid and unfair to our police officers,” de Blasio said.
The store’s manager later told Gothamist the situation was a “misunderstanding.”
“Our franchises are committed to serving each and every guest with respect and courtesy,” Dunkin’ Donuts said in a statement.


The controversy around the Google diversity memo is deepening, following the leak of a 10-page manifesto criticizing diversity initiatives in the company. More than 60 former and current female employees are expected to file a class-action lawsuit against the company over sexism and unequal pay, the Guardian reported Wednesday.
 Google has “a culture that is hostile to women,” James Feinberg, a civil rights attorney told The Guardian. Feinberg is working on a class-action suit on the behalf of the company’s female employees.
The scandal started with the leaked manifesto that argued men occupy more leading roles in the tech industry due to “biological differences” which prompted the company to fire the author. However, the document has once again ignited the controversy around discrimination towards women in the industry.
Read:    Video Shows Malia Obama Being Carted Out Of Lollapalooza In Chicago
Feinberg claimed several women he interviewed for the suit were paid around $40,000 less on an average for doing the same work as men. He also stated that more than 12 women claimed that the pay disparity played a role in their decision to leave the company.
He claimed that men get higher initial salaries and stock offerings and this disparity increases over time.
Google, however, claims otherwise,” “Sixty people is a really small sample size. There are always going to be differences in salary based on location, role, and performance, but the process is blind to gender,” a company spokesperson told the Guardian.
But, despite what the spokesperson said, there is a one in 100 million chance that the discrimination is occurring randomly or by chance, Janice Madden, a University of Pennsylvania professor of sociology said.
The proposed class-action suit comes in addition to a case brought by the U.S. Department of Labor (DoL) which argued in April that the company was systemically discriminating against women. That investment isn’t yet complete, but the results aren’t promising for Google. The company has been forced to hand over its salary records in that case to a judge.
Janet Herold, the regional solicitor for the DoL, said at the time: “The government’s analysis at this point indicates that discrimination against women in Google is quite extreme, even in this industry. “
Read:    WATCH: Suspected Cartel Gunmen Open Fire At Tourists In Mexico Beach
When it comes to sexism, Google isn’t the only culprit. The tech industry does not have its hands clean when it comes to sexism. A survey done in May by the job website Hired found that on average, women were offered 4 percent less pay than men, with some companies even offering 50 percent less as compared to their male colleagues. The largest pay gap was between white men and black women in tech — for every $1 a white man made, a black woman made $0.79.
“The problem with women and tech right now is not that women aren’t going into computing. It's that they don't stay. And the reason they don’t stay is that it's largely an unpleasant environment to work in [for women]. That’s why it's so important [to note] that this is a field that started out with women and becomes male, not the other way around,” Nathan Ensmenger, an expert on the history of computing at Indiana University told the Time Magazine on Tuesday.


A toddler in Orlando, Florida died Tuesday after being left behind in a hot day care van for almost 12 hours, according to The Washington Post. The 3-year-old was discovered dead late Monday evening after the driver reportedly failed to do a headcount and determine the boy was left behind. 
The child, Myles K. Hill, didn't get out of the vehicle when it arrived at his day care facility at Little Miracles Academy on Monday. He was found unresponsive in the day care's van Monday night, which prompted the day care to alert the police.
SEE ALSO: Is Rat Bite Fever Deadly? Petco Found ‘Not Negligent’ In Death Of Child
The Orlando Police Department (OPD) held a press conference to discuss the incident that Police Chief John Mina deemed to be a "tragedy."
"We were called to Little Miracles Academy — 900 Plymouth — in reference to an unresponsive child. Tragically, one of our officers arrived. They found that 3-year-old Myles Hill had died," Mina said.
"Our initial investigation revealed that the day care worker picked up Myles and other kids in intent to drive them to the other Little Miracles Academy on 2514 West Colonial Drive," he continued. "She returned to the day care center on Plymouth and did not realize Myles was still in the van." 
Hall was supposed to be dropped off at his grandmother's house Monday night, but he never arrived. Hall's grandmother later called local law enforcement, and the OPD launched a missing child investigation. She also alerted Little Miracles Academy of her grandson's absence, which led the day care staff to check the van and discover Hall's unresponsive body.   
"This is an absolute tragedy that could have been prevented. If confirmed by the autopsy, Myles would be the thirty-second child that has died while being left in a hot vehicle this year and the fifth in the state of Florida," Mina concluded. "I just wanted to take a moment to plead with every single parent, caregiver, babysitter, brother, sister [or] whoever please make sure that we are checking our vehicles for our kids. It just takes a minute." 
TRENDING: Video Shows Malia Obama Being Carted Out Of Lollapalooza In Chicago
The OPD is waiting for the results from Hall's autopsy to determine his cause of death, but it's believed that Hall was left in the hot vehicle since 9:00 a.m. EDT.  Hill would have been 4 years old later in August. A vigil was held in his honor Tuesday at the day care center.
Criminal charges for the day worker at fault are still pending, but the OPD claims that she has been "very cooperative" throughout this process. The Florida Department of Children and Families are also conducting their own separate investigation into the incident. The day care driver's identity has not been revealed to the public at this time.
This isn't the first time Little Miracles has come under fire for allegations of trouble keeping track of children through its transportation system. According to documents obtained by WKMG, the day care facility was cited in a July inspection report for not thoroughly keeping track of children transported in company vehicles.  
The report read, "The facility's log for children transported did not include the following required elements: [destination time, arrival time, destination location and departure location.]."
A representative for Little Miracles Academy did not immediately return International Business Times' request for comment.
Orlando Police Department, pictured June 12, 2016, found a three-year-old unresponsive in his day care's transportation van Monday. Photo: Getty Images


Walt Disney Company's (WDC) CEO Bob Iger wants to take part in the online streaming service competition as the company announced its plan to pull all Disney films from Netflix to launch its own streaming service Tuesday, according to a press release published on WDC's website. 
Disney's direct-to-consumer streaming service is slated to launch in 2019, with an ESPN streaming service to arrive before it in 2018. It will include films from Disney and Pixar past and present, with 2019 titles like "Toy Story 4" and "Frozen 2" slated to hit the service. To make the magic possible, Disney will acquire an additional 42 percent stake in BAMTech — the video streaming company founded by Major League Baseball — by way of $1.58 billion.
SEE ALSO: What’s New On Netflix In August 2017? Top 9 Movies, TV Shows
Myles Worthington, a press representative for Netflix, issued a statement Tuesday to International Business Times about how WDC's streaming services plans will affect Netflix. 
"US Netflix members will have access to Disney films on the service through the end of 2019, including all new films that are shown theatrically through the end of 2018," Worthington told IBT. "We [will] continue to do business with the Walt Disney Company globally on many fronts, including our ongoing relationship with Marvel TV."
So how much will Disney gain from this transition? And how much will Netflix lose from Disney's absence?
Forbes reports that Netflix CEO Reed Hastings' net worth is to $2.1 billion, with CNN reporting in May that the company is worth $70 million. However, according to CNBC, Netflix's stock reportedly dropped by 5 percent after the WDC confirmed the news. Yahoo! Finance shows that the streaming service's stock price is at $178.36, which dropped to $174.20 at close 5:12 p.m. EDT. Disney's stock increased to $106.98, but Yahoo! Finance shows that company's stock dropped by 4 percent at 5:16 PM EDT. 
By doing a thorough count of Disney films on Netflix, the streaming service will have to give up over 100 titles. Netflix acquired Disney's content in 2012, however, it didn't arrive online until 2016. Forbes reported in 2012 that the deal cost $300 million, but it ensured that Netflix was the sole streaming service to distribute Disney's new film content online. 
Disney's departure would likely be a setback for Netflix at first with a decrease in subscribers. The Fiscal Times reported in March that this has occurred in the past when the streaming service has cut content. However, Netflix will likely make up for this setback as it continues to be a leader in producing successful original content like "Stranger Things" and "Orange Is The New Black." According to Business Insider, Netflix told shareholders in April, "We have a large market opportunity ahead of us and we’re optimizing long-term FCF by growing our original content aggressively."
Iger sees the departure from Netflix as "a strategic shift in the way we distribute our content," according to The Hollywood Reporter.
SEE ALSO: Who Will Run Against Trump In 2020? Disney CEO Bob Iger Could Run For President As A Democrat
Further explaining the shift in a press release Tuesday, Iger said, "The media landscape is increasingly defined by direct relationships between content creators and consumers, and our control of BAMTech’s full array of innovative technology will give us the power to forge those connections, along with the flexibility to quickly adapt to shifts in the market." 
He added, "This acquisition and the launch of our direct-to-consumer services mark an entirely new growth strategy for the Company, one that takes advantage of the incredible opportunity that changing technology provides us to leverage the strength of our great brands."
WDC's plans for ESPN will feature "a robust array of sports programming, featuring approximately 10,000 live regional, national, and international games and events a year," according to the press release. Games from Major League Baseball, National Hockey League, Major League Soccer and other sports will be accessible through the multi-sport service. It will also offer consumers the option to purchase individual sports packages to view select sports.
Walt Disney Company's CEO Bob Iger, pictured March 13, 2017, plans to pull content from Netflix to launch a Disney-themed streaming service. Photo: Getty Images
Follow me on Twitter @dory_jackson


After a widely reported accusation by a Brooklyn bar and venue that Kendall Jenner failed to tip on a recent $24 tab, the 21-year-old model and reality star responded Monday evening. Jenner asserted — contrary the claim posted on Instagram by Baby’s All Right last week — that she did indeed leave a tip in the form of cash.
lol kendall jenner doesn&#39;t tip *pretends to be shocked* pic.twitter.com/YLKLYswLvO
&mdash; sz (@zarasaidane) August 4, 2017

The star was publicly shamed last week after Baby’s All Right posted a photo of Jenner’s bar tap to Instagram. The tab showed no tip added to the signed copy and was captioned, “Don't forget to tip your bartender :)” As of Tuesday afternoon, the post appeared to have been deleted from the bar’s Instagram account.
Read:  Video Shows Malia Obama Being Carted Out Of Lollapalooza In Chicago
Kendall slammed the allegation on Twitter Monday evening by claiming that she’d left a cash tip rather than no tip at all, as was insinuated by the bar.
“damn, i guess next time we won't tip in cash,” she wrote in a response that was “liked” 40,000 times and retweeted thousands more by Tuesday afternoon. The tweet quoted a fan who had tagged her in a response to the aforementioned allegation.
damn, i guess next time we won&#39;t tip in cash https://t.co/iZ4tFt3pg7
&mdash; Kendall (@KendallJenner) August 8, 2017

“I love @KendallJenner I’m sure there’s more to this story,” the fan’s tweet read. “Everyone’s so quick to judge cause she’s part of the Kardashian’s [  sic ].”
The controversy with Baby’s All Right isn’t the first time the eldest Jenner sister has come under fire by restaurant staff. The reality star-turned-fashion mogul muse faced similar backlash in 2014 after she and fellow model Hailey Baldwin allegedly threw money at former “Skins” star and waitress Blaine Morris while she served Jenner and Baldwin at a restaurant in New York.
Read:  Kendall And Kylie Jenner Slammed For Selling T-Shirts Featuring Notorious BIG, 2Pac And Ozzy Osbourne
“That horrible moment you chase a Kardashian down the street because she forgot to pay her bill to be thrown money in your face,” Morris tweeted in August of 2014. Jenner later sent a cease and desist demanding an “appropriate retraction and sincere apology,” and Morris ultimately deleted the tweet,  E! News reported at the time.
pic.twitter.com/dmTWco5rvo
&mdash; Kendall (@KendallJenner) August 8, 2017
As of Monday afternoon, Jenner appeared ready to move on from the controversy, tweeting a link to a hair tutorial on her website. Just a couple of hours later, she posted a captionless selfie to Twitter.
Baby’s All Right did not immediately return International Business Times’ request for comment.
After a Brooklyn bar claimed that Kendall Jenner failed to tip on a $24 tab, the 21-year-old model and reality star is pushing back. In this photo, Kendall Jenner attends the premiere of EuropaCorp and STX Entertainment's 'Valerian and The City of a Thousand Planets' at TCL Chinese Theatre on July 17, 2017 in Hollywood, California. Photo: Photo by Neilson Barnard/Getty Images
 
 


Cardinal Health shareholders wanted to be sure that the company’s medicines were not used for lethal injections. But the Securities and Exchange Commission Friday approved the health services company’s request to block the shareholder proposal from coming to a vote.
Cardinal Health, which distributes pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and equipment across the country, earned a profit of $1.29 billion last year. The company objected to the shareholder proposal, which identified eight drugs sold by Cardinal that are used for executions. An investigation by the Associated Press found that at least three doses of one of those drugs, rocuronium bromide, were purchased by the Virginia Department of Corrections. In Virginia’s lethal injections, rocuronium bromide is used to stop breathing after a sedative is administered.
Cardinal Health declined to comment for this article.
The shareholder resolution was brought by the New York State Common Retirement Fund, the state’s public pension plan. The pension fund is the third largest in the country, valued at roughly $192 billion. Its proposal was for Cardinal to produce a report detailing the controls it has in place to ensure that its drugs are not sold to prisons, as they were in Virginia.
Filings show Cardinal argued to the SEC that the proposal deals with the company’s “ordinary business operations,” such as relationships with suppliers and sales to customers, and can therefore be excluded from a shareholder vote. The SEC has been increasingly permissive of corporation’s requests to not let shareholder resolutions move forward — with 78 percent approved this year, compared to 68 percent in 2016. Meanwhile, Texas Rep. Jeb Hensariling, Chair of the House Financial Services committee, has introduced legislation that would drastically reduce the number of shareholders able to file proposals.
Read: Are Republicans Trying To Eliminate Activist Investors? Bill To Replace Dodd-Frank Could Silence Shareholders
The impetus for New York’s proposal was not a moral concern about the death penalty but an extension of the pension fund’s fiscal responsibility. The fund, a long-term investor focused on stable profits, is concerned about the potential damage to a company’s reputation — and therefore value — if it becomes known as a supplier of drugs for lethal injection.
“Many pharmaceutical manufacturers oppose the use of their medicines in executions and impose contractual restrictions on their distributors to prevent their use in lethal injections,” Matthew Sweeney, spokesperson for the New York State comptroller’s office, told International Business Times. “If Cardinal were to provide a restricted drug for use in an execution, and breach a contract with the manufacturer, it would put itself, and its investors at risk of financial and reputational damage.”
All FDA-approved manufacturers of these pharmaceuticals in the U.S. publicly oppose the use of their drugs in lethal injections. Pfizer is the primary producer of rocuronium bromide in the country and its contracts with distributors, such as Cardinal, require those companies to be sure that their drugs do not wind up being used in executions. Pfizer’s public policy paper on the issue reads, in part:
“Pfizer makes its products to enhance and save the lives of the patients we serve. Consistent with these values, Pfizer strongly objects to the use of its products as lethal injections for capital punishment.”
However, Pfizer did not have that policy until May of last year. The drug manufacturer’s decision was, in part, attributed to pressure from the New York pension fund, which filed a similar shareholder proposal in late 2015. Even though the SEC allowed the proposal to be exempted and it was never brought to a vote, the public pressure and threat of shareholder action was enough to persuade Pfizer that the potential damage to its reputation was not worth the risk. Cardinal may yet come to the same conclusion.


United Airlines found itself in hot water once again after a Houston family blamed the airline for the death of their 5-year-old dog, who was put in the cargo hold of a plane that was delayed at the airport in Houston, according to ABC13.
The Rasmussen family claimed the dog, a King Charles Spaniel, was in the cargo hold while the plane stayed on the tarmac for two hours before it took off to San Francisco, the ABC affiliate report also said. 
The family said the dog died while it was held in the hold.
Read: United Airlines Passenger Accused Of Groping Teenage Girl During Flight
"We are so sorry to learn of Lulu's passing and have reached out to our customer to offer our condolences and assistance. We are deeply upset any time an animal suffers an injury while traveling with us and especially grieved in the rare instance that one passes away. We are conducting a thorough review of this incident," the airline said in a statement to International Business Times. The statement didn't reveal the cause of the dog's death.
United Airlines had the worst record in pet deaths among airlines in the U.S. in 2016.  According to the Department of Transportation’s Air Travel Consumer Report, nine pets — eight dogs and a Sphynx kitten — died under the airline's care in 2016.
"More than 300 animals have died in cargo holds since 2005, including 74 on United flights. According to a report from the U.S. Department of Transportation, the airline had the worst record of animal deaths and injuries among all U.S. airlines in 2016," a PETA blog post also noted.
Over the last few months, United Airlines has found itself in a slew of controversies, with some linked to animals.
In April, a 10-month-old Continental Giant rabbit named Simon died on a United flight from the United Kingdom to the U.S. The animal was the offspring of the Guinness World Record-holding rabbit, Darius. Simon was found dead after arriving at the O’Hare airport, and the airline was blamed for its death as the rabbit was said to be in a healthy condition prior to boarding the plane. 
PETA’s president, Ingrid Newkirk, issued a statement following Simon’s death.
“This rabbit was failed first by the breeder – who churns out and sells baby bunnies when animal shelters and rescue groups are full of homeless rabbits – and then by United Airlines, which shipped him off in a cargo hold like an old suitcase,” Newkirk said.
Read: United Airlines Leaves Canadian Teenager Behind In Connecticut
“This rabbit’s death is not unique – more than 300 animals have died in cargo holds since 2005, and many more have been injured or lost,” Newkirk continued in her statement. “PETA urges United to join JetBlue and Southwest in prohibiting companion animals from being flown as checked baggage in the confusion, noise, extreme temperatures, and improper pressurization of a cargo hold.”
Last month, rapper ScHoolboy Q accused United of putting his dog in a wrong flight. The rapper, whose real name is Quincy Matthew Hanley, asked the airline for an explanation on Twitter, adding he was "pissed" due to the incident and planned to sue the airline.


While both political parties have denounced the  rising cost of prescription drugs, neither  Democrats nor Republicans have done much to address the problem. But this summer, a new tool to restrict the rising prices of drugs developed with taxpayer dollars has been introduced by the two U.S. senators who don’t belong to either party.
The mechanism works like this: Drug manufacturers who take federal money to develop drugs must keep their U.S. prices in line with the prices they charge in other economically advanced nations — typically much lower than drug prices in the U.S.
Read: Democratic Governors’ Fundraising Trails Republicans, Except When It Comes To Big Pharma
The system would prevent pharmaceutical companies from effectively double-charging U.S. consumers by using their tax money for research and then charging them some of the steepest prices in the world at the pharmacy. Pharmaceutical companies, who pour millions of dollars into both the  Democratic and Republican parties, are against the idea, which is perhaps why the fix is being pushed by Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Angus King of Maine, the only independents in congress.
The U.S. has the highest level of  per capita pharmaceutical spending of any nation on Earth, according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). And while Americans spend more than any other country to buy their drugs, they also spend more than any other country to  develop those same drugs.
Senator Angus King (I-ME) asks questions at a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) in Washington, D.C., June 7, 2017. King introduced an amendment into a military spending bill that would require drug makers keep drug prices in line with pharmaceutical costs in other countries.  Photo: Reuters
In June, King successfully added language to the  2018 military spending bill (still working its way through congress) that would allow the Department of Defense to take away exclusive patents from drug companies that benefitted from DoD funding if their drug price in the U.S. rises above the median price in seven foreign countries with similar economies.
Then last week, Sanders introduced  legislation that would tie the prices of drugs made with government funding to costs in other countries. Unlike King’s language, Sanders’ bill would expand the concept beyond the DoD. The bill requires companies taking federal funds to develop drugs to enter into “reasonable pricing” agreements with the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
“Under this insane system, Americans pay twice. First we pay to create these lifesaving drugs, then we pay high prices to buy those drugs,” wrote Sanders in  a New York Times op-ed. “Our government must stop being pushovers for the pharmaceutical industry and  its 1,400 lobbyists.”
The bill defines a “reasonable price” as no more than the lowest prices charged in countries with GDP and per capita income similar to the U.S. (The bill specifically pegs pricing to countries in the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development.)
The proposal is the  latest salvo in Sanders’ effort to stop the military from granting French pharmaceutical company Sanofi Pasteur the exclusive right to sell a Zika vaccine.
“The days of allowing Sanofi and other drug makers to gouge American consumers after taking billions in taxpayer money must end,” Sanders told  HuffPost this week. “That is why I am introducing legislation to demand fairer, lower prices for the Zika vaccine and for every drug developed with government resources.”
But just how much government support the industry receives is up for debate. While industry estimates put total annual private R&D spending by biopharmaceutical companies at about  $60 billion per year, the government’s contribution is much harder to nail down. The National Institutes of Health, the government’s main funder of health research, told International Business Times in a statement that “there is no exact number which would accurately capture NIH investment” in drug development. In total, NIH spends about  $32 billion on medical research annually.
Last year, the National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics estimated that in 2014, total federal government R&D spending on pharmaceuticals and medicines  was just $267 million. But that number takes into account only money given directly to drug makers.
“Federal support of biopharma R&D isn’t going to take the form of big checks cut to companies,”  Scott Hinds, a pharmaceutical industry analyst for investment research firm Sector and Sovereign Research told IBT in an email. “Rather, it’s going to come through funding grants and research for academics, government employees and other non-industry scientists.”
“Typically, then, if anything of commercial value is discovered in this sponsored research, those compounds will be sold or licensed to drug companies who have the capital and resources to spend on later phase (more expensive) clinical development necessary to bring them to market,” Hinds said.
Other experts told IBT federal support of drug development goes well beyond just funding research.
“It’s not so much the money we are actually spending through NIH. We are providing huge value to companies in tax credits, other incentives, expedited FDA approval, exclusivity agreements… all of these are benefits,” Rachel Sachs, an associate professor at the Washington University in St. Louis School of Law told IBT.
Sachs cited a 50 percent tax credit for the development of  “orphan” drugs as an example of the government’s support of the pharmaceutical industry. The value of that orphan drug tax credit is estimated to be worth $50 billion between 2016 and 2025, according to the  Treasury Department.

But the benefits flow both ways between the pharmaceutical industry and Washington, which is why the Sanders bill faces an uphill battle to reach the floor for a vote. The bill was sent to the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions committee, which is chaired by Lamar Alexander. Pharmaceutical and health products companies gave more to Alexander’s campaigns between 2011 and 2016 than did any other industry, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics. And even if the bill gets to the floor, it would face opposition from the industry’s  1,350 lobbyists, who don’t come cheap. The pharmaceutical and health products industry has spent a remarkable  $144 million on lobbying so far in 2017, more than double what the  defense industry has spent over the same time period.
“Proposals to insert a reasonable pricing clause ignore the substantial R&D investments and risks undertaken by the private sector in developing and bringing a new medicine to patients,” the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), which has spent $14 million on lobbying so far this year, told IBT in a statement. “Such proposals undermine critical intellectual property rights and incentives, create substantial uncertainty for companies and establish completely arbitrary criteria for taking intellectual property. This could chill critically needed collaborations and investment by the private sector to address some of our most serious unmet medical needs.”
The pharmaceutical industry, which  says it costs $2.6 billion to bring a drug to market (while  spending more on marketing than research) made a similar argument against “reasonable pricing” more than two decades ago, when it successfully persuaded the Clinton administration to repeal a “reasonable pricing” rule implemented by President George H.W. Bush.
Read: Bernie Sanders’ Drug Price Bill Would Save Billions, Congressional Analysts Say
After the  1980 Bayh-Dole Act, private researchers could patent intellectual property they developed using federal funding. But by the late 1980s, outrage over the $8,000 annual cost of  AIDS drug AZT, which was the only drug approved for treatment of the disease at the time, prompted the Bush administration to implement price control measures. In 1989, NIH was granted the right to review the introductory prices of drugs that were produced with government research, over the objections of the pharmaceutical industry.
“The Bush administration felt it was appropriate to expect some concessions on pricing if the government was involved in the drug and funding research,” James Love, director of Knowledge Ecology International, told IBT. Love researched the original rule while working for Ralph Nader’s Center for the Study of Responsive Law in the early 1990s.
But unlike the specific criteria for reasonable pricing put forth in the Sanders bill, the Bush rule was a bit ambiguous. “The agreements said something to the effect that it had to show some relationship between price and government’s role in developing the drug... Nobody really knew what it meant,” Love said.
Just six years later, the  Clinton administration rescinded the order on the grounds that it was harmful to innovation.
“The pricing clause has driven industry away from potentially beneficial scientific collaborations... without providing an offsetting benefit to the public,” NIH Director Dr. Harold Varmus said at the time. “Eliminating the clause will promote research that can enhance the health of the American people.”


A Chinese restaurant sparked controversy for reportedly offering discounts to women based on their bra size. A woman with an A-cup received 5 percent off, while a customer whose chest was closer G-cup could see a 65 percent discount on her meal.
Locals complained to city officials regarding posters suggesting discounts based on bra sizes in the Trendy Shrimp restaurant in a Hangzhou city mall, located in Zhejiang. One customer said the posters were "vulgar advertising" and "discriminatory towards women."
TRENDING: WatchOS 4 Release Date: Features That Will Make The Apple Watch Better
The posters featured outside the restaurant showed cartoon figures of women in their underwear with the caption, "The whole city is looking for BREASTS." It listed discounts based on women’s cup size and claimed the bigger the size, the larger the discount, according to Qianjiang Evening Post Monday.
A poster is pictured above Aug, 7.2017 of women's cup sizes. A woman with an A-cup bra could get 5 percent off her meal, someone with a G-cup could received a 5 percent discount. Photo: QIANJIANG EVENING POST  According to patrons, the restaurant installed the poster August 1 but removed it shortly thereafter as a result of complaints. Trendy Shrimp general manager Lan Shenggang justified the offers by claiming that the promotion increased clientele.
"Once the promotion started, customer numbers rose by about 20 percent," he told Qianjiang Evening Post. He added that the signs flattered some of the customers and said that "some of the girls we met were very proud, they had nothing to hide."
Shenggang said customers could "avoid embarrassment" by inquiring about the discount from a waitress, rather than asking the male staff.
TRENDING: Samsung Galaxy S9 Expected Features: 4K Displays, 4 Cameras And 7nm Processor
This wasn’t the first time Chinese customers received rewards at an establishment based on their physical appearance. A Korean food market in China reportedly offered free meals to customers deemed attractive in 2015, according to China Daily.
Customers thought to be the "best-looking" received free meals from the market based on opinions from nearby cosmetic surgery clinic staff. Market workers took pictures of customers for the cosmetic workers, who rated them based on aesthetic.
A month later, another Chinese restaurant reportedly offered discounts based on customers' weight. The Na Huo restaurant in Chongqing offered overweight men deals and discounts on food, while women received discounts for being thin, according to the China Radio International. The restaurant offered free meals to men who weighed an upwards of 308 pounds. Women who weighed around 76 pounds received a free meal.
Promotional photos posted to the restaurant’s social media page showed staff weighing customers. 
"Na Huo restaurant cares about fat people and thin people. Bring your fat or thin friends, eat for free," the restaurant’s website stated.
Restaurant discrimination is considered illegal in the United States. Federal law protects any patron from being discriminated against based on appearance, according to the civils rights section of Find Law. Anyone who faces discrimination is urged to file a lawsuit with the U.S. district court.
"Federal law prohibits privately owned facilities that offer food, lodging, gasoline or entertainment to the public from discriminating on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin," the website read.


Three passengers and seven crew members of American Airlines flight 759 from Greece to Philadephia were injured when the plane was hit by "severe turbulence" just before landing Saturday.
The flight, with 299 people on board, landed at Philadelphia International Airport at 3:10 p.m. EDT., Fox 29 reported. 
The 10 injured had to be hospitalized on landing, the airline said in a statement, which did not provide any details regarding the extent or nature of the injuries.
Passengers said the turbulence lasted for about 15 seconds.
"I was looking forward and I just saw everything just move upwards about four feet," passenger Alex Ehmke said in a phone interview with NBC News. He added: "So, I saw drinks, you know, flying up against walls and up on the ceiling.”
"The gentleman directly behind us and diagonally behind us hit the ceiling himself," Ehmke said.

Read: American Airlines Crew Forced Passenger To Sit Next To Masturbating Man, Woman Claims
One of the passengers, Ervin Fang, also tweeted a video of the aftermath of the turbulence.

Another passenger, Jessica Huseman, tweeted photographs of the inside of the flight after the turbulence, showing spilled coffee all over the place.


Huseman also tweeted how the passengers used their fleece blankets to mop the ceiling of the plane after drinks went flying during the disturbance. She also wrote that during the violent shaking, a flight attendant dislocated his shoulder.
Another passenger, Ian Smith of South Philadelphia, shared his experience of the flight with WPVI, an ABC-affiliate.
He said: "Thirty minutes out. They were giving us our drinks. The flight attendants were in the last couple rows when they said 'fasten your seat belts.' And then they said for the flight attendants to get to their seats, and they didn't even have time. It started shaking, then it took a big drop. Babies screaming, people in front of us hitting the ceiling."
In its statement to PennLive, the airline said: "American Airlines flight 759 from Athens, Greece to Philadelphia International Airport briefly encountered severe turbulence shortly before landing safely in Philadelphia. The seatbelt sign was on at the time. Three passengers and seven crew members were transported to a local hospital for evaluation. We are taking care of our passengers and our crew members at this time and want to thank our team members for keeping our passengers safe."
Read: Watch How An American Airlines Flight Catches Fire Just Before Take-Off
In the last few days, the airline has been in the news for various reasons. A video showing one of its flights catching fire in Oct. 2016 surfaced online Friday. The American Airlines flight 383 was about to take off from Chicago's O'Hare Airport to Miami when one of its sides caught fire, leading to emergency evacuations.
On Aug. 2, turbulence in American Airlines flight 2713 injured 30 passengers. The plane, traveling to the island nation of Trinidad and Tobago from Miami, had to make an emergency landing at the Piarco International Airport. 


Ten days after announcing that the Falcon Heavy rocket will make its maiden flight in November, SpaceX CEO Elon Musk again took to his Twitter and Instagram accounts Sunday to share the “first draft animation” of what the debut of the rocket — currently the world’s most powerful — could look like.


Keeping in line with what SpaceX has been doing with the Falcon 9 rockets, the animation shows both the side boosters (each of them a Falcon 9) of the rocket landing back on Earth after sending the core on its way. After the first and second stages separate, the first stage rocket (also a Falcon 9) aligns itself for reentry and while the animation shows it landing on ground, Musk had earlier said the center booster will actually land on a drone-ship.

Read: Elon Musk Announces November Test For Falcon Heavy
Musk warned once again that the November debut of the Falcon Heavy (an exact date hasn’t yet been fixed) could be a failure when he said in the Instagram post there was a “lot that can go wrong in the November launch…”
Earlier, when he announced the first flight of the rocket and was replying to some of his many Twitter followers, Musk had mentioned luck as a factor.

While speaking at the International Space Station Research and Development Conference in Washington, D.C., on July 19, Musk said even just getting away with no damage to the launch pad would be considered something of a success.
“There’s a lot of risk associated with Falcon Heavy, a real good chance that that vehicle does not make it to orbit. I want to make sure to set expectations accordingly. I hope it makes it far enough beyond the pad so that it does not cause pad damage. I would consider even that a win, to be honest,” Musk reportedly said of the November test.
Despite the repeated success of Falcon 9 (barring the one on-ground explosion in September 2016), Musk has repeatedly stressed that putting the Falcon Heavy in orbit will not be easy. That three of the familiar rocket’s cores were being put together to power the Falcon Heavy didn’t make things simpler, Musk explained told the International Space Station Research and Development Conference.
“At first it sounds real easy, you just stick two first stages on as strap-on boosters, but then everything changes. All the loads change, aerodynamics totally change. You’ve tripled the vibration and acoustics. You sort of break the qualification levels on so much of the hardware. … The amount of load you’re putting through that center core is crazy because you’ve got two super-powerful boosters also shoving that center core, so we had to redesign the whole center core airframe. It’s not like the Falcon 9 because it’s got to take so much load. Then you’ve got separation systems,” Musk said.
Read: Is Jeff Bezos Working On A Rocket Bigger Than Falcon Heavy?
There are two Falcon Heavy tests scheduled for the first half of 2018, and their fate will depend on how the November test goes. All tests will take place from NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida. SpaceX can’t use its own Texas testing facility because it can’t support the thrust (5.1 million pounds at take-off) generated by the Falcon Heavy.
If there are no unexpected explosions and damaged launch pads, commercial flights of Falcon Heavy will start in the latter half of 2018. The pricing details on the SpaceX website say customers would have to pay $90 million to send up to 8 metric tons of payload to geosynchronous transfer orbit. The largest rocket in operation currently — the United Launch Alliance’s (a Boeing-Lockheed Martin joint venture) Delta Heavy IV — has almost half the payload capacity of the Falcon Heavy. So putting the rocket into commercial operation could mean a big business boost for SpaceX, which — with an estimated valuation of $21 billion — is already among the world’s most valuable privately held companies.


A t-shirt company is looking to reclaim the swastika symbol for "love and peace" and to shake the stigma of the Nazi Party's 20th Century appropriation.
For centuries, the swastika was a positive Hindu, Buddhist cultural symbol and ancient religious icon used in the Indian subcontinent . It would later be twisted and appropriated by the Nazi party to symbolize Nazi Germany in the 1920s-1945. While the ancient symbol once meant good luck, it is now inextricably linked to the oppressive regime of the Nazis who attempted to create an Aryan race and perpetrated the Holocaust on European Jews. One t-shirt company, however, appears to think they can get the symbol back.
The company, KA design, is selling t-shirts and sweatshirts online through Teespring, an online custom clothing retailer, depicting a white swastika on a rainbow background with the word peace below. Another design spells out the word love in white on a rainbow background with the ‘o’ replaced by a swastika.
READ: Andrew Anglin Neo-Nazi Website Founder Missing After Jewish Woman Filed Lawsuit Over Internet Trolls
The company’s tag line is “questing boundaries” and on their Facebook posted a video explaining their idea.
“They took the swastika, rotated it 45 degrees and turned it into hatred, fear, racism and power.
They stigmatized the swastika. They won. They limited our freedom. Or Maybe Not?” the video reads. “The swastika is coming back together with love, peace, respect and freedom.”
The symbol is still banned in Germany after it was used during World War II by Adolf Hitler and the Nazis. In the United States, the swastika is considered a hate symbol.
“We really like the symbol in its shape and aesthetics, and we would love to share the beauty of this symbol detached from the hatred associated with it,” said a representative from the company to Dazed Magazine Saturday. “We hope to be able to extend our Swastika line to new design concept and colors, while keeping our current peace message. Our dream is to feel free to use this symbol without any kind of limitation, however we prefer.”
The Facebook page of the company is filled with people who are not fans of what the company is trying to do.
“I don't know why it seemed necessary to try and "reinvent" a symbol that caused so much pain and is still so painful for so many,” said one commenter on Facebook. “Please do not buy this disturbing product. You can not erase the evil this symbol embodies and is a reminder of, no matter what colour you decide to make it.”
Another commenter felt that the symbol is gone forever.
READ: Nazi Relics Found Inside Hidden Room In Argentina, Believed To Be Country's Largest Collection
“This is inconsiderate. It doesn't matter what this symbol used to be, it has changed for ever, it can never be seen the same way. More than 60 million people died because of Nazism and you think that can be forgotten? Shame on your company!” she wrote.
The company has a 1.5 star rating on Facebook.
​


An increasing amount of cable companies seemed to give into the streaming boom as some companies reportedly decided to partner with streaming behemoth Netflix. More U.S. cable companies are expected to make Netflix accessible through its set-top boxes.
No. 3 cable provider Charter Communications Inc is supposed to partner up with Netflix, according to Reuters Sunday. More than a dozen top U.S. cable companies joined up with Netflix and some could start selling the streaming service in tandem with video and internet offers.
TRENDING: Karate Kid TV Show: Who Will Star In The YouTube Show?
Cable provider Altice NV ATCA.AS attempted a similar deal in France and is looking to duplicate it in the U.S., sources told Reuters this month.
"Our whole model is about cooperation with many of the (streaming) providers," Altice USA ATUS.N Chief Executive Dexter Goei told reporters in May.
Netflix said it considered making similar types of deals with other pay TV providers.
"We're now looking at proposals for including Netflix in some services and beginning to learn the bundling part of the business," Netflix CEO Reed Hastings said during a webcast in July. "We're interested in expanding that."
These partnerships could help expand Netflix’s customers in the United States, market analysts considered saturated, while expansion overseas has exploded. 
As of June 30, Netflix reported 51.92 million U.S.-based streaming customers and 52.03 million foreign-based streaming customers, which surpassed analyst’s predictions.
According to a report released July, Parks Associates found that 59 percent of U.S. broadband households subscribe to Netflix, Amazon, or Hulu.
Netflix’s deals with pay TV companies helped it surpass expectations in the U.S. market, Cowen & Co analyst John Blackledge told Reuters.
"U.S. consumers are not taking solely a Netflix, Amazon, or Hulu subscription. Many are shopping around and trialing new services to get access to interesting content unavailable through the big services," said Brett Sappington, Senior Director of Research, Parks Associates in a July statement.
He added, "Interest and viewership in OTT video services have led to an increase in total subscriptions since 2015, including an increase in households subscribing to two, three, or even four or more services. All this translates into more money being spent by consumers and more opportunity for niche content services to capture revenues."
The deals cable companies made are a turnaround compared to years of resistance to streaming.  Pay Tv providers viewed Netflix as a huge competitor since its inception in 2007. Some cable executes deemed the partnerships to combat cord-cutting, a voiding of cable subscriptions, while endorsing high-speed internet offers.
Pay tv, streaming service combinations started in 2013, with British company Virgin Media. U.S. partnerships launched in 2014, with small businesses like RCN Telecom Services.
For RCN patrons with TiVo TIVO.O boxes, Netflix was made available as an on-screen option in the menu. RCN customers not subscribed to Netflix could sign up for a free, one-month trial seamlessly through the on-screen menu.
U.S. cable leader Comcast Corp inserted Netflix into its Xfinity X1 box set last year. 30 percent of Xfinity customers logged into Netflix via an existing account or by signing up, the company told Reuters in May.
Several cable companies partnered with Netflix. A Netflix return mailer is pictured Jan.16 2007 in Miami, Florida  Photo: Getty Images


The beleaguered ride-hailing app Uber is searching for a new CEO after a string of controversies including a purported atmosphere of sexual harassment at the company.
Former CEO, Travis Kalanick, a controversial figure himself, stepped down, hoping a new leader would help steady the company’s leadership. While the company’s search included several high-profile female executives, it appears as if the company could not convince a woman to sign on, and their short list has been narrowed to three men according to a report by the Washington Post Friday.
Last month the company underwent a work place review by law firm Covington and Burling, who produced a 13-page report detailing how the company can improve. The company’s board unanimously accepted the recommendations of the report which included a stricter sexual harassment policy.
READ: Who Will Be Uber’s Next CEO? The Search Is On Following Travis Kalanick's Departure
“Uber should consider adopting a zero-tolerance policy for substantiated complaints of discrimination and harassment, without regard to whether an employee is a 'high performer' or a long-term employee,” read the report.
The toxic environment for women was spotlighted when a former employee wrote a blog post detailing how she was treated at Uber, prompting others to come forward.
Uber’s board was hoping to bring in a CEO that would help smooth over public relations for the company. Bringing in a woman would show that the company was earnestly trying to change its culture. Several high-profile women, however, apparently weren’t interested. Names associated with the search who have declined the role included Facebook’s chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg and Susan Wojcicki who heads YouTube, according to the Post. Sandberg was pushed as a choice by Uber’s board, especially Arianna Huffington. In her less than two years on the board, Huffington, former media mogul, has become an outspoken and influential member of the company’s leadership. Huffington was also rumored to be in consideration for the role.
Hewlett Packard CEO Meg Whitman publicly bowed out the search in a post on Twitter.
The three men on the short list to become head of Uber include Jeffrey Immelt who is leaving as the CEO of General Electric, according to the Financial Times.
READ: Here's How Many People Are Going Back On Uber App Now That Travis Kalanick Is Gone
The role is seen as not particularly desirable given the circumstances of it being a cleanup job, and the strong-headed Kalanick, 41, still remains a member of the board of the company he co-founded. According to the Times, Kalanick is involved in the search to find his replacement.
Uber has a number of leadership roles vacant that could see female hires. Last month Bozoma Saint John, a former Apple leader, joined Uber as a chief brand officer. More hires like Saint John could address the company’s concern that 78 percent of its leadership roles are held by men. That number comes from a diversity report the company released earlier this year.

