
WASHINGTON ― Georgia House Minority Leader Stacey Abrams is a rising star in the Democratic Party, and it’s not hard to see why. Her vision of expanding the Democratic electorate by mobilizing the state’s considerable population of nonvoters and minority voters is an appealing road map for a national party eager to turn Georgia blue.
Abrams believes her success registering voters with the nonprofit New Georgia Project and her experience limiting conservative overreach as a Democratic leader equip her to go toe-to-toe with the GOP-dominated legislature as governor. And she hopes to bring Georgians the employment, education and health care opportunities available to working families in other, bluer states.
Abrams has already picked up the support of progressive heavyweights like Democracy for America, a liberal online activist organization, and Nina Turner, president of Our Revolution, the legacy group for the presidential campaign of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.).
She’s also got support from more mainstream party validators like the pro-choice women’s electoral group EMILY’s List; Jason Kander, president of Democratic voting rights group Let America Vote; and megadonor Alexander Soros, a son of liberal billionaire George Soros. She has been the subject of glowing profiles in The Nation, The Guardian and The New York Times, where she is often touted as a leading light of an unabashedly progressive political movement emerging in the increasingly diverse American South.
If elected, Abrams, 43, would become the country’s first African-American woman governor. And long before she officially announced her candidacy for Georgia’s May 2018 Democratic primary, she was regarded as the field’s strongest contender. Until recently, it wasn’t even clear she’d face a challenger.
Then fellow Georgia Rep. Stacey Evans jumped into the race in May with a video about her underprivileged rural childhood that got high marks from veteran political operatives in both parties. Evans, a 39-year-old white litigator from the Atlanta suburbs, makes the case that she is a more reliable champion for working people than Abrams, citing areas in which she feels Abrams has been too willing to compromise with the state’s Republican majority.
Evans isn’t the only Georgia Democrat who has been critical of Abrams; others, including current and former members of Abrams’ own House caucus, say her tenure as minority leader has been marked by a willingness to compromise with Republicans that is at odds with her reputation at the national level.
Evans’ entry into the race has given these critics someone to rally behind.
“There’s a disconnect between progressives on the ground in Georgia and the grasstops leadership in D.C. and around the country,” said a veteran black Democrat active in Georgia politics who has not endorsed in the race and has requested anonymity for professional reasons. “Stacey Abrams has not generally been viewed as a progressive champion at the state Capitol.”
“As a black woman, it would be amazing to have a black woman in any statewide position in Georgia,” said LaDawn Blackett Jones, an Evans supporter and member of the Georgia House Democratic Caucus from 2012 to 2016. “However, race is not the most important thing to me, particularly because Abrams has not been at the forefront of race matters.”
Abrams dismisses such criticism from her fellow black lawmakers.
“In the words of the Negro spiritual, may the work I’ve done speak for me,” she said in a statement.
Ben Speight, the organizing director of the Atlanta-based International Brotherhood of Teamsters Local 728, which represents 9,000 workers across Georgia, compared Abrams to failed Democratic congressional candidate Jon Ossoff, who lost his bid to represent Georgia’s 6th Congressional District.
Speight has not endorsed anyone in the governor’s race at this point, and was only speaking in a personal capacity. But he said there is a feeling among progressives in the state that although Ossoff brought in big dollars from major party donors, he espoused milquetoast centrist views ― when he was willing to discuss his policies at all.
“It’s Ossoff’s politics with a different spokesperson,” Speight said of Abrams. “I don’t think the surface difference is enough to tip the scales, even in the Democratic primary.”
But Eric Robertson, the political director of the same Teamsters local, had only positive things to say about Abrams and implied that the union would likely soon endorse her.
Abrams “proved not only that she was a capable leader in the legislature, but also that she was someone we could depend on to ... place our issues at the core of the House caucus efforts and use her political capital to go to the mat for labor,” Robertson said.
Abrams was raised by working-class parents in Gulfport, Mississippi. The family later moved to Atlanta so her parents could study to become Methodist ministers.
Abrams earned a law degree at Yale and a master’s degree in public affairs from the University of Texas at Austin before returning to Atlanta. She practiced tax law before becoming deputy city attorney in 2002. She was first elected to the state House of Representatives in 2007, and became the first woman party leader in state history in 2011.
In addition to founding the New Georgia Project, a voting rights and registration nonprofit, Abrams is also a co-founder of the business-to-business payment system NOWaccount Network Corporation, and has published a series of romance novels under the pseudonym Selena Montgomery.
Abrams told  her desire to provide the state’s families with more pathways to prosperity is what motivated her to run for governor.
“I watch politicians on both sides of the aisle, and a lot of our policies are geared toward survival ― how do we keep people where they are,” Abrams said. “And particularly on our side of the aisle as Democrats, we have forgotten that we are supposed to be the party of prosperity for those who are disenfranchised and left behind.”
Abrams supports many conventional liberal policy remedies, including expanding Medicaid and providing universal preschool for the state’s 3- and 4-year-olds.
Citing her experience with NOWaccount, Abrams said she believes freeing up credit for local “nano-businesses” ― think barbershops and day care centers rather than tech startups ― is a key tool in facilitating entrepreneurship and combating poverty.
“Microcredit has been part of the developing world for years,” she said. “We can’t assume we’re above that kind of investment and that kind of thinking to move our families out of poverty as well.”
Abrams said these policies can help turn Georgia from a low-wage state that uses its lax labor and regulatory standards to attract employers from other states into one that “grows jobs in place.”
Her allies in Georgia say her professional competence, strong command of policy and prodigious fundraising record merit their endorsement.
“Stacey Abrams is one of the most brilliant people I have ever met,” said state Rep. Al Williams (D), who has served in the Georgia House since 2003. “I can’t remember a more qualified candidate for governor in my time.”
Abrams argues that the state Democratic Party needs to focus its resources on registering and turning out infrequent voters ― including under-tapped rural black voters, immigrants and progressive whites ― to win statewide office, rather than trying to win back white former Democrats who abandoned the party long ago.
Some groundwork has already been laid for those efforts, thanks to the New Georgia Project. She claims the nonprofit has registered 200,000 voters of color since its inception in 2014. Most recently, the organization was active in registering voters for the special House election in the 6th Congressional District, where it successfully sued the state to extend the registration window to 30 days ahead of the final runoff vote.
Abrams’ fans say she is the kind of candidate who will turn out those voters.
“There is a huge mass of untapped voter potential in the African-American population in the state,” said Atlanta-based state Sen. Nan Orrock (D). “Stacey can excite that vote in the same way Obama did.”
Yet Abrams’ career has not been without its controversies.
Her colleagues elected her minority leader in 2011, at a particularly turbulent time for Democrats in the state. The 2010 midterm elections had been as devastating for Georgia Democrats as they were for the party across the country. Republicans, boosted by eight Democratic defections to the GOP following the dismal election results, had come within striking distance of a two-thirds supermajority in the state House.
In some cases, Abrams stood her ground against newly elected Republican Gov. Nathan Deal. She helped torpedo Deal’s proposed application of the state’s sales tax to groceries, which she regarded as regressive. And she is insisting that any legislation legalizing casino gaming in the state set aside one-third of future tax revenue from the industry toward need-based education aid.
But some Democrats have criticized Abrams for collaborating with Deal and the Republican majority. The main example they point to is 2011 legislation reducing the Helping Outstanding Pupils Educationally, or HOPE, college scholarship program.
HOPE was created in 1993 to grant full scholarships to public four-year colleges for any Georgia high school student who had a B average (3.0 grade point average) or higher and kept it in that range during college. Funded by revenue from the state lottery, HOPE was initially for students from families with incomes below $66,000, but that income cap was raised and then eliminated entirely in 1995. The program also provided full-ride scholarships to students at Georgia’s vocational schools, or “technical colleges,” regardless of their grades.
HOPE, a project of former Democratic Gov. Zell Miller, remains a point of pride for Georgia Democrats, who regard it as the greatest progressive achievement in the state in decades. Thanks to HOPE, Georgia was at the forefront of higher education access, providing a welcome contrast to the state’s generally more conservative fiscal policies.
When Deal was elected in 2010, however, the program faced a major funding shortfall as lottery revenue failed to keep up with scholarship expenses. Deal and the Republicans proposed dramatically raising the merit threshold in order to shore up the program’s finances. High school students would need an A- average (3.7 grade point average) and have to do well on the SAT or ACT aptitude exams to qualify.
The new test score requirements were a particular sticking point with education advocates who argue that bright, ambitious students from less privileged socioeconomic or racial backgrounds typically do worse on the exams than their more privileged peers.
Abrams says she tried to negotiate with Republicans over the proposal out of fear that their legislation would be worse without her input.
The final bill, which passed in March 2011, created a two-tiered system in which high school students with a 3.7 GPA and 1200 SAT score would be eligible for a full ride. A second category of B-average students would receive more modest assistance. It also created a 3.0 GPA requirement for technical colleges and tied the size of assistance to fluctuating lottery revenues.
Abrams not only voted for the bill, delivering much of her caucus along with her, she also famously appeared at Deal’s side for the bill signing, lending the legislation bipartisan credibility.
The fallout from the bill was devastating, drastically reducing the number of students who received assistance and the size of the awards they received.
The legislation had a particularly severe impact on low-income students at Georgia’s technical colleges. From 2010 to 2012, the first full year the cuts were in effect, the vocational schools experienced a 20 percent drop in enrollment. Students who were no longer eligible for a full scholarship simply gave up on attending, according to members of Evans’ staff, who spoke to school administrators across the state.
But according to Abrams and her allies, her willingness to bargain over the legislation allowed them to protect preschool funding, which was also on the chopping block, as well as funding for remedial courses used to prepare for the technical colleges. Thanks to Abrams’ maneuvering, they say, the bill also created new low-interest loans for students disadvantaged by the new legislation.
“You have to work for the long-term movement,” said Williams. “I saw Stacey fight for HOPE like few people have, for the good of folks who most need it.”
Evans, the only HOPE scholar in the legislature at that time, was one of many House Democrats to vote against the bill. She spoke out passionately against it on the House floor, noting that she would not have qualified for the scholarship under the new rules because she did not break 1200 on the SAT. Her proposed alternative was a bill that would have restored the program’s income cap.
“We have a duty to the little girls growing up in Ringgold, Georgia, just like me. It’s not just inner-city kids that are poor. It’s rural kids,” Evans said in her floor speech. “And we deserve to make up for the fact that they are going to be treated differently.”
The legislature restored some of the scholarship funding affected by the 2011 cuts in 2014, passing a compromise version of a bill originally introduced by Evans that eased eligibility requirements for technical college assistance, among other changes.
But the 2011 legislation has emerged as a major point of contention in next year’s gubernatorial primary. And as The Intercept’s Zaid Jilani explained, the debate over HOPE goes beyond arguments about the program’s merits. For one thing, Abrams has embraced Evans’ legislation to restore free tuition for technical colleges, a feature of the original HOPE scholarship.
The fight over HOPE instead reflects a difference in approaches to governing. Abrams consistently favored compromise with the reigning Republicans, while Evans and others have argued that on some issues, bargaining with the GOP is simply not worth it.
“What we should have from our leaders are people who are willing to vision for what we want but also work to get what we need,” Abrams said.
She decried those willing to score a “pyrrhic victory” by refusing to work toward a compromise that could limit the damage of Republican policies. “Real people are the victims in this, and real people’s lives are impacted,” she added.
Evans is skeptical of what exactly Democrats gained in deciding to play ball with Republicans over HOPE. “The Republicans didn’t need Democratic votes to pass the legislation, and I don’t feel that there was any compromise in that bill that was worth the Democratic votes,” Evans told .
Abrams’ critics also cite her vote in favor of a 2011 Republican bill that reduced early voting in the state from 45 days to 21 days ahead of an election, which Evans voted against.
Republicans had wanted to further reduce the early voting period, Abrams told  in a statement, adding that she is “proud of our work to preserve” three weeks of early voting.
But Abrams’ detractors are cynical about her motives. “She has [seen] her electoral interests for higher office tied to power-brokering with the far-right regime that controls our state,” Speight said.
Others say Abrams has been reluctant to take up progressive issues. Jones said that when she was a state representative, she had asked Abrams to initiate a push to remove the Confederate battle flag from all state institutions following the June 2015 massacre at a black church in Charleston, South Carolina, but Abrams refused.
“I don’t think she would be any less, or any more of a champion of black issues than Stacey Evans would,” said Jones, who served as state presidential campaign director for Sanders during the 2016 primary.
Regarding the fight over the flag, Abrams said Democratic leaders deferred to the Georgia Legislative Black Caucus, which had already taken up the issue. (Nothing ultimately came of it, even as Jones spoke out about the matter individually.) Abrams notes that she fought to install a statue of Martin Luther King Jr. in the Capitol. When the statue is unveiled in the coming weeks, it will be the first sculpture of an African-American in the Capitol building, according to Abrams.
Even the New Georgia Project, the source of Abrams’ national prominence, has been the subject of scrutiny. Some Democrats were skeptical of how the group used $3.6 million in funds raised for its 2014 voter registration drive. When the organization released its financial records in February 2016, it emerged that Abrams had paid herself $177,500 for part-time work as CEO, a sum that seemed to confirm some of those concerns.
“I am deeply proud of the work the New Georgia Project has done to register more than 200,000 voters of color in the state, and its role in successful legal action to dismantle voter suppression including stopping precinct closures, unlawful interrogation of voters and illegal cancellation of more than 33,000 eligible voters,” Abrams said in a statement about her work with the organization. 
Unlike some of the contests that have stoked Democratic excitement ― and infighting ― since the November election, it is difficult to frame the Abrams-Evans race as a proxy battle between supporters of Hillary Clinton and Sanders. Both Abrams and Evans backed Clinton in the primary.
Jones, a self-described “Bernie bro,” is in Evans’ camp, but Our Revolution President Nina Turner, Marcus Ferrell, the Sanders campaign’s black outreach program director, and Georgia-based activist Danny Glover, who ran outreach for Sanders at historically black colleges and universities, are all backing Abrams. (Georgia Senate Minority Whip Vincent Fort, who has Sanders’ blessing for his Atlanta mayoral bid, has not endorsed in the race and declined to comment for this story.)
Evans is picking up her fair share of high-profile backers as well. Roy Barnes, the last Democrat to occupy the Georgia governor’s mansion, recently endorsed Evans, as did Paul Begala, a national Democratic strategist who worked on Zell Miller’s successful 1990 gubernatorial campaign, fellow Democratic House Reps. Ronnie Mabra and Dar’Shun Kendrick, and DeKalb County District Attorney Sherry Boston.
On Thursday, Evans met with Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed, an old Abrams rival who gushed that Evans had a “very powerful message.”
For liberal activists looking to pick sides, however, it is not clear that Evans is a universally more progressive candidate than Abrams. Both support a $15 minimum wage, though neither has laid out a timeline for its implementation or plans to campaign on it in interviews with . Evans promised only to work on boosting state employees’ pay first, as a jumping-off point.
Evans and Abrams both want to expand Medicaid. Abrams, however, considers the move a “starting point” on the path toward “the availability of single payer” health insurance, and Evans has made no such remarks.
Further, while the Georgia Federation of Teachers has lashed out at Abrams for failing to prevent 11 Democrats from voting for a bill that put a constitutional amendment on the state ballot granting the governor greater authority to close struggling schools, Evans was one of the 11 who voted for it.
Both candidates are running on expanding economic opportunity, even if they speak about it in different ways.
“I’m running to bring back hope to all Georgia families,” Evans told . “Not just HOPE as a scholarship program ― though that’s part of it ― but also hope that if you work hard, you can get a good-paying job; hope that we all have an equal opportunity to have access to quality health care; hope that our kids will have access to quality pre-K … and hope that we’re all created equal and that our government will not allow us to be treated otherwise, whether that’s in the streets, whether that’s in a courtroom, whether that’s in a bakery shop, whether that’s in employment.”
What rankles Evans and some Abrams critics is what they see as national progressives’ rush to embrace Abrams without scrutinizing her reputation in the state.
“I would advise anyone who wants to make an early endorsement in this race to keep their powder dry, just because I don’t think they have an accurate assessment of the political landscape in Georgia right now,” said the black Democrat who is critical of Abrams.
Mondale Robinson, Democracy for America’s electoral campaign manager, vehemently defended the organization’s decision to get behind Abrams at such an early stage, calling her the “most progressive candidate up and down the ballot.”
He noted that DFA surveyed its Georgia-based members before making the endorsement and ― based on her support for criminal justice reform, workers’ rights and single-payer health care ― Abrams was the favorite. The group plans to mobilize its members on behalf of Abrams and eventually invest money in the race.
Turner, a former Ohio state senator, said she was impressed with Abrams’ work registering voters with the New Georgia Project and is sympathetic to the dilemmas of legislating under a Republican majority.
“She led an effort to make something that was bad, less bad,” Turner said. “Anybody who’s been in the legislature like myself understands that.”
This article has been updated with a quote from Eric Robertson.


Protect this house!
Roofing companies in at least two states have adopted a bizarre marketing campaign in which customers who buy a roof get a free semi-automatic weapon as a bonus.
Digital Roofing Innovations in Decatur, Alabama, is the latest to offer the special. The company released a campy, over-the-top ad on July 4 ― complete with short shorts, beers, and gunfire ― promising an AR-15 to anyone who orders a roofing job. 
Co-owner Zach Blenkinsopp, the scantily-clad star of the ad, promises it’s not a gimmick.
“You’re gonna get you a free AR-15 rifle after we complete the roof. How’s that sound?” he says. “Donald Trump says, make America great again, I say, make America gun again.”
The company likely drew inspiration from a similar Denver-area campaign by Weatherproof Roofing & Exteriors in Colorado, which made headlines in May with its offer of an AR-15, a handgun, a “self-defense shotgun” or a $500 gift certificate to Cabela’s.
Both companies offer a voucher for a gun after the customer passes a background check. It’s all completely legal.
Blenkinsopp, a self-proclaimed Navy veteran, told local WHNT that he wasn’t trying to make social commentary about the gun violence problem in America. Weatherproof’s ad is a bit more political, however, stating on its website, “You’re a true patriot who believes that gun ownership isn’t just your right, it’s to protect citizens like you against the infringement on your God-given rights.” 
Still, the issue is polarizing. As we’ve reported, lawmakers are still split on whether a more weaponized populace is the answer to gun violence, even after a gunman shot a member of Congress and four other people at baseball practice in the northern Virginia in June. ’s Nick Wing argues that more guns are not the answer.
Regardless, it’s as easy as ever to get your hands on a semi-automatic gun. Shortly after the mass shooting at Pulse nightclub in Orlando last year, it took us just 38 minutes to buy our own AR-15 ― a process that was delayed only because people were flocking to buy them after the shooting, a phenomenon that always happens after mass shootings.


While, as president, Donald Trump has worked to cultivate a relationship with Arab leaders, the antipathy towards Arabs and Muslims that he and his party have cultivated in recent years continues to have a worrisome impact on American public opinion and policy.
Recent polling conducted three weeks after Trump's summits in Saudi Arabia, establishes the persistence of a deep and disturbing partisan divide in American attitudes toward Arabs and Muslims. On many questions, the views of Democrats and Republicans are exactly the opposite of one another, with Republican attitudes toward the two communities being extremely negative and the views of Democrats being overwhelming positive. For example, even after Trump's visit, only 18% of Republicans have a favorable view of Muslims while only 20% have favorable views of Arabs. This stands in marked contrast to the 59% and 58% of Democrats who are favorably inclined toward Muslims and Arabs, respectively.
These are some of the observations that can be gleaned from the latest Zogby Analytics poll conducted for the Arab American Institute in mid-June of this year. The AAI/ZA poll surveyed 1,012 voters nationwide.
AAI/ZA have annually examined US opinion on these issues for two decades in order to better understand attitudes toward Arabs and Muslims and the challenges faced by Arab Americans and American Muslims. As a result, it is possible to observe changes over time.
It was during the 2010 congressional elections that the GOP first attempted to exploit fear of Muslims for partisan political purposes. While the effort did not have an appreciable impact on the election, itself, the continuation of this effort during the next two election cycles has resulted a sizable shift in Republican attitudes not only toward Arabs and Muslims, but Americans either of Arab ancestry or the Muslim faith.
AAI/ZA polling conducted in December of 2015, after 6 years of anti-Muslim campaigning, shows the "mirror image" effect in place with Democrats recording 47% favorable/28% unfavorable attitudes toward American Muslims as compared with Republican's 25% favorable/53% unfavorable attitudes.
If there has been any "Trump effect" on attitudes, it has been to increase the favorable attitudes of Democrats toward Arabs and Muslims.  For example, Democrats' favorable attitudes toward Arab Americans increased from 51% in 2015 to 58% this year, while the positive rating given to American Muslims jumped from 47% to 61%. Meanwhile, Republican favorable attitudes toward American Muslims remained at a low 25%, while dropping from 34% in 2015 to 31% for Arab Americans.
Even more pronounced are the differences in attitudes between those who identify as Trump voters versus those who say they voted for Hillary Clinton. Clinton supporters give a 62% favorable rating to Arab Americans and a 64% rating to American Muslims. Only 32% of Trump supporters view Arab Americans positively and only 28% rate American Muslims positively.
This is not just a question of "liking or not liking" the two communities, these negative attitudes have consequences for government policy. With Republicans in control of the White House, Congress, and most state governments, the attitudes of the Republican voters matter to GOP officeholders.
What our polling shows is that on issues that affect the lives of Arab Americans and American Muslims ranging from immigration to civil liberties, the partisan divide is substantial and explains, in part, Republican support for policies hostile to both groups.
For example, while a plurality of Americans (48% to 30%) oppose restricting rights in the name of security, Republicans and Trump voters are in favor of such policies. And while Americans are evenly divided on whether law enforcement are justified in using ethnic or religious profiling in dealing with Arab Americans and American Muslims, Republicans and Trump voters support such profiling by greater than four to one (in the case of Trump voters 63% in favor with only 14% opposed).
And while a significant majority of all Americans agree that there has been an increase in discrimination and hate against Arab Americans and American Muslims, breaking down the numbers we find a huge partisan divide. For example, in response to the question "is there an increase of discrimination against Arab Americans" 53% say "yes", 20% say "no" (Democrats are 73% "yes"/10% "no"; while Trump voters are 31% "yes"/39% "no").
The same divide is in evidence with regard to Trump's proposals to ban immigrants and travelers who are Muslim or who are from Middle East countries, especially Syria. By a margin of 45% to 31%, American voters oppose such a ban, while Republicans strongly support a ban by a margin of 50% for it to only 24% opposed.
As we have found in previous polling, these negative attitudes not only increase the prospect of hate crimes being committed against both communities (note: hate crimes against both have increased dramatically in the past year), they also translate into suspicion about whether or not Arab Americans or American Muslims can be trusted to faithfully perform their duties if appointed to a government post. In December of 2015 we found that 48% of Republicans had no confidence that an Arab American could be trusted in such a post, while 63% had no confidence that an American Muslim could be trusted.
This situation is of deep concern to Arab Americans and American Muslims. We have, in the past, experienced discrimination, been victims of hate crimes, and endured painful political exclusion. It is clear that sustained hostile campaigns either by hardline supporters of Israel or, now, by some leading Republicans have taken a toll on our communities. They must be combated until our political discourse is freed from the scourge of hate, negative stereotyping, and scapegoating.
Follow @jjz1600 for more.

In an open letter revealing she has multiple sclerosis, a former congresswoman appealed to her congressional colleagues to consider her story when deciding whether to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
Former Rep. Donna Edwards (D-Md.) argued in the letter, published Friday evening in The Washington Post, that the Republican attempts to repeal the landmark law endanger her personally given both her medical condition and the economically precarious position in which she finds herself. 
Edwards made the case that her contraction of a chronic illness despite a healthy lifestyle demonstrates the importance of protecting people with preexisting conditions.
“I pray that as you finish doing whatever it is that you are doing with health care, you remember that I was one of your colleagues, that I worked hard and that I don’t have a preexisting condition because I was a bad person who led an unhealthy life,” she concluded the missive. “I have a preexisting condition simply because I do; and I, like millions of other Americans in the same situation, deserve quality, affordable health care.”
Edwards described a life as an avid runner and biker, who began experiencing muscular pains last year that she would later learn were symptoms of the autoimmune disease multiple sclerosis. While she was participating in a Democratic sit-in for gun control legislation on the House floor in June 2016, a House physician called her into his office and told her the diagnosis. Though she was shaken, Edwards recalled, she returned to the sit-in.
Edwards, a senior fellow at New York University School of Law’s Brennan Center for Justice, nonetheless described herself as “not employed.” She currently pays $800 in COBRA payments to keep the health insurance she had as a member of Congress, but that option will run out in June 2018.
“I’m not sure what I’ll do then,” Edwards wrote.
Edwards, who is a single mother, recounted that her financial struggles as a young woman prevented her from affording coverage for a time. Now, Edwards wrote, she again has a personal stake in the debate.
“One reason I ran for Congress was to help make sure no one would have to go through that, and I was proud to be one of the presiding officers when the Affordable Care Act passed. I did not think the law was perfect; I believed it was a good start,” she wrote. “I never thought I could have to go back to a time when I would not have health-care coverage.”
Edwards, a progressive stalwart, ran for an open Maryland Senate seat in 2016. She lost in the Democratic primary to fellow Maryland congressman Chris Van Hollen, who went on to win in the general election. She subsequently retired from the U.S. House, where she had served since 2008.
As an attorney, veteran liberal activist and former member of Congress, Edwards’ career prospects ― and consequent opportunities to receive employer-sponsored insurance ― would appear to be bright.
But many other Americans in her predicament would not be as fortunate without the ACA, commonly known as Obamacare. Obamacare ensured that insurance companies could not deny people coverage for preexisting conditions and created community rating regulations requiring insurers to set premiums regionally, rather than based on individuals’ medical histories.
It also enabled workers living above the poverty line without coverage from their employers to purchase insurance on regulated exchanges. The vast majority of people who buy that coverage benefit from major financial subsidies available to Americans below a certain income threshold.
The Obamacare repeal bill currently being considered by the Republican-dominated Senate would dramatically reduce the subsidies available to Americans who purchase coverage on the exchanges. Much of the savings from those reductions and massive cuts to Medicaid would go toward the cost of undoing taxes on the wealthy and corporations that were part of Obamacare.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that as a result of the changes in the Senate bill, 22 million fewer Americans would have insurance over a ten-year period. That is only a modest improvement over a bill that passed the House in May, which CBO projects would result in 23 million fewer insured Americans.
The CBO score of the bill late last month spooked many Republicans, prompting Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) to delay a vote until after the July Fourth congressional recess.


Drug overdose is the leading cause of death in Butler County, Ohio, but Sheriff Richard Jones says he has no plans to equip his deputies with naloxone, an opioid overdose reversal drug that saves hundreds, if not thousands, of lives around the country every day.
Jones, a vocal supporter of President Donald Trump who has expressed skepticism about naloxone in the past, reiterated his opposition in a recent interview with the Cincinnati Enquirer. Reached by  on Friday, he stood by his comments.
“My officers don’t carry Narcan, nor will they,” Jones said, referring to a brand name of naloxone, which is typically administered nasally and works by essentially blocking the opioid receptors that heroin, fentanyl and other narcotic painkillers target.
Jones cited high costs and concerns about officer safety, noting that some overdose victims revived with naloxone can be unpredictable and hostile.
In a recent interview with Ashleigh Banfield on HLN’s “Primetime Justice,” Jones said his position would change only if “the courts order” him to begin carrying naloxone.
Jones has made a name for himself as an outspoken advocate for a variety of extreme anti-drug views, including once suggesting the U.S. should drop one of its largest bombs on Mexican drug cartels. He told  that most of the responses he’d gotten to his latest remarks on naloxone were positive, from people “disgusted by the drug problem” and tired of inaction from national politicians.
“This Narcan, all it does is save people’s lives for another day,” said Jones. “You enable these people when you give them this Narcan.”
Jones said he disagrees with experts who say addiction is a disease, and is frustrated because “nothing that is being done is fixing the problem.” He said he’s seen an increase in the number of women giving birth to opioid-addicted babies in jail and heard countless horror stories about young children being directly affected by the ravages of addiction. He also described speaking with one man who’d been using intravenous drugs for so long that he now had to inject them into his penis in order to find a vein.
Jones noted that just because his deputies won’t carry naloxone doesn’t mean overdose victims won’t get revived.
“The life squads aren’t just going to stop giving them Narcan, but it’s pushing the resources out so bad and our government has no response, they have no cure, they’re all too busy,” said Jones. “Nancy Reagan, as silly as it might sound, you gotta just say no and you gotta teach kids and you gotta start in the 7th grade.”
Butler County is now the only sheriff’s department in Southwest Ohio not equipped with naloxone, according to the Enquirer. Advocates have been working with the Butler County Health Department to give free overdose reversal kits and training to relatives and friends of people struggling with addiction, as well as users themselves, who are often nearest to the scene of an overdose.
Southwest Ohio has been hit especially hard by the opioid epidemic in recent years, with some counties seeing exponential growth in overdose deaths amid an influx of increasingly powerful opioids. 
Nearly 200 people in Butler County died of drug overdoses last year, with 153 related to heroin or fentanyl, a potent synthetic opioid that along with other analogues has fueled surging drug deaths around the nation. The county is on pace to see 263 overdose deaths this year, according to a June report by The New York Times. In neighboring Montgomery County, overdoses will claim 800 lives this year if they continue at the current rate.
The crisis has led to some differing opinions on how best to respond. Last month, a city councilman in Middletown, which is located in both Butler and Warren counties, asked officials to explore the possibility of denying emergency medical services to certain individuals who had sought a medical intervention twice before.
“I want to send a message to the world that you don’t want to come to Middletown to overdose because someone might not come with Narcan and save your life,” said Middletown council member Dan Picard. “We need to put a fear about overdosing in Middletown.”
Picard expressed concern about the mounting cost of overdose reversal kits, citing estimates showing the city is on pace to spend 10 times the amount it had initially budgeted for naloxone in 2017. Middletown officials have since said emergency medical services personnel will continue to revive overdose victims.
In Ohio and around the country, officials have been giving voice to similar forms of compassion fatigue. Some have suggested that death is a foregone conclusion for many people addicted to opioids, and that reviving them repeatedly is therefore not worth the resources.
These positions may speak to the deep frustration of communities in the grips of the opioid epidemic, but drug policy advocates say they’re not representative of most officials in charge of responding to it.
“We see a lot of consistency and buy-in from law enforcement, fire and EMS on the importance of overdose response and harm reduction, and the importance of an enhanced overdose response,” Kelly Firesheets, senior program officer at the Cincinnati-based Interact for Health, told .
“There are hundreds if not thousands of departments that are now carrying naloxone and are happy to carry it because they generally say it’s a good thing for the communities and for the officers, because they like being able to do something at the scene of an overdose,” said Corey Davis, deputy director for the Network for Public Health Law, which supports increased access to naloxone.
Interact for Health takes a “naloxone-plus approach” to dealing with overdoses, treating overdoses as opportunities for intervention and to connect victims to treatment.
“A lot of times we get confused and forget that naloxone is not treatment for addiction,” said Firesheets. “This is a crisis intervention we’re talking about ― we’re talking about keeping a person from dying. And then there are other systems and processes and services that people need as treatment for the disease that is threatening their lives.”
Firesheets also expressed concern that Jones’ decision not to equip officers with naloxone would limit the department’s ability to protect deputies who may come into contact with a number of synthetic opioids, some of which are so lethal that amounts equivalent to just a few grains of salt can be deadly.
There have been numerous instances in recent months, including in Ohio, of officers being revived with Narcan after accidentally touching synthetic opioids and overdosing. Jones said the emergency medical personnel who typically respond to overdoses along with his officers would be able to administer naloxone should that happen.
To Firesheets and others, Jones’ remarks are evidence of the lasting stigma around addiction, which has become deeply engrained amid 40-plus years of the U.S.-led war on drugs. One of the chief policy prescriptions of this era has been that law enforcement should be a primary solution to drug use.
“The humanness of this sometimes gets lost in our discussion about policy and practices,” said Firesheets. “These are real people with families and friends and kids and co-workers, and they’re part of our community. That makes this challenging to wrestle with sometimes.”
The views of people like Jones show that police shouldn’t be leading the public health policy response to the overdose epidemic, said Michael Collins, deputy director of the Drug Policy Alliance, a nonprofit that advocates for the progressive reform of drug laws.
“They’re not social workers, they’re not doctors, and so they’re often not best equipped to deal with the challenges of drug use,” Collins told . “Police will not get us out of the overdose epidemic. There has to be a public health approach, and it has to be an approach that’s grounded in science and health and human rights and not enforcement.”
Although treatment is a vital part of this equation, people have to be ready to get treatment, said Collins.
“We have to recognize that there are individuals who aren’t ready for treatment, don’t want treatment right now, aren’t willing to get treatment, and the question is, how do you reduce the harm associated with their drug use?” he said.
Collins brought up proposals like syringe exchange programs and safe-injection facilities, both of which have shown promising results, and both of which Jones told  he’s skeptical of.
Although these programs can be opportunities to connect drug users to treatment, Collins believes that even if they don’t succeed in getting people to seek help, it doesn’t mean they’ve failed.
“The bar for the success of all these interventions shouldn’t be have we gotten the user into treatment, it should be have we saved their lives?” he said.

The House Appropriations Committee unexpectedly passed an amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations bill last week that would repeal the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) passed by Congress in 2001 after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. If this effort to revoke the AUMF proves successful, the repeal would effectively limit Donald Trump’s ability to use military force against North Korea, Iran and elsewhere.
In the 2001 AUMF, Congress authorized the president to use military force against groups and countries that had supported the 9/11 attacks. Congress rejected the George W. Bush administration’s request for open-ended military authority “to deter and preempt any future acts of terrorism or aggression against the United States.” ISIS (also known as Daesh) did not exist in 2001.
Although Congress limited the scope of the AUMF, it has nevertheless been used as a blank check for military force more than 37 times in 14 different countries, according to the Congressional Research Service.
Bush relied on the 2001 AUMF to invade Afghanistan and start the longest war in US history. Barack Obama used the AUMF to lead a NATO force into Libya and forcibly change its regime; ISIS then moved in to fill the vacuum. Obama also invoked the AUMF to carry out targeted killings with drones and manned bombers, killing myriad civilians. Trump relies on the AUMF for his drone strikes in Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Somalia, Libya and Afghanistan, which have killed thousands of civilians.
Rep. Barbara Lee (D-California) introduced the new amendment, tweeting, “GOP & Dems agree: a floor debate & vote on endless war is long overdue.” Lee was the only Congress member to vote against the AUMF in 2001. She said, “I knew then it would provide a blank check to wage war anywhere, anytime, for any length by any president.”
Lee clarified that her amendment would repeal “the overly broad 2001 AUMF, after a period of eight months after the enactment of this act, giving the administration and Congress sufficient time to decide what measures should replace it.”
It remains to be seen whether Lee’s amendment will be defeated in the House of Representatives, as it is opposed by the House Foreign Affairs Committee, which said it “should have been ruled out of order” because the Appropriations Committee lacked jurisdiction over the matter.
The AUMF Should Be Repealed to Constrain Trump’s War-Making
Lee’s amendment raises the issue of how much war-making authority Congress should delegate to the president.
The 2001 AUMF should be repealed. But Congress should not give Trump a newer, more tailored, one. Trump cannot be trusted with war-making authority.
Tensions with North Korea continue to escalate. In response to Pyongyang’s ballistic missile test, the Trump administration participated with South Korea in a massive live-fire ballistic missile exercise as a warning to Kim Jong-un. Trump warned he is considering “some pretty severe things.”
Trump’s recent saber-rattling against North Korea led Laura Rosenberger, a former State Department official who worked on North Korea issues, to warn that Trump is “playing with fire here ― nuclear fire.”
Trump has indicated his willingness to use nuclear weapons. As he said on MSNBC in 2016, “Somebody hits us within ISIS, you wouldn’t fight back with a nuke?”
Secretary of Defense James Mattis cautioned against war with North Korea. In May, he stated on CBS’s “Face the Nation” that a conflict in North Korea “would be probably the worst kind of fighting in most people’s lifetimes.” It would be “tragic on an unbelievable scale,” he said at a Pentagon press conference.
Nikki Haley, US ambassador to the United Nations, warned the Security Council, “One of our capabilities lies with our considerable military forces. We will use them if we must, but we prefer not to have to go in that direction.” But, she said, North Korea is “quickly closing off the possibility of a diplomatic solution.”
The UN Charter requires the pursuit of peaceful alternatives to the use of military force. Christine Hong, associate professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, wrote in the Progressive, “Unsurprisingly, few media outlets have reported on North Korea’s overtures to the United States, even as these, if pursued, might result in meaningful de-escalation on both sides. To be clear: peaceful alternatives are at hand. Far from being an intractable foe, North Korea has repeatedly asked the United States to sign a peace treaty that would bring the unresolved Korean War to a long-overdue end.”
But Trump, not known for his patience, is unlikely to pursue a diplomatic solution for long.
Moreover, his uses of military force thus far have been conducted unlawfully.
Trump’s Unlawful Military Attacks
Trump’s drone strikes cannot be justified by the 2001 AUMF or any other act of Congress. They thus violated the War Powers Resolution.
Passed in the wake of the Vietnam War, the War Powers Resolution requires the president to report to Congress within 60 days of initiating the use of military force. The Resolution allows the president to introduce US Armed Forces into hostilities or imminent hostilities in only three situations:
First, after Congress has declared war, which has not happened since World War II. Second, in “a national emergency created by attack upon the United States, its territories or possessions, or its armed forces,” which has not occurred. And third, when there is “specific statutory authorization,” such as an AUMF.
The UN Charter requires that countries settle their disputes peacefully. The Charter forbids a country from using military force against another country, except in self-defense or with the approval of the Security Council.
Trump launched 59 Tomahawk cruise missiles against Syria in retaliation for an unproven claim that the Syrian government was responsible for a deadly chemical attack in Khan Sheikhoun.
“There’s no doubt that international law, the UN Charter, prohibits the use of military force for retaliation or for reprisal, punishment,” said Mary Ellen O’Connell, professor of international law at the University of Notre Dame. “You can only use military force in self-defense, and he did not.”
Trump’s Tomahawk missiles in Syria did not comply with the UN Charter or the War Powers Resolution.
The Trump administration utilized a self-defense rationale for shooting down a Syrian fighter jet and two Iranian-made drones. But neither Syria nor Iran had attacked the United States. And the Security Council did not sanction the US strikes. Those shoot-downs also violated the UN Charter.
The Stakes of the Effort to Repeal the AUMF
Trump’s military interventions and the frightening prospect that he may attack North Korea raise the question of whether the 2001 AUMF should be repealed.
In 2015, Obama proposed repealing the 2001 AUMF and replacing it with a new one. Obama’s proposal contained no geographical limitation and would have allowed the use of military force against ISIS and “associated forces,” which is overly broad. And although it would have prohibited “enduring offensive operations,” it contained a loophole that would have permitted the limited use of ground troops by labeling operations “defensive.”
Obama essentially asked Congress to bless endless war against anyone he wanted, wherever he wanted. Congress declined Obama’s invitation.
Article I of the Constitution gives Congress the power to declare war. Congress should retain that authority as the framers intended, not hand it over to an unpredictable and volatile president. The fate of the world is at stake.
Copyright Truthout. Reprinted with permission.
Marjorie Cohn is professor emerita at Thomas Jefferson School of Law and former president of the National Lawyers Guild. An updated edition of her book, Drones and Targeted Killing: Legal, Moral, and Geopolitical Issues, will be published soon.

Melvin Goodman has more than four decades of experience working in American intelligence, including 24 years at the CIA, where he specialized in U.S.-Russia relations. After resigning from the CIA in 1990 over corruption involving top officials in the agency, Goodman went on to advocate for whistleblowing and accountability in the intelligence community.
In this week’s episode of KCRW’s “Scheer Intelligence,” Goodman sits down with Robert Scheer to discuss Goodman’s experience at the CIA and explore the future of U.S. policy toward Russia. In the course of the conversation, Goodman says the U.S. and Russia need to resume denuclearization for any chance of successful dialogue between the two superpowers.
Goodman and Scheer discuss current relations between the countries, with Scheer noting that Goodman’s expertise in the matter makes him a perfect guest, considering current political tensions.
“There are too many areas of mutual interest that are much more important than most of the differences we have with Russia,” Goodman tells Scheer. “When you look at arms control, disarmament, counterterrorism, nonproliferation of strategic weaponry, the Iran situation, the North Korean situation—the United States and Russia are completely in agreement in those areas.”
“Trump is clueless about major areas of strategic substance,” Goodman continues, adding that many key members of Trump’s administration also are unfit to start a dialogue with Russia. “This is an administration with no institutional memory whatsoever. It’s incredibly pathetic.”
Goodman also thinks the U.S. failed to accurately analyze intelligence leading up to Pearl Harbor and the 9/11 terror attacks, and he says the media regularly fall for “government lies,” such as claims that Iraq has weapons of mass destruction. The conversation concludes with Goodman making the case that the U.S. and Russia must resume denuclearization to begin a peaceful discussion on foreign policy. He adds that we are in a particularly crucial time because many of Trump’s top military officials are “anti-arms control, anti-disarmament and anti-Russia.”
Last month, Scheer and Goodman talked about related issues. Scheer moderated a panel featuring Goodman, in which the former analyst discussed CIA internal failures and his role in trying to expose them.
Goodman also recently published “Whistleblower at the CIA: An Insider’s Account of the Politics of Intelligence,” a book about his time in the agency.
Listen to the full conversation and to past editions of “Scheer Intelligence” at KCRW.com.

We progressives are facing difficult days as we watch the dismal failings of the Trump administration and the hateful machinations of Republicans on Capitol Hill. Authentic dialogue seems impossible when “alternative facts” and outright lies characterize most of the rhetoric we hear from Trump, Republican leaders, and the rightwing media, all of which is parroted by many Trump supporters.
The temptation to return insult for insult and injury for injury is enormous.
But if we are to offer an alternative vision to the insular nationalism and greed that characterize this administration, we cannot become what we abhor. Rather, we must engage in love as a political act that refuses the current moment’s framing of us vs them and its attendant willingness to dehumanize and delegitimize those with whom we disagree.
Love is one of those words that is subject to a wide variety of interpretations—from the sentimentalized Hollywood version of romantic love to religion’s highly abstract love of God that supposedly encompasses us all but rarely leads us to love one another in authentic ways.
I’m talking of love as a radical political tool, an act of resistance to the dividing and subordinating forces of bigotry, inequality, and oppression. In this instance, love is not simply a personal, individualistic act, but rather it is social force that calls for change through the creation of belonging, empowerment, and right relationships and institutional structures.
Feminist theorist bell hooks calls what I’m describing a “love ethic” (All About Love: New Visions. New York: William Morrow, 2000). She explains that a love ethic leads our choices to work with others, give all of ourselves to our relationships, and embrace “a global vision wherein we see our lives and our fate as intimately connected to those of everyone else on the planet.” This means, she says, we consciously choose a different set of values to guide our living. In this way, she notes, love is not merely a feeling but is a practice—it is a way we choose to act. Awakening to this kind of love, she argues, “can happen only as we let go of our obsession with power and domination.”
Love as a guiding ethic makes possible the transformation we seek—love is what motivates us to call for racial and gender justice; it is what drives our demands for inclusion, equity, accessibility, opportunity, and welcome. And our refusal to reject loving action, even in the face of insult, lies, and mistreatment must be what sets us apart from the current moment’s tribalism, rage, and hatred.
Love must become our organizing principle on the Left. It must be our end and our means, lest we simply replicate the structures of power, hierarchy, divisiveness, exclusion, and dehumanization we see with such clarity in the current climate.
We must engage in unconditional, undeterred, radical love as a political act to challenge the forces of domination and exclusion that surround us. An ethic of love offers us alternative ways of being in the world and responding to the current political situation. It means we do not ignore current conflicts; nor does it mean we accept the status quo without challenge. It also means we do not respond in kind to those with whom we disagree. It means we choose a different way, a way that honors the humanity of all, even those whose views and actions we find repugnant, but it also means we choose to act, to resist the current administration’s life-depleting rhetoric and policy and to offer alternative, life-affirming solutions to the pressing problems of our planet.
I cannot choose what the Trump administration does or what Trump supporters do. But I can choose what I do and who I want to be, and I do not have to allow those choices to be controlled by the chaos and anger emanating from this regime. I can choose not to become what I oppose. I can choose to love, politically, radically, in the face of opposition and even violence.
bell hooks says that fear keeps us from this kind of love. She says cultures of domination rely on fear to ensure our obedience and divide us from one another. She writes, “Fear is the primary force upholding structures of domination. It promotes the desire for separation, the desire not to be known . . . When we choose to love we choose to move against fear—against alienation and separation.”
We progressives must choose to love. We must love one another, and we must love those against whom we struggle for justice. They are not the enemy. They are afraid. hooks quotes from the first epistle of John in the Christian Testament: “There is no fear in love; but perfect love casts out fear.” Radical love overcomes fear, our own, and that of others.
We must have the courage to love radically and honestly, letting our love becoming the force that disrupts and subverts power and dominance and creates new possibilities for life, peace, and community.

Back in 2013, as a newspaper columnist for the Los Angeles Times here in Huntington Beach California, I took up a cause. For years up until then I had focused on little-known human interest stories and lots of local history. However, when I learned that the South Coast Air Quality Management District (AQMD) was making a move to ban fire rings all across Southern California, I became a man on a mission. Over the course of more than a dozen columns, I documented and fought against what I (and many others) considered to be draconian tactics that would’ve eliminated one of the most wonderful aspects of California beach culture: beach bonfires.
The battle of the bonfires
The AQMD governing board, nothing more than a bunch of political appointees with lots of power and apparently way too much time, was apparently trying to appease a couple of wealthy property owners that were put off by the sweet scent of the nearby evening beach bonfires. Now, that may not seem like a big deal or cause to fight for. But understand, here in Huntington Beach, we have more than 600 of these fire rings. They are not just an evocative and lovely part of the beach experience and heritage; they are also a significant part of our local economy. People pay to park on the beach at night to enjoy these fires. They buy tons of marshmallows and graham crackers and chocolate bars and hot dogs to enjoy near these fires. It amounts to millions of dollars each summer for our local economy.  But, perhaps most importantly, the beach bonfire experience is something that brings people together. It’s a low-cost way for families of any and all financial means to enjoy something truly special. So I took up the fight and began what became an epic battle.
That said, a man with a newspaper column can only do so much and so the day I was contacted by Assemblyman Travis Allen (whose district includes all or portions of Seal Beach, Huntington Beach, Fountain Valley and Garden Grove), I felt both relief and exhilaration. “I’ve watched what you are doing and I want to help,” he told me enthusiastically. “This is wrong. As a Californian, I want to help you fight this. We are doing this, dude. I’m getting involved.”
And get involved he did. Travis and I worked closely together to protect and preserve fire rings all over the state and thankfully, they are all still here. But he took things further than I could have and what I saw in him was truly inspiring. This issue brought together people of every political persuasion. I’ve never seen anything like it. It was a common sense fight and Travis fought like a warrior, rallying and unifying and galvanizing a community, regardless of political differences.
He also introduced AB 1102, which was designed to "protect the Southern California tradition of beach bonfires by requiring the South Coast Air Quality Management District to work with local cities and other coastal oversight agencies to prove that there will be no loss of beach access or harm to local economies and that any environmental concerns are addressed before a city can remove the fire rings from the beaches in Orange and Los Angeles counties."
Travis throws his hat in the race
When I heard that he recently threw his hat in the ring to become the next Governor of California, I was happy. In general, I am wary of politicians and I rarely, if ever, express much public opinion in support of them. But we are living in serious times here in the Golden State.
When I started reading about his campaign, it reminded me of all of his passion and enthusiasm on the fire ring issue. The New York Times profiled Allen the other day, and the piece included this quote:
“I’m a Southern California surfer and investment adviser for 20 years. I first ran for office in 2012 because I had seen my family, my clients and their business leave the state. My best friend moved to Texas. But I believe that California’s best days are ahead of us if only we had real leadership once again.”
I remember Travis telling me the same thing several years ago. About how his family had left, too. It was just getting too hard to make it here and that bothered him intensely. He is a native Californian.
A piece in the Sacramento Bee included this:
Travis Allen, a conservative assemblyman from Orange County, said Thursday that he plans to enter next year’s contest for California governor. Allen, who announced his intentions to his large social media following, could pair his uphill candidacy with his existing proposal to repeal the recently signed $52 billion vehicle tax and fee package designed to pay for the state’s aging roads and transportation projects. “I’ve seen our taxes increase to be among the highest in the nation,” Allen said in his announcement, where he also bemoaned the rise in crime and general expansion of state government bureaucracy.
Ready to fight back
I hadn’t spoken with Allen for a while so we got on the phone shortly after I read about his announcement.
Just as he was on the fire rings issue, his enthusiasm, confidence and passion crackled over the line. I mentioned to him that a lot of people will probably dismiss any chance of a Republican taking over the seat. He laughed and told me, “I’m not worried about that at all. This whole myth of ‘democratic dominance’ is perpetuated by them. They run a political machine out of San Francisco and you have to look no further than Jerry Brown, Gavin Newsom, Barbara Boxer, Dianne Feinstein - to see what is going on - it’s all out of San Francisco. It reminds me of what Tammany Hall must have been like in New York City; a well-oiled political machine that is out of touch with honest, hard-working Californians. We’re paying our highest taxes in ages, schools are failing, they want single-payer healthcare and sanctuary cities - I just don’t think that’s what most Californians want.”
He was born near San Diego and has lived throughout the state, including the last 20 years or so in Huntington Beach. He’s driven by the surf and his love of the water plays into his own personal politics. “As a surfer, I want clean beaches and clean water and clean air. That’s not extreme environmentalism, it’s just common sense. A lot of this stuff is just common sense. People get so hung up on party loyalty but sometimes I think they forget just look at their lives and wonder, how can I vote to make this better? How can I help take back my beautiful state?”
I get what he’s saying. When I look at Travis and his record, I think less about him being a conservative Republican and more simply him just being a concerned Californian. And the voting numbers in a blue state don’t scare him.
“That’s just another myth,” he says. “Last election for governor we had 10 million registered voters who didn’t go out to the polls. They simply didn’t vote. If 700,000 people have voted differently, you could’ve had a Republican governor. That’s all. What matters is taking back the state and fixing what is wrong. We have the sixth largest economy in the world and look how high our poverty rate is. We have more water than we can ever use, but no way to store it. I believe we have the best workforce in the nation but our roads are terrible and we have the worst traffic in the country. As a financial advisor for over two decades, I know firsthand how to make tough financial choices. Our 13.3% income tax rate is the highest in the nation. Our state sales tax of 7.25% is also the highest in the nation – and when you factor in local taxes, sales tax in some cities can reach as high as 10%. We also pay among the highest gas taxes and highest car registration fees in the nation. Let’s not forget we also have to repeal Jerry Brown’s gas tax and cut taxes for all Californians. I’m running for governor to help fix these things on behalf of the people.”
Can he really do it?
With a new baby on the way this November, it’s an exciting time for Allen, his wife and their eight-year-old daughter. And things will only get more crazy in the next few months. “It’s all good,” he laughs. “I wouldn’t be doing this if I wasn’t ready to deal with everything this experience is going to bring. I find it really exciting and I’m ready to get to work. I’m committed to help lead this state back to where it needs to be.”
Allen is a social media maven who knows how to communicate with the electorate. He (like his wife) speaks fluent Spanish which is certainly an asset in California. In my opinion he seems as qualified, if not more so, than anyone else currently in the pack.
I’ve written about eight books on California and literally hundreds of articles. But outside of my book on Teddy Roosevelt and my fire ring fight, I don’t usually write about politics or politicians. It’s not what I do. But the more I see what happening here, the more it feels like it’s time to take a stand. I love this state and I think it’s time the people start to take it back.
I’ve been talking to a lot of friends recently about local politics. Some on the right and some on the left. Everybody seems to agree. Things could be better in California. A lot better. And that maybe it’s time to rethink the way things have been getting done, regardless of political party. Is the answer a passionate local Assemblyman who loves to surf? Who loves his state and is tired of so many moving away in frustration? I can just tell you firsthand, I’ve seen this guy fight for what he believes in and I’ve seen him pull people together. Even when we don’t agree on certain issues, the debates are fair, honest and open minded. He listens. Whatever the game, when they choose up sides, you want this guy on your team.
The first written documentation of surfing in Hawaii was written by the English explorer Captain James Cook in 1778. He was the first European to visit Hawaii and this is how he summed up what he observed: “I could not help concluding this man had the most supreme pleasure while he was driven so fast and so smoothly by the sea.”
I see that same quality in Travis Allen not just in how he talks about surfing, but also in his passion to help take back California from politicians that have ignored the most basic needs, wants and dreams of an increasingly frustrated electorate.
I am anxious and excited to see how his campaign develops.

By the time that we were blocking the elevators, it was too late for security to close them off. People were rushing into the main lobby, holding open the back doors for wheelchair users as they rolled into their places. I heard the man at the front desk yell, and another security guard turned around the corner trying to stop the influx of people. Within a couple of minutes, about 30 people were in the building, most of them in wheelchairs, all chanting loudly about Medicaid. The front doors were blocked by protestors, and I found a spot in the middle, perched between elevators, to watch the cops come on the scene. Within about ten minutes, ten arrived and dispersed the crowd at different spots around the room. They listened to the chants with awkward stares, almost all of them wearing bicycle hats. This was going to be interesting.
I first found out about the protest through my work. As a young Ohioan with a disability, I was automatically interested. I’ve had personal meetings with Senator Portman’s staff before about the issue, but this was something different. I also understood the urgency. The Better Care Reconciliation Act is a different kind of beast that would harm Ohioans (the poor, the disabled, and women) in a State that is already becoming the center of the American Opioid crisis.
The protest itself was to be run by the National Chapter of ADAPT, an organization best known for their more radical efforts in the fight for disability. The organization itself is a cause for debate amongst many, but also has thousands of supporters and has become a valuable resource during the age of Trumpism. I knew enough about them to feel confident that I knew exactly what I was walking into.
Either way, this was a cause that could wake me up at 7 a.m. on a Friday morning.
The protest started around 9 a.m., and, although there was police present, was peaceful in the morning. I found out that somehow a couple of other activists had found their way up into Portman’s actual office the night before and had spent the night there. As for us, we weren’t able to get up into the office, so we settled for the main lobby instead. People clumped together in the back and lined most of the walls. For a couple of hours, I stood next to a couple of cops and made small talk. I walked one through my contemplation of whether or not I was going to Postmate myself Chipotle (which I did, by the way). As the hours went on, other people joined in the protest, and the police left. Apparently, according to an officer, the protesters in elevators were the real issue, but there was also nothing else they could do. Once they left, people settled down for lunch and told stories of what Medicaid/care actually meant to them. By the time it was 2 p.m., things seemed calm. Protesters were being peaceful, singing chants and songs, and talking amongst each other. I knew the police would have to come back eventually, but everything seemed under control. Protesters were even collecting each others garbage. There was a couple with a baby sitting right next to me; nothing that needed to be controlled.
That’s when I chose to leave the scene for a couple of hours. If they were still there around 6 or 7, I said, I would come back and help out. But by the time I’d gotten home, the tone of the protests had changed. Apparently, protesters had somehow managed to take another staircase or elevator, and the situation had changed. An employee was trying to get out, and she wasn’t able to get out of the building. Another person texted me and told me that they had left as well.
Soon afterward, the Columbus Police Department told protesters that there was someone in the building having an emergency, although that’s up for debate. As soon as protesters complied, the police took advantage of the situation and literally began dragging people out of the building.
By this time, I was at home, watching everything unfold from Facebook Live. People being thrown across the room dragged out of chairs and thrown on the ground. One woman, in particular, was thrown flat on her face in the middle of the crowd. Police were over aggressive, and people were screaming in the background. Finally, after they had dragged everyone outside, they put them all in a circle on the ground and zip-tied people behind their backs. One man, who was deaf, was separated from the group without an interpreter and put in a police car. In the end, two wheelchairs were left behind at the scene — meaning that people were forced into cars without their mobility. According to reports, 15 people were arrested.
I am absolutely disgusted by the Columbus Police. I am absolutely disgusted by Rob Portman, for choosing to jail the disabled rather than listen to them. I do understand that protests like this are stuck between a rock and a hard place. The building Portman’s Senate office is located in is a private building, and technically protesters were on private property. However, maybe senators shouldn’t be allowed to have offices on private property. They are senators, after all. More on point, though, this was an act of unwarranted aggression by police. There was no need to drag people out of the building— and certainly not like that. Even those complied with the officer’s demands were told that they could never come back again or they would be arrested. It was unneeded violence and aggression toward people with disabilities.
But hey, good job Rob Portman. You got what you wanted. Congratulations on the nice, empty lobby.

When the 10 members of President Donald Trump’s Presidential Advisory Commission On Election Integrity met each other for the first time during a June 28 conference call, Vice President Mike Pence and Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R), the panel’s leaders, made it clear they wanted the committee’s work to be unbiased.
That same day, Kobach sent a letter to all 50 states, requesting any “publicly available” information on voters, including highly sensitive information such as their voting history, information regarding felony convictions and the last four digits of their Social Security numbers. The letter immediately prompted a bipartisan backlash as Democratic and Republican election officials declined to provide sensitive voter information. The White House has tried to downplay resistance to the probe, releasing a statement saying reports that nearly every state was resisting the probe were “fake news.”
Now, after less than two weeks of activity, the commission, convened after Trump’s unsubstantiated claim millions voted illegally last year, is under fire before it has even looked at a single voter file. The backlash has undermined the work of commissioners, as election officials have openly questioned why the commission needs highly sensitive personal information. Trump himself has also undermined the suggestion the probe was convened to look broadly at confidence in elections, calling it a “voter fraud panel” in a tweet.
A member of the commission has mysteriously resigned, and the panel is already facing legal challenges.
Despite the chaos of the commission’s first days, its direction is scary.
Kobach’s ultimate goal appears to be weakening the 1993 National Voter Registration Act. The law mandates certain state agencies provide citizens with the opportunity to register to vote and outlines specific conditions states must meet before removing people from the voting rolls. On the same day Kobach sent a letter to states requesting voter information, the Department of Justice also quietly asked 44 states to send them information on their compliance with that act ― a request many said signaled the department was gearing up to force states to kick people off their rolls.
Kobach has described the refusals to hand over voter “data” as idiotic, but it’s clear the commission’s work so far has been at best sloppy. In some cases, Kobach didn’t send the letter to the agency that oversees elections in the state. In his initial letter, Kobach told states any documents they gave to the commission would be turned over to the public, but later said in a court filing that no identifiable voter data would be released. He also told states they could submit information through email or a secure file exchange, but amid a lawsuit about security concerns, said the email option applied only to non-sensitive responses. Many have expressed alarm that the commission hasn’t offered a careful and thoughtful plan for storing what will essentially be a national database of voters, particularly after Russian hackers penetrated the U.S. election last year.
The White House revealed this week that the committee intends to compare the voter data it collects against federal databases (it has not said which ones) to try to flag people who are registered to vote in multiple places as well as dead and non-citizens who are on the voting rolls. Such an effort could produce unreliable results. The Department of Homeland Security has warned its database of noncitizens is not a reliable way to verify voter rolls.
And Kobach has championed a similar program to compare voter rolls between states, called Crosscheck, for years, but it’s known to produce a lot of false positives and flag people who have similar identifying details but are otherwise eligible to vote. One recent study found the Crosscheck program identified 200 false positives for every instance of double registration it found.
Michael McDonald, a political science professor at the University of Florida, suggested in an interview with Slate that Kobach intentionally made a request he knew states couldn’t answer without passing legislation to allow it to be shared.
“They wanted to make an argument that these states were hiding their data so they could conceal the massive voter fraud that, if uncovered, would legitimize Trump’s claim of 3 million to 5 million fraudulent votes. Kobach set the states up. He knew many wouldn’t be able to respond,” he said.
The commission will meet in person for the first time on July 19 in Washington, D.C. The public will be allowed to watch only via a livestream.


Two months ago, Cynthia Sanders got a raise at her janitorial job, from $8.30 to $10 per hour, after St. Louis passed a law raising its minimum wage. The extra money has helped the 51-year-old cover groceries and utilities as she raises three grandchildren.
But in just a few weeks, Sanders’ pay rate could drop back down again, thanks to a new law Republicans in the Missouri legislature passed invalidating St. Louis’ minimum wage.
“It was life-changing to get this, and it’s going to be life-changing to have it taken away,” said Sanders, who cleans four kitchenettes and eight bathrooms per shift at a Wells Fargo building downtown. “You’ve got children looking at you to be a provider. How do I tell them we’ve got to eat noodles again this week?”
Like other low-wage workers in Missouri and beyond, Sanders finds herself caught in a political and legal battle between local Democrats and state Republicans. As blue cities become incubators for progressive policy, their red state legislatures are trying to thwart them through “preemption laws” that forbid cities and counties from implementing their own measures related to the minimum wage, paid sick days, plastic bag taxes and other hot-button issues. 
So far, Republican state legislators are winning the fight. In Missouri, for example, the GOP controls both chambers of the statehouse as well as the governor’s mansion.
Under the law Republicans passed in response to St. Louis’ new ordinance, no locality could have a minimum wage higher than the state level of $7.70 per hour. And St. Louis is not the only city immediately affected. A referendum to gradually raise the minimum wage in Kansas City to $15 was slated to go on the ballot in August. 
Gov. Eric Greitens (R) said he does not intend to veto the bill. So under the rules of the Missouri Constitution it will eventually go into effect automatically, reverting the St. Louis minimum wage to $7.70 on Aug. 28. It would also preempt the minimum wage under consideration in Kansas City.
While preemption laws have been around for years, Republicans are increasingly turning to them to nullify local liberal policies. According to a February report from the National League of Cities, 24 states now block local minimum wage hikes, 17 block local paid leave mandates, and three block local anti-discrimination measures. The group attributes the growing use of preemption laws to the fact that Republicans now have 25 so-called state government “trifectas” ― control of both legislative chambers and the governor’s office.
The laws have become a particularly effective tool for blunting the “Fight for $15” campaign, a union-funded initiative aimed at raising the minimum wage and unionizing low-wage workers. While the federal minimum wage has remained $7.25 since 2009, voters and city halls have embraced proposals to raise the local minimum wage, in some cases hiking the wage floor to as high as $15. (The federal minimum wage prevails anywhere local law does not mandate a higher one.) The preemption laws have provided Republican state officials with a way to block proposals that poll extremely well and have strong financial backing from unions.  
Dennis Shaw, who works at the St. Louis grocery chain Schnucks, received a $1.70 raise due to the St. Louis ordinance. The pay bump translated into an extra $30 or so each week after taxes ― a welcome addition that has helped him pay rent on his one-bedroom apartment downtown and avoid bank overdraft fees. He said that legislators in the state Capitol don’t understand what it’s like for someone trying to survive on the minimum wage in the city.
“It borders on disgraceful,” Shaw, 36, said of the preemption law. “This isn’t just not getting a raise ― it’s a pay cut. It will result in bills not being paid.” Shaw’s union, the United Food and Commercial Workers, estimates that 500 of its members in the city could see their pay downgraded in August, according to a spokesman. 
Republicans who have pursued preemption laws have often argued that they want to avoid a patchwork of minimum wages around the state, which they claim could be confusing for employers. But Rep. Jason Chipman, a Republican who represents a rural district southwest of St. Louis, said he sponsored the measure in the Missouri House of Representatives because he didn’t think the government should dictate minimum wages to employers.
“The government is not here to run people’s businesses,” Chipman said in an interview, arguing that higher minimum wages kill jobs. “If an employee doesn’t like what’s being offered, they can go somewhere else. Be more productive. Be worth more.”
“These are supposed to be entry-level jobs,” he added. “We understand there are people who rely on these jobs who are not entry-level-type people, but you can’t legislate by the exception.”
One of the prime grievances lobbed against preemption laws is that they undermine local governance. It’s an odd look for Republican legislators who often rail against meddling in parochial affairs by Washington. Asked why St. Louis or Kansas City shouldn’t be able to determine its own policies ― even if those policies are folly ― Chipman said the cities are economic drivers that impact the whole state. “When you lose economic output, you lose revenue to the state,” he said. “It doesn’t happen in a vacuum.”
Many of the preemption battles are tinged with a racial component, as mostly white legislatures override the laws of heavily minority cities. (St. Louis has a black plurality, and the minimum wage raise would disproportionately affect minorities.) In Alabama, the overwhelmingly African-American city of Birmingham also raised its minimum wage to $10.10, only to have the majority-white legislature block it with a preemption law. The Alabama chapter of the NAACP filed a civil rights lawsuit, which was thrown out by a judge but is now on appeal.
The Missouri law presents an unusual case because so many workers in St. Louis have already received raises. Chipman said he had hoped to avoid such a situation, blaming the state Senate for not moving quickly enough to pass the preemption law before the St. Louis ordinance went into effect. Greitens, too, chided the state Senate for not fast-tracking a bill, providing that as the reason he would not put his signature on it. Missouri Democrats have called Greitens’ passive approval of the law craven.
Nick Desideri, a spokesman for the Service Employees International Union Local 1, said he still holds out hope that Greitens will veto the preemption measure, given the optics in St. Louis.
“The level of cruelty in this thing just boggles my mind,” said Desideri, whose union has been the primary backer of the “Fight for $15.”
The St. Louis employers who doled out raises due to the short-lived minimum wage hike will soon have to decide whether or not to revoke them. Of course, workers don’t appreciate seeing their pay go backwards. A spokesman for Shaw’s employer, Schnucks, which has eight stores in St. Louis, said the company plans to revert to the pay rates laid out in the union contract.
That means Shaw’s pay would drop back to $8.30. Shaw said that he considers Schnucks a good employer, but he wouldn’t expect them to honor the higher rates once legislators give them an out.
“Businesses are not in business for moral obligations,” Shaw said. “I would hope they keep [the raises] in place, but I could imagine them taking them away. And I wouldn’t blame them should that happen. There are others I could blame.”

Early Sunday morning, President Donald Trump tweeted his support for a new partnership with Russian President Vladimir Putin to craft an “impenetrable cyber security unit” that would work to prevent election hacking.
Some 12 hours later, those plans were dramatically scaled back as the president said even though he discussed them, they “can’t” happen.
The fact that President Putin and I discussed a Cyber Security unit  doesn't mean I think it can happen. It can't-but a ceasefire can,& did!
Asked about Trump’s comments, a Russian official told reporters on Monday that while there might not be a formal task force, the two leaders “reached an agreement” to coordinate more on cybersecurity.
The abrupt about-face came after a slew of lawmakers lambasted Trump’s proposal to guard against “election hacking and many other negative things.”
On “Meet The Press” Sunday morning, Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) called the plan “not the dumbest idea I’ve ever heard, but it’s pretty close.” Graham slammed the president for “forgiving and forgetting” Russian tampering in last year’s election, and said the move only increased suspicion of the Trump administration.
“The more he talks about this in terms of not being sure, the more he throws our intelligence communities under the bus, the more he’s willing to forgive and forget Putin, the more suspicion,” Graham continued. “And I think it’s going to dog his presidency until he breaks this cycle.”
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) doubled down on those assertions on “Face the Nation,” saying Sunday he was sure Putin could surely help tackle the issue of cybersecurity “since he’s doing the hacking.”
McCain deadpans on Trump's cybersecurity unit w/ Russia: Putin could be of assistance “since he's doing the hacking” pic.twitter.com/QWMD6YxaAQ
Trump said he “strongly pressed” Putin during their meeting at the G-20 summit in Germany about Russian meddling in the U.S. election, but his counterpart “vehemently denied” any such efforts. Trump has mostly rejected any evidence of interference by Moscow, despite U.S. intelligence agencies saying Putin personally ordered an “influence campaign” to help him defeat rival Hillary Clinton.
On Twitter, Trump said he was ready to work with Putin and “move forward,” stumping a newly-formed ceasefire agreement between the U.S. and Russia in Syria. As the Washington Post notes, it would be the first diplomatic collaboration between the two countries.
“Now it is time to move forward in working constructively with Russia!” Trump said of the pact.
...We negotiated a ceasefire in parts of Syria which will save lives. Now it is time to move forward in working constructively with Russia!
Some were quick to point out the dramatic shift in White House policy just hours after administration officials stumped the proposal on Sunday.
Oops. @realDonaldTrump just tweeted that the super-duper Impenetrable Cyber Security Unit "can't" happen, but he appreciates your loyalty. https://t.co/9PztkUZJMm
Impenetrable Cyber Security Unit, RIP. You died so quickly but will never be forgotten. https://t.co/DDokM54Sab
Shorter Trump: "Dammit, the impenetrable Cyber Security unit was penetrated — by reality." https://t.co/Y0u52mjRV8

The eldest son of President Donald Trump met with a lawyer connected to the Russian government under the impression that she had damaging information on Trump’s presidential opponent Hillary Clinton, the New York Times reported Sunday. 
Donald Trump Jr. initially claimed the meeting with Kremlin-linked lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya was simply to discuss an adoption program. But after further reporting, the Times discovered that Trump Jr. had been promised the information about Clinton before arranging the meeting. Trump Jr. then released another statement that differed from his original explanation, offering two versions within a 24-hour period.
On Saturday, the Times uncovered the meeting, which took place June 2016, the first confirmed meeting between Trump’s inner circle and Russian figures during the presidential campaign, amid multiple investigations into whether Trump’s campaign colluded with Russia.
The meeting was also attended by Trump’s then-campaign chairman Paul Manafort and son-in-law Jared Kushner, now a senior White House adviser.
Prior to the Times reporting that Veselnitskaya had promised damaging information about Clinton, Trump Jr. released a statement to the media on Saturday:
“It was a short introductory meeting. I asked Jared and Paul to stop by. We primarily discussed a program about the adoption of Russian children that was active and popular with American families years ago and was since ended by the Russian government, but it was not a campaign issue at the time and there was no follow up.
“I was asked to attend the meeting by an acquaintance, but was not told the name of the person I would be meeting with beforehand.”
In a Sunday statement to several news organizations, including Reuters, Mark Corallo, a spokesman for Trump’s outside legal team handling matters related to the Russia probes said that “the president was not aware of and did not attend the meeting.”
According to the Associated Press, the Kremlin also denied knowing about the meeting. 
BREAKING: The Kremlin says it is unaware of a meeting between Donald Trump's staff and a Russian lawyer during the 2016 campaign.
Kushner has been under investigation after failing to disclose his own meetings with Russian officials during Trump’s transition in December, and the Times found this new revelation through a revised version of a form that Kushner filled out to receive a government security clearance.
So far, the investigations into whether Trump campaign officials colluded with Russia have focused on more indirect campaign associates, including former advisers Carter Page and Roger Stone, and now-Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Trump’s former national security adviser Michael Flynn resigned in February after misleading administration officials about the extent of his own interactions with Russian officials.
It is unknown whether Veselnitskaya, a lawyer who has represented Russian state-owned businesses and the son of senior Russian government official, actually had damaging information about Clinton, the Times reported.
Trump Jr. addressed the Veselnitskaya meeting in a new statement Sunday but revealed the real reason he, Kushner and Manafort had attended: to obtain information “that would be helpful to the campaign.”
“I was asked to have a meeting by an acquaintance I knew from the 2013 Miss Universe pageant with an individual who I was told might have information helpful to the campaign. I was not told her name prior to the meeting. I asked Jared and Paul to attend, but told them nothing of the substance. We had a meeting in June 2016. After pleasantries were exchanged, the woman stated that she had information that individuals connected to Russia were funding the Democratic National Committee and supporting Ms. Clinton. Her statements were vague, ambiguous and made no sense. No details or supporting information was provided or even offered. It quickly became clear that she had no meaningful information. She then changed subjects and began discussing the adoption of Russian children and mentioned the Magnitsky Act. It became clear to me that this was the true agenda all along and that the claims of potentially helpful information were a pretext for the meeting. I interrupted and advised her that my father was not an elected official, but rather a private citizen, and that her comments and concerns were better addressed if and when he held public office. The meeting lasted approximately 20 to 30 minutes. As it ended, my acquaintance apologized for taking up our time. That was the end of it and there was no further contact or follow-up of any kind. My father knew nothing of the meeting or these events.”
Read the Times’ full report here.


Arizona Senator John McCain (R) appeared on CBS News’ “Face the Nation” Sunday morning and said he thought the Senate’s health care bill was “probably going to be dead” when Congress returns Monday from the July Fourth recess. 
After the senator said that Republicans did not have the votes necessary to pass the body’s health care proposal, which would gut Medicaid and result in 22 million more uninsured people over the next decade, host John Dickerson asked about next steps.
“My view is that it’s probably going to be dead,” McCain said. “But I’ve been wrong. I thought I’d be president of the United States. But I fear that it’s going to fail.” 
McCain then proposed introducing a bill and working with Democrats.
“It doesn’t mean they control it,” McCain said of the Democrats. “It means they can have amendments considered. And even when they lose, then they’re part of the process. That’s what Democracy is supposed to be all about.”
On Sunday, President Donald Trump tweeted that Republicans have been promising voters they’d repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act for years.
For years, even as a "civilian," I listened as Republicans pushed the Repeal and Replace of ObamaCare. Now they finally have their chance!
But Republicans in Congress have not been able to agree on legislation, even as leadership in the House and Senate attempted to rush votes on bills that divided the GOP.
Late last month, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell postponed the Senate’s health care vote until after the July Fourth recess. While Congress was on break, Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), who was a member of the working committee tasked with drafting the senate’s proposal, held a town hall and tried to explain the delay to his constituents. 
“I didn’t expect Donald Trump to win,” Toomey said. “I think most of my colleagues didn’t. So we didn’t expect to be in this situation.”

President Donald Trump was filmed on Saturday twice retrieving the hat that blew off a Marine’s head, capping off his return trip from the at times tense G-20 summit in Germany with a lighthearted moment.
The commander-in-chief was preparing to board Marine One en route to the White House after Air Force One landed at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland when he took it upon himself to pick up the lost item.
Less than a second after he placed it back on the Marine’s head ― with a heavy pat on his shoulders from Trump ― the headpiece once again flew off the stone-faced Marine, prompting the president to go after it again. This time he handed it to an Air Force escort.
The Marine was one of two service members standing guard outside of Marine One. Some viewers were quick to observe that the Marine who lost his hat was the only one not saluting Trump as he approached and then boarded the helicopter.
According to the Marine Corps website, Marines do not salute when they are out of uniform or when uncovered ― i.e., not wearing a hat.

Secretary of State Rex Tillerson accepted a lifetime achievement award on Sunday from the World Petroleum Council. 
According to Bloomberg, the former Exxon CEO lavished praise on the industry he worked in for decades, calling it “extraordinary” and filled with “remarkable” people. 
“I miss all of you,” Tillerson said. “I miss you as colleagues, I miss you as partners, I miss you as competitors, I miss the healthy debates, the collaboration, the breakthroughs that were achieved.”
Tillerson’s warm comments were in stark contrast to reports about his work at the State Department. A recent National Review article detailed how Tillerson has scaled back operations across the globe, fired half of the department and failed to hire replacements in key positions, like the ambassador to South Korea.
Before concluding his remarks, Tillerson also recognized those who stood up to the attempted coup that took place in Turkey last year. 
“I take this moment to recognize their courage and honor the victims of the events of July 15, 2016,” he said, per Reuters.
Tillerson met with Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and foreign affairs minister Mevlut Cavusoglu as well, The Associated Press reported.
Tillerson traveled to Turkey from the G20 Summit in Hamburg, Germany, where he accompanied President Donald Trump to a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin and foreign minister Sergey Lavrov.  

White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus has accused Democratic operatives of arranging a meeting between Donald Trump Jr. and a Kremlin-linked lawyer last summer, two weeks after Donald Trump won the Republican nomination for president.
The meeting, which included Jared Kushner and Trump’s then-campaign manager Paul Manafort and took place at Trump Tower in Manhattan, came to light in an investigation published Saturday in The New York Times. Trump Jr. defended the summit, which he said focused on Russian child adoption policies.
On Sunday, Priebus said “the individual that set up the meeting may have been” associated with Fusion GPS, the Washington, D.C.-based strategy firm behind a leaked intelligence dossier that suggested Russian officials possess materials that could be used to blackmail President Trump. Trump’s Republican rivals in the primary funded the opposition research at first, but it was later continued with backing from the Democrats. 
“There’s more questions on the Democrat side than anywhere else,” Priebus said on “Fox News Sunday.”
He pointed to an article on Circa, the news site owned by the right-wing media giant Sinclair Broadcast Group, which cited a spokesman for Trump’s legal team. The story was splashed on Drudge Report on Sunday morning.
“We have learned from both our own investigation and public reports that the participants in the meeting misrepresented who they were and who they worked for,” Mark Corallo, a spokesman for Trump’s lawyers, said in a statement published by Circa. “Specifically, we have learned that the person who sought the meeting is associated with Fusion GPS, a firm which according to public reports, was retained by Democratic operatives to develop opposition research on the President and which commissioned the phony Steele dossier.”
Priebus brushed off the meeting as a “very short meeting,” lasting about 20 minutes. But asked for details, he demurred.
“I have no idea, Chris, you’re going to have to talk to them,” Priebus told host Chris Wallace, referring to Kushner, Trump Jr. and Manafort. “However, talking about issues of foreign policy, issues related to our place in the world, issues important to the American people, like adoption, is something that’s not unusual.” 
But, just hours later, another report from The New York Times cast doubt over the narrative Priebus spun. According to the report, which cites three White House advisers and two others briefed on the meeting, Donald Trump Jr. met with the Russian lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya, after being promised damaging information about Hillary Clinton, then the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee. The meeting, the report noted, represented the first public indication that the Trump campaign was willing to accept help from a Kremlin-linked individual.  
In a statement, Trump Jr. admitted to meeting with the lawyer after learning she may have a tip about the Clinton campaign, but said she offered nothing of value and instead used “claims of potentially helpful information” as a pretext for a meeting about Russian adoption issues.
“Here statements were vague, ambiguous and made no sense,” he said in a statement given to ABC News after the Times report published. “It quickly became clear that she had no meaningful information.” 
Manafort resigned from the Trump campaign last August amid reports that he worked with pro-Russian forces in Ukraine. The extent of his ties to Russian interests became clearer later, with reports as recently as last month revealing that he received more than $17 million over two years working for a pro-Kremlin party. Manafort remained in contact with the president after his resignation, and reportedly advised the White House on how to deal with the ballooning Russia scandal.
In May, The New York Times reported that Kushner faced scrutiny in the F.B.I. probe into Russian hacking of the 2016 election. Kushner allegedly tried to circumvent diplomatic channels to open a direct line between Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin.
The revelation on Saturday could drag Trump Jr., a loud cheerleader for his father’s administration, into the investigation. On Sunday, Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), the ranking member of the U.S. House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, said he may push Trump Jr., who runs the Trump Organization with his brother, to testify before the committee.
“We are going to want to question everyone at that meeting about what was discussed,” he said on CNN’s “State of the Union.”
This story was updated to include the follow-up report published Sunday by the Times. 


Trump’s brand of protectionism is a menace, but not for the reasons many people think.
His fulminations about NAFTA, subsidized Chinese steel, protected Canadian dairy products, and failed Obama-era trade deals, have produced a spate of articles warning about the damage Trump’s trade policy could do to the global economic order. The most instructive of these was a recent New York Times piece by their senior economic writer Eduardo Porter.
Porter began: “It seems President Trump is ready to start rolling back globalization. Let’s hope he doesn’t blow up the postwar economic order.”
According to Porter, Trump might turn his back on the World Trade Organization, as “he retreats from prior American commitments to global trade.” Porter asks, rhetorically, “Will he eschew the multilateral framework in pursuit of a set of bilateral deals, turning his back on a long history of trade diplomacy?”
But of course, this is exactly what “free trade” presidents have done for more than 30 years, with dozens of bilateral deals intended to protect U.S. special corporate interests, in NAFTA and most recently in the stalled Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP). Ever since the failed round of trade talks in 1999, American presidents have given up on more general deals under the auspices of the WTO.
Porter warns that “protectionism will not add to American jobs or raise wages, on the whole. At best, it will shuffle jobs around.” But the reality is that when other nations, such as China, protect domestic markets and subsidize exports, they do steal American jobs. Defenders of an idealized notion of free trade contend that it’s “protectionism” to challenge the overt protectionism of other countries.
The supposed benefits of more trade deals such as NAFTA and the TPP are grossly exaggerated by their proponents. The Harvard economist Dani Rodrik, one of the most careful and quantitative of trade scholars, in a paper for the National Bureau of Economic Research with then-grad student Francisco Rodriguez, reviewed several influential studies claiming large benefits for trade agreements, and found their assumptions misleading and their conclusions exaggerated.
Trump really is a menace, but not for the reasons cited by Porter.
First, Trump’s trade policy diverts attention from an entirely legitimate and overdue critique of the current trading order. The “postwar order” that Porter cites Trump as threatening was actually toppled in the 1970s.
In the original postwar order – the one that led to 30 years of growth that produced broadly shared prosperity – labor rights were protected, there was tight regulation of financial speculation, and nations had the right to have national industrial policies and public investments without being hauled before some trade tribunal as protectionists.
The global order that followed bashed labor, liberated capital, and restored the brand of laissez faire that brought us the Great Depression and the financial collapse of 2008. We need a very different sort of trade regime that puts social rights back on the same level with financial rights.
This is the sort of protection that can be defended as both sound economic policy and sound social policy. If we had kept more of it, workers would not have taken it on the chin and we would not have gotten President Trump.
So the trouble with Trump is not that he challenges the current trading system. The problem — as with all of his policies — is that he is an opportunist and a hypocrite. And that raises the second concern. His actual trade policies are an incoherent mash-up.
For instance, his revisions of NAFTA are likely to restore many of the same pro-corporate provisions in Obama’s failed TPP. Trump objects to them, not because they help corporate cronies but because Obama’s name was on the TPP deal. Credible reports suggest that Trump will make NAFTA’s existing anti-regulatory protections for big business even worse.
Trump made an ad hoc bargain with China under which China will accept more American exports of beef, and in return the U.S. will import Chinese cooked chicken products ― with no country-of-origin labeling — so that consumers cannot know what they are buying. China is notorious for having lax or nonexistent food inspection standards. Yuck! This is exactly the kind of free trade we don’t need.
Occasionally, he gets something right. Trump has threatened to punish China for producing steel at well below the cost of production and dumping it on world markets. Those actions do violate trade norms, hurt U.S. industry, and should indeed be subject to sanctions.
But we’ll see what Trump actually delivers. In his communications with Chinese leader Xi Jinping, Trump promised to ease up on trade threats if China would take a harder line with North Korea.
Meanwhile, China’s planned and subsidized economy and its predatory trade policies are undermining America’s ability to compete in the entire range of green industries, from solar panels to wind turbines to rail cars.
U.S. solar manufacturers have filed a trade complaint — as they should. It remains to be seen what Trump will do, given his other geo-political goals vis-a-vis China. Diplomatic finesse, much less ideological consistency, is not the man’s strong suit.
Some day, we may get a progressive leader who criticizes the current trading system for the right reasons. That surely isn’t Trump. But neither is it his chorus of orthodox critics.
Robert Kuttner is co-editor of The American Prospect and professor at Brandeis University’s Heller School. His latest book is Debtors’ Prison: The Politics of Austerity Versus Possibility.
Like Robert Kuttner on Facebook: http://facebook.com/RobertKuttner
Follow Robert Kuttner on Twitter: www.twitter.com/rkuttner

President Donald Trump said the United States might form a “cyber-security unit” with the Kremlin and highlighted Russian President Vladimir Putin’s denial of meddling in the 2016 election in a series of tweets Sunday morning that drew condemnation from Republican officials.
Yet, Reince Priebus rejected concerns over whether Trump took the Russian leader at his word, in a move that appeared to be damage control by a White House chief of staff widely seen as an emissary between the GOP establishment and an administration often criticized as wily and amateurish.
“The president absolutely did not believe the denial of President Putin,” Priebus said on “Fox News Sunday.”
“He’s answered this question many times, he says hey probably meddled in the election,” he continued. “They did meddle in the election.”
I strongly pressed President Putin twice about Russian meddling in our election. He vehemently denied it. I've already given my opinion.....
Putin & I discussed forming an impenetrable Cyber Security unit    so that election hacking, & many other negative things, will be guarded..
The move came as criticism mounted Sunday morning within Trump’s own party ranks. Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) said “partnering with Putin on a ‘Cyber Security Unit’ is akin to partnering with [Syrian President Bashar] Assad on a ‘Chemical Weapons Unit.’” Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that collaborating with Russia is “not the dumbest idea I’ve ever heard, but it’s pretty close.” Even United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley, nominated by Trump, broke with the president, insisting on CNN’s “State of the Union” that “we can’t trust Russia, and we won’t ever trust Russia.”
Priebus said Trump repeatedly pressed Putin on the hacking allegations, “two times, maybe three times.”
“What the president did is he immediately came into the meeting and talked about Russian meddling in the U.S. election,” he said. “This was not just a five minute piece of the conversation. This was an extensive portion of the meeting.”
Priebus, however, dismissed the Russian hacking as a routine form of cyber attack deployed in other elections “consistently over many, many years” by U.S. rivals, including China and North Korea. Trump has long suggested China could be behind the hacking of the Democratic National Committee. The party’s internal emails became a public fixation during last year’s presidential election after WikiLeaks published the leaked trove.
Russian hackers allegedly breached voting machines in 39 states and accessed a campaign finance database in at least one, according to a shocking report published last month by Bloomberg.
“He believes that Russia probably committed all of these acts that we’ve been told of, but he also believes others have [as well],” Priebus said. “It doesn’t mean they’re off the hook.”
He said the administration planned to move forward with a Russian-approved ceasefire in Syria and continue cooperation in the fight against the so-called Islamic State armed group, despite the hacking.  
“You can walk and chew gum at the same time,” Priebus said.


Upon returning from the G-20 summit, President Donald Trump on Sunday promptly posted a series of tweets on his meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin that both contradicted his top diplomat and sparked criticism from his fellow Republicans.
According to Trump, the two leaders brought up collaborating on “an impenetrable Cyber Security unit” ― an idea that drew immediate mockery, given Russia’s cyberattacks against the U.S. in last year’s election.
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) tweeted that “partnering with Putin on a ‘Cyber Security Unit’ is akin to partnering with [Syria’s President Bashar] Assad on a ‘Chemical Weapons Unit.’”
Partnering with Putin on a "Cyber Security Unit" is akin to partnering with Assad on a "Chemical Weapons Unit".  2/3
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) on NBC’s “Meet the Press” said of the possible cyber collaboration with Russia: “It’s not the dumbest idea I’ve ever heard, but it’s pretty close.”
In his tweetstorm, Trump also said he “strongly pressed” Putin on Russian interference in the 2016 election, which ignores that he has frequently cast doubt on the issue. Indeed, in one of his tweets he vaguely said, “I’ve already given my opinion,” without elaborating on what that is.
Even as Trump pledged to “move forward in working constructively with Russia,” he continued to re-litigate past issues that arose from that nation’s meddling in last year’s U.S. campaign. He again took aim at the Democratic National Committee, whose emails were hacked by the Russians, and criticized former President Barack Obama for not doing enough to stop Russia’s efforts to influence last year’s election.
He also assailed the media as he continued to downplay the consensus reached by U.S. intelligence agencies that Russia intervened in the election last year.
Media outlets recently clarified their reporting to note that only four of the 17 U.S. intelligence agencies signed onto a January report expressing “high confidence” in confirming Russia’s interference. But that is because those four agencies ― the FBI, CIA, the National Security Agency and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) ― had the purview to examine the issue.
As PolitiFact has noted, the DNI oversees all 17 intelligence agencies, so while not every agency independently confirmed the findings, it does not change the consensus that Russia intervened, contrary to Trump’s view.
Trump also said in one of his tweets that he and Putin did not discuss the issue of sanctions against Russia. That contradicted Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who said that they did when he briefed reporters on Friday about the meeting.
Many details of Friday’s meeting were difficult to confirm, as only Trump, Putin, Tillerson, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, and two translators were present. Some of the initial reports on it came from Russian state-owned media.


Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin denied on Sunday that Steve Bannon, the White House’s chief strategist and populist firebrand, is pushing a tax hike on the richest Americans.
“I have never heard Steve mention that,” Mnuchin said on ABC’s “This Week.” “It’s another example of a false leak that’s being reported.”
Top earners ― people making $418,000 a year or more ― are currently taxed at 39.6 percent, though that number is usually much lower as a result of a byzantine web of loopholes and deductions. Axios reported on July 2 that Bannon told colleagues he wants the top tax bracket to “have a 4 in front of it.” Fox News confirmed the figure the next day.
Mnuchin said the White House plans to release a plan to lower taxes and reduce deductions by September.
“I think it’s very clear kind of we have a proposal out there that the administration has put out with a top rate of 35 percent where we reduce and eliminate almost every single deduction,” he said. “So that means that people who are in the high tax state also have no tax reduction, and it’ll be offset by reduced deductions.”
Trump won a surprise election victory in November in large part due to a populist message, vowing to revive struggling Rust Belt economies and vilifying Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton for her close ties to bankers. But after taking office, the country’s first billionaire president assembled the richest cabinet in history, stacking its ranks with Goldman Sachs executives and Wall Street titans.
Gary Cohn, the former Goldman Sachs president, became director of the National Economic Council and Trump’s chief economic adviser. Wilbur Ross, a billionaire private equity investor, was nominated as secretary of commerce. And Mnuchin, a second-generation partner at Goldman Sachs who previously headed a bank dubbed a “foreclosure machine,” ascended to the top of the Treasury Department.
That wing of the administration remains anxious to quickly push tax reform. Congress passed its last major tax overhaul in 1986. Fearing that Democrats, who are unlikely to vote for anything approved by Trump, could reclaim Congress seats in the upcoming 2018 elections, White House officials want a bill signed into law by next year. If tax reform fails, Cohn ― dubbed by CNBC the “canary for Trump’s tax reform” ― could resign from the White House.
“Cohn has told associates that if tax reform doesn’t get done this year, it’s probably never going to happen,” Axios’ Jonathan Swan reported last week. “Sources who know Cohn speculate that he’ll leave the White House the instant he concludes tax reform is dead.”


(Reuters) - A few dozen Ku Klux Klan members and supporters shouted “white power” at a rally on Saturday in Charlottesville, Virginia where they protested against a city council decision to remove a statute honoring Confederate General Robert E. Lee.
The group was guarded by scores of police and outnumbered by hundreds of counter-protesters who waved signs denouncing racism. Anti-KKK protesters raised their voices in chants and shouts, drowning out speeches from the white supremacists, live video feeds on social media showed.
There were no initial reports of violence at the rally that lasted less than an hour. The Klan group that brandished Confederate flags and signs with anti-Semitic messages was separated from crowds by a ring of fencing and a heavy police presence.
Later police fired tear gas cannisters when some protesters refused orders to disperse. Twenty-three people were arrested, but officials could not confirm their affiliations.
In February, the Charlottesville City Council voted 3-2 to remove the statue from the park once named for Lee and make plans for a new memorial to remember the southern city’s enslaved population, The Daily Progress, the local newspaper reported.
At least one person who participated in the Klan rally against the statute removal could be seen with a holstered pistol.
Confederacy statues and flags have been removed from public spaces across the United States since 2015, after a white supremacist murdered nine black parishioners at a South Carolina church.
Critics of the monuments say they foster racism by celebrating leaders of the Confederacy in the pro-slavery South during the U.S. Civil War. Supporters say they represent an indelible part of U.S. history and part of regional heritage.
The bronze figures of Lee and his horse, Traveller, atop an oval-shaped granite pedestal has been in the park for nearly a century, the city of Charlottesville said.
Torch-wielding white nationalists rallied in the college town that is home to the University of Virginia’s flagship campus in May to protest the move. A legal battle is going on over the statue’s removal and no date has been set.
 
(Reporting by Jon Herskovitz and Chris Michaud; Editing by Alistair Bell and Himani Sarkar)

President Donald Trump’s team met with a Kremlin-aligned lawyer just two weeks after winning the Republican presidential nomination, a new report says.
The new information comes from confidential government records and interviews conducted by The New York Times.
Donald Trump Jr. arranged the meeting with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya at Trump Tower in Manhattan just two weeks after his father’s nomination. Campaign chairman Paul J. Manafort and Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, also attended. 
The report comes just days after Trump met with Russian President Vladimir Putin at the G-20 summit in Germany. During their exchange, Putin denied any Russian interference in the U.S. election, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said. 
Both Trump Jr. and Kushner’s representatives confirmed the June 6, 2016 meeting with Veselnitskaya. But Trump Jr.’s reps told the Times the meeting was about an adoption program.
Veselnitskaya is best known for her opposition to an American law that blacklists Russians suspected of human rights abuses. Her opposition mirrors Putin’s anger with the law, which prompted him to halt American adoptions of Russian children as a response. 
As the Times highlights, last year’s meeting marks the first confirmed private talk between a members of Trump’s team and a Russian national. Prior to Saturday’s report, Trump Jr. was not known to have been involved in meetings with Kremlin-aligned lawyers. 


Some Colorado election officials say they’ve seen an uptick in the number of voters requesting to end their voter registration after Colorado’s chief election official announced he would turn over public voter data to a commission convened by President Donald Trump to investigate elections.
Colorado Secretary of State Wayne Williams (R) said last week he would provide the state’s public voter file to the commission, which includes voters’ full name, year of birth, political party and voting history. It does not include information like the last four digits of Social Security numbers, driver’s license numbers or full dates of birth ― data Williams said he would not provide to the commission.
Even though Williams will turn over only limited information, voters apparently are concerned. Denver election officials told Denver7 and The Colorado Independent at least 180 people had withdrawn their voter registration since July 3. Compared to the eight withdrawals they cited over the same time period the previous week, it amounted to a 2,150 percent increase.
“I never expected to come to work and see such a sudden increase in voter registration withdrawals. I never expected to see more withdrawals in a day than new registrations,” Amber McReynolds, the director of elections for Denver, said in a statement. “The impact on voters is real. The impact on civic engagement is real. The impact on election offices is real.”
In Boulder, election officials told The Colorado Independent they noticed about 270 voters had canceled their registration since Monday. Matt Crane, the Arapahoe county clerk and recorder, told the Independent 42 percent of the county’s 365 requests to unregister so far this year came in the past week.
McReynolds told  in a Twitter message that she believes voters made a mistake in deregistering. Colorado, she noted, has one of the highest voter registrations as a percentage of the population, which she feared could change.
“Engaging, not disengaging, is essential to participation in making our communities stronger and improving the citizens’ experience,” she wrote. “I believe it is more important to be registered and engaged than not.” She added she believes Trump’s commission could have gotten voter data from other sources, such as political parties.
In Colorado, voters can also pay a $5 fee and sign a sworn affidavit to become a confidential voter to prevent their information from being released to the public if they believe disclosing it could result in harm or harassment. Election officials also told the Independent and Denver7 they had seen an increase in the number of people requesting confidential status. In Mesa County, for example, just 30 people asked for confidential status all of last year, but 60 people did in this week alone, according to the Independent.
There has been widespread backlash after Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R) sent a letter to all 50 states requesting all publicly available voter information. Some states have refused to comply with the request on principle, saying they won’t participate in what they see as an effort to exaggerate the existence of voter fraud. Other states have said they will just provide the voter file already accessible to the public, while a few officials have said they are barred by state law from turning over any information.
Critics of the request argue the information could be released to the public and the commission has yet to come up with a secure way of storing it.


Barack Obama will always be a baby whisperer. 
Jolene Jackinsky was in at the Anchorage International Airport when she thought she spotted a man who bore a striking resemblance to the former president, The Associated Press reports. The mother was walking toward the man in a waiting area for private planes, and soon, Jackinsky knew she had the real deal.
“As I got closer, I thought: Oh my God, it is Obama,” Jackinsky told the AP. 
And, as if from a dream, Obama came up to her and asked about her adorable 6-month-old daughter, Giselle.
“Who is this pretty girl?” Obama reportedly said.
"Oh my God, it is Obama": Alaska mom, baby meet ex-president https://t.co/hig00Hf1uQ pic.twitter.com/zKhxy7oWnw
We wish we all could be so lucky during our travels. 
Obviously, like any good mother, Jackinsky snapped photos of Obama and her daughter. Giselle, with her wide eyes, reacted no different than the rest of us if we were graced with such a chance encounter. In fact, she may have been more composed than any of us would have been.
The former president certainly has a special relationship with children. During his presidency, he was photographed dozens of times with kids who were in total awe of him. And now we can be constantly reminded of that fact.
Former White House photographer Pete Souza was thankfully there to capture what are arguably Obama’s most adorable baby moments. And now he posts them to Instagram in really sweet throwbacks. 
A post shared by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Jul 4, 2017 at 7:13am PDT
 Lucky, lucky babes. 
Giselle’s encounter with Obama was quick, but it could have been a much sweeter deal. Apparently when her father approached, Obama joked that he was going to steal his baby. 
Maybe now that Malia and Sasha are about to leave the nest, the former president has some baby fever. 


The elusive “Pepe Silvia” may not have been among the photos but that doesn’t mean that locals of this Canadian suburb weren’t freaking out about this discovery.
The mayor of Whitchurch-Stouffville is under fire after a Sun Tribune reporter discovered that his office bathroom is covered in photos of local townspeople in what Mayor Justin Altmann calls his own “mind map.”
Those on the “CSI-style” wall, however, are calling it “creepy.”
Altmann, who was elected in 2014, had his secret uncovered when the the Sun Tribune reported it earlier this month. The photos include town employees, business people, councillors, and reporters. The mayor said the photos are related to a police investigation that has lasted more than two years, but did not clarify what the investigation was about. York Regional Police would not confirm or deny any investigation, according to the publication.
The mayor of a Toronto suburb has a cryptic CSI-esque photo diagram on the wall of his office bathroom: https://t.co/sfPOF2QoyT
“Somebody on council is leaking top secret information,” Altmann told the Sun Tribune. He added that he has “40 binders and 5,000 emails” in connection with his bathroom wall photo montage.
“It’s absolutely creepy,” Samantha Farrow, a longtime resident who runs a family business told the Toronto Star. “I was horrified when I saw my picture. I couldn’t believe my picture was on the bathroom wall in the mayor’s office.” Farrow said she has no personal dealings with the mayor. 
Tom Winters, who in 2015 asked for a compliance audit of Altmann’s campaign finances, is also featured on the wall.
“I think it’s just a childish thing,” Winters told The Star. He put [my photo] there because I questioned his authority.”
Altmann further explained his wall by saying he has been the victim of bullying.
“For the last two and a half, three years, the harassment, the bullying that I have endured has been very, very monstrous,” Altmann told the Sun Tribune. Part of that abuse, he said, has been in the form of slashed tires.
“It’s not regular behaviour by any means,” former mayor Sue Sherban said.
Read the full story and see images of the wall here.

An Iowa woman pleaded guilty to election misconduct this week after being accused of illegally voting twice for Donald Trump last year, according to The Associated Press.
The woman, 56-year-old Terri Lynn Rote, reportedly cast a ballot during early voting in Polk County and attempted to cast a second one at a satellite voting location, where she was arrested. Rote told police she voted twice because she believed Trump’s claims that the 2016 election would be rigged and thought her first ballot would be changed to a vote for Democrat Hillary Clinton, according to CBS News.
Rote’s plea comes as Trump has focused national attention on voter fraud. He has claimed 3 million to 5 million people voted illegally last year in the 2016 election, but has offered no evidence to support that claim. Multiple investigations, including one by the Justice Department under President George W. Bush, have found that while a handful of people such as Rote do vote illegally, it is not a widespread phenomenon.
Rote’s attorney told the court in January that she believed her client had “cognitive limitations” and a mental health disorder. Sentencing is set for Aug. 15, and Rote’s attorneys are recommending two years probation with community service. Election fraud can be punished in the state by up to five years in prison, according to the AP. Prosecutors agreed to drop a perjury charge against Rote because she pleaded guilty to a felony charge, the AP reported. 
Punishments for illegal voting vary from state to state. In February, for example, a Texas mom and noncitizen was sentenced to eight years in prison for voting in U.S. elections and faces likely deportation. She said she didn’t know she was ineligible.
In April, Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R), secured his first plea from a noncitizen who admitted to voting. The man was put on unsupervised probation for up to three years and ordered to pay a $5,000 fine.
In North Carolina, by contrast, a prosecutor declined to even bring charges against a woman who admitted she voted for Trump on behalf of her deceased mother in 2016.
Iowa enacted a voter ID law earlier this year, despite concerns it would make it more difficult to vote. Iowa Secretary of State Paul Pate (R) pushed the bill, even though he said the state’s elections were already “fair” and “clean.”


Soon after President Donald Trump once again cast doubt on Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, Nikki Haley, the Trump administration’s ambassador to the United Nations, stated unequivocally that Russia was the culprit.
“Everybody knows that Russia meddled in our elections. Everybody knows that they’re not just meddling in the United States’ election,” Haley said in an interview on CNN’s “State of the Union” that is set to air Sunday morning.
“They’re doing this across multiple continents, and they’re doing this in a way that they’re trying to cause chaos within the countries,” she continued, according to a transcript of the exchange released by the network. 
"Everybody knows that Russia meddled in our elections," @nikkihaley tells @DanaBashCNN #CNNSOTU https://t.co/bwQw7Zx3uH
Haley’s certainty is a striking contrast with Trump’s remarks on the matter during a trip to Poland on Thursday.
“I think it could very well have been Russia, but I think it could well have been other countries,” Trump said at a joint news conference in Warsaw with Polish President Andrzej Duda. 
It is not clear when CNN taped its interview with Haley. But it was undoubtedly after Trump’s comments in Poland. CNN host Dana Bash asked Haley about details of Trump’s meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, which occurred on Friday at the G20 summit in Hamburg, Germany.
The Trump administration and the Kremlin have offered somewhat different accounts on the two leaders’ discussion about the question of Russian electoral interference. 
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who was also present at the meeting, said that Trump pressed Putin more than once on the Russian government’s role in the hacking and selective leaking of sensitive e-mails that U.S. intelligence agencies believe the Kremlin masterminded to undermine Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton’s presidential bid. At the same time, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov claimed Trump accepted Putin’s denial of any Russian involvement. And Tillerson said “there was not a lot of relitigating of the past” during the two leaders’ discussion.
Haley, who has taken a firm line against several Russian policies from her perch at the U.N., claimed Trump did not tread lightly on the matter.
“What he did was bring up right away the election meddling, and he did that for a reason,” Haley told CNN. “One, he wanted him to basically look him in the eye, let him know that yes, we know you meddled in our elections. Yes, we know you did it, cut it out. And I think President Putin did exactly what we thought he would do, which is deny it. This is Russia trying to save face. And they can’t.”
Asked why Trump has publicly equivocated about Russia’s role in the election meddling, Haley deferred to the president.
“You can ask him,” she said. “Everybody’s trying to nitpick what he says and what he doesn’t, but talk is one thing. Actions are another. He confronted President Putin. He made it the first thing that he talked about. And I think we have to now see where it goes from here.”
Haley has diverged from White House talking points on at least one other occasion in the past. In June, Haley told CNN that “Trump believes the climate is changing. And he believes pollutants are part of that equation.” Prior to that, White House press secretary Sean Spicer and Environmental Protection Agency administrator Scott Pruitt had avoided clarifying Trump’s views on climate change. Trump had previously described climate change as a hoax perpetrated by China and “bullshit.”


Ivanka Trump sparked accusations of nepotism after she stepped into her father Donald Trump’s shoes for a brief period at the G-20 summit in Hamburg, Germany, on Saturday.
In a move that has rankled many of the Trump administration’s critics, the president’s daughter sat between British Prime Minister Theresa May and Chinese President Xi Jinping during her father’s temporary absence from a working session of world leaders titled “Partnership with Africa, Migration and Health.”
A Russian official tweeted a photograph of Ivanka Trump sitting in between the duo and it immediately went viral. The image has since been deleted, but not before it could be shared and criticized by people online:
Ivanka Trump, unelected, unqualified, daughter-in-chief, is representing the US at the G20 summit next to May, Xi, Merkel. Photo @LanaLukash pic.twitter.com/fvs0EMy8z7
She is no more competent than her father. America should be ashamed we are sending incompetent nobodies to international summits.
Trump decided it was take your child to work day but he forgot to go himself. Ivanka Trump went to the G20 instead of her dad
Ivanka Trump sitting in for D.J. Trump in G20 shows why there are laws against nepotism. Unelected person sits at world leaders talk for US.
The United States level of nepotism screams of hypocrisy: Ivanka Trump, unelected, without experience in politics represents #US at G20.
I understand Ivanka Trump is sitting at the #G20 leaders table this morning instead of US President Donald Trump.Source: "Incredible!!!"
Because an unelected, unqualified, unprepared New York socialite is the best person to represent American national interests https://t.co/hmRCfwebCc
Wrong on so many levels#WeThePeople of the U.S. didn't vote for IvankaI'm 1 of many in U.S. who's extremely disappointed in our leadership
Many critics questioned just why Trump’s daughter, who is an official but unpaid adviser to her father, should represent the U.S. on such an important world stage ― albeit for a short period of time.
According to Agence France-Presse, a White House official has confirmed that Ivanka Trump “briefly joined the main table when the president had to step out.”
The official said other world leaders’ seats were “also briefly filled by others” when they left the table. The BBC points out “high-ranking officials” usually cover for leaders when they are absent.
It’s not clear exactly why Trump left the meeting, nor how long he was away. The original tweet suggested it was so he could attend “bilateral talks.”
A BBC correspondent noted that Ivanka Trump “did not seem to make any major contribution to the session” during the time she was filling in.
Donald Trump had earlier used a World Bank session on women’s entrepreneurship to sing his daughter’s praises. Watch the video here:
“I’m very proud of my daughter, Ivanka, always have been, from day one, I had to tell you that, from day one,” he said. “She’s always been great. A champion. She’s a champion.”
Trump then speculated as to whether life would be “easier for her” if she “weren’t my daughter.”
“That might be the only bad thing she has going, if you want to know the truth,” he added.

A Colorado police chief has some harsh words for a former legislator who complained when he was awakened by notifications about a missing teenager who is developmentally challenged.
“I regret that the phone notifications took you from your beauty rest,” Colorado Springs Police Chief Pete Carey wrote in a Sunday email to Douglas Bruce. “In truth, the beauty rest ain’t working anyway.”
Here’s the full email, which was obtained and published by the Colorado Springs Gazette:
Mr. Bruce - While I can’t honestly say that I appreciated it, I did want you to know I received your e-mail.
The notifications you received involved an “at risk” 15 year-old who went missing during bad weather, prompting various alerts in the specific area. We are blessed in that she was found fairly quickly, due partly to the advisories that went out.
I regret that the phone notifications took you from your beauty rest. In truth, the beauty rest ain’t working anyway.
Your complete lack of care, concern and compassion for anyone but yourself fits perfectly with your obnoxious and bullying personality.
Perhaps some day you will be the person of interest that is missing and will need the public’s help in locating you. Perhaps not, as that would actually require someone to miss you enough to make an initial report.
Moving forward, I will see what I can do to remove you from notifications for anything but your sole, personal welfare, if you promise to remove my e-mail address from any more boorish correspondence you choose to send.
Sometimes less really is more.
Chief Pete Carey
Carey’s email was in response to one that Bruce had sent him earlier in the day. Bruce had complained he was awakened by two automated calls about a missing teenager. 
Douglas Bruce complaint prompts 'nasty' email from #ColoradoSprings police chief, @njKaitlinDurbin reports https://t.co/oENQ5kw3Hf pic.twitter.com/6Po0nCoiKW
Bruce’s email read, in part:
“TRY to exercise some judgment and common sense about the timing of random calls to citizens … what do you expect me to DO at midnight about some juvenile in the city who does not tell her parents where she is? I have no role in finding other people’s thoughtless or runaway children. I see a story and update are both in the Gazette; I assume it was the same girl who, unlike E.T., did not ‘phone home.’”
The Colorado Springs Independent also obtained and published the text of both Bruce’s email and Carey’s reply. The outlet noted that Bruce supplied them with a copy of the emails and that the police department confirmed that Carey’s response was authentic.
Bruce, 67, is a former state representative, county commissioner and convicted criminal. He served jail time in 2012 for several felony crimes, including tax evasion and trying to influence a public servant.
Carey said he does not regret sending out the alert and that it assisted in finding the missing teen. 
Bruce told Colorado Springs’ KKTV News he was “shocked” by Carey’s email, which he reportedly forwarded to Mayor John Suthers.
However, Colorado Springs City Councilman Dave Geislinger told the Gazette he does not anticipate city involvement.
“Incivility begets incivility,” Geislinger said. “And it’s kind of unrealistic to expect that somebody can send an email in a clearly uncivil tone and expect a civil response, that’s not the way humanity works.”
David Lohr covers crime and missing persons. Tips? Feedback? Send an email or follow him on Twitter. 


Hackers have been targeting companies that operate nuclear power stations around America, prompting the Department of Homeland Security and the FBI to issue an urgent warning about the severity of the threat, several media outlets reported on Thursday.
Both The New York Times and Bloomberg published details from a joint report released by the government agencies last month that described efforts by hackers to infiltrate the systems of nuclear facilities, including the Wolf Creek Nuclear Operating Corporation. The report did not provide details of the cyberattacks, but the Kansas-based Wolf Creek said its systems were not affected, according to the Times.
Both publications, citing security experts and U.S. officials, said the attacks could be used to disrupt the power grid, and DHS and the FBI sent out a warning to utility companies on June 28 about the potential for hacking.
The agencies said on Thursday that there is no current threat to the public.
“There is no indication of a threat to public safety, as any potential impact appears to be limited to administrative and business networks,” DHS and the FBI said in a joint statement provided to the Times.
E&E News, a news site focusing on the energy industry, first reported that investigators were looking into multiple attacks on nuclear power generators this year. E&E said there was no evidence any systems had been compromised, but experts warned the existence of such threats points up the vulnerability of American power plants.
Last week, Reuters said hackers have been using phishing emails in an attempt to “harvest credentials” for various energy sector networks.
“Historically, cyber actors have strategically targeted the energy sector with various goals ranging from cyber espionage to the ability to disrupt energy systems in the event of a hostile conflict,” the report said, according to Reuters.
In 2016, the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear watchdog, warned of the potential for hacking at nuclear power plants worldwide, citing an effective attack that “caused some problems” two or three years prior.
“This is not an imaginary risk,” IAEA Director Yukiya Amano told Reuters in October. “This issue of cyber attacks on nuclear-related facilities or activities should be taken very seriously.”

California Gov. Jerry Brown (D) announced Thursday he’ll host a global climate summit in San Francisco next year, vowing to continue reducing carbon emissions even as President Donald Trump exits the Paris climate agreement to fight global warming. 
In a pre-recorded video message airing at the Global Citizen Festival, a kick-off event on the eve of the G-20 summit in Hamburg, Germany, Brown said the September 2018 conference will bring together “entrepreneurs, singers, musicians, mathematicians, professors, students” and others from across the globe to “join together to combat the existential threat of climate change.”
“Yes, I know President Trump is trying to get out of the Paris agreement, but he doesn’t speak for the rest of America,” Brown said in the video. “We in California and in states all across America believe it’s time to act. It’s time to join together. And that’s why at this climate action summit, we’re going to get it done.”
Brown’s announcement is the latest act of defiance from states vowing to uphold the 2015 global climate accord after Trump announced in May that the U.S. will pull out of the deal. 
Brown, along with Washington Gov. Jay Inslee (D) and New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D), formed the U.S. Climate Alliance, a coalition of states committed to the goals laid out in the Paris accord. Nine other states and Puerto Rico have since joined that coalition. 
“If the President is going to be AWOL in this profoundly important human endeavor, then California and other states will step up,” Brown said in a statement at the time. 
Other governors, mayors and businesses across the country have also said they’ll continue to reduce emissions without the president’s support. 
Brown, a longtime climate advocate, has also taken global diplomacy on emissions into his own hands, visiting China last month to meet with leaders there on how to cap emissions levels at 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.
Brown’s invitation to global leaders comes as Trump is set to meet with fellow heads of state at the G-20 meeting. Climate, particularly in the wake of Trump’s announcement that the U.S. would exit the Paris deal, was expected to be at the top of the meeting’s agenda. 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, host of the gathering of the world’s largest economies, specifically called out Trump’s climate stance ahead of the meeting.
“Since the decision of the U.S. to quit the Paris climate agreement, we are more determined than ever to make it successful,” she said last week. “We must tackle this existential challenge, and we cannot wait until every last person on Earth has been convinced of the scientific proof.”
Just two other countries — Syria and Nicaragua — are not parties to the Paris agreement. 


NEW YORK ― Sens. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) and Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) urged Secretary of Education Betsy Devos last week to reverse a decision her department made last month that would impede its ability to investigate campus sexual assault.
The head of the Department of Education’s civil rights office, Candice Jackson, issued a memo in June instructing staff to scale back their investigations of systemic civil rights issues at public schools and universities, including the mishandling of sexual assault cases. Whereas the Obama administration required staff to review past information along with each complaint to identify potential systemic problems with how campuses handle rape cases or discriminate against certain classes of victims, the Trump administration will scrap those rules and investigate each complaint at face value.
Gillibrand and McCaskill, the latter of whom is a former prosecutor, are concerned that if the administration handles complaints on a case-by-case basis, rather than considering a school’s broader history of dealing with sexual assault, it will allow schools to continue to sweep the problem under the rug rather then forcing them to overhaul their policies. Title IX federal law requires the government to protect women at publicly funded schools from sex discrimination, including assault and harassment.
“Far too often, when cases of mismanagement are brought to light, it is part of a larger pattern that includes a campus climate where victims are afraid to come forward and the institution has systemically discouraged reporting and failed to prevent these crimes,” the senators wrote in a letter to DeVos. “OCR’s decision to only address the specific complaint fails to protect all students as required by Title IX.” 
Jackson explained in the June memo that her decision to limit the scope of campus sexual assault investigations is necessary in order to clear backlogs of complaints, which skyrocketed under President Barack Obama, and move through them more quickly.
While Obama had made combatting campus sexual assault a signature issue of his administration, DeVos’ hiring of Jackson to oversee sexual assault complaints signaled a move in the opposite direction. Jackson, a longtime anti-feminist activist, has suggested over the years that she is skeptical of women who report being assaulted. She said in a Facebook post during Trump’s campaign that the more than a dozen women accusing him of sexual assault were “fake victims” lying “for political gain.” And in her 2005 book, Their Lives: The Women Targeted by the Clinton Machine, she lamented that laws against sexual harassment ignore “the reality that unwanted sexual advances are difficult to define.”
Under Jackson’s leadership, the DOE Office for Civil Rights is beginning to scale back the government’s role in enforcing civil rights laws, including those pertaining to sexual assault. The Trump administration’s fiscal year 2018 budget requested to decrease the investigations staff by more than 40 employees, and Jackson has decided to hide the list of schools being investigated by the federal government for mishandling rape cases. Now, the process of investigating campus sexual assault will be much less transparent, the government will commit fewer resources to it, and investigators will not be required to look broadly into systemic problems at particular institutions.
Gillibrand and McCaskill said that if the department is worried about the backlog of complaints, they should clear it by hiring more investigators rather than reducing the government’s capacity to handle the influx of cases. 
“The goal of the OCR must be to protect students and ensure that they are provided a safe and equitable educational experience,” they wrote. “We believe that limiting investigations into campus sexual assault is an improper way to clear the current backlog and does not uphold the Department’s responsibility to enforce Title IX.” 
Campus sexual assault survivors tweeted at DeVos on Thursday in protest. 
#DearBetsy @BetsyDeVosED @BetsyDeVos Title IX has protected me from finishing undergrad with my rapist pic.twitter.com/JW1iLYAa4h
#DearBetsy The DCL helped me get back to school after I was raped. Rescinding it will move us back into the dark ages.

I have a friend named Dave LaGuercia who happens at the moment to be in a Boston hospital for a second round of surgery – let’s hope all goes well. I have known Dave since 2004 or 2005 when he opened a small gun shop in Connecticut just over the Massachusetts line. Dave had previously been in the car business as a broker, he had done quite well, but, being a gun nut, once he had some dough in his pocket he did what we all do, he bought some gun inventory and opened a shop.
One thing led to another and within three or four years Dave had moved to a much larger location and now had a gun shop that was maybe the second largest store in the whole state. And since Connecticut is a fairly small state and Dave’s store was situated right off an exit of Interstate 91 ― “easy on, easy off” ― he got customers from as far away as the Danbury area, one of whom was Nancy Lanza, who showed up some time in 2011 or 2012 with her young son, Adam, and purchased an AR-15.
Two days after the Sandy Hook massacre, as Dave was about to close for the night, a squad of helmeted ATF agents carrying rifles and wearing body armor drove up in two Humvees and charged into the shop. Oh yes, they were immediately followed into Dave’s store by some media folks who had been alerted by the ATF that something connected to the Sandy Hook mess was about to go down.
Let me interject one point here that needs to be understood. I heard about Sandy Hook while I was standing behind the counter of my gun shop; I closed the shop immediately and went home.  But later that night after the shooter was identified, I went back to the shop and pored through my records to find out whether or not I was the dealer who had sold the gun. Since it was a rifle, Nancy Lanza could have come into Massachusetts and bought the gun from me. I would have been required to ship the gun to a Connecticut dealer, so I was able to quickly check and I knew that the gun hadn’t come from me. I can guarantee you that every gun dealer in Connecticut and Massachusetts was looking through their books that same night in the hopes that the AR wasn’t sold by them.
The ATF spent the next several weeks examining every gun sale that Dave ever made. They also suspended his license which he never got back. Eventually they found a sale of a hunting rifle which was improperly made, but it was still a violation of 4473 law so they could now build a case. A year later, having absorbed the loss of his entire business, Dave took a misdemeanor plea for the sale of the hunting rifle and also agreed never to go back into the business of selling guns. All the result of a legal sale of an AR-15.
Back in 1995 my good friend in Fairfax, Wayne-o LaPierre, took a lot of flak for calling the ATF a bunch of ‘jack-booted thugs.’ Wayne-o has never been known to be as a master of the understatement, but when I think about how Dave LaGuercia was treated by the ATF, I have to say that Wayne-o was right. And by the way, every, single gun-shop owner throughout the Northeast knows what happened to Dave because every shop is visited on a regular basis by the sales reps for S&W, Ruger and Glock, so news gets around.
I’m not trying in any way to justify Sandy Hook or the lethal dangers of an AR-15. What I am saying is that there are reasons why people in the gun business don’t trust the government to regulate their industry in a proper and positive way. Something to think about the next time an advocate for gun violence prevention gets into a discussion with a gun nut about his guns.

For a man who’s expected to shake a lot of hands, President Donald Trump still has a remarkable amount of trouble getting his greetings right.
Trump was in Poland on Thursday, on the first full day of his three-day trip to Europe for the G-20 summit in Hamburg, Germany. Before delivering a bellicose speech in Krasinski Square in Warsaw, the president stood alongside first lady Melania Trump to briefly exchange pleasantries with Polish President Andrzej Duda and Polish first lady Agata Kornhauser-Duda. When it came time to shake hands, the photo-op hit a slight hitch.
#Duda such a SAVAGE 😂😂😂 #TRUMPwWOLSCE #TrumpinPoland pic.twitter.com/U2qWkzmkdZ
Ouch. We’ve all been there before. It’s safe to say Trump hasn’t learned anything from NBA coaching legend Phil Jackson’s school of getting left hanging.
And while many people on Twitter were quick to delight in what they saw as Kornhauser-Duda deliberately swerving on Trump, it seems more likely that she was simply following proper protocol and shaking the hand of her counterpart first. A photo shows Trump shaking hands with Kornhauser-Duda, so they did make it happen eventually.
This clip from after Trump’s Warsaw speech, however, was a little bit harder to explain. Where are the president’s handlers?
Trump gets lost in Poland. pic.twitter.com/mLSZsWDwAZ
But Trump’s day of awkwardness wasn’t over yet.
He later met with German Chancellor Angela Merkel in Hamburg, and they tried to shake hands like normal humans who, at the very least, respect one another because they’re two of the most powerful people in the world.
That may sound like a relatively simple feat, but Trump has had trouble with it in the past. At a White House meeting in March, the president caught flak for appearing to ignore the press’ request that he shake hands with Merkel. The perceived snub came amid reports of a growing discord between Trump and Merkel, who have openly criticized each other’s policies.
Things went over a little more smoothly this time, with a pool report indicating that “the pair shook hands and spoke briefly while looking directly at each other.”
We’re thankful they did, because we got this photo out of it.
Das Fremdschamen.


WASHINGTON ― History will take note of this week, and not in a good way.
This week’s G-20 summit in Hamburg, Germany, will demonstrate there is no center in world affairs, no clear first among equals, not much structure and the possibility of deadly conflict in hot spots around the planet. 
President Donald Trump, the presumptive “leader of the free world,” remains casually ignorant of diplomatic affairs. His chaotic, understaffed and divided administration frightens officials in other nations.
“We can’t understand who is actually leading the U.S. government,” an official at a prominent European think tank told me. “We know Trump is president, but is the real force [Secretary of State Rex] Tillerson or [national security adviser H.R.] McMaster? Or maybe it is Ivanka Trump? We don’t know.”
The president amplifies the confusion by manic tweeting, flip-flopping, verbal grandiosity and sheer (and only vaguely tactical) unpredictability. He has run hot and cold on China, Russia, North Korea, and Germany, and mostly cold on international regimes to manage trade, immigration and the environment.
It’s quite likely that others have taken his measure and concluded that the confusion masks weakness. Russian President Vladimir Putin, a former KGB agent and master of all the dark arts of intimidation, starts with a huge advantage over the play-it-by-ear methods of Trump.
And Trump is just one of many international leaders who share a questionable worldview. With the exception of Germany’s Angela Merkel and China’s Xi Jinping, far too many heads of government today are preening, theatrical figures more interested in bellowing about national pride than in assembling what John F. Kennedy once called “the Brotherhood of Man.”
Trump didn’t start the trend of corrosive nationalism ― Putin and former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi were pioneers ― but he has helped make a punchline out of the title “world leader.”
Perhaps the appearance of these grandstanders was inevitable. The Cold War put globe-spanning ideology ahead of nationalism. The post-Cold War period, after the Berlin Wall fell, was more about international commerce and banking profits than politics.
Now we are in a post-post-Cold War world of jingoism. It’s far less stable, less predictable and more worrisome, even for Americans protected by vast oceans and friendly neighbors. As Merkel lamented this week, the U.S. president looks out and sees “an arena and not a global community.”
Trump claims to like arenas. (Recall his big turn in the WWE spotlight.) But consider the many hot contests he faces heading into the G-20 summit:
Korean Peninsula: The last active volcano of the Cold War, the never-officially-ended conflict between North and South Korea has been largely ignored for decades. Now the possibility of someone over there launching a nuclear war is real, or soon will be.
This one didn’t start with Trump, but he has little or no leverage. China and Russia, the only two countries that might be able to control Kim Jong Un, are willing to give the North Korean leader a long leash to harass and distract America. They want a double “stand down” that would freeze Kim’s nuclear weapons development while beginning to unwind the U.S. military presence on the peninsula. Trump is simultaneously asking China for help on North Korea and threatening it with new trade sanctions on steel. Good luck.
South China Sea: Xi is playing the avatar of international order this week, delivering pandas to Merkel in Berlin and promising to be a force for global stability and free trade in the face of Trumpian isolationism. At the same time, with obdurate efficiency, the Chinese are militarizing the South China Sea in hopes of turning it into their own private lake. President Barack Obama sought to unite the Pacific Rim nations against China on this issue; that’s what the Trans-Pacific Partnership was about. Trump withdrew from that trade deal in one of his first moves.
Vladimir Putin: No one in modern history has been better at playing a losing hand. Russia isn’t an inspiration or model to any other nation these days, and its hopelessly corrupt and lawless economy is at the mercy of the price of oil and other commodities. But Putin is popular at home because he has pranked, punked and undermined the U.S. and other Western democracies ― the “winners” of the Cold War ― whenever and wherever he can, including, according to U.S. intelligence agencies, in the 2016 campaign.
Putin has already wrested from Trump most of what he wanted: the equal standing that Obama and Hillary Clinton refused to bestow. He doesn’t want much else except to be left alone while his hackers do their dirty cyber work. That means Trump can’t arm-twist Russia on Korea, Syria or Ukraine. If he tries, Putin can always tell CNN what really happened with those fake news stories and sites during the final weeks of the race in Michigan, Ohio and Wisconsin.
Europe: In the G-20 host country of Germany, confidence that Trump will do “the right thing” in world affairs is currently at 11 percent. Much of the rest of Europe feels the same, and it was no surprise that Hamburg erupted in mass protests the moment Trump got to town. It’s a long way from Kennedy’s “Ich bin ein Berliner” moment.
Despite a Trump address in Warsaw designed to reassure other NATO countries of America’s commitment to their common defense, the allies were not reassured ― because no one knows who was really speaking in that speech. “That was scripted and he read it from a teleprompter,” an ambassador from one NATO country told me. “We can’t assume that that is what the president believes.”
Trade: Having pulled out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership and threatened the European Union, Trump created space for China’s bid to become the next central player in global commerce. Japan just announced a massive new trade deal with the European Union as if to say to the United States, “We don’t need you.”
That isn’t true. The world still needs us. Just not as much.

WASHINGTON ― If President Donald Trump wants to make a good first impression with Russian leader Vladimir Putin when they meet Friday, two words he might consider starting with are “thank” and “you.”
Without Putin’s decision to interfere in last year’s presidential campaign on Trump’s behalf, there’s a good possibility he would not have won, given how few votes swung the outcome in the three critical Rust Belt states of Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania.
Video shows Pres. Trump, Russian Pres. Putin shaking hands at G-20 summit ahead of their high-stakes meeting today. https://t.co/xxeBvDKdjR pic.twitter.com/QunvkPdEFd
Rick Wilson, a Republican political consultant and frequent Trump critic, said the Russian assistance likely swayed 2-to-3 percentage points in those states that proved crucial to the election’s outcome.
“It certainly kept the national Republican base in Trump’s camp,” Wilson said. “Yeah, he should say thank you to Putin. I think this is Donald Trump going to the home office for his quarterly review.”
Tim Malloy, an assistant director of polling for Connecticut’s Quinnipiac University, shied away from ascribing a hard number to the Russia effect ― like most in his profession. But he said the impact’s existence was undeniable.
“There was a blizzard of negativity thrust at [Democratic nominee] Hillary Clinton. With that intense a blizzard, it follows that some of the snow is going to stick,” he said.
Trump himself, many Republicans and even some Democrats dispute that the meddling was determinative, arguing there is no indication that actual votes were altered by Russian-sponsored hackers.
“Intelligence stated very strongly there was absolutely no evidence that hacking affected the election results. Voting machines not touched!,” Trump tweeted on Jan. 7, the day after U.S. intelligence agencies stated that Russia had interfered in the campaign, and had done so on Trump’s behalf.
Trump’s narrow claim, though, ignores the benefit he received both from hackers as well as an army of pro-Trump bloggers working out of Russia and eastern Europe.
The hackers, according to U.S. intelligence agencies, stole emails from the Democratic National Committee and from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta, then released politically damaging ones in the campaign’s final weeks. The bloggers wrote and frequently posted  false articles about Clinton on Facebook and other social media ― accusing her of corruption, even murder ― in the hopes of flipping her “soft” supporters to Trump or dissuading them from voting at all.
Virginia Sen. Mark Warner, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, told reporters in March: “There were upwards of 1,000 paid internet trolls working out of a facility in Russia.”
His committee, the House Intelligence Committee and the FBI are all investigating Russian involvement in the election and possible collusion with the Trump campaign.
In a June interview with CNN, Warner said “a lot of smoke” on these matters was worth investigating. “It does seem strange, it appears, that Russian-paid internet trolls who created bots were then able to put forward fake news, selective stories in a way that seemed targeted,” he said.
In early October, shortly after The Washington Post published a story about an “Access Hollywood” tape featuring Trump bragging that his celebrityhood allowed him to grab women by the genitals, the WikiLeaks group released the first of its emails stolen from Podesta’s account.
“Weird how that happens. What a remarkable coincidence,” GOP consultant Wilson said. “There was always something there the same day from Russia with love to bail him out.”
Few political observers disagree that Clinton was a weak candidate, or that her campaign didn’t, in retrospect, make serious strategic mistakes. For example, she and her staff appeared to take Michigan and Wisconsin for granted, failing to make large voter outreach and turnout investments in them.
“The Clinton campaign’s hubris may have contributed more to her defeat than any action the Russians took in this election,” said Neil Newhouse, a Republican pollster with the firm Public Opinion Strategies. “The fact that she represented ‘more of the same’ in a change environment, the campaign’s decision to essentially ignore key states and the inability to communicate a coherent economic message to middle-class voters are all at the root of her loss.”
Still, her losing margins in Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania were less than a percentage point – a total of about 78,000 votes in all three. Had she won those states, she would be president. Thus, every element in Trump’s favor was by definition a determinative factor ― be it Russian meddling or the announcements by then-FBI director James Comey that he was re-opening, and then re-closing, his investigation into Clinton’s use of a private email server during her tenure as secretary of state. 
“In the closely contested races, it was apparently just enough,” said Quinnipiac’s Malloy.
Trump as of Thursday morning was still disputing Russia’s role in the U.S. election. At a news conference in Warsaw, Poland, he claimed: “I think it could very well have been Russia but I think it could well have been other countries.” He then added: “Nobody really knows for sure.”
That view goes against the consensus analysis of the major U.S. intelligence agencies. The Office of National Intelligence released a report on Jan. 6 stating that Russia not only meddled in the presidential campaign, but specifically wanted Trump to defeat Clinton.
“We assess Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential election. Russia’s goals were to undermine public faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrate Secretary Clinton, and harm her electability and potential presidency. We further assess Putin and the Russian government developed a clear preference for President-elect Trump,” the report said. “We have high confidence in these judgments.”
During his 17-month presidential campaign, Trump frequently praised Putin as a strong leader, even calling him a better one than then-President Barack Obama. When MSNBC’s Joe Scarborough pointed out that Putin has reportedly had political opponents and journalists murdered, Trump answered: “I think that our country does plenty of killing, too, Joe.”
Trump’s Friday meeting with Putin will be his first as president and possibly his first ever, although that is unclear because of Trump’s conflicting statements in the past.
In October 2013, Trump told late night host David Letterman that Putin was a “tough guy” and that he had “met him once.”
In February 2014, Trump told Fox News that Putin had contacted him during his visit to Russia for his beauty pageant.
In October 2015, he told talk radio host Michael Savage that he’d met Putin “a long time ago.”
But at a July 2016 news conference, Trump said he had never met the Russian leader. “I never met Putin,” he said. “I don’t know who Putin is. He said one nice thing about me. He said I’m a genius. I said thank you very much to the newspaper and that was the end of it. I never met Putin.”
Wilson said Trump’s continued kind words for the Russian strongman will come back to haunt Republicans, eventually. “Guys on my side just don’t care,” he said. “If we want to make GOP stand for the ‘Guys Of Putin,’ we’re well on our way.”

WASHINGTON ― Walter Shaub Jr., who announced Thursday that he will resign as director of the Office of Government Ethics, told CBS News that President Donald Trump’s businesses present the “appearance” of profiting from his tenure in the White House.
Reporter Julianna Goldman asked Shaub, “Do you think the president and his family are using the office to enrich themselves?”
“I can’t know what their intention is,” Shaub answered. “I know that the effect is that there’s an appearance that the businesses are profiting from his occupying the presidency. And appearance matters as much as reality. So even aside from whether or not that’s actually happening, we need to send a message to the world that the United States is gonna have the gold standard for an ethics program in government, which is what we’ve always had.”
Shaub added that it “almost doesn’t matter” if the Trump family is or isn’t making financial gains. 
“America should have the right to know what the motivations of its leaders are, and they need to know that financial interests, personal financial interests, aren’t among them,” he said.
The clip below, which aired Thursday evening, is part of a longer interview with Shaub. CBS News will run another portion on Friday morning. 
.@OfficeGovEthics Director @WaltShaub, who butted heads with the Trump administration, resigned today https://t.co/3jSiZ6kmW2 pic.twitter.com/J1hsiaP7Ao
Shaub is planning to join the Campaign Legal Center, a nonprofit that works on voting rights and campaign finance issues.
His resignation, effective July 19, marks the culmination of a months-long battle between the federal government’s top ethics official and Trump, who once promised to “drain the swamp” of corruption in Washington.
In his resignation statement, Shaub appeared to be sending a message to the White House. He quoted federal law, praising ethics officials for their commitment to protecting “the principle that public service is a public trust, requiring employees to place loyalty to the Constitution, the laws, and ethical principles above private gain.” Shaub said he was not pressured to resign, according to The New York Times.
pic.twitter.com/x9TsOKABZ7
The White House said it “accepts Mr. Shaub’s resignation and appreciates his service.” The statement added that “the President will be nominating a successor in short order.”
The Office of Government Ethics, which was created in the wake of the Watergate scandal, typically works closely with presidential administrations to resolve possible conflicts of interest. But Shaub, who joined the ethics office as an attorney during the George W. Bush administration and was appointed director by Barack Obama, struggled to connect with the Trump transition team after the election. At one point, he resorted to sending out a series of desperate-sounding tweets to get Trump’s attention.
Trump announced in January that he would give control of his business empire to his adult sons, becoming the first president in the modern era to refuse to divest or separate himself from holdings with potential conflicts. Shaub sharply criticized the plan for failing to meet the standard that “every president of the past four decades has met.”
In his CBS News interview, Shaub also addressed the claim by Trump lawyer Sheri Dillon at a January press conference that if Trump sold off his assets, that “would greatly diminish the value of the assets and create a fire sale.” 
“I have no sympathy for that,” Shaub told CBS. “He’s in a position where he’s going to have to send young men and women to die in combat, potentially, or risk their lives at least. They’re paying a much higher price. So no, it’s not too much to ask for somebody to incur a bit of a financial loss if they have to sell things off.”
Shaub, whose term was set to end in 2018, persisted in trying to do his job under the Trump administration, becoming something of an unlikely bureaucratic hero. When White House counselor Kellyanne Conway urged Fox News viewers to buy products from Ivanka Trump’s fashion line in February — a pitch that appeared to flagrantly violate federal ethics rules — Shaub told the White House that disciplinary action was warranted. (The White House didn’t follow his advice.)
Trump also nominated people with enormously complex financial holdings to key Cabinet positions. Reince Priebus, Trump’s chief of staff, tried to publicly blame Shaub’s office for the slow rate at which the White House was filling key positions. But Shaub noted that some of the Trump administration’s nominees pushed back against the government’s ethics requirements with “a ferocity we’ve not previously seen.”
Another clash with Shaub’s office came after it directed officials in April to release information about ethics waivers that may have been granted to former lobbyists working in the Trump administration. Instead, the White House questioned the OGE’s legal authority to request the information and sought to stay the inquiry. (The OGE does not conduct investigations or have enforcement power.) This action drew a lengthy response from Shaub, who declined to suspend the ethics inquiry, calling the request “highly unusual.”
Shaub said that he didn’t believe there was “much more I could accomplish at the Office of Government Ethics, given the current situation,” according to The New York Times, and that the timing was right for his departure. His new position with the nonprofit group, he reportedly said, will allow him to openly advocate for government ethics reforms. 
Trump will have the opportunity to appoint a new OGE director and shape the office in his image, a move that is sure to trouble Democrats worried about conflicts of interest in the Trump administration.
This article has been updated with more details about Shaub’s resignation and with his remarks to CBS News.
Chris D’Angelo contributed to this report.

As election officials across the country push back against a wide-ranging request for voter data from a federal panel investigating election fraud, they may be getting too much credit ― or blame ― for resisting President Donald Trump.
Much of the news coverage, including ’s, has lumped together all 40-plus states declining to turn over some kind of information. But there are nuanced differences between those denials. Some states are unequivocally refusing to comply at all, while others have noted they’re prohibited by law from turning over some of the requested information. A number of states are turning over any of the requested information that is already publicly available.
The letter that Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R), the vice chair of the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity, sent to state election officials last week requests “publicly available voter roll data.” The panel is asking for sensitive information like the last four digits of voters’ Social Security numbers, felony convictions and voting histories, but only if that information is “publicly available” in the given state. So states that choose to provide public information are in fact complying with the commission’s request ― even if their officials are also expressing concern about the commission’s intent.
“Kobach asked only for publicly available information among a number of categories. If a state makes some information available publicly and will provide it to the Commission, that’s not a rejection of the request even if it won’t provide other, non-public information like last four of SSN,” professor Rick Hasen, an election law expert at the University of California, Irvine, wrote in an email.
On Wednesday, the White House blasted reports saying more than 40 states refused to comply as “fake news.” Kobach said at the time that only 14 states and the District of Columbia had outright declined the committee’s request for information.
As of Thursday afternoon, there were 15 states not complying at all: Arizona, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, New York, South Carolina, South Dakota, Virginia and Wyoming, according to a tally by the National Association of Secretaries of State. Some of them are refusing to do so out of fears about how the panel will use the information, while others are barred by state law.
The resistance narrative that has been imposed on the controversy is distracting from legitimate questions about election administration and privacy, according to MIT professor Charles Stewart.
“Really important issues here are becoming tied up in, I think, the big soup of ‘you’re either for Trump or you’re against Trump and that’s all we now care about,’” Stewart said. “There are legitimate questions about how best to assess how well the states do run their list maintenance operations. To turn this episode into one of the mean Kobach commission against the brave election officials obscures what I think is an important public policy question.”
For example, the controversy has exposed a key debate over what kind of information should be included in public voter files, Stewart said.
“We’re seeing a bit of a tussle between states that want to sometimes hang on to their voter files and an outside party who’s skeptical wanting to see the voter files,” he said. “What’s the balance between privacy and transparency in running elections?”
Defining this debate over voter data as a pro-Trump/anti-Trump battle will only make running free and fair elections more difficult, Stewart warned. It risks “further politicizing election administration.”
CORRECTION: Minnesota is one of the states refusing entirely to comply with the commission’s request. New Hampshire is not.


Residents of most G-20 countries ― including the United States ― have more faith in German Chancellor Angela Merkel than in U.S. President Donald Trump to handle world affairs, according to newly released data from Pew Research.
Fifty-six percent of Americans say they have some or a lot of confidence in Merkel to do the right thing regarding foreign affairs, according to the poll published Wednesday. Just 46 percent have a similar level of confidence in Trump.
Merkel also received significantly higher ratings than Trump in a dozen other countries, while Trump fared substantially better in only two of the countries surveyed, India and Russia.
Trump and Merkel, who met in a tense encounter in March, held an awkward reunion Thursday in advance of the upcoming G-20 summit in Hamburg, Germany on Friday. The two have sparred openly: Trump previously described Merkel’s refugee policy as a “catastrophic mistake,” while Merkel criticized Trump’s travel ban and trade policies. The German leader also disparaged Trump’s decision to pull the U.S. out of the Paris Agreement on reducing carbon emissions, calling the agreement “irreversible and non-negotiable.”
Two-thirds of Americans disapprove of the idea of withdrawing from the agreement according to Pew’s survey, which was taken before Trump’s decision on the Paris accord was made. A majority, 57 percent, also say they disapprove of Trump’s proposal to withdraw support for major trade agreements.
Pew Research surveyed 1,505 adults in the U.S. between Feb. 16 and March 15, using live interviewers to reach both landlines and cell phones. More information on Pew’s international methodology is available here.

As President Donald Trump arrived in Hamburg, Germany, on Thursday before the start of the G-20 summit, he posed for a photo op with German Chancellor Angela Merkel.
The two are not known for their warm demeanor toward each other, and the latest photos suggest nothing has changed since they first met at the White House in March. 
The following image from their second one-on-one is perhaps the definition of “awkward.” (They also met up at a NATO summit in May, but they were part of a gaggle of leaders then.)
 See more photos from their meeting below.
The story has been clarified to note that this is the second one-on-one photo op that Trump and Merkel have shared.


There’s a narcissistic fraud in the White House. An angry, hollow, vindictive man is running the country. What bottomless emotional need does he have for acclaim? It is hard to know where his rampant narcissism ends and serious mental problems ensue. He lies prodigiously and for no reason except he obviously has an unclear vision of what the truth is.
Is his narcissism the driving force behind his lies? Look no further than the lobbies at seven of his golf courses, where he has hung fake Time Magazine covers with made-up headlines of effusive praise for himself. What a bizarre intersection between vanity and fraud. That is a president whose cabinet officials obsequiously offer tribute to his greatness while cameras roll. What is next, Dear Leader... a new haircut?
Trump has lied so much there was a New York Times article listing just the lies he’s told since taking the oath of office. This is to say nothing of the lies told repeatedly on the campaign trail and the ones he used to sell investors before bankrupting six business deals. He tells us he is very rich, but disregards the Constitution to enrich himself and his family. The chief government ethics officer just quit over it.
Trump continues to lie about the number of people at his inauguration. Why is that so important to him? Is he so obsessed with losing the popular vote by 3 million that he established a partisan, taxpayer-funded commission to search for non-existent voter fraud? A Stanford analysis of what Trump’s “voter fraud” panel would do, shows how devastating it would be to legitimate voters, “For every one case of double voting the program identified, it yielded 200 false positives that would purge the registrations of people legitimately eligible to vote.” Luckily, 44 states (as of July 5th) have refused to fully comply and hand over the invasive partisan information requested by the commission. Business Insider pointed out the Department of Homeland Security doesn’t even intend to investigate whether voting machines were hacked in November, and the commission is not bothering to investigate Russian interference. As I write this, it is being reported that Trump has accepted, despite our intelligence community’s unanimous finding otherwise, Putin’s denial that Moscow interfered in the 2016 presidential election.
He has a particular problem with any criticism from strong women. We all saw the disgusting tweet he put out about Mika Brzezinski, “She was bleeding badly from a face-lift.” At dinner at Mar-a-Lago? I doubt that. What is his obsession with blood? When Megyn Kelly hosted the GOP debate, he was so put off by her appropriately tough questioning of his record that he denigrated her saying, “She had blood coming out of her wherever.” He went on to retweet someone who called her a “bimbo.” He regularly disparages women’s looks, debases them to sexual objects and even brags about sexually assaulting them... and yet he became president?
In his Twitter battle with Morning Joe hosts Joe Scarborough and Brzezinski, he called Scarborough “psycho” and Brzezinski “crazy” with a “low I.Q.” He called former FBI Director James Comey “a real nut job” to the Russians. This seems to be yet another example of Trump suffering from “the disowned self,” the psychological condition of a person who projects his own flaws onto others. Does his ego blind him?
The large ego of a small man drives the vindictiveness of his policies. This presidency is all about the perception of “winning” for Trump – no matter the cost to others. He is a president who only enjoys the roar of the crowd at the rallies, and doesn’t want to learn even the basics of federal policy. While Trump presides over the circus in his mind, his vice president, Mike Pence, is pushing the extreme agenda of the Koch brothers through both the appointments and policies of federal agencies. They have undone environmental, labor and consumer protections. The Education Department is undermining public schools, and now attorneys general from 18 states and DC are suing Betsy DeVos for undoing loan protections for students who were cheated by fraudulent colleges. In fact, many in the cabinet seem dedicated to undoing the historic missions of their agencies. No surprise, since Trump’s financial supporters are getting what they want – deregulation in the guise of preventing necessary public oversight.
Candidate Trump promised: “No cuts... to Medicaid,” “No one will lose coverage,” and that “Nobody will be worse off financially.” Of course we now know his endorsed Senate TrumpCare plan offers tax cuts to the wealthiest individuals at the cost of stripping 23 million people of their health care and making the biggest cuts to Medicaid in history. Another broken promise. He has specifically gone after women’s health care with a vengeance. Can his supporters support that? Do they even know about it? Maybe not if they get their fake news from Fox.
Residents of the world have taken note. According to a recent Pew Research Poll, international faith in the president of the United States to respond well to global crises is 22 percent. This is down from 64 percent when President Obama was in office.
Keith Olbermann has taken to calling our Commander in Chief, #FakePresident. One could almost hear his unrequited search for legitimacy when he said, “I’m president and you’re not” to the media. You can hear the singsong of a child saying, “lalalalala!” There was also his stunt for WWE when he faked a body slam, which of course was later repurposed into a tweet he shared with a CNN logo over his opponent’s face. While he fit quite nicely into this WWE world of fake entertainment, what case of arrested development is it to retweet this? Is he 12?
This is the Trump presidency. He will not grow in the office. Does his vindictiveness stem from Obama teasing him at the White House Correspondents Dinner over the “birther” insanity? As Charles Blow so perfectly put it, “Trump wants to be Obama — held in high esteem. But, alas, Trump is Trump.” His approval rating is underwater. A full 20 percent of his first five months in office has been spent golfing instead of learning about policy. He watches cable TV and then tweets in a rage. He lacks the temperament to fulfill his role. For all his ranting about fake news and fake media... the truth is, he is the fake president.

Sometimes, even when reading professional journalism, you have to connect the dots on your own.  This week both the president and the vice-president interacted with NASA, and the results were... well... kind of spacey.
Donald Trump gave a speech at NASA and signed an executive order.  While doing so, he praised the "three astronauts" in the room, which was rather strange since there were actually four astronauts in the room.  The one not acknowledged was female, and the three who did get a presidential nod were all male.  But the truly bizarre thing was when Buzz Aldrin actually quoted Buzz Lightyear (from Toy Story), while Trump signed the paper.  Trump began, with: "I know what this is -- space!"  Aldrin joined in with: "Infinity and beyond!"  Trump, who has apparently never seen any of the Toy Story movies, responded:
Ummm... OK.  Sure.  Later in the week, Mike Pence toured a NASA facility and was photographed touching a piece of hardware intended for space -- right under the prominent sign reading: "DO NOT TOUCH."
Then I saw an apparently-unrelated headline in the Washington Post which read: "It's Summer And Washington Smells Like Weed Everywhere, All The Time."  Aha!  Mystery solved -- the entire city is floating on a contact high!  Infinity... like, wow, man.  It's so dang infinite, y'know?
So maybe it's a good thing that Trump is out of town.  He's off on his second big foreign trip, and just wrapped up a meeting with Vladimir Putin.  But before he did so, Trump once again caused an epidemic of head-scratching within the Beltway with his bizarre tweet on John Podesta: "Everyone here is talking about why John Podesta refused to give the DNC server to the FBI and the CIA. Disgraceful!"
Of course, this is laughable on its face, because "everyone" obviously means "that White House staffer guy I just talked to" (and not, you know, "the leaders of the G-20 I'm meeting with").  There are several other major flaws in Trump's tweet, as well.  Podesta helpfully pointed them out, both on Twitter and in a hastily-penned rebuttal in the Washington Post.
Maybe we need a new feature in these Friday columns: "Trump's most outrageous tweet of the week" or something?  Sigh.  By our reckoning, the Podesta tweet is even more bizarre than that CNN wrestling video Trump tweeted out last weekend.
Whenever Trump's tweeting, you've always got to wonder what he's trying to deflect attention from, of course.  The Putin meeting is the obvious answer, but there's another one as well -- how Trump hasn't seemed to cut a single deal since he became president.  If you'll remember, Trump styles himself as a dealmaking king, but after almost six months in office, he has nothing to show for it other than pulling out of previous deals (T.P.P., the Paris accords, etc.).  Where are all the fantastic new trade deals he promised?  Where is all the "winning"?
Meanwhile, Europe and Japan are about to cut a rather large free-trade deal, as Europe now realizes that they're essentially on their own with such a stunning lack of American leadership on the world stage.  Trump reportedly tried to get them all to sign on to a new trade war with China on steel, but they don't seem in the least interested.  "If you want a trade war, by all means," you can almost hear them saying, "but please, leave us out of it."
A trade war with China would certainly impact the American economy, which so far has been chugging right along in the exact same fashion as it did for the past seven years under President Obama.  Due to Trump's complete lack of deals, the economy has not really changed much for better or worse.  But a protectionist battle with China certainly might end this period of coasting.
Turns out Obama wasn't just doing a good job on the economy, but also in the fight against the Islamic State.  Hopefully, with the way things are going in Raqqa and Mosul, this will all become a moot point before Trump has a chance to mess things up, at least.  The Daily Beast had this scoop last week:
That emphasis was added, we should mention, to point out the shocking core of the story: Trump wants to change his Islamic State battle plan not to improve it or to achieve any military objective, but rather to play politics with the war effort.  It's not about defeating the enemy, it's all about Trump's "brand."  Just imagine what Republicans would say if a Democratic president had done such a thing!
Speaking of what Republicans would say, that's a pretty open question right now.  Has anyone seen any Republican politicians recently?  They sure don't seem to be eager to talk to the American people who elect them, that's for sure.  While Democrats have scheduled more than 50 town hall meetings over this week's extended congressional holiday, Republicans have held fewer than 10 -- that's from all Republicans, mind you.  It's almost like they know what the public is going to say about their healthcare bill disaster.
Quantitatively, it was revealed this week that the GOP "repeal and replace Obamacare" bill is the least popular legislation of the last 30 years.  It's less popular than the original Obamacare bill, it's less popular than TARP, and it's less popular than the Clinton healthcare bill (which failed, back in the 1990s).  Usually, when a bill is this massively unpopular, it is killed -- like George W. Bush's plan to privatize Social Security, for instance.  So we'll see what happens when they all come back to town.
Cracks in the GOP's facade are already beginning to appear.  Senator Pat Toomey openly admitted that Republicans had no plan ready to go because nobody really expected Trump to win.  One brave Republican actually held a townhall meeting, and for the entire 90 minutes a woman stood right behind him with a sign warning: "When you lose your healthcare remember who took it away," with images of several Republican leaders on it.
But the most ironic item of the week came when the Republican Party of Indiana attempted to collect stories from the public on Obamacare.  They posted:
What they got, instead, was a flood of over 9,000 messages, overwhelmingly in favor of Obamacare.  Here are just a few of these responses:
By week's end, Mitch McConnell was desperately trying to convince his fellow Republicans to march off the cliff with him, warning that if they didn't, he would actually (gasp!) have to work with Democrats on some easy fixes for Obamacare.  Oh, the horror!
North Korea celebrated the Fourth of July by launching their first successful intercontinental ballistic missile.  I guess they didn't get Trump's earlier tweet: "North Korea just stated that it is in the final stages of developing a nuclear weapon capable of reaching parts of the U.S. It won't happen!"  Or maybe being president means more than just randomly tweeting your thoughts to the world?  Who knew!  Obviously not Trump.  After meeting with China's leader in April, Trump got a quick education on the history of Korea, and then admitted: "After listening for 10 minutes, I realized that it's not so easy."  There were some pretty scary headlines this week on the North Korean issue, but none scarier than: "How President Trump Could Tweet His Way Into Nuclear War With North Korea."  That kind of says it all, really.
U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley was looking for some sympathy during the North Korean missile crisis, but instead got nothing but shaming and ridicule from the internet, after Haley complained via tweet: "Spending my 4th in meetings all day. #ThanksNorthKorea".  Oh, boo hoo -- poor Nikki had to work on a holiday!
And we'll close with the other holiday news from outside Washington.  Trump's big "find some election fraud, dammit!" committee tried to corral voter identification data from all the states this week, and the pushback was eye-opening.  Even Republican-led states rebelled against the sweeping nature of the request:
Ouch.
Two Republican governors in particular were also in the news, and it's hard not to be a little bit sorry for both of them.  They both, in their own unique way, tried to be Donald Trump.  They were both doing a pretty good job of the whole schtick, right up until Trump himself swept them aside with his own bar-raising antics.
Chris Christie, for instance, was supposed to ride the wave of "tough-talking, take-no-crap, New York City kind of guy" all the way to the White House, only to see Trump beat him at his own game.  Over the holiday, Christie saw his already-dismal approval sink lower in New Jersey, after he first shut down the government and then spent the day on a state beach that nobody else was allowed on (due to the shutdown).  So now in addition to "Bridgegate," Christie's now also coined another scandal moniker: "Beachgate."
Up in Maine, Governor Paul LePage has been competing in the "craziest governor in America" contest for years, but he barely raises an eyebrow in the Age of Trump.  LePage also shut his government down in a budget battle, and during the week also remarked that he loved lying to reporters just to see them write "stupid stories."  In other words, creating fake news.  But even this barely registered, because DID YOU SEE WHAT TRUMP JUST TWEETED...?!?
Like I said, it's a little hard not to feel sorry for these guys desperately trying to be Trump, to no real avail.  Their antics would fill the airwaves for days in normal times, but these are anything but.  In fact, Buzz Aldrin should have just gone ahead and changed the quote, to more accurately reflect the times we now live in: "To insanity and beyond!"
It was a pretty quiet week, since all the congresscritters had fled Washington.  John Podesta's response to Trump's early-morning tweet was actually written while he was on a cross-country road trip, because everyone who could do so made tracks out of town.
But there was one particular tweet this week that we thought rose to the level of the Most Impressive Democrat Of The Week, and it came from none other than Hillary Clinton.
Republicans seem to be in the midst of a shift in strategy on their massively-unpopular healthcare bill.  They are now defending it with "at least we've got something," and are openly trolling Democrats for "not having a plan of their own."  They've dug up quotes from prominent Democrats arguing that the Affordable Care Act needs some fixes, and are trying to score political points by claiming "at least we have a plan."  This is essentially throwing in the towel on even pretending to defend their own plan on its merits (which is tough to do, because it doesn't have any), and are instead trying to claim some sort of virtue for coming up with a plan everyone hates.  Or, in other words: "Yeah, our plan sucks, but at least we put it on paper."
How effective this will be remains to be seen, of course.  To us, it sounds like a pretty hard concept to sell, but who knows?  However, when they tweeted out: "Where's your plan @HillaryClinton?" it backfired badly.  Here's what Clinton tweeted back, together with a link to her detailed healthcare plan from her campaign:
Now, Clinton obviously won this little Twitter battle, hands down.  But it does bring up a good point.  Up until now, Democrats have decided not to introduce their own plan to improve Obamacare, because it would just be a distraction from the trainwreck that is the Republican "repeal and replace" effort.  But if Democrats get their way, eventually this effort will collapse of its own weight in Congress.
Which means that Democrats in the House and Senate really should be working diligently on their own plan right now, so that it is ready to publicly release when the political timing is right.  It makes political sense not to distract from the GOP mess right now, but once that mess collapses, Democrats need to immediately start pushing their own solution.  No time should be wasted, which means they'd better have something already drafted and ready to go when we get to that point.  This needs to be a targeted and detailed plan, which doesn't overreach.  Single-payer may be the ultimate goal, but we are just not going to get there with Republicans in charge of Congress -- what we need at this point is a short-term adjustment, not a sweeping change, in other words.
Democrats probably could just begin with Clinton's plan and tweak it here and there, in fact.  She certainly gave it a lot of thought during her campaign, so while some details might need updating, it'd probably be a good place for Democrats to start from.
Which is the biggest reason why we're awarding Clinton this week's Most Impressive Democrat Of The Week -- because she proved Republicans wrong, and because she showed Democrats that having a plan is a lot better in these political fights than not having a plan.
[Hillary Clinton is a private citizen, so you'll have to look up her contact info on your own to let her know you appreciate her efforts.]
There was some disappointment on the state level this week, as California Assembly Speaker Anthony Rendon effectively punted on the single-payer healthcare bill that the state senate had sent him.
However, we covered all of this last week, and we haven't changed our minds on the subject.  There's plenty of blame to go around here, but we still believe that the lion's share of the blame needs to go to the senate Democrats who left out the most important parts of the bill.  There was nothing in it on how it would be paid for.  That is not an honest attempt at lawmaking, that is mere political grandstanding.  Which is what we pointed out, last week.
This week, our award goes to the messaging shop at the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.  This is the group in the House of Representatives with the goal of electing more Democrats to the House next year.  And they pretty much shot themselves in the foot with a messaging exercise this week, coming up with such catchy slogans as (and this is sadly not a joke): "Democrats 2018 -- I mean, have you seen the other guys?"
We already had quite a few things to say about this yesterday, and we're going to address the messaging problem even further in the talking points, so there really isn't much that needs saying here, other than the person or persons responsible for such a laughable attempt at sloganeering now have their own Most Disappointing Democrat Of The Week.  "We're not as bad as those guys" isn't going to win Democrats many elections, just to state the obvious.
[Contact the D.C.C.C. on their contact webpage, to let them know what you think of their weak attempts at crafting a winning Democratic message.]
Volume 444 (7/7/17)
Democrats are, in a rather unorganized fashion, attempting to put together a platform they can all run on in the 2018 midterm elections.  Some of these efforts are better than others, as we just mentioned above.  Of course, there are worse things than missing the mark on messaging -- such as, for instance, listening to any advice from Mark Penn (shudder).
Because the effort is still all over the map, though, we feel there is still a chance to help shape the message Democrats will use next year.  The best effort so far (as, again, we wrote about yesterday) has been a brilliant rebranding of a very old (and very successful) political slogan.  Democrats should indeed consider constructing a platform under the banner of "A Better Deal."
Being anti-Trump isn't going to do it.  Being anti-Republican isn't going to do it.  "Resist!" is a good street slogan, but to run for office means actually having better ideas for how to fix societal problems.  Obstructionism is fine while in the minority, but to convince voters to give you back the majority in Congress again means coming up with a better deal for as many Americans as possible.
So far, there is no flesh on these bones, though.  It's a great slogan if-and-only-if Democrats come up with a fully-formed better deal to brag about.  Thankfully, there are all sorts of things they could attach to this slogan.
What follows are our ideas for how to flesh out a Democratic platform for 2018.  It's not that tough, because it is similar to other Democratic ideas which have long been goals for the party.  But these ideas need to be bold, and they need to be promises.  Nancy Pelosi has already reportedly promised that if Democrats get the House back, she'll pass a $15-an-hour minimum wage bill within the first 100 days.  That's the type of commitment we need right now.  So, in no particular order, here are our top seven ideas for planks in the 2018 Democratic platform.
Raise it now!
Not every Democrat is going to get on board with $15-an-hour, but it should at the very least be a target worth attempting.
"The first thing Democrats will do if we win Congress back is to raise the minimum wage.  Everyone deserves a wage they can live on.  No one with a full-time job should have to rely on food stamps or take a second job just to survive.  They deserve a better deal.  With the dignity of work comes the responsibility to compensate such work at a reasonable level.  The minimum wage has not risen for eight years, and we think it's time everyone gets a raise.  Throughout the recovery, the stock market has boomed and corporations have done quite well, but wages have not gone up.  By raising the lowest wage, this will put upward pressure on the mid-level wages as well, as the rising tide lifts all the boats.  The biggest single thing we can do to improve the fairness of the American economy is to raise the minimum wage now!
Reopen factories
This will be especially relevant if all of Trump's promises on this front turn out to be largely false (like the one at the Carrier plant).
"Democrats want not just good education and worker training in hard-hit areas, we want to see actual, good jobs return to small-town America.  There are plenty of opportunities for this to happen, in booming industries such as solar, wind, and other renewable power.  We want to offer a big tax break to any company that reopens a plant in small-town America, so that people who used to assemble refrigerators can learn how to assemble giant wind turbines and solar panels.  People in towns that have declined after a major factory closure should get not just more education, but actual jobs right where they live.  They need a better deal, and they need it right away.  High-tech jobs cannot only be offered in Silicon Valley and coastal metropolises.  We need to get those left behind in the new economy up and working again, with generous enticements for companies to revitalize towns by reopening factories and development centers."
Two weeks' paid vacation for all
This seems obvious, even if we've personally never heard anyone (not even Bernie Sanders) champion this issue.
"There are two things Democrats can offer to the hardest-working Americans: money and time.  We'll raise the minimum wage which will have a beneficial ripple effect on all wages, and we will also pass a bill mandating two weeks of paid vacation for all full-time workers.  Just like with healthcare, the entire rest of the industrialized world is far ahead of us in what workers are guaranteed, and we think American workers deserve a better deal.  Two vacation weeks  is even far behind what workers in other countries are guaranteed, in fact.  Some European countries guarantee five or six weeks off for all their workers -- even the ones working at the bottom of the economic ladder.  So we don't feel it's too much to ask of American businesses to give workers two weeks off -- with pay -- every year.  Part-time workers would accrue vacation time as well, on a pro-rated basis.  Anyone willing to work 49 weeks out of the year deserves the other two weeks off, without taking a hit in the paycheck.  Period."
Medicare for all (who want it)
We've written on this recently as well, because we think bringing back "the public option" is a dandy idea.
"Rather than destroy tens of millions of American lives to give the ultra-wealthy a tax cut they don't need, Democrats want to bring back the public option.  We want everyone to have the choice of signing up for Medicare, along with their other health insurance options.  We're not going to force anyone onto the system that doesn't want to be there, but we will fight hard to make this choice available for everyone.  It's 'Medicare for all -- who want it,' in other words.  If Republicans are truly upset about health care exchanges with limited or no choices, then they should join us in actually giving Americans a better deal."
Tuition-free college
Bernie was right on this one.  It's a very big deal for millions of families.
"Democrats have the goal of offering state college to all, tuition-free.  In today's world, a high school education just isn't enough, and we don't want to see one young adult being denied the opportunity for a higher education through lack of money to pay the tuition.  They deserve a better deal than that.  It will be a Democratic priority to provide funding for every state to offer their community and state colleges to all, tuition-free.  It won't happen overnight, but we need to begin this process as soon as possible.  Graduating with a mountain of debt is holding an entire generation back, and we want to make sure the next generation doesn't have this weight put upon them in the first place.  How many more families could send their kids to college if they knew it was tuition-free?"
Comprehensive immigration reform
Democrats might be inclined to shy away from this issue next year, but that would be a mistake.
"America's immigration system is pathetically inadequate to do its job.  Democrats want to see comprehensive immigration reform to fix all parts of the system, instead of just obsessing over our southern border.  Republicans blithely tell immigrants: 'if you follow the rules, we will welcome you,' but few Republicans are actually aware of what this truly means.  They see becoming a legal resident as something akin to a trip to the D.M.V. to get a driver's license.  It is about 10,000 times worse than that, though.  Some people waiting to become legal residents have to wait twenty years to even get an interview.  Backlogs are so enormous that the system has all but ground to a halt.  Democrats will give Republicans some more money for border security if they'll agree to devote enough money to fix the backlog once and for all.  If the process actually worked, and if both temporary workers and permanent immigrants could have their paperwork processed in a reasonable amount of time, then people would follow the system like they're supposed to.  Offering them a better deal than waiting decades needs to be a priority.  Until Republicans even admit the scope of the problem, this will remain impossible.  Democrats want to fix the whole system, which is why we need comprehensive immigration reform."
Repeal prohibition!
When, oh when are Democrats going to realize this is now a winning issue for them?
"Democrats will repeal the federal prohibition rules on marijuana.  Period.  We will move enforcement of marijuana regulations to the department that already deals with tobacco and alcohol, where it belongs.  Pot is now legal on the streets of Washington D.C., and more and more states are deliberately ignoring federal laws by legalizing medical and even recreational use of marijuana.  The federal War On Weed is perhaps the biggest waste of federal money in our entire history, and it has utterly, utterly failed.  Taxpayers deserve a better deal than throwing more billions of dollars at this unsolvable problem.  With our new attorney general making noises that he's ready to return to the days of Nancy Reagan, it becomes imperative to remove all temptation to revive a stupid and pointless 'war' on people for possessing a plant.  Leave it to the states!  Treat weed like alcohol!  When Prohibition ended, each state created their own laws on alcohol's sale and use.  Most American states are now already doing this with marijuana.  The federal government needs to completely get out of the way of these states' efforts and experiments.  Democrats will repeal the prohibition on marijuana.  Democrats will end the federal War On Weed, once and for all."
Chris Weigant blogs at:
Follow Chris on Twitter: @ChrisWeigant
Full archives of FTP columns: FridayTalkingPoints.com
All-time award winners leaderboard, by rank

At least 15 protesters were arrested at the office of Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) in downtown Columbus, police confirmed Friday. 
Protesters from a coalition of progressive groups, and from the Ohio chapter of the national disability rights group ADAPT, demonstrated outside the senator’s office, urging him to vote against the GOP-backed health care bill under consideration in the Senate.
Portman has said he does not support the current version of the bill, but only announced his opposition after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) delayed a vote on the legislation. (Portman also opposed the House version of the bill, saying it did “not do enough to protect Ohio’s Medicaid expansion population, especially those who are receiving treatment for heroin and prescription drug abuse.”) 
Protesters first gathered in the lobby of the senator’s office building on Thursday, calling on him to hold a town hall meeting with constituents so they could voice concerns over the GOP bill’s drastic cuts to Medicaid and other aspects of the legislation. According to Fox 28, some protesters stayed at the office overnight. 
The group of roughly 30 protesters convened at the office again Friday in hopes of speaking directly with the senator or his staff. The protest remained peaceful throughout the day. 
According to The Columbus Dispatch, medics were called to the scene shortly after 3 p.m. to treat a person experiencing chest pain in the building. Columbus police said law enforcement was then called in as backup due to claims that protesters “were blocking medics from entering” the building.  
A video live-streamed on ADAPT’s Facebook page shows police removing protesters in wheelchairs from the building. 
Another video shows a woman being lifted out of her wheelchair by police and placed in a van:
Police later confirmed that charges against the protesters include criminal trespassing. 
Portman press secretary Emily Benavides said the senator’s staff in Columbus spoke with demonstrators Thursday and Friday. Law enforcement was only called due to the issue in the building, she said.
“Rob welcomes input from all 11.5 million Ohioans who are able to visit or call any of our offices to discuss any topic,” Benavides said in a statement. “Yesterday, we met with protesters from the Democratic Socialists of America, and after they refused to leave even when the buildings closed, we allowed them to stay the night. Our staff spoke with them again today. We aren’t going to allow a handful of Socialists, many of whom are from New York, to disrupt our ability to serve the needs of the Ohio constituents who contact us in need of vital services every day. When the groups impeded the work of other tenants in the building, building security called local law enforcement.” 
Read more on earlier health care sit-ins here.

WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency, which under President Donald Trump removed its climate change website and is set to launch a program to “critique” near-universally accepted climate science, has some advice for protecting yourself against extreme heat this summer. 
“It’s summertime!” the agency wrote in a Friday post to Twitter. “That means the days can get hot. Wear sunscreen and plan for the heat.” 
It’s summertime! That means the days can get hot. Wear sunscreen and plan for the heat: https://t.co/o7eZsnFMUv.
The post links to an EPA web page about preparing for and staying safe in extreme heat ― a page that has remained virtually unchanged since the Obama administration.
It isn’t new or surprising that an agency tasked with safeguarding human health would warn Americans at the beginning of summer about its dangers. The irony, of course, is that the warning comes from an administration working to dismantle a number of key Obama-era policies to combat climate change, and from an agency now led by a man who does not believe carbon dioxide is primarily to blame for global warming.
As climate change drives up global temperatures, scientists warn that sweltering summer heat will grow increasingly dangerous — and deadly. Last month, a University of Hawaii study found that without global action to cut carbon emissions, 3 in 4 people on the planet could be exposed to at least 20 days of lethal heat per year by 2100. And a recent report by the National Resources Defense Council found that under a business-as-usual scenario, extreme heat-related fatalities in 45 of the nation’s largest urban centers could balloon to nearly 30,000 per year by 2090 — more than 300 deaths per summer day.
So far, there is little to suggest the Trump administration is concerned about reducing America’s carbon footprint, as it pushes for “energy dominance” with a clear favoritism for coal, oil and natural gas, and works to do away with Obama-era regulations aimed at cutting emissions. If it continues down its current path, Trump and his team could make future summer heat waves even worse.
The apparent tone-deafness of the EPA’s post was not lost on Twitter users.
“We should wear hats & sunglasses, but it’s also EPA’s job to protect us from ozone depletion & climate change,” David Doniger, director of NRDC’s Climate and Clean Air Program, wrote. 
We should wear hats & sunglasses, but it's also EPA's job to protect us from ozone depletion & climate change. How 'bout it @EPAScottPruitt?
The “altEPA” Twitter account, which has over 400,000 followers and identifies as the “Unofficial ‘Resistance’ team” of the EPA, also took a swing at the agency.
The EPA offers sage advice in how to defend yourself from an increasingly hot environment. Now back to saving all three coal jobs. https://t.co/KeJ3WFpSXH
Extreme heat can lead to a number of dangerous and even fatal health conditions, including heatstroke and cardiovascular and respiratory disorders. Children, the elderly and low-income populations are most at risk. U.S. cities including St. Louis, Philadelphia and Chicago have seen “large increases in death rates during heat waves,” according to the the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
It wasn’t long ago that the EPA acknowledged the link between human activity and heat-related deaths. 
Without action, climate change could lead to 1000s more summer heat-related deaths by 2100. https://t.co/igcCfGXmDy pic.twitter.com/y5cwK9ghzt


House Republicans’ bill to repeal and replace Obamacare is less popular than more than a dozen major bills spanning nearly three decades, according to analysis from Massachusetts Institute of Technology political science professor Chris Warshaw.
Using historical data from the Roper Center’s polling archives, Warshaw found that the American Health Care Act’s average approval numbers lagged significantly behind polling on everything from Bill Clinton’s failed 1993 attempt at health care reform to the 2008 bank bailout.
2/2) @RoperCenter polling shows that the AHCA is historically unpopular. If passed, it would be most unpopular major law in recent decades. pic.twitter.com/5YnkEqSTOp
“It’s rare for Congress to move ahead with legislation when the signs are this clear that the public doesn’t want it,” Axios’ David Nather and Lazaro Gamio noted.
Recent polling on the GOP’s health care plans have reported feelings ranging from tepid to dismal. The most positive surveys, from Morning Consult and Politico, show favorable opinion of the proposals hovering near 40 percent, with most other polling putting it well below 30 percent. By contrast, average support for Obamacare currently stands at 46 percent and never fell below about 38 percent.
The Republican bills are weighed down in large part by the lopsided partisan dynamics at play. Especially in recent years, it’s not unusual for opinions on political topics to be deeply polarized, with people who identify with one party strongly in support of a bill or policy and the other side equally opposed. But while Democrats are almost unanimous in hating the House and Senate GOP health care bills, rank-and-file Republicans have been comparatively lukewarm.
A Kaiser Family Foundation compilation of recent live-caller polling found that Republican support for Obamacare replacements ranged between 26 percent and 63 percent in June, with most surveys putting it below 50 percent. In contrast, two-thirds or more of Democrats opposed the plans in every poll.
“In a hyper-partisan political climate, it’s actually an accomplishment to write legislation this unpopular,” Ryan Enos, a Harvard University political scientist, noted during the March debate over the bill.
But Republicans still want their representatives to get rid of Obamacare. In a recent /YouGov survey, just 55 percent of Republicans backed the House GOP bill, but 68 percent said they’d prefer it over no repeal at all.
Jennifer Agiesta offers an in-depth reflection on the lessons learned from polling in 2016. [CNN]
Alan Abramowitz sees an early advantage for House Democrats in the 2018 midterms. [Sabato’s Crystal Ball]
David Wasserman sees “warning lights” flashing for Republicans in 10 House districts. [Cook Political Report]
Maggie Koerth-Baker digs into the challenges of compiling voter data. [FiveThirtyEight]
Claire Cain Miller finds Americans remain wary of one-on-one situations with people of the opposite sex. [NYT]
More Americans trust Angela Merkel than Donald Trump to handle world affairs. []
Most of the public thinks it’s inappropriate for the president to tweet personal attacks. [YouGov]
Want to get more stories like this? Sign up for emails here.

President Donald Trump’s probe to investigate voter fraud has been active for a little over a week, but legal groups are already accusing it of violating several federal laws.
The legal challenges come after the commission sent out a letter to all 50 states requesting voter information. The scrutiny shows the obstruction the commission can expect as it tries to assemble a national database of voter registration records. Defending itself against legal challenges, the commission has signaled it intends to move swiftly, arguing it isn’t subject to burdensome review processes, which are meant to guarantee citizen privacy, because it is not a federal agency. 
One of the laws in question is the Paperwork Reduction Act, a 1980 law requiring federal agencies to seek approval from the Office of Management and Budget before requesting information about the public. The law requires the requesting agency to explain why it needs to collect the information, how it intends to do it, and how it intends to protect the information it collects. The reviews can take months.
The committee’s vice chairman, Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R), does not appear to have submitted any such information for review before he sent out a letter to election officials on June 28 requesting voter information.
Wendy Weiser, director of the democracy program at the Brennan Center for Justice, and Larry Schwartztol, a lawyer at United to Protect Democracy, wrote a letter to OMB Director Mick Mulvaney on Monday urging him to block the commission from taking action until it complied with the law.
“The reason for the statute’s painstaking procedural requirements is to ensure that agencies carefully balance their desire to collect information against the harms that might flow from doing so without proper safeguards,” they wrote.
Marc Lotter, a spokesperson for Vice President Mike Pence, who is chairing the commission, told The Hill the panel does not have to comply with PRA because it is not a government agency and only exists to advise the president.
The law defines an agency as “any executive department, military department, Government corporation, Government controlled corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Government (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency.”
States may also use the PRA to justify denying the commission’s request to provide them with personal information, Schwartztol wrote in a post on the legal blog “Take Care.”
“We don’t need to count on a White House official to nullify the commission’s requests. States should simply refuse to provide the requested data – as many already have,” he wrote. “For state officials on the fence about whether to provide the data, the PRA should weigh significantly in their decisions. The Kobach letter was, after all, an unlawful request.”
Separately, the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) has accused the commission of violating privacy law and asked a D.C. federal court to block it from collecting voter information. The suit accuses the commission of violating the 2002 E-Government Act because it did not undertake a required privacy impact assessment to analyze the safeguards that would protect the information it wants collected. The lawsuit also says voters are threatened by irreparable harm because the commission has yet to prove it has a secure way of storing voter information.
In a Wednesday filing, Kobach said the commission was not subject to the E-Government Act because it was not a government agency and called EPIC’s claims “meritless.” 
Justin Levitt, a professor at Loyola Law School and former deputy assistant attorney general in the Justice Department’s Civil Rights division, also wrote the commission may be violating the 1974 Privacy Act.
“There are a number of substantive requirements for a body like the Kobach commission,” Levitt wrote in a post on the “Take Care” blog. “Those actually include specific limits on data that Kobach has asked for, like voting history and party affiliation. And there are also a bunch of procedural requirements, including the requirement to publicize some basic facts on the records you’re collecting – and even to run it by specific Congressional committees.”
“These are all basic questions designed to test whether the federal entity collecting and storing personal information has thought through how they’re going to use it and how they’re going to prevent abuse. There’s no indication that the Kobach commission has done any of this homework before sprinting a letter out the door,” he added.
Kobach’s own work on the commission has also come under scrutiny. On Monday, the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law filed a complaint accusing Kobach of violating the Hatch Act and using his government position on the commission for political gain (Kobach is running for governor of Kansas). In a complaint filed with the U.S. Office of Special Counsel, the lawyers’ committee noted Kobach promoted interviews discussing his work on the commission on his campaign social media and offered a button for people to donate to his campaign next to news stories about his official work.
Kobach’s office has dismissed the complaint.
“This is nothing but a bunch of liberal lawyers trying to create a story,” Samantha Poetter, a Kobach spokeswoman, said in a statement to the Kansas City Star earlier on Monday.


Florida baseball team Tampa Bay Rays want their city to get rid of a monument to slavery and losing.
Currently, the 106-year-old monument sits outside the Hillsborough County courthouse. But County Commissioner Les Miller said he has recently see a “major groundswell of people who want it removed.” That now includes the Rays and Tampa Bay Mayor Bob Buckhorn. 
“We understand and believe that these decisions belong in the hands of elected officials,” the team said in a statement sent to the Tampa Bay Times. “At the same time, we are supportive of its removal from the courthouse.”
The monument, “Memoria in Aeterna,” honors the soldiers of the Confederate States of America, according to the Historical Marker Database. Last month, county commissioners decided, 4-3, to keep the monument. But Miller said he plans to ask his colleagues again to remove the monument when they are set to meet July 19.
During the monument’s dedication in 1911 to a crowd of 5,000, the keynote speaker called blacks “an ignorant and inferior race,” according to the Tampa Bay Times.
“There have been people that said it’s a slap in the face to everyone,” Miller told the publication. “To put a mural showing diversity behind a monument constructed in 1911 and the person made the comments that blacks were inferior, that does not make any sense at all.”
The Rays are considering moving from their current location in St. Petersburg to Tampa, and the monument’s removal could sway their decision. Part of the team’s criteria is choosing a site with “iconic elements that positively impact the ballpark brand, the brand of the team and the image of the region.”
A monument to racism is not part of that image, the team has decided.

Going to the beach can be a rare treat, especially when your governor closes it to the public so he can enjoy it privately. But a new bill could soon allow even us mere peasants to enjoy the same luxury as New Jersey’s Republican Gov. Chris Christie.
A new bill introduced Friday by Democratic Assemblyman John Wisniewski would allow the public to rent out Christie’s Island Beach State Park home. 
The bill comes after photos surfaced of the governor lounging with his family on a beach that he had shut down to the public because of a budget standoff. NJ.com photojournalist Andrew Mills captured Christie from a private plane after making two passes.
The governor later denied being on the beach, saying he “didn’t get any sun.” 
“That wasn’t true,” Mills said in a piece about the incident. “And we had the irrefutable evidence.”
Christie spokesman Brian Murray then backtracked by saying Christie “did not get any sun. He had a baseball hat on.”
On Monday, Christie stood by his decision to post up on the beach he closed to everyone else.
“I don’t apologize for it,” Christie said at a press conference. “I don’t back away from it. I think my poll numbers show I don’t care about political optics.”
Christie’s poll numbers have plummeted in recent months, with The Washington Post reporting that “by mid-June of this year, his net approval rating was a stunning minus-66, with only 15 percent of the state viewing his job performance positively.”
A second bill would also prevent any New Jersey governor from using the beach house during a state shutdown.


President Donald Trump is currently at the G-20 summit in Hamburg, Germany ― an event that, for some reason, inspired him to tweet angrily on Friday and claim that everyone in attendance is talking about John Podesta, Hillary Clinton’s former campaign chairman:
Everyone here is talking about why John Podesta refused to give the DNC server to the FBI and the CIA. Disgraceful!
Podesta has since responded, and he seems just as baffled by Trump’s timing ― to say nothing of the claims themselves ― as everyone else.
“Dude, get your head in the game,” he wrote at Trump, in part, on Twitter. “You’re representing the US at the G20.”
Podesta said he was on cross-country road trip with his wife when he saw reports that “our whack job POTUS” was tweeting about him, and apparently accusing him of not cooperating with a federal investigation into the hacking of Democratic National Committee emails.
He had a few words of advice for Trump, who on Friday met with Russian President Vladimir Putin. U.S. intelligence agencies have reported that there’s evidence that Putin orchestrated a hacking campaign during the U.S. presidential election to benefit Trump.
3/ Get a grip man, the Russians committed a crime when they stole my emails to help get you elected President.
4/ Maybe you might try to find a way to mention that to President Putin.
5/ BTW, I had nothing to do with the DNC.
6/ God only knows what you'll be raving about on twitter by the time we get to Utah.
7/7 Dude, get your head in the game. You’re representing the US at the G20.
DNC spokeswoman Adrienne Watson also responded to the president on Twitter, noting that Trump’s claim doesn’t make sense, as Podesta never had oversight of the server in question.
“1) Podesta never ran the DNC,” she wrote. “2) DNC worked with FBI to kick out Russians. Worked with DHS. 3) Putin make you tweet this before mtg?”


President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin met Friday at the G-20 summit in Hamburg, Germany, marking the first face-to-face meeting between the two heads of state. 
Trump said that he and Putin discussed “various things” during their hours-long sit-down, originally only scheduled for 30 minutes. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov also attended the meeting along with two translators.
The lengthy discussion was on par with Putin’s long first sit-downs with the past two U.S. presidents.
The meeting was so long, Tillerson said Trump’s wife, Melania, was sent in to encourage them to conclude the conversation. They continued to talk for almost another hour after she made her appearance.
Tillerson said the two discussed Russian interference in the U.S. election, and that Putin denied any involvement while asking the U.S. for evidence that hacking had taken place. Russian state media reports Putin and Trump also discussed Syria, Ukraine, counterterrorism and cybersecurity, according to CNN’s Jim Acosta.
Tillerson said he thought it was “positive” that “there was not a lot of relitigating of the past” during the meeting.
“I think both of the leaders feel like there’s a lot of things in the past that both of us are unhappy about,” Tillerson told reporters after the meeting. “The perspective of both of them is, this is a really important relationship.”
“I think it’s going very well,” Trump told reporters, telling Putin that, “it’s an honor to be with you.”
“We spoke over the phone with you several times, but phone conversations are never enough,” Putin said, through a translator. “I’m delighted to be able to meet you personally.”
Trump previously met with Lavrov, as well as Russia’s ambassador to the U.S., Sergey Kislyak, at the White House in May, and the president has spoken to Putin on the phone several times since his inauguration in January.  
Video shows Pres. Trump, Russian Pres. Putin shaking hands at G-20 summit ahead of their high-stakes meeting today. https://t.co/xxeBvDKdjR pic.twitter.com/QunvkPdEFd
The meeting comes amid investigations into whether Trump’s campaign team actively colluded with Russian officials to sway the outcome of the 2016 presidential race. (Trump and his team deny any such collusion.) U.S. intelligence agencies have already determined that Russia did interfere in the election, and that Putin was directly involved in those efforts. 
Despite this, Trump has repeatedly downplayed Russia’s actions, and on Thursday declined to say if he’d broach the subject during his meeting with Putin.
“Nobody really knows for sure,” Trump said of whether Russia was guilty of intervening in the race. 
Asked about Trump’s comments, a Kremlin spokesman touted that the president had stressed “the possibility that it could have been other countries.”
The FBI is investigating key figures in Trump’s orbit, including the president’s former national security adviser Michael Flynn. Flynn was fired from his post in the administration after it was revealed he discussed U.S. sanctions against Russia with Kislyak, and later lied about doing so. 
Other Trump associates under FBI scrutiny include former campaign manager Paul Manafort, former political adviser Roger Stone, former foreign policy adviser Carter Page and Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner (who is now a senior White House adviser). 
While Trump has previously referenced past meetings with Putin, he said in July 2016 he has never met the Russian leader.  
“I never met Putin,” he said during a news conference. “I don’t know who Putin is. He said one nice thing about me. He said I’m a genius. I said thank you very much to the newspaper and that was the end of it. I never met Putin.”
This article has been updated with more detail from the meeting.


Native American tribes and activists have joined forces in a complaint against the U.S. government’s decision to take grizzly bears in the Yellowstone National Park off the endangered species list. 
In a lawsuit filed in Montana late June, a collection of more than 16 tribes, clans and leaders asked a federal judge to block a new policy that would allow trophy hunters to kill the bears. The suit alleges that lifting endangered species protections from these animals would violate Native American religious beliefs. 
Grizzly bears are of “deep cultural and religious importance” to all the plaintiffs involved in the suit, the complaint states. Allowing the bears to flourish in their traditional and historic habitats is necessary for the tribes to have the ability to “freely express their religious faith.”
“Plaintiffs have shared their collective homelands with the grizzly bear since time immemorial,” the complaint reads. “The spiritual health of both the tribal and individual Plaintiffs depends upon the health and protection of the [greater Yellowstone] grizzly bear. ”
The U.S. Department of the Interior announced on June 22 that the Yellowstone bears will lose their protected status, stating that the bear population had “recovered to the point where federal protections can be removed and overall management can be returned to the states and tribes.”
The Yellowstone grizzly bear has been on the endangered species list for 42 years, the New York Times reports. Over that time, the population has grown from fewer than 150 to more than 700, mostly due to reducing the bears’ dependency on the trash left behind by people for food. 
The move will allow Montana, Wyoming and Idaho to plan grizzly bear hunts. Grizzly bears in other parts of the country will continue to be protected. 
The three states have yet to schedule hunts for this year, the AP reports. They have all agreed to abide by quotas and stop hunting if the population falls below 600 bears. 
The plaintiffs include federally recognized Native American tribes, such as North Dakota’s Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, which is involved in its own set of disputes with the U.S. government over natural resources. One plaintiff, the Piikanii Nation, is a tribe recognized by Canada. Other plaintiffs include traditional religious societies, such as the Hopi Bear Clan from northeastern Arizona, and prominent Native American activists, like the Lakota leader Arvol Looking Horse.
For many of these leaders, the grizzly bear is a being with great spiritual power. Ben Nuvamsa, a former chairman of the Hopi Tribe in Arizona and a member of the Hopi Bear Clan, told  that the bear is sacred to nearly all Native American tribes. That’s why he believes the lawsuit has found support from Native American leaders from across seven American states.  
In Nuvamsa’s particular tradition, the bear is regarded as a healer. One particular medicinal plant his tribe uses for healing is called “bear root,” a testament to the animal’s religious significance. 
Bears also play an indispensable role in religious ceremonies, according to the complaint ― not only as tangible religious symbols, but also as part of larger, interconnected ecosystem. Plaintiffs’ spiritual connection with the Yellowstone grizzly bear is, in large part, founded in the complex dynamic between the grizzly bear, humans, and the land.  
It’s for this reason that Nuvamsa sees this as a religious liberty issue. For him, religion isn’t just limited to a church or a sacred text. His spirituality is intrinsically connected to nature.
“Some members of our tribes ... go to church. But in the beginning, there was no church, it was just our way of life. We still go back to that. We have shrines, sacred sites that represent and honor the bear and other sacred beings,” he told . “You don’t need a church. We live our culture every day, we don’t just do it on Sundays in particular. Nature and our environment is our church, if you want to call it that.” 
Another core part of the plaintiffs’ complaint is the allegation that Native American tribes were left out of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s decision-making process. The Native American plaintiffs claim reducing the population of Yellowstone grizzly bears “profoundly disrupts” the bears’ ability to flourish in their full habitat range, which includes lands within tribal boundaries. 
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is a federal agency that guides conservation efforts for America’s fish and wildlife. It’s typical for the agency to consult with sovereign tribal governments when making decisions about animals on the Endangered Species list. 
The agency claims that since April 2014, it has reached out to 53 tribal governments through letters, personal phone calls, emails and webinars to discuss the delisting of Yellowstone grizzly bears.
But plaintiffs in the case against the government claim officials only took “minimal effort to consult with affected tribes” and that the steps that were taken “do not constitute meaningful, pre-decisional consultation.” The Native American tribes, clans, and leaders claim that only four tribes were contacted initially, and that others were approached only after the decision was made. 
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services directed ’s inquiries about the complaint to the U.S. Department of Justice. The D.O.J. declined to comment. 
Nuvamsa said he isn’t aware of any face-to-face meetings the government has arranged with tribal leaders specifically to address concerns. And he doesn’t think that webinars or letters are adequate, two-way communication. 
“As sovereign nations, as nations that predate the U.S. government and states, we demand, we are entitled to full and meaningful consultation before decisions like this are made,” he said. “Because it impacts not only our reservations or tribal lands, but also our ancestral lands that have been reduced over time because of the federal government robbing us of our land and impacting species that are sacred to us.” 


On the one-year anniversary of Philando Castile’s death, Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton (D) called for a new law enforcement training fund to be named in Castile’s honor.
Surrounded by Castile’s family at a press conference on Thursday, Dayton said that Castile’s death after being shot by former Minnesota police Officer Jeronimo Yanez during a traffic stop was “one of the very most traumatic events that has occurred in my six and a half years as governor of Minnesota.”
On July 6, 2016, Yanez pulled over Castile, who was driving with his girlfriend Diamond Reynolds and her 4-year-old daughter, who was in the back seat. Yanez told Castile that he was being pulled over because his brake light was out and asked if Castile had his license and insurance. Castile told the officer that he was carrying a firearm, which he was licensed for, and Yanez told him not to reach for it. Yanez later claimed he thought Castile was reaching for his gun, while Reynolds said he was reaching for his license and insurance. Yanez fired into the car, shooting and killing Castile.
On June 16, Yanez was found not guilty of second-degree manslaughter and two counts of endangering safety by discharging a firearm. Castile’s family reached a nearly $3 million settlement with the city of St. Anthony on June 26.
Dayton said he’d sent a letter to Minnesota’s Peace Officer Standards and Training board asking that the state’s new $12 million training fund bear Castile’s name. The funding bill was passed with bipartisan support in the state legislature.
“My hope is that the fund will provide training in the best practices to improve law enforcement’s relationships with people in all Minnesota communities, and will also create partnerships, in which community and law enforcement officers are together designing and delivering that training,” Dayton wrote.
According to the Pioneer Press, the governor’s council on law enforcement and community relations supported a proposal by Clarence Castile, Philando’s uncle, to name the fund after his late nephew. The governor appointed Clarence Castile to the 15-member POST board, which will work out the specifics of the training program.
Castile’s mother, Valerie Castile, spoke in favor of the training fund bill at the press conference Thursday.
“We need this bill,” she said, thanking the governor and the POST board for the proposal to name the fund after her son. “We need this extra training for our police officers. Because at the end of the day, everyone wants to go home. The police wants to go home, and the civilian wants to go home.”
But the naming suggestion was met with opposition from a coalition of law enforcement unions, the Star Tribune reported. In a joint statement, five law enforcement organizations stated that Dayton’s remarks “fuel deeper divisions between people of color and law enforcement.”
The president of the Police Officers Federation of Minneapolis wrote in the joint statement that the fund should instead be named for an officer killed in the line of duty. The organizations argued the governor used the anniversary of Castile’s death to “lob more tone-deaf insults at cops across Minnesota.”
The coalition noted that Dayton on Thursday reiterated his previous statement that Castile would still be alive if he were white. Dayton met privately Friday with the current and former leadership of the Minnesota Police and Peace Officers Association and a group of police chiefs from across the state.
The news conference was just one of several events planned to commemorate Castile’s death. Friends and family planned a candlelight vigil and memorial on Thursday and a lantern release Friday night. On Friday, Castile’s former high school classmates awarded the first of an annual scholarship planned in his honor for a high school senior to use toward higher education.
As she spoke on the one-year anniversary of her son’s death, Valerie Castile advocated for deeper understanding in the community.
“I just feel like we should love one another more and get to know each other, get out of your police car, walk around, get to know the people,” she said. “Don’t make such snap judgments, because everyone’s not a bad person. But with the training bill, that will help.”


Give the hobgoblin with the bad comb-over his due: He knows how to divide and distract, to divert attention by casting aspersions on others.
The latest Trump tweet that showcased this tactic came today at the G-20 Summit when Trump tweeted the following:
“Everyone here is talking about why John Podesta refused to give the DNC server to the FBI and the CIA. Disgraceful!”
The Washington Post analyzes why this tweet is so wrongheaded and misleading, but a factual analysis won’t matter to Trump’s legion of followers.
There’s a method to Trump’s madness.  By continuing to vilify Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama, and smaller fish like John Podesta, he’s distracting Americans from his own problems with the FBI.  He’s saying the real crooks, the true inept leaders, are Democrats. Somehow, he thinks this “look over there!” misdirection ploy will work.  And he may well be right.  Trump learned a lot from “reality” TV and wrestling shows, including how to entertain people even as he exploits them.
When I think about Trump, I come back to one of my father’s favorite sayings: the empty barrel makes the most noise.  Trump always makes a lot of noise, but there’s nothing there.  There’s no substance.  The noise, because it’s so loud and annoying, briefly grabs your attention, then it’s gone.
Yet the damage it does isn’t gone.  Even as we become accustomed to the thunder of Trump’s tweet storms, we’re slowly losing our hearing.  By hearing, I mean our ability to discern truth, or at least to block out the thunderous distraction of big lies.
When the president is a walking (or golf cart-riding), tweeting, fabricating, drum-beating clown, democracy can’t help but suffer.
More and more under Trump, discourse in America is being degraded. But the bigger problem may be that not enough Americans seem to care.
A retired lieutenant colonel (USAF) and history professor, William Astore blogs at Bracing Views.

Vice President Mike Pence apparently couldn’t help himself.
He caused concern on Thursday by blatantly ignoring a safety sign during a tour of NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida.
Pence was shown some critical space flight hardware, including a piece covered by a sheet of paper with the instruction “DO NOT TOUCH.” But as this snap by Reuters photographer Mike Brown shows, he totally disregarded the warning:
Some suggested why Pence ― who was recently appointed as chair of the revived National Space Council, despite his failed 2005 attempt at shutting down NASA’s space exploration plans ― may have ignored the warning:
Well it was in quotes and he just assumed the sign was being sarcastic.
He wanted his own orb moment pic.twitter.com/SE14czbsUq
Others joked that the hardware itself actually reacted to his touch:
This looks like an appalled face. pic.twitter.com/njIygeTZyT
On Reddit, meanwhile, users manipulated the image in all kinds of amusing ways:
Pence later told NASA employees that he was working on returning “our nation to the moon.”
“We will reorient America’s space program toward human space exploration and discovery,” he added, despite offering no timetable or details on how the mission could be funded. 

Pete Souza is throwing expert shade once again.
On Thursday, the former White House photographer used his Instagram account to troll Vladimir Putin.
In anticipation of President Donald Trump’s Friday meeting with the Russian leader at the G-20 summit in Hamburg, Germany, Souza posted a snap of Putin alongside lyrics from The Who’s “Behind Blue Eyes”:
A post shared by Pete Souza (@petesouza) on Jul 6, 2017 at 8:39am PDT
“Happened to hear this song today in Italy,” wrote Souza, before noting the words to the track.
“No one knows what it’s like to be the bad man to be the sad man behind blue eyes,” he posted. “No one knows what it’s like to be hated to be fated to telling only lies...”
Souza, who regularly uses pictures he took during Barack Obama’s administration to criticize the current White House, posted his snap on the same day that Trump appeared to cast doubt on Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. election.
“I think it was Russia, but I think it was probably other people and/or countries,” he told a press conference in Warsaw, Poland. “I see nothing wrong with the statement. Nobody really knows, nobody really knows for sure.”

President Donald Trump sent angry tweets about the media and Democrats hours before he was set to attend a historic Group of 20 summit meeting in Hamburg, Germany, on Friday.
Everyone here is talking about why John Podesta refused to give the DNC server to the FBI and the CIA. Disgraceful!
I will represent our country well and fight for its interests! Fake News Media will never cover me accurately but who cares! We will #MAGA!
Friday morning marks Trump’s first state meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who is accused of attempting to interfere in last year’s U.S. presidential election. Putin is said to have directed cyberattacks on Democrats in order to help Trump win. Trump is expected to discuss the Kremlin’s annexation of Crimea and its role in Syria’s brutal civil war, but it’s unclear if the election meddling will come up.
“I look forward to all meetings today with world leaders, including my meeting with Vladimir Putin,” Trump said in a tweet. “Much to discuss.”
Trump is deeply unpopular worldwide, particularly in Germany where thousands of people on Thursday night protested his visit. He has also repeatedly clashed with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and other world leaders over key issues like immigration, trade and climate change.


As we recently marked President John F. Kennedy’s 100th birthday, we must remember the late president’s vision for our nation: as a democratic society with a shared commitment to free expression.
On an October day in 1963, President Kennedy articulated this vision in dedicating a library at Amherst College to Robert Frost. He described the late poet as “a man whose contribution was not to our size but to our spirit; not to our political beliefs but to our insight; not to our self-esteem but to our self-comprehension.”
Kennedy honored Frost’s life and vision that day by elegantly casting art as a vessel for truth, a counterbalance to power, and a mode of self-reflection — as critical to our nation’s greatness as its might. He spoke not only to Frost’s legacy, but also the dual role of the artist: as a specter for truth and an arbiter of justice within American society. 
Art humbles the arrogant by reminding them of their limitations, Kennedy said. “When power corrupts, poetry cleanses.”
Kennedy’s words that October day should be a rallying cry for us all, as they rightfully call for the full recognition of the vital place the artist holds in our country and in civilized society. 
The speech reflected the vision described in a poem Frost had written two years earlier for Kennedy’s inauguration, which Frost ultimately was unable to read from the lectern due to gusty winds and the sun’s bright reflection on newly fallen snow. The poem, “Dedication,” spoke hopefully of a coming “golden age of poetry and power.”
However, in the decades since, the recognition of the voice of the artist as a necessary and balancing force in our society has waned. Today, it is openly under attack. 
Kennedy’s words are a window into how leaders of the past championed the arts, and also a guide in how we must challenge those who seek to quash free expression. This is not a partisan concern: examples of leaders who understand the important role the arts play in free expression exist within all political persuasions. 
Leaders who are threatened by freedom of expression seek to denigrate truth and sever the ways in which it is disseminated. We are now witnessing this in real time: through the slashing of public funding for the arts and education, open contempt for the free press, and unrepentant lying through misinformation and “alternative facts”.
So what is there to do when our leaders reject the importance of truth? We must instead appeal directly to the citizenry. 
Art provides potent channels for dissent and resistance.  But it also unites disparate views. It creates understanding and a way forward by showing another way of seeing. 
Consider Mark Bradford’s Tomorrow Is Another Day (2017), an installation that transforms the Jeffersonian white rotunda and granite floors of the Venice Biennale’s U.S. Pavilion—in his words, “the White House”—into a beacon of his concern for marginalized people. Tasked with representing our nation to the world, Bradford brings to the pavilion the reality of inequity and poverty in the country through a narrative of ruin, violence, agency, and possibility. It’s a story of ambition and the belief in art’s capacity to engage us all in urgent and profound conversations, and even action. The artist’s work is a platform for truth and a window into self-comprehension.
Leaders who abuse power do not fear a single artist, or a single journalist. They fear what their work might inspire, the truth it reveals or the mass of citizens it can unite and inspire toward action.
It is that devotion to justice that demands we empower our artists in order to achieve a true depiction of ourselves — the ugly, the beautiful, the virtuous and the corrupt. It is what the world respects most about the United States. The arts do not exist only to be sold, or to sell tickets – they are not private goods. They are not an arm of the government, existing to bolster the state. The arts exist to enrich the lives of each citizen by depicting the truth of who we are. 
As Kennedy remarked, “In a democratic society, the highest duty of the writer, the composer, the artist, is to remain true to himself and to let the chips fall where they may.”
Just as artists have a responsibility to truth, we have a duty to illuminate their message, invest in their values and work, and allow the truth to lead us where it may. 

Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) offered an explanation on Wednesday night as to why congressional Republicans haven’t been able to pass health care reform since President Donald Trump took office in January, despite promising for years that repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act was a top priority.
“I didn’t expect Donald Trump to win,” Toomey said during a town hall hosted by the ABC27 News station in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. “I think most of my colleagues didn’t. So we didn’t expect to be in this situation.”
Toomey was one of the 13 Republican senators working to draft a health care bill after House Republicans passed their version of an Obamacare replacement in May.
Senate Republicans unveiled their health care bill last month, which would significantly gut Medicaid and result in 22 million more uninsured people over the next 10 years. Toomey has defended the bill against critics and cast doubt on the Congressional Budget Office’s assessment of the legislation.
His position sparked protests this week, as dozens of people gathered outside Toomey’s town hall event at ABC27 News studios to demand he withdraw his support of the bill.


Conservative analyst Scottie Nell Hughes has accused Charles Payne, a Fox Business host, of sexual harassment, multiple sources tell . The Los Angeles Times was the first to report that an analyst who used to appear on the network had accused Payne of sexual harassment, but the paper did not name the accuser. The network has suspended Payne pending further investigation, according to a source familiar with the matter.  
Fox Business Network recently announced that it had renewed Payne’s contract.
In a statement to , a spokesperson for the Fox Business Network said, “We take issues of this nature extremely seriously and have a zero tolerance policy for any professional misconduct. This matter is being thoroughly investigated and we are taking all of the appropriate steps to reach a resolution in a timely manner.”
The spokesman declined to comment further.
For this story,  spoke to over 10 sources inside and outside the network who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak about network business.
Hughes has told several sources that she feels that Payne, the network and Bill Shine ― then co-president of Fox News and Fox Business ― retaliated against her after they learned of the relationship, which would be the basis for her sexual harassment claim.
The law firm Paul Weiss, which Fox News parent company 21st Century Fox hired last year to investigate former Fox News host Gretchen Carlson’s claim that she was sexually harassed by former network chairman Roger Ailes, has been charged with leading an internal investigation into Hughes’ sexual harassment claim.
In a statement to the National Enquirer on Wednesday, Payne said he’d had an “affair” with a then-unnamed analyst. “I would like to extend an apology to my family and friends for having been involved in a romantic affair that ended two years ago,” he said.
Payne’s lawyer, Neal Korval, did not respond to multiple requests for comment from , but told the Los Angeles Times that his client “categorically denies” having committed any acts of sexual harassment.
In a text message, Hughes referred  to her manager Michael Sanchez, who did not respond to a request for comment.
Hughes gained notoriety last year as a fervent Donald Trump supporter and CNN analyst. The network did not renew her contract after the election, in part because of her tendency to make on-air gaffes, such as calling molotov cocktails “mazel tov cocktails.” Hughes recently joined the pro-Trump PAC The Committee To Defend The President as a national spokesman.
Hughes started appearing on the Fox Business network in 2013, and according to three sources, kept an apartment near the network’s Sixth Avenue headquarters in New York. Her husband and two children remained at their home in Nashville while she worked to gain a contract with the network as a paid commentator.
Payne and Hughes’ affair was widely known within the confines of the Fox Business world but a well-kept secret otherwise. Payne and Hughes, according to multiple sources who worked at the network at the time, made little effort to hide their affair. On a company trip in May 2015 to Las Vegas, where Payne was hosting his Fox Business show, “Making Money With Charles Payne,” at the annual Money Show conference, they appeared to be sharing a room and had disappeared at one point for hours, leaving their colleagues behind. Payne’s wife did not join him on that trip.
Hughes also attended a birthday party for Payne at his home in late 2015. Their interaction at that party, according to four sources that worked at the network at the time, led Payne’s wife to feel uncomfortable enough to contact her husband’s boss and ally, Shine.
Shine then pulled Hughes off the air, according to multiple sources. Hughes has not appeared on Fox News or Fox Business since then, which has confounded some media insiders because her passionate support of Trump would make her a natural fit for the pro-Trump cable network.  
Shine was forced out in May by the Murdoch family, who controls 21st Century Fox, after Fox News fired host Bill O’Reilly following an explosive New York Times report detailing multiple sexual harassment lawsuits that O’Reilly and the network had settled.

WASHINGTON ― Giovonn Joseph-McDade, a 20-year-old college student, was shot and killed by a Kent, Washington, police officer after a failed traffic stop on June 24.
The shooting has largely flown under the radar nationally, with most of the reporting on the incident coming from The Stranger, a Seattle-based paper.
McDade is one of 119 black people shot and killed by police so far this year, according to a Washington Post tracker. He is also the third person of color shot and killed by police in June in King County, Washington. A King County sheriff’s deputy shot and killed 20-year-old Tommy Le on June 13. Le was holding a “sharp object,” which turned out to be a pen and not a knife. Five days later, two Seattle police officers shot and killed Charleena Lyles, a 30-year-old pregnant mother.
In King County, police killed 3 young folks of color in the last 2 weeks. Giovonn Joseph-McDade. Tommy Le. Charleena Lyles. Say their names. pic.twitter.com/h71OP3pqbX
Medical examiner confirms the man shot & killed by Kent police early Saturday morning was 20-year-old Giovonn Joseph-McDade. #komonews pic.twitter.com/llmU57lbni
McDade, a student at Green River College, was initially stopped for a suspected traffic offense of switched and/or canceled plates, Des Moines Police Department Assistant Police Chief Bob Bohl told  in an email. His agency is leading the investigation into the shooting.
McDade was driving a Honda, which Bohl said is “the most common stolen vehicle within Washington State.” Often, he said, suspects get different license plates and put them on a stolen car to hide the fact that it’s stolen. “So the initial reason for the stop would have been for the switched/cancelled plates but the officer would be investigating the possibility of a stolen vehicle.”
McDade’s vehicle, he said, was not in fact stolen.
Once McDade fled from police, Bohl said, “it became a felony eluding crime.” A felony eluding pursuit was initiated and prompted a second officer to join the chase, according to the most recent press release from the Des Moines police. Officers attempted to end the chase using a pursuit intervention technique, or PIT, in which they hit a vehicle in an attempt to spin and stop it. That was unsuccessful.
After McDade drove down a residential cul-de-sac, officers used the technique a second time and successfully stopped the car.
A private security video obtained from a home near the site of the shooting shows McDade’s vehicle backing up and then accelerating into a patrol car, according to Des Moines police. (Kent’s police department doesn’t equip its officers with body or dash cameras.)
The flash from the police lights block viewers from seeing the shooting itself. But Des Moines police say one officer exited his patrol vehicle following the successful PIT. In the video, an officer can be heard commanding McDade and Devonte Cheeks, the only passenger in the car, to “Get out the car!”
Des Moines police say McDade continued driving between the two patrol cars, where an officer was standing, before the officer fired two shots, both hitting McDade. He died at the scene.
While the video portrays the shooting itself, police radio traffic released by Des Moines police gives brief insight into moments leading up to the incident.
In the audio, one officer can be heard saying that McDade’s vehicle was slowing down before picking back up to 60 miles per hour. At the 1:56 mark, an officer says that shots have been fired ― about 10 seconds after officers note that McDade had turned into the cul-de-sac.
By the 3:00 mark, officers request medical attention for McDade.
A field test came back positive for 4.9 grams of suspected methamphetamine found in McDade’s wallet, said Des Moines police. They are waiting for the Washington State Crime Lab to confirm the findings.
Police also say that 69.2 grams of marijuana and a suspicious liquid, which will be sent to the Washington State Crime Lab for analysis, were also found in the vehicle.
Tim Ford, a Seattle civil rights attorney representing the family, could not immediately be reached for comment. 
Read the full press release:
If you're always angry about politics, sign up for bruh., a sporadic newsletter by Julia Craven.

powered by TinyLetter


Every year, the U.S. holds special citizenship-induction ceremonies on or around the Fourth of July. This year, nearly 15,000 people were being sworn in as U.S. citizens at more than 65 such gatherings across the country, according to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
They took the oath of citizenship in public libraries, national parks and museums. Some of the ceremonies were on aircraft carriers or baseball fields. One was at Monticello, the Virginia home of founding father Thomas Jefferson. 
At one of those ceremonies, Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) ― the daughter of immigrants from India and Jamaica ― took not-so-veiled jabs at President Donald Trump, who has called for limits on legal immigration along with his effort to ramp up deportation of undocumented immigrants. 
“Whenever you feel that future is threatened, whenever those values of liberty and justice for all that drew us here seem under assault, you need to speak up and speak out,” Harris said at a ceremony on the battleship Iowa in the Port of Los Angeles on Monday, according to prepared remarks. “That’s the whole point of the freedoms we cherish.”
In order to become a citizen, immigrants must be a permanent resident, or green card-holder, for at least five years in most cases or three years if naturalizing through marriage; read, write and speak English; and pass a citizenship test. That test isn’t easy ― check out some of the questions ― but more than 97 percent of would-be citizens pass, compared to only about two-thirds of voting age Americans, according to a 2012 study. 
Here are photos from some of citizenship ceremonies across the country leading up to and on the Fourth of July. 
Charlottesville, Virginia, at Thomas Jefferson’s Monticello - July 4
76 people from 40 countries are taking the oath of citizenship today at Monticello. pic.twitter.com/I9QHawIiMu
Des Moines, Iowa, at Iowa Cubs’ Principal Park Stadium - July 3
With IA State Capital backdrop, 29 people become American citizens, receiving a rousing round of applause. My favorite moment every season. pic.twitter.com/fU1U4LdB5A
In just a few minutes the @IowaCubs will host their annual Independence Day citizenship ceremony, 30 people will become citizens. pic.twitter.com/tHWS5nkTT9
Greeley, Colorado, at Centennial Village - July 3
 
26 #newUScitizens receive welcome from @RepKenBuck, and reps from @SenBennetCO @SenCoryGardner at Centennial Village just before #July4th pic.twitter.com/KUIUs8shD3
Brendon from #Jamaica came to the US for college. #newUScitizen Jul 3 in Greeley. Likes working in a green industry with water treatment. pic.twitter.com/tgBpyV0QtD
Pawtucket, Rhode Island, at McCoy Baseball Stadium - July 3
@JackMcCJr swearing in new citizens at McCoy Field! Congratulations! #4thOfJuly2017 pic.twitter.com/p4ABZiSrPZ
New Orleans, at the National World War II Museum - July 3
Showing their patriotism @WWIImuseum #newUScitizen @USCIS #July4th pic.twitter.com/GjkOCWje9s
Southport, North Carolina, at the Historic Garrison House at Fort Johnston - July 3
Southport NC @USCIS Independence Day commemorative naturalization of 150 #newUScitizens pic.twitter.com/L1zPvJLOhi
Los Angeles, on the USS Iowa - July 3
41 #newUScitizens from 14 nations take Oath of Allegiance aboard the Battleship Iowa in Los Angeles. pic.twitter.com/3OzjQZjFlS
Monterey, California, at California State University at Monterey Bay - July 3
At CSU Monterey Bay, 150 #newUScitizen s celebrate their citizenship by waving small American flags at @USCIS c'mony pic.twitter.com/2QIi3q5bMq
Alameda, California, on the USS Hornet - July 3
Seaman Joe Dodd takes his oath on the flight deck of USS Hornet alongside 75 other #newUScitizen s @uscoastguard pic.twitter.com/hT7iV9FUN3
San Diego, on the USS Midway - July 3
Our newest citizens!#newUScitizen s!  55 people from 20 countries became America's newest citizens at the USS Midway!!! pic.twitter.com/qmf13okYaD
Hialeah, Florida, at the USCIS Hialeah Field Office - July 3
#Congratulations to our new 155 fellow #Americans on this #July4th week celebrating  #newUSCItizens around the country. #GodBlessAmerica! pic.twitter.com/Ou6JHwjeZf
Indianapolis, at the Benjamin Harrison Presidential Site - July 3
#NewUScitizen Hugo Herrera Velazquez intros his family @PresBenHarrison ceremony in #Indy. He came from #Mexico to play football! #July4th pic.twitter.com/hLwQHk8B3U
New York, at the New York Public Library - June 30
195 people from 56 countries about to become citizens in NYC. @nypl #July4th pic.twitter.com/rAX2NeZs35
Tampa, Florida, at Hillsborough Community College - June 30
Happy new citizens eager to celebrate their first #July4th as Americans @HCCFL. Congrats to all 127 of them! #newUScitizen pic.twitter.com/PaiKNjqxTV
Dallas, at the Belo Mansion and Pavilion - June 29
Thank you @DallasBarAssoc for hosting a naturalization ceremony at the @BeloMansion for 50 new Americans just in time for #4thofJuly. pic.twitter.com/YzCcb4JQNB
CLARIFICATION: This article has been updated to clarify that immigrants can naturalize in three years if doing so through an American spouse.


GETTYSBURG, Pa. ―  The mortar and cannon fire erupting around Stan Clark didn’t faze him.
He weaved past Union and Confederate soldiers marching to and from the battlefield below their encampment, unflinching as the bombs burst in the air. This Marine had a job to do.
Clark, the director of the Adams County Office of Veterans Affairs, didn’t have much time to sit back and watch Saturday’s Civil War re-enactment that this area is famous for every Fourth of July weekend. That was for the tourists; the Gettysburg National Military Park and its surrounding county often see more than a million of them each year.
Clark, 65, was focused on outreach. He waved at the soldiers and civilians who were re-enacting a war that started more than 150 years ago, because he recognized that many of them were patriots serving in the wars we fight today.
And he knew, most of all, that they have real-world needs ― many of which haven’t been met under President Donald Trump.
Military families are growing less enthusiastic about the president, according to polling data that The Wall Street Journal collected and analyzed last month. The data suggests that military communities, not just here, but also nationwide, are beginning to lose faith in Trump’s administration.
While Clark hasn’t quite lost faith yet, he is taking a wait-and-see approach, he said.  
“With Trump, a big part of his campaign was to reform the VA and make it work better ” Clark told . “But with the current administration, it’s a little too soon to tell, because we all have different expectations when we’re told things are gonna get better.”
Clark and other conservative veterans  spoke to in Gettysburg are waiting for Trump to make good on promises he made on the campaign trail ― but the two moves the White House have made since his election are disappointing.
In April, he signed a bill to extend the troubled Veterans Choice program, a $10 billion attempt at speeding up veterans’ access to healthcare after a 2014 scandal in which thousands of veterans either died waiting for treatment or spent months on a waiting list.
While altruistic as an idea, the program has been marred by logistical woes and sometimes makes access a near impossibility for veterans and healthcare providers alike.
“Veterans need care ― but this Choice program isn’t working the way they wanted it to,” said one Army veteran who was on active duty for 24 years, and asked not to be named for this article. Military servicemen and women are often reticent to speak to the press about the president; it’s against protocol to speak out against the commander in chief. This particular veteran said he was hesitant to speak on the record because he “works for the state.”
He said he’s anxious that the government will lessen his benefits, but at the same time, he lashed out at safety net programs that serve civilians.
Trump is continuing a long tradition, he said, of taking away from the people who have served in war.
“But you and I know it’s not just him. It’s the whole administration.”
In June, Trump signed the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, making it easier for the secretary of veterans affairs to fire or discipline employees. While it was advertised as a response to the 2014 scandal, veterans didn’t sign up for more oversight from the government.
“To a lot of people this seems completely ridiculous. Why was this necessary?” Clark said. “They passed it for the VA, they should have passed it for all the cabinet levels and all the government agencies. They should hold true to that.”
It’s too early to tell whether Trump is losing America’s military families completely. But the veterans  spoke to in Adams County were looking for something ― anything ― that signaled this administration was earning their vote. The system has been “broken for a long time,” according to Clark, and locals have a hard time trusting promises by Trump’s administration just as they did Obama’s.
“I wouldn’t necessarily say people are losing their faith since this administration,” he said. “They lost it completely and very candidly over the course of decades.”
Clark cased the grounds Saturday to offer his services to the men and women there in uniform. Though they were dressed in Civil War garb that day, many of them are also present-day military vets, so the battlefields are the perfect place for him to provide outreach. He’s the middle man between vets and the federal government ― and if the government won’t help them, he will. 
That’s why he’s looking forward to the policy geared toward veterans that Trump promised all along.
“I sincerely hope, more than almost anything, that he stays true to his word.”


A former GOP congressman who voted to impeach then-President Bill Clinton in 1998 has hit out at what he labeled “the Donald Trump show.”
On Monday, former Rep. Bob Inglis (R-S.C.) told CNN International host Christiane Amanpour that the current president’s situation involving the investigations into his associates’ alleged ties to Russia is “much more serious” than the scandal that ended up engulfing Clinton’s administration.
Inglis made his comments after Amanpour played out an interview from 1998 in which he explained just why Clinton should be impeached.
He voted to impeach Clinton. @bobinglis now says he “apparently hadn’t seen something called the Donald Trump Show." https://t.co/8zWMrwHQ1o
“There are issues around the world that require American leadership,” Inglis said in the archive clip. “The leader of the free world needs moral authority. And we’ve got a president who is sorely lacking in that regard.”
Amanpour asked Inglis how he measured Clinton’s “lack of moral authority” in the run up to his impeachment with what Trump currently “has or doesn’t have.”
“Well, I guess that young guy you were just playing there apparently hadn’t seen something called the Donald Trump show,” said Inglis of his younger self, before adding that Trump’s behavior “is much more serious than anything we ever accused Bill Clinton of.”
Inglis noted how Clinton’s impeachment involved “perjury with the underlying matter being a sexual affair.” Trump’s situation, however, was “something quite different.”
“Particularly when it gets into the Russia investigation and the firing of (former FBI Director) James Comey,” he added. “These are very serious matters.”
Check out the full interview in the clip above.

GIARDINI NAXOS, Italy ― It was the cab driver’s last trip of the evening, close to midnight, running me from the G-7 summit press filing center to my hotel a few miles away, and as he sped down the deserted streets we made small talk about that day’s meetings.
He was an older guy, driving an older minivan, whose English was even more limited than my Italian. I said the day’s meetings had gone fine when, placing my accent, he asked me how Signor Trump was doing.
I almost answered automatically – he was fine – when on a lark I told him that I’d written a story saying people thought he was “molto pazzo” – very crazy. That many Italians were saying this.
Which was when he raised a hand: “No. No. Signor Trump non è molto pazzo. Signor Trump è tutto pazzo.”
Over the next few minutes I was able to discern some of his other views on Signor Trump. That he was an old man but acted like a “bambino.” That there was something not right with his “testa.” And how did he possibly get so rich being so dumb?
Hearing this wasn’t surprising. I’d already talked to people in Rome, Milan and Genoa, and this seemed to be the consensus view in Italy. (Indeed, a new Pew poll shows that low regard for President Donald Trump is not confined to Italy, but is pretty common around the world.) Trump’s recent visit to Rome drew protests, but the mayor’s refusal to grant permits kept them relatively modest.
That there were protests at all was, from my viewpoint, a breathtaking reversal. As it happened, I had also been in Italy eight years earlier ― not as a working journalist, but on a two-year sailing sabbatical ― when a different American president had come into office.
The contrast could not have been more stark. Barack Obama had been celebrated and cheered as a sure sign that the world was at a turning point. If a major power that had been among the last nations in the civilized world to outlaw slavery could elect as its leader someone from the race of those slaves – well, maybe the planet had some hope after all.
As unpopular as Trump is now in the world, Obama was beloved eight years ago. His visit to Berlin’s Tiergarten Park in 2008 drew a crowd of 200,000 – before he had even been elected. Throngs of well-wishers lined the streets of Rome to cheer his motorcade during a 2009 Vatican visit.
He had not been in office a full year before the Norwegian Nobel Committee awarded him the Peace Prize – not for actual peace he had achieved in those first months, but for the prospect of peace he offered.
The fact that Obama was not able to completely end the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, or even close the United States’ prison for accused terrorists at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, certainly led to a letdown for many of his European fans.
“Personally, I was very disappointed,” said Alice Salvatore, a 35-year-old member of the Ligurian regional parliament. “I saw in him something new, as someone who could change politics all over the world.”
It’s striking that Salvatore, despite her youth, belongs to the Five Star Movement political party that wants to pull Italy out of the European Union, turn to protectionist trade policies, and cut back on the number of refugees entering the country.
A populism born of a deep-rooted pessimism – the same sort of pessimism that helped Trump win the presidency – has displaced the optimism that had seemed so inevitably ascendant just eight years ago.
Goodbye, hope and change. Hello, God help us all.
Sure, Obama was a popular president at home in 2009 – with approval ratings about as high as any president nowadays is likely to see, in the low 60s.
That was nothing compared to what people in other countries thought of him. Everywhere we sailed, the sight of the Stars and Stripes flying from our stern brought a smile. People greeted us, asked where we were from, and told us how much they loved our president. Some would ask if I had met him (perchance, I had, early in his primary campaign – a fact that afforded me bonus points). One time, as we lay at anchor, a couple actually swam over to our Alden 44 cutter, Juno, pointed at the flag and gave us a thumbs-up. “President Obama!” they shouted.
This was more than a little startling to us. For years during the George W. Bush presidency, cities across Europe saw enormous protest marches against him. I had worried that we would face some resentment in our travels – that we might personally be asked to answer for the Iraq War.
The election of Obama apparently washed away our sins in their eyes, at least for a time. Bermuda, the Azores, Spain, Italy, Greece, and then most notably in the predominantly black countries in the Caribbean – we met Obama fans in them all. Even in Brava, a tiny volcanic island in the Cape Verde archipelago, we saw a street vendor selling President Barack Obama T-shirts.
Perhaps this was to be expected in port towns that see a lot of yacht traffic. These places tend to be somewhat cosmopolitan. More surprising was people’s interest in Sibari, a tiny town up in the northwest corner of the “arch” in Italy’s boot, where we spent the first winter of the trip.
Southern Italy generally is rural and poor. Sibari was both of those things, but also isolated. Yet even there, we were peppered with questions about our president. From the marina office manager, from the waiters at the local pizzeria, from one of the boatyard workers.
Even Francesco, the taxi driver we would call when we needed a ride from the marina to the train station. (It never occurred to me to ask his last name. We got his number from the marina office – but for all I know, he might have been the only taxi driver in Sibari.)
On one of our first trips into the stazione in the center of the village, we got talking about Obama. He loved him, he said, and thought it was great that he had won. He did allow that a lot of people in southern Italy didn’t like him “perche è nero” – because he is black.
My Italian wasn’t yet good enough to respond that that was the reason a lot of people in the southern United States didn’t like him, either.
In any event, the sense of the place that stuck in my mind was optimism. Things were good, and were on their way to getting even better.
Eight years later, it seemed a different place entirely.
If the change in outlook from the Obama years to now could be embodied in a single face, it might be that of Loredana Botarelli.
As a young woman, she began a career in re-insurance, the business of providing insurance to insurance companies. Over the years she worked in Rome, Milan and London as she moved up the ladder.
In 2009, after 27 years with Swiss Re, the company closed most of its field offices during the financial crisis and she was laid of. Botarelli took stock of her life and the only world she had known, and concluded that what she had wasn’t coming back. “I decided to just change my life completely,” she said.
Now in her mid-50s, Botarelli instead runs the Ivory Moda Uomi, a clothing store not far from Roman landmarks like Altare della Patria and the Trevi Fountain, where she spends her days among racks of men’s suits. The hours are long, the income not close to what she had been making.
If this sounds similar to the stories of former Rust Belt factory workers holding multiple jobs and still not making what they used to – well, the resulting politics are similar as well.
Botarelli was a supporter of longtime, off-and-on Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, saying he improved the lives of all Italians. Not surprisingly, she supports Trump, too. “Trump is the best,” she beamed. “He is a good manager. Like Berlusconi. We had a lot of progress for everybody.”
A woman who spent nearly three decades working for a company built on the idea of international finance and trade is now, because of personal circumstances, on the opposite side of those same issues.
Things were better back in the day, back before ...
At the core of it, that’s the idea shared by Berlusconi and Five Star supporters in Italy, and Trump supporters in the United States. That before “political correctness,” or the introduction of the Euro, or so many “illegals” snuck across the border, or all those refugees were brought in – before any of that stuff, things were not just good, but maybe the best they had ever been.
Of course, it’s objectively not true. Italy was a poorer nation prior to the introduction of the common currency than it is today, and was far, far poorer in the post-World War II years. The United States may have been an easier place to succeed for white men with only a high school degree in the 1950s and ’60s, but it was a less hospitable place for everybody else.
Indeed, when looking at the world as a whole, there has never been a time in human history when the future has been as bright and full of potential as it is right now. A smaller percentage of the world’s population is dying in childhood, or living in abject poverty, or perishing in a war than ever before. A greater percentage of girls and women are receiving educations around the globe than at any time previously.
Astonishingly rapid advances in solar technology mean that the world is on the cusp of a limitless and nearly pollution-free source of power. More broadly, fewer people are working fewer hours to produce life’s necessities.
Yet there remains a foreboding among so many, an “everything-is-terrible-ism” that seems intractable.
This is not completely surprising. Change is hard – and can be a politically useful tool for those claiming they can stop it.
There are today more than twice as many jobs in the solar industry than in coal, yet Republicans (including Trump) have been able to use the decline of coal mining as a campaign theme for years.
More fundamentally, workers not just in the United States, but the world over worry about losing their livelihoods not to cheaper workers in a poorer country, but to machines. So prevalent is this fear that the imperative of preserving jobs is competing against the promise of letting machines do most of the repetitive and thankless jobs that humans have been complaining about since jobs were first invented.
There are, of course, significant political and economic issues that need to be resolved in the coming decades. A society where the owners of the machines make up 1 percent of the population, but reap 99 percent of the income, would be inherently unstable – a plot line of a dystopian science fiction movie.
At any rate, it would seem that a distributional problem like that is a far better one to have than the constant struggle the species faced not that many generations ago, when much of the world’s population sought to have as many children as possible as a survival tactic.
Still, it’s perhaps too much to ask people who believe their lives are getting worse to look on the bright side and remind themselves that humankind as a whole has never been richer, better fed, or more at peace than it is right now – even if it happens to be true.
Salvatore, the Ligurian parliament member, said governments everywhere need to focus on their citizens, and with good jobs disappearing, to institute a universal basic income large enough that a decent life is possible for everyone. “This is the sort of thing as a society that we should be pursuing, because there is no other way,” she said.
Others, while agreeing that things could be better, don’t believe that they’re all that terrible. And more to the point, they don’t believe that walling countries off from each other will help anyone.
Carlo Oxoli runs his family’s Libreria Lirus bookstore in Milan. Like Salvatore, he is 35, but has a completely different outlook on Italy’s future. He said that pulling out of the European Union, like Salvatore’s Five Star Movement wants, would be “a disaster,” and that the EU should have more power and authority to bring about a cohesive Europe, not less. As to Five Star’s leader, Beppe Grillo: “He’s a comedian. He’s a clown.”
What’s more troubling for Oxoli than Italy’s particular problems at this moment, though, is the apparent abdication of responsibility American voters have demonstrated by putting someone like Trump into power, regardless of how well or badly things were going in America.
“Italy is a little country,” Oxoli said. “If we have another Silvio Berlusconi, it’s dangerous only for us.”

After the election last fall many people were furious that enough people had voted for Donald Trump to put him in the White House and allow him to place second in the popular vote. In particular, Trump relied on a larger than usual Republican majority among white working class voters, defined as whites without college degrees.
Trump carried white working class women by a margin of 53 to 39. He carried white working class men 71 to 23 percent, an incredible margin of almost 50 percentage points. This has caused much anger to be directed at the white working class (WWC), at least among people who didn’t want to see Donald Trump in the White House.
Remarkably, if we judge actions over words, it would seem that no one is angrier at the white working class than the Republicans in Congress. How else can someone explain the health care bill approved by the House as well as the one now being considered by the Senate?
The centerpiece of both of these bills is a $700 billion tax cut over the next decade, the vast majority of which will go to the top one percent. There is nothing for the white working class in this one.
But the white working class will very much be hit by the cuts in Medicaid that will be the major offset for the tax cut. The plan being considered by the Senate cuts projected spending by more than 10 percent over the period from 2018 to 2026, but the cuts increase in size each year. By 2026, the last year in the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) projections, the cuts will be more than 25 percent. They will get even larger in the years beyond the forecasting horizon.
Millions of moderate income people in the WWC now have insurance because of the expansion of Medicaid. This expansion was especially important in extending coverage in Kentucky and West Virginia, both overwhelmingly white states that went for Trump by large margins. Trump defeated Clinton 63 to 33 percent in Kentucky and 69 to 27 percent in West Virginia.
West Virginia’s Medicaid enrollment went from 354,000 in 2013, before the expansion, to 562,000 in the most recent data, almost one third of the state’s population. In Kentucky, enrollment more than doubled from 607,000 in 2013 to 1,248,000 in the most recent data, also almost a third of the state’s population. If a plan like either the House or Senate bills takes effect, many of the Trump voters in these states will again find themselves uninsured.
But Medicaid cuts are only one way in which congressional Republicans are trying to inflict pain on Trump voters. They also are both cutting back the subsidies for insurance purchased in the health care exchanges, and perhaps more importantly for Trump voters, they are hugely changing the rate structure.
The structure put in place by the Obama administration benefited older Pre-Medicare age people at the expense of the young. It limited insurers to a premium ratio of three to one for the 55 to 64 age group relative to the 20 to 40 age group. This implied a subsidy from younger people to this older group since the actual ratio of costs is closer to 4.5.
(The question of who is getting a subsidy is actually more complicated than implied by these ratios. The majority of people in both age groups are relatively healthy. However there is a larger percentage of unhealthy people with high bills in the older grouping. The question is whether we make older healthy people cover the costs of less healthy people or distribute these costs among the population as a whole.)
Anyhow, the Republican bills move away from this rate structure and allow a ratio of five-to-one. According to the projections from the CBO, a 64-year-old with an income of $56,800 in 2017 can expect to see the premium for a sliver plan jump from $6,800 with Obamacare to $20,500 with Trumpcare. CBO projects that $8,500 of this increase is due to the loss of the Obamacare subsidy, while $5,200 is due to the higher plan price with the new five-to-one ratio.
The costs for older insurees should be especially important for Trump voters, because this is the group where he had the biggest vote margin. While Trump lost the under 40 vote by double digit margins, he carried the 50 to 64 age group by a margin of 52 to 44 percent. So it looks like the Republicans are prepared to make these people pay a real price for their votes.
To be clear, there are tens of millions of African Americans and Hispanics who will also be hit by the cuts being proposed by the Republicans. There are also plenty of white people who did not vote for Trump who will be hit by these cuts. But there is at least a small irony in the fact that millions of Trump voters will be frontline losers if Trumpcare gets signed into law.

If she was looking for a quiet night on the town, she must have been wildly disappointed.
Hillary Clinton received a standing ovation as she and former President Bill Clinton made their way to their seats for a performance of the Tony Award-winning play “Oslo” in New York City on Sunday night.
The former secretary of state and presidential candidate was quietly walking down the aisle when audience members caught sight of her and broke out into applause and cheers.
“We love you, Hillary!” several people were heard shouting as others began chanting her first name.
So thrilled to see President Bill and Secretary Hillary Clinton in audience of Oslo at Lincoln Center today.  Seems others felt as I did. 💜 pic.twitter.com/gddLSpRGRb
With what appeared to be the entire house on its feet, Clinton turned to wave at her supporters as her husband reached her side.
It was far from the first such welcome received by the former first lady and New York senator since she conceded the presidential election to Donald Trump. She has been met with similar receptions while attending other Broadway productions, including “Sunset Boulevard,” “In Transit” and “The Color Purple.”
In contrast, Vice President Mike Pence was booed by audience members at a performance of “Hamilton,” shortly after Trump’s election win.

WASHINGTON — National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden says a photographer managed to “capture the politics of an era” when he snapped a photo of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R) lounging with his family and friends on an otherwise empty stretch of beach.
“Rarely does a photographer capture the politics of an era in one frame,” Snowden posted Monday on Twitter, along with The Star-Ledger’s front page showing Christie kicked back on a state beach that he’d ordered closed to the public amid a state government shutdown. 
Rarely does a photographer capture the politics of an era in one frame. pic.twitter.com/7YyJqpsdDi
Snowden also retweeted a post from Steve Politi, the newspaper’s sports columnist, showing throngs of beachgoers crowded at one end of a long stretch of sandy shore.
My favorite @AndyMills_NJ photo: Look at the people on the public beach, and then Christie's beach. https://t.co/8jAY6dp4DQ pic.twitter.com/asqnOB73st
On Sunday, NJ Advance Media published several aerial photos taken by Andrew Mills showing Christie, along with family and friends, at New Jersey’s Island Beach State Park, the site of an official governor’s residence. The park was one of several closed over the holiday weekend after lawmakers failed to pass a state budget.
In an interview with Fox 5 in New York on Monday, Christie mocked local media, saying, “What a great bit of journalism by The Star-Ledger” and “I really wonder about journalists who spend money flying planes to look whether people are actually where they said they would be.” He said he announced his plans to vacation at the New Jersey residence regardless of whether a shutdown occurred and dismissed the idea that the beach closure was in any way his fault. 
In a separate interview Monday with Fox 29 in Philadelphia, Christie was asked about people who are upset about not being able to enjoy the beach over the holiday weekend.
“I’m sorry they’re not the governor,” he said. “This is a residence.”

If you thought the minimum wage only moved in one direction, then Missouri Republicans have a surprise for you.
After St. Louis leaders raised the wage floor for workers within city limits, the state GOP recently passed what’s known as a statewide “preemption” law, forbidding localities from taking such matters into their own hands. On Friday, Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens (R) said he would let the law go into effect, thereby barring cities and counties from setting a minimum wage higher than the state level.
For low-wage earners in St. Louis itself, the new law will have a startling consequence: It will actually push the minimum wage back down, from the city-approved $10 per hour to the state-approved $7.70. The downgrade is slated to take effect on Aug. 28.
For someone earning the bare minimum, that’s a potential cut of 23 percent.
 readers: Are you, or is someone you know, a St. Louis worker affected by this law? Email us about it.
It’s impossible to say how many St. Louis employers will take the GOP up on the offer to slash pay, given the effect such a move could have on competitiveness and morale. But if businesses agree with Republicans that the city wage hike is too aggressive, then at least some of them are likely to revert to the lower pay rates, particularly in low-wage industries like fast food.
Greitens wasn’t eager to own the state-sponsored pay cut, opting not to sign the bill. But he doesn’t have to sign it for it to become law. Under the Missouri Constitution, a bill passed by state legislators eventually goes into effect so long as the governor doesn’t veto it.
The governor said the St. Louis minimum wage would “kill jobs.” “And despite what you hear from liberals, it will take money out of people’s pockets,” he added, according to the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
The Fight for $15 ― the union-backed campaign behind the St. Louis initiative and other wage-boosting efforts around the country ― called Greitens’ passive approval of the law “disgusting.”
If St. Louis' existing measure were to stay in effect, the city’s minimum wage would be $10 this year and would then climb to $11 in 2018. The statewide rate of $7.70 typically goes up just a few cents a year, since it’s tied to an inflation index.
St. Louis originally passed a minimum wage hike two years ago, prompting business groups to sue to stop it in court. The Missouri Supreme Court recently ruled that the St. Louis measure was lawful, but the new state preemption law renders it irrelevant. 
The concept of preemption laws has been around for years, but they’ve become increasingly popular in GOP-controlled states as more cities and counties have tried to raise the minimum wage. Business groups have struggled to blunt local wage legislation and referendums, but they've had better luck convincing Republican state legislators to block them from the state capitol. 
St. Louis is one of the more glaring case studies, since the wage floor will now sink lower due to a state law. But at least 17 states have preemption laws that stand in the way of local minimum wage legislation, according to a recent study by the National League of Cities. 
In Alabama, GOP state legislators passed a preemption law taking aim at the city of Birmingham’s $10.10 minimum wage. The Alabama chapter of the NAACP ended up filing a civil rights lawsuit against the state, claiming that the majority-white legislature was disenfranchising Birmingham residents, who are 73 percent African-American.
The suit was originally dismissed but is now on appeal.

A top Justice Department corporate crime expert has quit, saying it’s impossible to hold suspected lawbreakers to standards that President Donald Trump is not meeting himself.
Hui Chen, who was the compliance counsel in the fraud unit of DOJ’s criminal division, discussed her reasons for quitting in a LinkedIn post published June 25. She wrote that it was impossible to sit across from corporate representatives and demand a basic standard of behavior that is not being enforced in the White House.
“Trying to hold companies to standards that our current administration is not living up to was creating a cognitive dissonance that I could not overcome,” Chen wrote in her post, which was first reported by the International Business Times.
“Even as I engaged in... questioning and evaluations, on my mind were the numerous lawsuits pending against the President of the United States for everything from violations of the Constitution to conflict of interest, the ongoing investigations of potentially treasonous conducts, and the investigators and prosecutors fired for their pursuits of principles and facts,” she wrote. “Those are conducts I would not tolerate seeing in a company, yet I worked under an administration that engaged in exactly those [conducts]. I wanted no more part in it.”
Chen has posted several tweets critical of the administration.
For those who truly care about #ethics, ignoring our current #conductatthetop requires abandonment of conscience. https://t.co/LnlGldId9c
What do you think of a company GC who refuses to answer the Audit Comm's questions b/c he wants to protect the CEO? #SessionsHearing
The #Constitution is our nation's Code of Conduct. When the board is not enforcing it, shareholders must step up.https://t.co/7JAhF82ntO
In her LinkedIn post, Chen explained that she now believes she can effect more change from outside the government than from within it.
“Nothing matters to me more than working to restore the notions of integrity, decency, and intellect back into our government,” she concluded. “I want to help elect candidates who stand for those values, and I cannot do that while under contract with the Criminal Division due to Hatch Act restrictions.”
The Hatch Act forbids federal employees in the executive branch from using their positions to sway political elections.
Last week, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a nonprofit watchdog organization, accused U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley of violating the Hatch Act by endorsing a GOP candidate in a South Carolina congressional election.
Chen said she will “also consider it my personal mission to participate in efforts to hold our elected representatives accountable and to protect our environment.”
The Justice Department touted Chen’s hiring in late 2015. The former New York federal prosecutor monitored programs bringing companies into legal compliance after suspected criminal activity.

President Donald Trump caused the name of a holiday to trend on social media over the weekend ― just not the one most Americans are about to celebrate. 
Speaking at an event to honor veterans and celebrate faith just days ahead of Independence Day, Trump brought up Christmas.
“I remind you that we’re going to start staying ‘Merry Christmas’ again,” the president said at the “Celebrate Freedom” event at the Kennedy Center on Saturday night. 
Trump was speaking about the role of faith in American politics, including the First Amendment’s guarantee of religious freedom, when he fired off what might be the earliest-ever salvo in the so-called “war on Christmas.”
While many of his followers were filled with the holiday spirit ― in July ― others were mystified by the random shoutout to a holiday still nearly six months off, causing #MerryChristmas to rise like Santa’s sleigh through Twitter’s list of trending topics:
Wishing you all a #merrychristmas this July 4th weekend
Santa Claus better hope that there are no "tapes" of our "reindeer games" before he starts "leaking" to the press! #MerryChristmas
Was just reading the #merrychristmas hashtag page, and wow, #Trump 's followers...doesn't take much to make em happy..or gut our country. 🤨
I'm about to cover my 25th Christmas and I promise you, there's no war on Christmas. #merrychristmas https://t.co/q8MkNEjJwp
Are @IvankaTrump & @realDonaldTrump having a Christmas in July sale? #MerryChristmas 🎄#FollowTheMoney 💰#BoycottTrumpBrands pic.twitter.com/kDOBNJn4eO
Seriously! Seriously! this 4th of July holiday weekend, #POTUS urges us to run to saying #MerryChristmas again! #CelebrateFreedom #FFS  🤔🙄😯 https://t.co/IQatD4MNad
Seriously? #MerryChristmas in July? OHHHH - I get it. @realDonaldTrump knows he won't be around in December to say it. #ImpeachTrump pic.twitter.com/o9PHO05NhT
#merrychristmas in July? This is what conservatives are obsessing over? Trump doesn't go to church or read the Bible. #twocorinthians"????
#DescribeInsomniaBadly - It's how I feel after just discovering #Trump thinks we celebrate Christmas 🎄 in July! #MerryChristmas y'all! pic.twitter.com/DXhbVMarHn
I'm a liberal atheist & say #MerryChristmas! Another phony fear Conservatives have been fed. Also, it's July & no one cares!
 
 

GETTYSBURG, Pa. ― A few hundred armed militia group members, Sons of Confederate Veterans, Ku Klux Klaners, supporters of President Donald Trump, and other self-described patriots descended upon the Gettysburg battlefield Saturday to defend the site’s Confederate symbols from phantom activists with the violent far-left group Antifa.
Some carried semi-automatic rifles ― permitted in Pennsylvania ― as they peered out across the battlefield with binoculars, on the lookout for the black-clad, face-masked anti-fascists, anarchists and socialists they said they had heard were traveling to the national park to dishonor Confederate graves, monuments and flags.
Although many came expecting violence ― even after Antifa made it clear its adherents never planned to show up ― the only bloodshed came when a lone militia group member accidentally shot himself in the leg.
In the two years since white supremacist and Confederate flag admirer Dylann Roof massacred nine black parishioners at a South Carolina church, the movement to remove Confederate symbols from public property has gained renewed purpose and momentum. So far, 60 Confederate symbols have been removed from city- and state-owned land across the U.S., according to the Southern Poverty Law Center. Most recently, the city of New Orleans toppled four statues honoring the Confederacy.
This has incensed and energized militia groups and white supremacists across the country, who claim Confederate symbols represent heritage and history, not hate. In May, white supremacists showed up with torches at a monument to Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee in Charlottesville, Virginia, after the city moved to take it down.
Saturday’s rally in Gettysburg showed pro-Confederate activists increasingly agitated, armed, and itching for a fight ― even when there is no one to clash with them.
Once a storm had passed through and the sweltering July sun returned, they gathered on the battlefield here just north of the headquarters of Union Army General George Meade, whose army repelled the Confederacy in the Civil War’s most decisive battle.
The Sons of Confederate Veterans pledge allegiance to the Confederacy in Gettysburg pic.twitter.com/Pf2tCsw4XV
After singing the National Anthem and performing the Pledge of Allegiance, the hundreds of Southern Army enthusiasts ― many of whom wore Trump pins, hats or T-shirts ― took a moment to honor the Confederate flag.
“I salute the Confederate flag,” they said in unison, “with affection, reverence and undying devotion to the cause for which it stands.”
Billy Snuffer, who identified himself as the Imperial Wizard for the Rebel Brigade of the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, told  that there were KKK members scattered across the battlefield to “aid law enforcement” and protect the area’s 20 or so Confederate monuments from Antifa. 
“The Confederate battle flag has nothing to do with slavery,” he said, standing in the same area where 154 years ago the Confederate Army marched into town, abducting free black Americans and sending them to the South to be sold into slavery.
“This is our history, this is our heritage,” the Martinsville, Virginia, resident said of the monuments.
In mid-June, rumors had spread online that Antifa, a decentralized group known for violently confronting white supremacists and hate groups, planned to burn a Confederate flag and desecrate Confederate gravestones in Gettysburg on July 1, the date the three-day battle began in 1863.
The rumors mobilized various far-right groups, who secured permits from the National Park Service to show up en masse to the battlefield, setting the stage for what they thought would be a dramatic showdown between the opposing fringe elements of U.S. politics.
But the central Pennsylvania chapter of Antifa told local newspapers last week that it never intended to gather at Gettysburg.
The rumors, the group told  in a Facebook message, were the work of online trolls. One such tale said Antifa members were going to urinate on Confederate gravestones. One problem: There aren’t any Confederate gravestones to desecrate. Although some Confederate soldiers are buried at Gettysburg, their final resting places aren’t marked.
Still, efforts to quell the rumors didn’t stop anti-government militia groups from across the country ― including West Virginia, Michigan, Nebraska and California ― from showing up Saturday. 
“Our main purpose is just to defend the historical parts of the city here and stop them from being destroyed and keep people who aren’t part of anything ... safe,” said a 27-year-old who would give his name only as Thor and who said he was a veteran of the war in Afghanistan.
He said he was aware that Antifa likely wasn’t going to show, but that he felt compelled to be there, just in case.
Thor, a Gettysburg-area resident and member of the anti-government militia group the Three Percenters, wore an ammunition belt around a bulletproof vest. The sleeves of his camouflage uniform were rolled up, revealing the word “INFIDEL” tattooed to his arm.
Asked what he thought about all the Confederate symbols being removed from public property across the U.S., Thor didn’t mince words.
“It pisses me off,” he said.
The assembled groups’ hatred for Antifa Saturday was surpassed only by their anger at the growing movement to remove Confederate symbols from public property.
Ted Fields, a Sons of Confederate Veterans leader wearing a black leather biker vest, addressed the crowd using a megaphone and asserted that the dismantling of Confederate monuments could lead to the decimation of America itself.
“I believe their master plan is once they get us used to taking down some monuments here and there in some liberal cities, then they’re gonna try it out here and see if that works,” he said.
“The next thing you know, they’re going to take our Constitution and say you know what? That was written by slave-holders, it’s racist, let’s get rid of it and become a communist nation. I don’t want that on my watch.”
The crowd cheered.
A woman named Jenny Lee, who claimed to be Robert E. Lee’s 3rd great grandniece, implored the crowd not to be bowed by political correctness.
“We must never back down or be intimidated by the antics of the ignorant,” she said. “And all the safety-pin-wearing, easily offended, butt-hurt, temper-tantrum-throwing, vagina-hat-wearing, face-covered, commie fascists can kiss my ass.”
Lee was forceful in telling the crowd that the Confederacy ― and by extension, everyone gathered at the rally ― wasn’t racist. The Civil War, she said, wasn’t about slavery. (It was.)
Plus, she added to great applause, thousands of blacks fought for the South, neglecting to mention that they were forced to do so.
As the rally concluded, the sound of cannons could be heard in the distance, as Civil War re-enactors not associated with the pro-Confederate rally shot off blank rounds, smoke billowing out across a different part of the battlefield. Actors in blue and gray uniforms played dead and injured.
But the only person actually shot Saturday in Gettysburg with a real bullet was a 23-year-old militia group member named Benjamin Hornberger, of Shippensburg, Pennsylvania. According to U.S. Park police, Hornberger triggered his revolver when the flag pole he was carrying bumped against his gun holster. The bullet went into his leg. Police say officers quickly applied a tourniquet, likely saving his life.  
According to PennLive, Hornberger talked to paramedics and “seemed in good spirits.”
America does not do a good job of tracking incidents of hate and bias. We need your help to create a database of such incidents across the country, so we all know what’s going on. Tell us your story.

While lawmakers are unlikely to pursue an impeachment of President Donald Trump any time soon, that didn’t stop protesters from hitting the streets in Los Angeles on Sunday to demand his ouster.
Thousands of protesters assembled for the march in the city’s downtown, the Los Angeles Times estimated, while more than 12,000 indicated on the event’s Facebook page that they were attending. It was one of the biggest turnouts for the nearly 50 impeachment marches organized around the U.S. on Sunday by a group of volunteers, who raised money for the events on crowdfunding sites. They did not identify any partner groups. 
“Impeachment is a political process, and it’s is enshrined in the Constitution. We cannot afford to have a president that breaks the law,” LA march organizer Tudor Popescu said at the rally, pointing to former FBI director James Comey’s testimony that Trump asked him to drop the investigation into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn’s ties to Russia. 
Event organizer Tudor Popescu makes his case for impeachment of Trump at march in downtown LA. pic.twitter.com/A1BxAvR7YO
While some Democratic lawmakers have called for Trump’s impeachment, the lengthy process likely remains far off. Others have pumped the brakes on such talks, saying such efforts may alienate voters the party needs to win seats in the 2018 midterm elections. 
Sunday’s marches in Los Angeles and around the country are the latest protests in the wake of the Senate delaying a vote on its version of the health care bill, which would undo the Affordable Care Act and leave up to 22 million fewer people with health insurance by 2026, the Congressional Budget Office estimated. 
They also come in the wake of a particularly inflammatory week on Trump’s Twitter account. Earlier that morning, in an apparent endorsement of violence against journalists, Trump tweeted a doctored video of himself beating up a CNN logo. He also went after MSNBC “Morning Joe” hosts Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski on Thursday morning, insulting Brzezinski’s appearance in two sexist tweets. 
As has become more common in recent months, Los Angeles’ anti-Trump rally was countered with a pro-Trump gathering outside the Los Angeles Police Department headquarters.
Trump supporters sing 'God Bless America' at re-elect President Trump for 2020 rally and counter protest to today's impeachment march pic.twitter.com/vpZBQdx45l


WASHINGTON ― The pay gap between male and female staffers in President Donald Trump’s administration has risen sharply, after improvements during the administrations of Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama.
Women in the Trump White House are earning about 63 cents for every dollar earned by their male counterparts, according to a comparison of the median salaries of men versus women in the administration (the median salary is the figure that half the workers earn above and half below). The study was conducted by the conservative-leaning American Enterprise Institute think tank and released earlier this week.
The 37 percent gender pay gap represents a sharp increase from the 11 percent disparity in the last year of Obama’s presidency. At its highest, that gap was 18 percent in 2014, according to the Washington Post. The gap in Trump’s administration is also worse than it was under Bush — according to the Post, it was about 25 percent at its highest point in 2003.
A closer look at the administration’s data finds that in Trump’s White House, a smaller proportion of women serve in high-paying, senior-level positions. Nationally, that same reality has been a crucial culprit in exacerbating the gender pay gap — and a factor that some people use to claim that the problem is “a myth.” 
The White House has been required by law to disclose salary information for its employees since 1995.
In 2014,  conducted a historical analysis of White House salary data using only higher-paying positions to see whether more women had been elevated to the top of the executive mansion’s pyramid.
In examining the top 25 percent of earners, the gender pay gap among the White House personnel had barely changed over multiple presidencies.
Overall, Obama did appoint more women to senior positions than Bush — the proportion of females among the highest-paid staff oscillated between 35 percent and 45 percent, consistent with his administration focusing on issues of gender inequality. Under Bush, it varied between 27 and 40 percent.
So far, that proportion has declined under Trump, with women occupying just under 26 percent of those upper level roles, according to the administration’s data.
Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter who is an unpaid White House adviser, has pledged to make reducing the gender pay gap in the U.S. a priority for his administration. But like many of her supposed causes, they seem to have gone nowhere, even when applied to the very people working for her father.
The White House’s 37 percent gender pay gap is more the double the 17 percent gap nationally reported for 2015 by the Pew Research Center in its analysis of the median hourly earnings of both full- and part-time U.S. workers.

WASHINGTON – A day before meeting Russian President Vladimir Putin, President Donald Trump on Thursday again refused to blame Russia for election meddling designed to put him in the White House – a conclusion that U.S. intelligence agencies made public in January.
“I think it could very well have been Russia, but I think it could well have been other countries,” Trump said at a joint news conference in Warsaw with Polish President Andrzej Duda. He declined to name those other nations: “I won’t be specific.”
Trump did, however, blame former President Barack Obama for failing to stop the interference as well as the intelligence agencies themselves ― extraordinary criticisms coming from a commander-in-chief while on foreign soil.
The Office of National Intelligence released a report on Jan. 6 detailing the consensus view of the National Security Agency, the CIA and the FBI stating that Russia not only meddled in the presidential campaign, but also specifically wanted Trump to defeat Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.
“We assess Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the U.S. presidential election. Russia’s goals were to undermine public faith in the U.S. democratic process, denigrate Secretary Clinton, and harm her electability and potential presidency. We further assess Putin and the Russian government developed a clear preference for President-elect Trump,” the report said. “We have high confidence in these judgments.”
Trump, though, said it was impossible to know who did the meddling – a claim he made frequently during the campaign and transition. “Nobody really knows,” he said. “Nobody really knows for sure.”
He said U.S. intelligence agencies could not be trusted because they had believed that Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein possessed weapons of mass destruction in 2002. “They were wrong and it led to a mess,” he said.
Trump followed the news conference with a 35-minute prepared speech at Krasinski Square in Warsaw, where he praised the Polish people for their courage during World War II and defined the current battles against the Islamic State and other Islamist terror groups as a clash of civilizations ― a view advanced by top advisers Stephen Bannon and Stephen Miller.
“I declare today for the world to hear that the West will never, ever be broken,” Trump said, including in his remarks the phrase “radical Islamic terrorism” even though foreign policy experts in his own administration have advised him against using it. “Our values will prevail, our people will thrive and our civilization will triumph.”
Trump did express support for the mutual defense clause of the NATO charter – “We stand firmly behind Article 5, the mutual defense commitment” – even as he continued to criticize other NATO members for not spending enough on defense.
The “Article 5” pledge reportedly had been part of a speech prepared for Trump’s visit to the NATO meeting in Brussels in May, but was removed at the last minute. That change perplexed and worried other NATO members concerned about Russian aggression in recent years.
Trump also criticized Russia directly for its actions in Ukraine, including the 2014 invasion and annexation of Crimea.
“We urge Russia to cease its destabilizing activities in Ukraine and elsewhere, and its support for hostile regimes, including Syria and Iran, and to instead join the community of responsible nations in our fight against common enemies and in defense of civilization itself,” Trump said.
Trump is in his first full day of a three-day trip to Europe for the G-20 summit of the world’s large industrial economies. Those meetings begin Thursday in Hamburg, Germany, where Trump is also scheduled to have his first one-on-one meeting with Putin.
Trump avoided public speeches during his first trip to Europe, where he is deeply unpopular. He is less strongly disliked in Poland and other Eastern European countries, however, and Polish media reported that the Polish government arranged to bring busloads of people in to cheer Trump at his speech.

The ethics group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington asked the Office of Government Ethics on Thursday to probe whether Jared Kushner, President Donald Trump’s son-in-law, improperly failed to disclose his interest in a company and whether he has adequately divested from it since agreeing to serve as one of Trump’s top White House advisers.
Kushner failed to include his interest in Cadre, a real-estate tech startup, on his financial disclosure forms, The Wall Street Journal reported in May. Jamie Gorelick, Kushner’s lawyer, told the Journal at the time that the stake would be included in a revised disclosure form.
“Kushner’s failure to disclose his ownership in Cadre is very troubling,” CREW Executive Director Noah Bookbinder said in a statement. “It appears to be one of his larger investments, not something he could easily overlook, and it is impossible to ensure that senior government officials are behaving ethically if they fail to disclose key assets.”
Gorelick told the Journal that Kushner “resigned from Cadre’s board, assigned his voting rights and reduced his ownership share.” But CREW says the OGE may have granted Kushner permission to sell certain assets and avoid paying certain taxes on them because he hadn’t disclosed his ownership interest.
George Soros and Peter Thiel also have an interest in Cadre, according to the Journal. Inc. described the company as an “e-commerce site for investing in real estate.”


As Republicans in Congress move to repeal the Affordable Care Act, Democrats are moving toward Medicare for All – a single-payer plan that builds on Medicare and would cover everyone at far lower cost.
Most House Democrats are already supporting a Medicare for All bill.
With health care emerging as the public’s top concern, according to recent polls, the choice between repeal of the Affordable Care Act and Medicare for All is likely to be the major domestic issue in the presidential campaign of 2020 (other than getting Trump out of office, if he lasts that long).
And the better choice is clear. Private for-profit insurers spend a fortune trying to attract healthy people while avoiding the sick and needy, filling out paperwork from hospitals and providers, paying top executives, and rewarding shareholders.
And for-profit insurers are merging like mad, in order to make even more money.
These are among the major reasons why health insurance is becoming so expensive, and why almost every other advanced nation – including our neighbor to the north – has adopted a single-payer system at less cost per person and with better health outcomes.
Most Americans support Medicare for All. According to a Gallup poll conducted in May, a majority would like to see a single-payer system implemented. An April survey from the Economist/YouGov showed 60 percent of Americans in favor of “expanding Medicare to provide health insurance to every American.”
That includes nearly half of people who identify themselves as Republican.
If Republicans gut the Affordable Care Act, the American public will be presented with the real choice ahead: Either expensive health care for the few, or affordable health care for the many.

Justin Trudeau stopped in on Queen Elizabeth II in Scotland on Wednesday, and pictures of the pair sent people online into a meltdown.
Canada’s prime minister enjoyed a private audience with the monarch at Edinburgh’s Holyrood Palace ahead of his attendance at the G20 summit, which starts in Hamburg, Germany, on Friday.
Trudeau was welcomed to the royal residence in true Scottish style.
Prime Minister Trudeau arrives at Hollyrood House for his meeting with the Queen. #hw pic.twitter.com/fVIbpXdNCk
He was then introduced to the queen.
.@JustinTrudeau had an audience with her Majesty Queen Elizabeth at Holyrood Palace in Scotland. @RoyalFamily #cdnpoli #hw pic.twitter.com/LUJLkond6i
Following the meeting, Twitter users soon turned to the important topic of what socks Trudeau was wearing ― given his upstaging by Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar in the sock stakes during their first official meeting on Tuesday.
Checks Queen for socks https://t.co/sDB2jw7BSe
I wonder if Trudeau gave the Queeen some cool socks as a gift. He's good at socks and what else do you get the Queen? Everyone likes socks.
Most important question...what socks did @JustinTrudeau wear?! https://t.co/75qO7aRhNT
Should have been a sock exchange here....She coulda rocked some with little crowns that said "yasss queen" https://t.co/fThGM34QUZ
Others, meanwhile, simply enjoyed Trudeau’s encounter with the queen for what it was.
I need these photos printed on a t-shirt https://t.co/5lixSKsA1n
The Queen meeting Justin Trudeau in Edinburgh. pic.twitter.com/VlEsYPi3en
Love the blue suit Justin Trudeau is wearing to meet the Queen! 😍😍😍😍
I bet the Queen gets the feels for Trudeau when she meets him today.
Can't wait for the jogging pic. https://t.co/g7ZkHlJZuv
This is such a sweet photo. Trudeau obviously has great respect for Queen Elizabeth.
Here’s what Trudeau himself had to say about his chat with the queen:


Since Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) blinked and put off a vote on his health care bill last week, there’s been a lot of chatter about the wheeling and dealing going on behind the scenes.
With so much at stake and with all the action ― or at least the illusion of action — being reported, it can be easy to miss the forest for the trees, so a crucial thing bears re-emphasizing:
Whatever bill McConnell and 49 other members of the Senate Republican Conference deem acceptable to bring to the floor will not fundamentally differ from the staggeringly unpopular bill they fled Washington to escape before Independence Day and that made them avoid their constituents over the holiday break.
Sure, there’s been a lot of noise. They’re close to a deal! They’re not! McConnell has hundreds of billions of dollars to dole out to placate reluctant Republicans! President Donald Trump says just repeal it first and figure out the rest later! The White House is having some rallies, or something!
That all seems to be true, as far as it goes. McConnell came up short of the 50 votes he needed to move ahead with the Better Care Reconciliation Act, forcing him to go back to the drawing board for a revised plan to repeal and “replace” the Affordable Care Act. There are many trial balloons aloft.
Maybe they’ll leave in place the Obamacare tax on rich people’s investment earnings, like Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) says they should.
Maybe Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) will come back to the fold if leaders accept his proposal to let health insurance companies sell junk policies again.
Maybe the extra money for opioid addiction treatments will be enough to convince GOP senators like Rob Portman (Ohio) and Shelley Moore Capito (W. Va.) to reboard the Obamacare repeal bandwagon.
The tweaks various Republican senators are suggesting and that the White House and GOP leadership are floating appear designed more as new talking points to answer specific criticisms of the bill than as real responses to those criticisms.
Like the underlying bill itself, none of these things would actually solve the problems with the American health care system, including those the Affordable Care Act didn’t address, failed to correct or worsened. And this legislation in any form would undermine that law’s successes, like its extension of health coverage to 20 million people and its reduction of the uninsured rate to an all-time low.
Unless McConnell, Trump, House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and every other Republican in Congress experiences the kind of stunning change of heart normally seen only among stingy businessmen at the end of old children’s movies, their shared goals remain the same: enact hundreds of billions of dollars in tax cuts for wealthy households and health care corporations (and, uh, tanning salons) and pay for those by gutting Medicaid and drastically scaling back financial assistance for private insurance and consumer protections for insurance customers. 
If a health care bill makes it to the Senate floor with enough support to go back to the House and then to Trump’s desk for a signature, it will have the same fundamental effects as the version that couldn’t get 50 votes last week.
It will still slash Medicaid spending by more than 30 percent over the next two decades, resulting in 14 million fewer people covered by that program in the next 10 years and likely even more further down the line as states make cuts to coverage and benefits in response to less federal support. 
It will still replace the Affordable Care Act’s tax credits for private insurance with smaller ones available to fewer people, forcing millions to pay more or go without.
It will still weaken the rules that not only guarantee access to health coverage for everyone ― regardless of their health status, pre-existing conditions and medical histories ― but also that also guarantee the insurance will actually cover the medical care they need.
It will still lead to higher deductibles and other out-of-pocket costs.
It will still ask older, poorer people to pay more than they can afford ― or even more than they actually earn in a year ― for health insurance. This is the main way the bill seeks to lower premiums for the younger and wealthier people who need help the least. 
It will still repeal taxes on people and companies that already are plenty flush. 
And it will still increase the number of Americans who don’t have health coverage, and therefore access to lifesaving care, by about 20 million over the next 10 years.
There’s a simple reason we can be sure about this without knowing whatever might come out of the backroom deals underway: The results described above aren’t the unintended consequences of the Better Care Reconciliation Act or the House-passed American Health Care Act. They are the explicit purpose of those bills.
The priority that underlies all the various Republican health care proposals we’ve seen this year is to shrink the social safety net and return the money currently financing it to the rich and to big business.
Raising taxes to pay for less fortunate people to access health care is anathema to conservative ideology. Despite the expressions of concern for those people who have gone unaided or even been harmed by the Affordable Care Act, that’s the real reason why the GOP is so disgusted by this law and has spent the past seven years trying to tear it down.
And if you believe that taxation is theft and that it’s not the government’s concern if citizens are suffering from illness and injury, any bill you can vote for is one that would conform federal policy to that philosophy.
No amount of opioid-treatment money or funding for high-risk pools or relaxed regulations on health savings accounts can make up for that.
In the end, there may be enough Republican senators willing to pretend it does that this legislation can pass. But it won’t make it true.


Shortly after the fatal shooting of 20 students and six educators at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) traveled to the state capital of Hartford to attend a roundtable on gun violence.
Murphy expected the group gathered there would commiserate about the national tragedy that had so recently unfolded and offer their support for a swift legislative response. But what he discovered was frustration.
“The families and the advocates there are furious,” Murphy recalls. “Furious. A lot of compassion for what happened in Newtown but they don’t understand why it is this that caused me to care about this issue when they’ve been going through it for years and years.”
It was a wake-up call for Murphy. Many more would come in the subsequent months.
On this episode of the “Candidate Confessional” podcast, Murphy talks about how his eyes were opened to the epidemic of gun violence. He had represented Newtown as a congressman and had often given rote responses to questions on gun control before the shooting took place.
“I gave an NRA [talking point] answer and I’m so embarrassed about that now,” he says.
Sandy Hook dramatically altered his perspective. On the morning of the massacre, Murphy was waiting to catch a train with his 4-year-old son when news of the shooting broke. He quickly jumped into a car and drove 40 minutes to Newtown. When he arrived, he went directly to the firehouse, where victims’ families were gathered.
Among the family members he greeted, Murphy remembers talking with Neil Heslin, a victim’s father who would become one of the faces in the push for gun control legislation in the aftermath.
“This solitary figure who sat at one of these tables and never left,” is how Murphy describes him. “He literally couldn’t move. … There was no way for anyone to understand this grief. For Neil it meant he physically couldn’t move.”
Days later, Murphy, along with fellow Connecticut Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D), approached parents of the Sandy Hook victims at one of the first wakes and asked when they would be ready to talk about a political response. They didn’t hesitate.
“The parents said, ‘We are ready right now,’” Murphy recalls.
The end result of that push for action is now well-known. Congress failed to pass any meaningful gun control legislation. Prospects for future legislation are dim at best. 
But Murphy said the tragedy helped him find “a passion and a drive and reason to jump out of bed every morning.” It was something that, as a legislator, he hadn’t had before, and it is something he suspects will define his life and career.
“I realized that I was not going to consider myself a success in public service if I didn’t deliver on something here,” Murphy said. “And that still scares the hell out of me. I’m now four years into the Senate and I have not delivered any meaningful federal legislative success on this issue and to the extent I will run for re-election it is in part because, boy, I just can’t imagine hanging up my spikes and having to sit down with Neil Heslin or whomever and tell them, ‘Yeah, I didn’t get it done.’ It is different now. It all feels different.”
Listen to the full episode above.
“Candidate Confessional” is produced by Zach Young. To listen to this podcast later, download it on Apple Podcasts. While you’re there, please rate and review our show. To subscribe, visit the following: Apple Podcasts / Acast / RadioPublic / Google Play / Stitcher / RSS


The GOP’s official Twitter account spent Wednesday asking prominent Democrats who oppose the Republican Party’s proposed health care bill to offer up their own solutions instead.
They lashed out at Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton (D), who promptly responded.
“We’ve got to fix what’s broken.” Where's your plan, @HillaryClinton? pic.twitter.com/CmRB4mCsZd
Clinton, who has spent decades fighting for affordable health care access, tweeted a link to her 2016 campaign promise to defend the Affordable Care Act while expanding and improving certain aspects of the plan, like lowering costs for co-pays and deductibles.
Right here. Includes radical provisions like how not to kick 23 mil ppl off their coverage. Feel free to run w/it.https://t.co/jBMFBJpSP7 https://t.co/zZoA16Ym03
Unsurprisingly, folks on Twitter loved it.
DAMN! @GOP just got owned by HRC. Again. 🔥🔥🔥
Game, set and match! https://t.co/ZyrKSegsFm
Still. pic.twitter.com/hEgBp5gb1T
How else did the @GOP think this exchange would go? https://t.co/wvGIpdNMqn
I will never forget how they critiqued you for being prepared, doing homework and research, and having an actual plan and policy.


Former Department of Justice officials and voting advocates are seriously alarmed over a DOJ letter sent to states last week that they say could signal a forthcoming effort to kick people off voter rolls. This comes as national attention focuses on several states blocking a request for voter information from President Donald Trump’s commission to investigate voting fraud, which does occur, but is not a widespread problem.
The DOJ sent the letter to 44 states last Wednesday, the same day the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity sent a letter controversially requesting personal voter information. The DOJ letter requests that election officials respond by detailing their compliance with a section of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (NVRA), which covers 44 states and was enacted to help people register to vote, but also specifies when voters may be kicked off the rolls. 
Several experts said it’s difficult not to see the DOJ letter in connection with the commission’s letter as part of a multipronged effort to restrict voting rights. 
Former Justice Department officials say that while there’s nothing notable about seeking information about compliance with the NVRA, it is unusual for the department to send out such a broad inquiry to so many states seeking information. Such a wide probe could signal the department is broadly fishing for cases of non-compliance to bring suits aimed at purging the voter rolls.
“These two letters, sent on the same day, are highly suspect, and seem to confirm that the Trump administration is laying the groundwork to suppress the right to vote,” said Vanita Gupta, the CEO of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights and former head of DOJ’s civil rights division under President Barack Obama. “It is not normal for the Department of Justice to ask for voting data from all states covered by the National Voter Registration Act. It’s likely that this is instead the beginning of an effort to force unwarranted voter purges.”
“If this went to any individual states, I don’t think anybody would’ve blinked twice,” said Justin Levitt, a professor at Loyola Law School who served as deputy assistant attorney general in the civil rights division in the Obama administration. The letter asked for public information that was uncontroversial, he added, but what made the letter “really weird” was that it was sent out to so many states.
“The Department of Justice does investigations all the time, but those are usually based on individualized predicates to believe that there’s a problem in a given area, in a given jurisdiction. And I’m not aware of a similar letter being sent to blanket jurisdictions across the country,” he said.
The NVRA requires states to “conduct a general program that makes a reasonable effort to remove the names of ineligible voters from the official lists.” If a state wants to act to remove a voter from its rolls, it must first send a broad, nondiscriminatory solicitation seeking a confirmation of address to those registered. If a person fails to respond, they can only be removed from the rolls if they don’t vote in the next two consecutive federal elections.
In the past, voting rights groups have used the legislation as a powerful tool to try to prevent states from kicking eligible voters off their rolls. The Supreme Court will consider a case next term dealing with whether a voter removal process used in Ohio is violating the NVRA.
The DOJ letter asks the states covered by the NVRA to provide information on the processes they use to remove people from the voting lists and the people authorized to implement them. It also asks for data from recent years on the number of voters removed from the voting rolls and the reasons they were removed.
“When you see DOJ send a bunch of letters like this requesting information about compliance with the law, that’s usually a sign that they’re kicking an enforcement campaign into gear,” Sam Bagenstos, who served as the principal deputy assistant attorney general for civil rights from 2009 until 2011. “It looks like what they’re doing is they’re laying the groundwork to file lawsuits against states that, in their view, aren’t kicking enough people off of the rolls.”
Devin O’Malley, a Justice Department spokesman, said the department’s review of list maintenance procedures hadn’t been done in many years.
“The Department of Justice is committed to free and fair elections for all Americans. Congress enacted the NVRA’s list-maintenance provisions specifically to advance that goal. The Department had not conducted a review of state and local list-maintenance activities under the NVRA for many years,” he said in a statement. “The Department looks forward to working with state and local election officials to facilitate appropriate list-maintenance activities toward our common goal of free and fair elections for all voters.”
A DOJ official also said the department had not coordinated with the separate election integrity commission.
But Bagenstos said he was skeptical the two efforts weren’t related and were part of a multifaceted approach by the Trump administration to make voting more difficult.
“What an amazing coincidence that these letters went out on the same day. This administration is, without even knowing it, doing parallel efforts to try to trim the voting roll. I don’t buy it,” he said. He added that the voter fraud commission led by Vice President Mike Pence and Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach was trying to create a nationwide database of voter registration that would paint a picture of potential voter fraud that could then be used to justify more restrictive voting laws.
David Becker, the executive director of the Center for Election Innovation and a former DOJ lawyer, agrees.
“In the quarter-century since passage of the NVRA, of which I spent seven years as a DOJ lawyer enforcing the NVRA, among other laws, I do not know of the DOJ conducting any other broad-based fishing expedition into list maintenance compliance, whether during Democratic or Republican administrations,” he wrote in a Thursday op-ed. Becker also noted it was strange the DOJ letter only focused on voter list maintenance procedures and did not want to examine compliance with parts of the law aimed at making it easier to vote. 
Allegra Chapman, director of voting and elections at nonprofit group Common Cause, said she found it striking the DOJ was uninterested in the aspect of the law that provided voter registration opportunities at public assistance agencies. 
“To me, that indicates this agency just has zero interest in ensuring the rights of poor Americans too and ensuring that, you know, people across the income divide are equally being given the registration services that they’re entitled to under federal law,” she said in an interview.
While Bagenstos said he was alarmed by both the Kobach and DOJ requests, he believed the department could be a much more potent tool in curbing access to the ballot box.
“On Kris Kobach’s work on this commission, they’re going to get a lot of pushback, they’ve already gotten some pushback from states. It’s all been sort of ham-handed,” he said. “They don’t really have staff, so that’s all really amateurish and it might not go anywhere. But the folks at DOJ know what they’re doing and I really worry that at the end of the day there’s gonna be a lot of noise about this Kobach-Pence commission and people will miss the enforcement efforts of DOJ.”
“DOJ, at the end of the day, is more likely to be successful as a tool in this process than is this commission, so that’s why I worry more about them,” he said.
Read the DOJ letter below:
DOJ NVRA letter by Sam Levine on Scribd


This post first appeared at BillMoyers.com
By Gail Ablow
In this “Making Change” video, we profile 35-year-old Nick Tilsen, a citizen of the Oglala Lakota Nation. Tilsen was at Standing Rock with the Indigenous People’s Power Project and worked to train thousands of resisters how to take nonviolent direct action against the Dakota Access Pipeline. Last fall, he was arrested for being chained to an excavator — but for Tilsen, that was just another hurdle in his ongoing fight to empower indigenous communities.
Tilsen was born into activism. His parents, Mark Tilsen and Joann Tall, met during the American Indian Movement (AIM) standoff with the federal government at Wounded Knee in 1973 and in later years, gained recognition for social entrepreneurship and environmental activism. His grandfather, Ken, was a civil-rights lawyer who, along with his wife Rachel (daughter of renown leftist writer Meridel Le Sueur), defended the AIM activists in their fight over treaty and civil rights. Tilsen grew up between Minnesota and South Dakota and decided as a teenager to take up the family torch and run with it — right back to his roots on the reservation.
In the video, he talks about what inspired him, at 19, to return to the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota (in one of the poorest counties in the US), and at 24, to found the Thunder Valley Community Development Corporation, a nonprofit supported by foundations, government grants and individual donors.
On 34 acres, the organization is developing a regenerative community that builds homes, creates jobs and produces all of its own energy, clean water and food. Tilsen believes that the soup-to-nuts sustainable community — a $60 million project — could inspire others around the world.
“We’re doing it in the hardest place there is to do anything. So, we sort of tongue-in-cheek say, ‘If we can do it on Pine Ridge, what the hell is everybody else’s excuse?’”
Video Editor: Corey Abel Photography: Raymond Bucko, SJ, Dave Holman, Nikki Kahn/The Washington Post via Getty Images, Matthew Williams, Thunder Valley CDC

WASHINGTON ― When North Korean leader Kim Jong Un warned in early January that his country was in the “final stages” of preparing an intercontinental ballistic missile, President-elect Donald Trump tweeted, “It won’t happen!”
On Tuesday, Kim blew through Trump’s red line and tested an ICBM capable of reaching Alaska, perhaps with a nuclear bomb. The launch, conducted as Americans were preparing to celebrate their country’s independence, showcased North Korea’s dramatic nuclear weapons development and signaled that Trump’s concept of “maximum pressure and engagement” was failing to deter the rogue state.
North Korea has launched more missiles in 2017 than it did the entire previous year. Meanwhile, the Trump administration has struggled to articulate a coherent strategy toward the Korean Peninsula.  
Part of the administration’s problem is that there are no attractive policy options for dealing with North Korea. A pre-emptive military strike would only set back, rather than destroy, Pyongyang’s nuclear program and would almost certainly prompt retaliation against the densely populated capital city of South Korea, a key U.S. ally. A decapitation strike aimed at removing Kim himself would be high-risk and unlikely to succeed since the North Korean ruler has systematically killed those who might have been looking to replace him.
U.S. military leaders in charge of drawing up war plans have warned against rushing into an armed confrontation on the Korean Peninsula. “A conflict in North Korea … would be probably the worst kind of fighting in most people’s lifetimes,” Defense Secretary James Mattis said in May. 
Diplomatic talks now could help avert the risk of a nuclear war, but are unlikely to compel North Korea to surrender its nuclear weapons arsenal.
This puts the U.S. in an uncomfortable position. “The North Koreans decided that if they build nuclear weapons, we’re going to have to learn to live with it,” said Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia nonproliferation program at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey. “And I think they’re right.”
Trump’s inability to deter Pyongyang’s nuclear ambitions is not unique. Since the collapse of a U.S.-North Korea nonproliferation agreement in 2003, successive U.S. presidents have failed to persuade North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons program in exchange for economic relief and international legitimacy. If anything, Pyongyang has become even more wedded to it since watching the U.S. help overthrow Muammar Gaddafi after the Libyan leader surrendered his nuclear weapons program.  
“They’re dealing with the fact that they have the same unpalatable options their predecessors had,” Eliot Cohen, a State Department official during the George W. Bush administration, said of Trump’s team.  
But if North Korea’s nuclear program has proved intractable for past presidents, Trump is particularly ill-suited to deal with the problem. The president has little foreign policy experience and has left top diplomatic posts unfilled. He has said he likes to be unpredictable and is internationally known for his uncensored, stream-of-conscious Twitter rants.
“North Korea has just launched another missile. Does this guy have anything better to do with his life?” Trump tweeted after the ICBM launch, referring to Kim. “Perhaps China will put a heavy move on North Korea and end this nonsense once and for all!” he continued.
Those who have spent years pursuing diplomacy with Pyongyang worry that a careless move from the U.S. president could derail the fragile status quo.
“I don’t think he puts enough thought into how the North Koreans are going to consume his tweets. There’s a lot of room for misinterpretation,” said Suzanne DiMaggio, a senior fellow at the New America Foundation who has participated in nongovernmental diplomacy with North Korea officials.  
While Trump made North Korea a high priority even before taking office, his approach has been erratic. During the campaign, he praised that country’s young leader for consolidating power by executing his uncle. “You gotta give him credit,” Trump said at a campaign rally in January 2016. “I mean this guy doesn’t play games. And we can’t play games with him.”
During his first official trip to Asia in March, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson announced that the Obama-era policy of “strategic patience” ― isolating North Korea but refraining from using force or seeking concessions ― had ended. “All options are on the table,” Tillerson warned, without elaborating on the new administration’s policy.
President Trump initially tried to convince Chinese leader Xi Jinping to take the lead role in ending North Korea’s nuclear efforts – in part by hinting at economic concessions to Beijing. He later said that a conversation with Xi had taught him that the fraught centuries-long history between the two Asian neighbors would make that difficult. “After listening for 10 minutes, I realized it’s not so easy,” Trump told The Wall Street Journal in April.
When confronted with Kim’s escalating actions, the Trump administration appeared caught off-guard. Following an April 4 missile test by North Korea, Trump didn’t tweet or issue a formal statement about it. Tillerson offered an ominous three-sentence message: “North Korea launched yet another intermediate range ballistic missile. The United States has spoken enough about North Korea. We have no further comment.”
By June, Trump seemed to have abandoned his policy of working with China to rein in North Korea. “While I greatly appreciate the efforts of President Xi & China to help with North Korea, it has not worked out. At least I know China tried!” he tweeted.
On Wednesday, the day after the ICBM launch, Trump went even further and blamed China for North Korea’s rising nuclear capability. “Trade between China and North Korea grew almost 40% in the first quarter. So much for China working with us - but we had to give it a try!” he tweeted.
The White House and the State Department did not respond to requests for comment on how the latest missile launch would affect U.S. policy.
Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, warned on Wednesday that North Korea’s actions were “quickly closing” off options for a diplomatic solution and that the U.S. “will look at any country that chooses to do business with this outlaw regime.” 
DiMaggio, who met with North Korean officials in May, said the Trump administration should respond to the ICBM test by making “a good faith effort at diplomacy.” North Korea’s rapid nuclear development should be viewed as an effort to improve its negotiating position before coming to the table, she said.
“Based on the conversations I’ve had with North Koreans, denuclearization would not be on the table initially, but that could change over time,” DiMaggio said. “The best bet for the U.S. would be to pursue some type of freeze agreement to at least decrease the heightened sense of tension that we’re currently experiencing.”
Others who have worked on North Korean issues are skeptical of negotiations aimed at merely halting its nuclear program at current levels. “North Korea would be happy to have a freeze,” said Robert A. Manning, a former U.S. intelligence official who is now at the Atlantic Council, an international affairs think tank. A freeze, he said, would provide Pyongyang with de facto recognition as a nuclear power.
Manning prefers a strategy of leaning on China to freeze North Korea out of the international system. But he also recognizes that the U.S. might have to learn to live with a nuclear-armed North Korea. In 1964, he said, the idea of a nuclear armed-China made Americans hysterical.
“But we learned to live with it,” he said. “As far as I can see, deterrence works.” 

Ivanka Trump hit back at The Wall Street Journal’s opinion editors this week with a well-reasoned rejoinder to their criticism of her paid parental leave proposal, which calls for six weeks of federally funded time off for new parents.
There’s only one problem with her elegant argument, published as a letter to the editor in Wednesday’s Journal: It’s undercut by reality.
The newspaper’s conservative opinion editors had dubbed her plan the “Ivanka Entitlement” in May when it was included as part of the White House’s budget. The editors argued that government-funded paid parental leave would somehow push poor people out of the job market.
″Another disincentive for work and advancement that traps families in poverty,” the editors wrote.
It is a poorly reasoned editorial that cites no research or evidence ― and largely depends on speculation about what Democrats will do in the future. Trump easily dismantles the specious logic, citing studies and research that show giving new parents paid time off from work to care for a newborn actually keeps women in the labor force (contra the WSJ’s theory) and provides both economic and health benefits for everyone.
“Providing a national guaranteed paid-leave program — with a reasonable time limit and benefit cap — isn’t an entitlement, it’s an investment in America’s working families,” Trump concludes.
Sure, yes. But the thing is: The Trump administration, along with GOP leaders in Congress, are doing everything they can to de-invest in America’s working families. 
President Donald Trump’s administration is hell-bent on cutting key health and economic benefits to women, such as defunding Planned Parenthood and limiting access to affordable birth control. And, crucially, Trump supports the GOP’s efforts in Congress to repeal and replace Obamacare with plans that would drastically cut Medicaid funding.
These moves would have devastating effects for working women in the United States, including increasing the number of unplanned births, while at the same time making it harder to afford to have a child.
Medicaid pays for nearly half of all U.S. births. It can cost more than $10,000 in hospital and doctor bills to have a baby in the U.S. Paid leave is nice, but hardly would make up for the cost of giving birth without insurance.
And that’s just a piece of the devastation.
More than 2.3 million working women got health care coverage via Medicaid from 2013 to 2015, according to a recent report from the National Women’s Law Center.
“Medicaid coverage allows women to work and foster economic mobility for women and their families,” the report’s authors said, citing data on the percentage of working women who rely on such coverage, as well as those employed in sectors that benefit from Medicaid spending.
Ivanka Trump says in her letter to the editor that working women, particularly those at the bottom, need paid time off when they have a baby. The benefit, she explains, leads to “healthier children and parents, greater financial stability and stronger attachment to the labor force.”
Well, so does health insurance. 
Trump might privately not support any of the damaging cuts called for by the Republican health care bills. She’s reportedly held meetings behind the scenes in an attempt to reach “common ground” with Planned Parenthood. 
But trying to pass paid leave while drastically cutting women’s health benefits is kind of like buying a beautiful new couch for your living room, while at the same time tearing down the room’s walls. 
Not a good look.

He’s been making impressive deals for decades, but the most important deal Donald Trump will ever make is with Vice President Mike Pence—for a pardon. And not just any pardon, but the broad-brush, get-out-of-jail-free kind that the newly installed President Gerald Ford granted to Richard Nixon even before Nixon had been charged with a crime.
In a move that was controversial at the time but that is now generally viewed as prudent, on Sept. 8, 1974, Ford granted Nixon “a full, free, and absolute pardon … for all offenses against the United States which he … has committed or may have committed or taken part in” while president.
Ford granted the pardon because, he said, he didn’t want to put Nixon, his family, and the nation through an ugly spectacle, and he justified his decision based in part on a 1915 U.S. Supreme Court decision suggesting that a pardon implies guilt and the acceptance of a pardon implies a confession.
That said, some people claimed that Ford and Nixon had simply made a mutually advantageous deal: You resign; I become president; I grant you a pardon.
Mr. Trump needs to make a similar deal, and soon. As he, uh, wrote, in The Art of the Deal, “sometimes making a deal comes down to timing.” As the ultimate deal maker, he knows—or at least he will soon figure out—that if he doesn’t act quickly, the possibility of a pardon will crumble like his plans for The Wall.
This is so for two reasons: First, although Mr. Pence was embarrassed in the Flynn matter, he has so far managed to stay fairly clear of the madness. The longer Trump waits to make the deal, however, the greater the likelihood that Pence will take another hit, and the more damage Pence suffers, the less cooperative he will be.
Second—and this is the more cogent reason—Trump knows that the dam that’s been holding back a multitude of legal actions against him and his associates could burst any time now. Congress has remained in check because Trump still has a strong base of support, but the closer the 2018 Congressional election gets, the more nervous our legislators will be about a White House in chaos, and Congress could pull the trigger any day of the week on the emoluments issue, the obstruction issue, or both. Meanwhile, it’s just a matter of time before the FBI brings charges against at least some of Trump’s associates—or even against his family members—or even against Trump himself. The Sword of Damocles was nothing compared with the variety of sharp objects hanging above Mr. Trump’s head.
Now I’m going to put on my psychologist hat and say something else no one is saying but lots of people are probably thinking: No matter how outrageous or reckless his behavior, Mr. Trump takes pride in what he did and then blabs about it. This is his style, his personality—it’s who the man is. Whether he has screwed the IRS, stiffed contractors out of money, fired his FBI director to take the “pressure” off, revealed classified information to the Russian foreign minister, or grabbed a few vaginas—it doesn’t matter; Trump crows about what he has done, sometimes grinning or chuckling as he does so.
On July 27, 2016, during a speech in Florida, Trump said, “I will tell you this, Russia: If you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 [Clinton] emails that are missing.” Given the pattern of behavior he has demonstrated repeatedly for much of his adult life, how can anyone doubt that, while on the campaign trail, Donald Trump “hoped” to his associates that they would get the Russian government to help him get a few votes, just as he “hoped” to Mr. Comey that he drop the investigation against Michael Flynn?
When you think about Trump from a behavioral perspective, it’s almost impossible to imagine that he did not encourage the Russians to help him. To Trump, this would have been yet another of his brilliant and advantageous deals. Trump had been trying and largely failing to get major real estate projects going in Russia since at least 1987. Conspiring with the Russians to take down Hillary Clinton would further his business interests in Russia no matter how the election turned out.
Trump needs to make the deal with Pence, but what Trump himself calls his “makeup” might get in the way: “I fight when I feel I’m getting screwed,” he said in Deal, “even if it’s costly and difficult and highly risky.”
Will his makeup prevent him from schmoozing the VP? Maybe, but it’s not just Trump who’s on the line; some of his family members are too. With all his faults, Trump seems to be as loving and loyal as a father can be. To protect himself, his business, and his family, Trump needs to get both himself and his loved ones off the hook—in other words, to make a better deal than Nixon did —to make a “beautiful” deal.
To Trump, that possibility might seem irresistible.
Dr. Epstein (@DrREpstein) is Senior Research Psychologist at the American Institute for Behavioral Research and Technology, the author of 15 books, and the former editor-in-chief of Psychology Today.

In the wake of World War II, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt took noble action to ensure that the unrelenting conflicts that had defined the early 20th century wouldn’t doom future generations. His vision was clear: “to defend life, liberty, independence and religious freedom, and to preserve human rights and justice” in their own lands, the global community would need to come together and create a post-war organization that would protect the sovereignty of all nations.
It was American leadership that mobilized the international community to create the United Nations, which would serve as a platform for addressing global threats and responding to crises that would demand coordinated, multilateral action. Since 1945, the U.N. has grown to include 193 member states, 16 specialized agencies, and an annual budget of $7.9 billion for peacekeeping operations.
Its successes are many. Eradicating smallpox and fighting famine. Responsible arms control, disarmament, and preventing nuclear proliferation. Ending conflicts and preserving peace in fragile states. And ultimately, preventing another World War.
Supporting the United Nations is both a moral imperative and aligned with our own national security interests. But you wouldn’t know that from listening to some of the reckless rhetoric from the White House and on Capitol Hill.
During her confirmation hearing, Ambassador Nikki Haley insisted that she does not believe in “slash and burn” attempts to decrease U.S. funding for the United Nations. Yet, the Trump budget does just that. Then, following her testimony before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs this week, Haley even boasted about cutting more than half a billion dollars from the U.N. peacekeeping budget.
The administration proposes a 27 percent cut to U.S. assessed contributions to the U.N. regular budget and U.N. specialized agencies, and a 37 percent cut to peacekeeping operations. The budget zeroes out funding for the U.N. Children’s Fund (UNICEF), U.N. Development Program (UNDP), U.N. Women, U.N. Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), U.N. Population Fund (UNFPA), U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNHCR), and the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change.
When I asked Ambassador Haley what point was being made with this budget, she replied “to build up our military.” But she had no defense for why such a goal had to be paid for by children around the world who rely on UNICEF for more than one-third of basic vaccinations. Furthermore, decreasing U.S. support for U.N. peacekeeping efforts will actually end up costing us more in the long run. The U.S. only pays $24,500 per year for each deployed peacekeeper, compared to $2.1 million per year for an American service member deployed to a war zone – about 86 times as much. 
A unilateral retreat, which is what the president’s budget represents, would neither improve the U.N., nor make our nation more secure. To say that this budget sends the message that U.S. leadership is essential in the world, as Ambassador Haley vowed to do in her confirmation hearing, would embarrass even George Orwell.

On a solemn afternoon in December 2012, President Barack Obama broke down in tears in the Oval Office. It was the first time many of his aides had seen him cry. That morning, 20 students had been killed in a mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, and like the rest of the nation, the president was shaken by the news.
After receiving updates from key staffers, he stepped into the press briefing room to address the nation. Fighting back tears, he said the time had come for “more meaningful action” to prevent such tragedies. He called on Congress to do something.
Then ... nothing happened. Congress failed to act. They haven’t come close since.
On this episode of the “Candidate Confessional” podcast, Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) recounts those demoralizing months when the most concerted push for gun control measures crashed into harsh political realities. He pinpoints a few reasons for the failure.
The Obama administration, Murphy says, ended up taking too long to put together its slate of reform ideas and might have made a mistake in not simply letting Congress take the lead on the issue to begin with.
“It made me a little nervous that the White House was claiming ownership of this because, at least my experience was, that’s not how things got done,” Murphy explains.
Even if Congress had taken the lead, it may not have been in a position to pass any meaningful gun control legislation. Not only did Republicans control the House, but Democrats did not have a filibuster-proof majority in the Senate. And as Murphy notes, there wasn’t a robust, well-funded contingent of gun control advocates to counter the National Rifle Association’s inevitable pushback in that immediate, post-Sandy Hook moment.
“You are starting to figure out that you’ve got an enormous imbalance of political power,” Murphy says of watching the gun debate unfold after the Sandy Hook tragedy. “There was nowhere to plug in at that point.”
What happened in the months between the massacre and the failed Senate vote on background check legislation acted as a civics lesson for Murphy, who had represented Newtown in the House and won election to the Senate but was not yet sworn in when the shooting took place. He was flabbergasted by the NRA’s opposition to action ― “we were in for a fight that I hadn’t anticipated” ― but also heartened by Democrats’ willingness to tackle the matter.
“Joe Manchin was emotionally moved in a way I saw no other senator be emotionally moved,” Murphy says, referring to the Democratic senator from West Virginia who authored legislation on background checks.
And when it became clear the measure would fail, Murphy woke up to the reality that even national tragedies can be less powerful than legislative inertia.
On April 17, 2013, the Senate failed to pass a watered-down version of background checks legislation, having already scrapped efforts to tackle assault weapons and magazines. It was a profoundly bitter day, punctuated by Obama excoriating Congress for its failure to act.
Family members of the Sandy Hook victims had gone to Capitol Hill that morning and then to the White House, thus they had a bird’s-eye view of the failure. Murphy might wish he had handled legislative strategy differently, but he wouldn’t have avoided the vote.
“There was no way not to have that,” he said. “There was no way for the families not to feel like they had gotten a chance. To just tell them, ‘Trust me, the votes aren’t there,’ would have been unsustainable.”
Listen to the full episode above.
“Candidate Confessional” is produced by Zach Young. To listen to this podcast later, download it on Apple Podcasts. While you’re there, please rate and review our show. To subscribe, visit the following: Apple Podcasts / Acast / RadioPublic / Google Play / Stitcher / RSS


U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley would like the country to know that while its citizens were eating hot dogs and watching fireworks, she was spending the Fourth of July in meetings due to North Korean leader Kim Jong Un launching the country’s latest missile test.
Spending my 4th in meetings all day. #ThanksNorthKorea
The U.S. confirmed the launch of North Korea’s first successful intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), and issued a stark warning to the country and its leader.
Meanwhile, folks on Twitter were quick to lambast the ambassador for sending what many considered to be a tone-deaf tweet.
Check out some of Twitter’s most scathing responses below:
The amount of arrogance in this tweet is baffling. Is serving the American people an inconvenience for you? If so, feel free to step down.
I just saw an ambulance go down my street. Doubt they'd be all, "Thanks, stroke patient," or whatever situation they're facing on the 4th.
What job did you think you were signing up for, exactly?
While I appreciate your service to our nation, perhaps you should be thanking the nearly 200,000 US troops serving overseas on #FourthOfJuly
Not to mention those protecting our homeland, including the police officers, firefighters, and other first responders keeping us safe today.
I'm pretty sure my ancestors who fought in the American Revolution were also thinking, "Thanks, Redcoats. There goes my long weekend." pic.twitter.com/IaPCjDVpQW
I thought for sure this was a parody account. 🤣Just because your boss plays golf all the time doesn't mean you get holidays off. pic.twitter.com/qQG1zLROyp
Yeah, sucks to be in a position of power during a crisis & having to show up to actually do your job while millions are threatened
Here's a description of your job in the event you are unaware of what it entails https://t.co/GIMiePH1Xj
lol your boss is golfing https://t.co/zeWqHHHkov
That's why it's called SERVICE
Spending my 4th hoping we don’t get dragged into a war by a psychotic megalomaniac. Or that guy from North Korea.
Kim Jong-un rubs his hands together and says, "Excellent. Inconveniencing Nikki Haley was the entire purpose of the missile launch." https://t.co/ENYRiWXod5
Spending my 4th using diplomacy to prevent nuclear annihilation. #GodBlessAmerica Fixed it for you Nikki


That sure didn’t go as planned. 
Indiana Republicans called for people to share “Obamacare horror stories” on social media, but the only horror many people expressed was at the idea of losing it if the GOP repeal plan passes Congress. 
The post drew thousands of replies on Facebook and dozens on Twitter, and the vast majority had the opposite of “horror” stories. 
Instead, they recounted how the Affordable Care Act had helped them, and urged Republicans to keep it in place.   
Here are some of those responses: 
“Obamacare means that my baby who fought leukemia and won can’t be denied coverage for a pre-existing condition,” wrote Heather E. Denise-Kill. “Obamacare means she gets the care she needs and we don’t have to chose between her health and keeping our home.”
The real horror story was before the ACA when I wasn't covered for a pre-existing condition. #obamacare #aca
“I started my own company since the ACA passed,” wrote Keith Cruz. “I know quite a lot of others who have done the same thing now that affordable healthcare is not tied to an employer.”
ACA worked well for me. Great service/support. Great docs/hospitals. Please appropriate more $$ to improve online experience-that would help
“As a breast cancer survivor I was dropped by 2 insurance companies before joining ICHIA, Indiana’s high risk pool,” wrote Janet Rhodes Chilton. “Obamacare was such a huge relief!! Not only was the cost of my insurance about 10% of what I had been paying monthly for over a decade, I actually got to see doctors and physical therapists to fix long neglected medical problems.”
Side note: cancer at 25 on parents insurance thanks aca. Can still get insurance. Not dead or bankrupt: the horror
“My ‘horror’ story is that I’m able to get the care I need for a disability without worrying about pre-existing conditions restrictions, lifetime limits, and irrational denials of coverage or non-renewals because I use my benefits,” wrote Tim Vermande. 
Obamacare enabled me to get insurance despite a preexisting condition. The exchange allows my daughter to afford the cost of insurance.
“My aunt was self employed and went years with no coverage. With Obamacare she got a colonoscopy that revealed 17 polyps,” wrote Heather Long. “These were removed and her life was saved.”
My dad got all his medicine for free instead of having to pay for it! The horror!
“My horror story is that my elderly parents are no longer denied coverage or have to pay obscene premiums & they have peace of mind they won’t go bankrupt,” wrote Jennifer Myers. 
“My daughter is able to get her hearing checked regularly to keep her hearing aids programmed correctly so she can excel in school,” wrote Sarah Lawrence. “I have insurance despite having pre existing conditions, and I can afford my seizure medication! Thanks Obamacare...or officially known as the Affordable Care Act.” 


The Fourth of July is a day of commemorating America’s fight for liberty and CNN decided to mark the holiday by celebrating, very specifically, freedom of the press.
The network tweeted on Tuesday quotes by some of the most influential people in U.S. history, including Benjamin Franklin, Eleanor Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy and Abraham Lincoln.
“Celebrate America and its freedoms this #IndependenceDay,” the network wrote in its first tweet.
Of all the quotes CNN shared, more than half concerned the First Amendment, which includes the guarantee of freedom of the press.
#FourthOfJuly pic.twitter.com/InSHd4scRl
Considering President Donald Trump’s crusade to discredit various media outlets he deems as offering “fake news,” CNN’s decision to single out iconic figures’ thoughts on the freedom of press would seem to be no coincidence.
This weekend, Trump specifically targeted CNN during yet another Twitter tirade. On Saturday, he pinned a tweet to his timeline which suggested that CNN should be renamed “fraud news,” then called his use of social media “MODERN DAY PRESIDENTIAL.” Later that evening, Trump railed against the media in a speech he gave in Washington to honor military veterans during a religiously themed Fourth of July event.
On Sunday, Trump doubled down on his attacks and appeared to endorse violence against journalists by tweeting an edited video that showed him violently beating the CNN logo during a WWE match.
CNN responded to Trump’s weekend Twitter rants by noting White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders’ quote from last Thursday: “The president in no way form or fashion has ever promoted or encouraged violence. If anything, quite the contrary.”
"The President in no way form or fashion has ever promoted or encouraged violence. If anything, quite the contrary." - @SHSanders45 6/29/17
Trump’s crusade against the media notwithstanding, CNN sent the country a reminder that U.S. leaders before him honored the First Amendment and touted the press’ right to hold the government accountable.
View CNN’s historical words of wisdom below.
Happy #FourthOfJuly from CNN!Celebrate America and its freedoms this #IndependenceDay pic.twitter.com/PPpymSxnIy


WASHINGTON — A journalist who revealed the racist, anti-Semitic internet troll behind the CNN beat-down video that President Donald Trump shared says he’s facing a barrage of death threats. And he warns that the president is fueling a violent, anti-media conversation online. 
Jared Yates Sexton, a New York Times contributor and assistant professor of creative writing at Georgia Southern University, shared with  several threatening messages directed at him since he unmasked the troll Sunday. In one, a Reddit user warns of a looming “journocaust” — presumably a holocaust for journalists. In another, a Twitter user says there’s “a civil war coming” and that memes — specifically, the antisemitic one by the creator of the video that Trump shared — are “the least” of Sexton’s problems.
“There’s a fever pitch to this dialogue that is dangerous to everybody,” Sexton told . “And it’s the people who are mentally ill, who are unhinged, who are unwell — they pick up on this stuff. And they are really, really moved to act by it.”
“If we keep this up, there’s going to be more consequences,” he added. “That’s just a fact.” 
The GIF surfaced last week under the Reddit thread “Trump takes down fake news” and appears to have been created by user “HanAssholeSolo.” It is from a 2007 wrestling clip of then-reality TV star Trump tackling and punching WWE owner Vince McMahon. Superimposed over McMahon’s head in the GIF, however, is the logo of CNN, a news outlet Trump repeatedly attacks and refers to as “fake news.” Trump posted a slightly edited version of the clip to Twitter on Sunday morning, which the official @POTUS account retweeted.
The video has been widely viewed as the latest example of Trump endorsing violence against the media, which he has called “the enemy of the American people.” 
#FraudNewsCNN #FNN pic.twitter.com/WYUnHjjUjg
Following Trump’s tweet, Sexton revealed in a series of posts to Twitter that HanAssholeSolo has an ugly history of online racism and anti-Semitism. 
Here's another meme from the guy Trump tweeted, this one showing CNN personalities with Jewish stars. pic.twitter.com/BJoJ751eMQ
Having written about the rampant homophobia, misogyny and racism at Trump rallies along the campaign trail, Sexton is no stranger to online harassment. But after he exposed the type of person Trump had elevated, Sexton said neo-Nazis and nihilists “came out of the woodwork.” 
This violent internet culture is nothing new. What has changed, Sexton told , is many in this world feel empowered by and have found a hero of sorts in Trump. And many have embraced the president’s clear hatred of the press, with calls for bloodshed and civil war. 
“I think a lot of these people have a shared idea that this would be a time where they would basically be able to kill liberals,” Sexton said. “With a little bit of research what I’ve found is there are large online havens where they talk about widespread murder of journalists. They fantasize about killing them in the streets, like a revolution. They have terms for it, like ‘day of the rope.’”
Sexton has tweeted extensively in the wake of Trump’s controversial post. He warned about the possibility of Trump getting someone killed. He noted that a little over a month ago, Greg Gianforte, the millionaire Republican running for Montana’s open congressional seat, was charged with misdemeanor assault after attacking a reporter — and went on to win the election the very next day. And he said the president is “giving power and voice to antisemitic people and emboldening them and their dangerous conspiracies.” 
Sexton said he’s been subjected to an “overwhelming” amount of harassment. On Monday, he posted a series of tweets about what journalists are up against in 2017. 
I'd like to give a little insight into what it's like being a journalist in 2017 and why Trump's rhetoric is incredibly dangerous 1/
Yesterday I broke the news that the guy who made Trump's CNN gif also created an antisemitic meme and was obviously racist. 2/
In the wake of that, I received numerous threats. I was told people wanted to shoot, strangle me, hang me, throw me out of a helicopter 3/
“This environment is the creation of the man in the White House. There are valid criticisms of the media, many on point, this isn’t that,” he added on Twitter. “When you start calling a group of people enemies of the country, this is what happens. When you call them scum, this happens.”
“This shouldn’t be a country where these violent instincts are cultivated and encouraged,” he continued. “We’re at a real tipping point right now. But make no mistake, there’s something growing in this country, and it is very, very ugly.”
While Sexton’s inbox and Twitter account were being flooded with threats, HanAssholeSolo was basking in their newfound internet glory. 
“Holy shit!!,” the user wrote on Reddit following Trump’s endorsement. “I wake up and have my morning coffee and who retweets my shitpost but the MAGA EMPORER himself!!! I am honored!!” Many other Trump-supporting Reddit users extended congratulations, with one admirer calling HanAssholeSolo a “legend.”
By sharing the meme, Trump has “given more power to an obvious racist, anti-Semite and misogynist,” Sexton told ; he has sent a clear message that such behavior is acceptable.
In a response, CNN said it’s “a sad day when the president of the United States encourages violence against reporters.” It called the tweet “juvenile behavior far below the dignity of his office.”
CNN commentator Ana Navarro went a step further, warning Trump “is going to get somebody killed in the media. Maybe that will stop him.”
The Washington Post also looked into the Reddit user’s disturbing history, noting a post in which he or she claimed to carry “punch blades” while traveling in Paris, in case “any of those Islamic fucks tried shit with me would get an immediate punch to the neck with 2 inches of titanium embedded in their throat.”
The Anti-Defamation League’s Center on Extremism, which tracks extremism and hate online and offline, analyzed the Reddit account and found “an 18-month record of vile comments and memes against Muslims, African-Americans, Jews and others.”
Although not much is known about the person, ADL said some posts indicate the user is “a parent and a veteran in his 40s living in Tennessee.” The organization compiled a number of the user’s disturbing posts.
“In an online culture where sharing of memes and comments is the ultimate validation, this obvious purveyor of hate has been elevated by what can be considered the ultimate share,” the group wrote.  
Sexton said he’s becoming increasingly concerned about the long-term effects of such hateful discourse.
“It might be a couple of generations before we actually understand how much damage has been wrought here and what the long-term consequences are,” he said. “Some of it is violent and some of it is social and personal. We’re going to find out in the long run what this has done and it’s probably going to be significant.”   


More than 40 states and the District of Columbia are refusing to hand over personal voter information to a new White House commission on voter fraud, which was formed last month in the wake of President Donald Trump’s unsubstantiated claims that millions voted illegally in last year’s presidential election.
Many states flatly said they would not comply with the administration’s request for sensitive voter information, including birth dates, Social Security numbers, driver’s license numbers, and email addresses. Other states, however, said they were willing to do the bare minimum to comply with the request by only providing voter information that was already available to the public.
In every state listed below, however, election officials from both parties are putting up some form of resistance to the Trump administration’s demands for voter information. Some are pushing back against the commission despite the fact that they have yet to receive its actual letter requesting the information. Critics of the initiative fear the data will be used to create an inaccurate picture of voter fraud, a relatively rare phenomenon in the U.S.
Here’s who’s resisting the administration’s request so far. (This list is being updated as more information becomes available.):
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Georgia
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nevada
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming

We’ve put together the 13 terms you need to know to resist right now... and 10 days from now, and two weeks from now, and next month.
1. Oligarchy: A pathetic situation where a small portion, one percent, owns everything, and more than 99 percent of the population are getting just poorer. This is the current state of affairs in a number of countries, including Russia and the U.S.
2. Putin: A tiny, malicious KGB agent, whose main goal in life is to steal more and more money from the Russian people. He would love to see patriarchal ethics-free oligarchy spreading all around the globe, and is making strides in achieving that goal by pulling his Trump puppet’s strings.
3. Obstruction Of Justice:  According to Putin, this is how you run a country. Trump is proving he shares Putin’s views on this.
4. Impeachment: Something you should demand if your president is a dangerous, uncontrollable a**hole.
5. Greed: An emotion that whispers in your ear and tells you it’s the most important thing in the world. “Money! Fame!” If you don’t fight it actively, it creeps in and takes over. It’s sneaky like that. And before you know it, you find yourself doing sh*t you never would have imagined. Greed is corrupting. Once it has crept in, you lose all clarity and sense of self.
6. Emoluments Clause: The U.S. constitutional clause that forbids government officials from accepting payments and gifts from foreign governments, which Trump did. Trump “flagrantly violated” the Emoluments Clause by maintaining ownership of his businesses after inauguration. Just one example: The Trump International Hotel took in about $270,000 in payments tied to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which is lobbying to pull back a U.S. terrorism law. There is so much of this bald-faced, illegal corruption going on, we have to press Congress to act, and we also have to keep saying this out loud: President Trump is in violation of the law he has sworn to uphold.
7. Free Tuition: An educated population is a powerful population. The raping of the public education system in this country is political tactic. If you want to kick against the pricks, read and fight for your right for free college tuition, something that the U.S. does not have, which is just straight-up embarrassing.
8. Universal Health Care: This is a basic human right. End of story. End of discussion.
9. Clitoris: In the same way that defunding education is a means of social control, repressing women is a tactic, a means of retaining white male power. Female pleasure is female power. This part of the human body, which has been extensively repressed by patriarchal culture ― either ignored by phallocentric society or eradicated through the barbaric procedure of mutilation ― belongs in our whole, collective revolution.
10. Celebrity Fascism: The disease taking over the world, and one that must be eradicated by any means. An ultra-corrupted state of mind in which someone believes that money and status allows you to get away with literally anything. “Just kiss. I don’t even wait. And when you’re a star, they let you do it. You can do anything. Grab them by the pussy. You can do anything.” No. You can’t.
11. Organize: Don’t just tweet. Occupy the streets and squares! And do not leave until your demands are met. Our job is to make those who are in power scared. Our job is to scare the sh*t out of them, because that’s the only way power reacts. Politics is a game of fear. Appealing to its better nature is a waste of time. It doesn’t work. Show the f*ck up.
12. Riot: The ability to ask radical questions, to dream, and to fight for those dreams. It’s a skill, an act of radical nonviolence, that we have been losing, but that we need to reclaim as soon as possible. It’s the key to any kind of meaningful future for humankind.
13. Pussy: Something everybody wants and that nobody is going to get without a riot. No riot, no pussy.
Xo
Nadya Tolokonnikova with Lizzy Goodman

North Carolina is the only state in which a woman can’t withdraw consent after sexual intercourse has already begun. But a state lawmaker is now trying to change that, sponsoring legislation that would upend a decades-old state Supreme Court ruling that determined it can’t be rape if a woman offers her consent before penetration happens — no matter what her choice may be after that. 
“North Carolina is the only state in the U.S. where no doesn’t mean no,” state Sen. Jeff Jackson (D-Mecklenburg) told The Fayetteville Observer this week. Jackson is the sponsor of Senate Bill 553, which states that a person who “continues to engage in intercourse after consent is withdrawn” can be charged with rape. The bill applies specifically to vaginal intercourse. 
In 1977, Beverly Hester of North Carolina was on a first date when she was sexually assaulted. She later testified that she had willingly accompanied her date to a bedroom but that he had later “forced her to have intercourse with him even though she begged him not to,” per a 2004 report in the Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology. 
The state’s Supreme Court ultimately ruled that Hester’s date had not raped her. “If the actual penetration is accomplished with the woman’s consent, the accused is not guilty of rape, although he may be guilty of another crime because of his subsequent actions,” said the court decision.
That ruling has had devastating consequences to this day.
Jackson said state legislators “are hearing more and more about women who have been raped and are being denied justice because of this crazy loophole.”
Amy Guy of Wake County is one of these victims. Guy told WCNC.com in an interview last month that her estranged husband had initially been charged with second-degree rape after continuing to have sex with her despite her pleas for him to stop. Jonathan Guy had showed up intoxicated at her apartment last year demanding sex, she said. She initially consented, but when he turned violent during the act, she begged him to stop — a plea that he ignored.
Guy’s second-degree rape charge was eventually reduced to a misdemeanor assault because of the Supreme Court ruling from the 1970s, reported WRAL.com. 
“I was devastated. I didn’t understand how that could be because I knew I had been raped,” Guy told the station. ”I don’t understand how the law can say that I wasn’t.”
This week, assault victim Aaliyah Palmer, 19, also came forward with her story. Like Guy, she says she had initially consented to have sex with a man but withdrew her consent when he turned violent.
The January assault happened at a party near Fort Bragg. “I said, ‘You’re hurting me. Stop,’” Palmer told the Observe, saying she repeated this demand several times, but he refused to stop.
Four soldiers who had been present at the party and who filmed Palmer’s sexual assault were charged with “peeping Tom” counts. But the man who forced himself on her was not charged with any crime. 
“It’s really stupid,” Palmer told the Observer, that a law allows the man to escape without consequences. “If I tell you no and you kept going, that’s rape.”
Palmer and Guy said they had come forward with their stories in the hopes that the law would be changed to protect victims of rape. 
Jackson said, however, that his bill, titled “Revoke Consent for Intercourse,” never got a hearing in the Senate and will likely be dead for the remainder of the two-year legislative session. But he told WRAL that he’s undaunted and will continue to push similar bills “until the law is changed.”  
“There’s no reason for this to be partisan,” Jackson told the Observer. “It’s about doing what’s obviously right.”
According to a report on Vice’s Broadly site last month, North Carolina may be the only state that has “explicitly” determined that consent cannot be withdrawn once sex begins, but an overwhelming majority of states consider this a gray area. Only eight states, including California, Kansas, South Dakota and Maine, “affirmatively recognize that consent can be withdrawn at any time during intercourse,” reports Broadly. Only one, Illinois, has codified this in law. 
Need help? Visit RAINN’s National Sexual Assault Online Hotline or the National Sexual Violence Resource Center’s website.


WASHINGTON ― Some FBI employees and their guests wore “Comey is my homey” T-shirts to the bureau’s Family Day in Washington on Friday in what appeared to be an unofficial show of support for former FBI Director James Comey, who was fired in May by President Donald Trump.
At least a dozen people wore matching #ComeyIsMyHomey shirts, according to social media postings. Family Day is an annual event for employees and their families to visit the FBI as well as showcase divisions within the agency, an FBI spokesperson told . People in the photos could not be reached or declined to comment.
When Comey was fired, he was overseeing the FBI’s investigation into whether Trump’s campaign associates colluded with Russian attempts to interfere in last year’s presidential election. The White House initially said Trump fired Comey at the recommendation of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who drafted a memo outlining criticisms of Comey’s handling of the probe into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. But Trump later told NBC he planned to fire Comey regardless of Rosenstein’s recommendation because he was fed up with the Russia investigation.
Comey has since emerged as an unlikely star among opponents of the Trump administration. Once accused of tilting the election in Trump’s favor with his pronouncements on the Clinton email saga, Comey now appears well-poised to reveal damaging information about the president. Shortly after he was fired, Comey leaked memos he wrote while still head of the FBI describing Trump’s bizarre demand for loyalty and a request that the bureau drop its investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn. Comey later confirmed both of those incidents in a public congressional hearing. Nearly 20 million people watched that hearing, with some skipping work to tune in from bars.  
Trump at one point raised the possibility on Twitter that he had recordings of his conversations with Comey — a statement that turned out to be baseless and looks to have been intended to undermine Comey’s credibility. One Family Day attendee wore a button that riffed off Comey’s Senate testimony: “Lordy, I hope there are tapes.”
Within the FBI, Comey’s ouster feels particularly personal. Despite the White House’s claim that he had lost confidence of “rank and file” FBI employees, Comey still enjoyed broad support within the bureau, Acting Director Andrew McCabe testified at a Senate hearing in May. And even some of Comey’s detractors saw Trump’s move to fire him as an inappropriate effort to shut down the investigation.
The back of some shirts included a quote that was attributed to Comey, though we could not confirm he said the specific words: “We choose to do good for a living.”

Illinois’ first full-year budget since 2015 became law on Thursday after the House of Representatives overrode the governor’s vetoes of a $36 billion fiscal 2018 spending plan and $5 billion tax hike.
But the measures may not save Illinois from becoming the first-ever U.S. state with a junk credit rating.
Illinois now has a budget. This historic standoff lasted 737 days.July 1, 2015 was the last time the state had a budget.
The Democratic-controlled House was able to muster enough bipartisan votes to enact a trio of budget and revenue bills into law over Republican Governor Bruce Rauner’s objection. The House’s action, which was delayed by a hazardous material situation that prompted a nearly two-hour lockdown of the state Capitol in Springfield, followed successful Senate veto override votes on Tuesday.
The spending plan for the fiscal year that began on July 1 ends an unprecedented two-year budget drought that stemmed from an impasse between Rauner and Democrats who control the legislature.
“Our options are this or a financial meltdown,” said State Representative Steven Andersson, a suburban Chicago Republican who voted in favor of the overrides.
As the nation’s fifth-largest state operated during those years on spending ordered by courts and mandated by Illinois law, its unpaid bill backlog ballooned to about $15 billion.
Moody’s Investors Service, which rates Illinois one notch above junk, placed the state under review on Wednesday for a potential downgrade, saying the budget plan may fall short in addressing the state’s huge unfunded pension liability and the bill backlog.
The new budget aims to initially reduce the bill pile by only about a third, while banking on a projected $1.5 billion in savings from creating a hybrid retirement plan for new hires and other pension measures.

Republicans spent years promising that if they simply got control of the government, they would give people access to better, cheaper coverage by freeing them from the Affordable Care Act, or “Obamacare.”
Now Republicans control both the White House and Congress, and they have written legislation to repeal the ACA. But their latest bill, which Senate GOP leaders hope to pass sometime this month, wouldn’t live up to their promises or come anywhere close. 
On the contrary, millions would lose coverage they would get under current law, according to multiple independent estimates. Some people would be better off, but the overall effect would be to leave people paying more for their health care, not less. 
Unable to win public support for this approach, as the proposal’s dismal poll numbers indicate, Republicans are now resorting to a more familiar political tactic.
They are attacking Hillary Clinton.
Like so many things Republicans have said about health care, or about Hillary Clinton for that matter, these new statements aren’t consistent with the facts. But they do reveal a lot about how the two parties understand health care ― and the policy tradeoffs each is willing to make.
The jab at Clinton appeared on the GOP’s official twitter feed Wednesday, as part of a series of missives ― each one singling out a prominent Democrat for acknowledging problems with the Affordable Care Act and then, supposedly, offering no plans for fixing those problems.
First the Republicans criticized Sens. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.). Then they went after Clinton, quoting from a 2016 presidential campaign appearance:
“We’ve got to fix what’s broken.” Where's your plan, @HillaryClinton? pic.twitter.com/CmRB4mCsZd
It’s true that, like most Democrats, Clinton in 2016 openly admitted Obamacare does not work for everybody ― that the program had saddled some people with exorbitant premiums or out-of-pocket costs, and left some parts of the country struggling to maintain competitive insurance markets.
But contrary to what Republicans are saying now, Clinton during the presidential campaign actually had a plan to address these problems. 
Clinton’s plan looked very different from what Republicans were proposing then, or what they are trying to do now, because Clinton also recognized the Affordable Care Act’s accomplishments ― which included not just a historic drop in the number of uninsured Americans but also cheaper, stronger coverage for millions whose low incomes or pre-existing medical conditions had made decent insurance impossible to get in the old days.
Instead of ripping the guts out of the Affordable Care Act and reversing that progress, Clinton sought to strengthen the new system ― by, among other things, using government negotiating leverage to bring down prescription drug prices, creating a public insurance option to improve competition and reduce prices, and offering new tax credits to offset out-of-pocket expenses for people with severe medical problems.
The plan was vague on key points, like exactly how the federal government would use its new negotiating authority with drug companies. But it was more detailed than what then-presidential-candidate Donald Trump had put forward and, fully fleshed out, Clinton’s proposal would have represented a substantial commitment of government resources.
When the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget analyzed Clinton’s health care agenda, as part of a broader examination of her campaign promises, it concluded that the initiative would cost about $250 billion over 10 years ― money Clinton proposed to raise through higher income taxes on the very wealthy.
Clinton’s proposal looked a lot like recommendations that former President Barack Obama made before leaving office. The core elements ― new tax credits that would bolster financial assistance already available through Obamacare, government negotiation of drug prices, and a public option ― are the ones most Democrats mention when they describe how they would address health care if they had the political power to do so.
That very much includes high-profile figures like Sanders and Warren who believe the ultimate policy goal for Democrats should be to create a single-payer insurance system, in which the government provides insurance directly to everybody.
Of course, Republicans would reject Clinton’s ideas, as well as single-payer, because they entail some combination of new government spending, new taxes, and new regulations. Republicans want less of these things, and their proposals to repeal the Affordable Care Act reflect that.
The Better Care Reconciliation Act, the bill Senate GOP leaders hope to pass this month, would drain more than $1 trillion out of federal health programs, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
The biggest chunk of that money would come out of Medicaid, all but certainly forcing states to cover fewer people or fewer services. The rest would come from existing tax credits for people who buy coverage on their own, forcing many of those people to accept plans with even higher out-of-pocket costs ― or to drop coverage altogether.
The Senate bill would also relax regulations on insurance, including requirements on the services insurers must cover, thereby making it harder for people with pre-existing conditions to get the coverage they need.
In short, they would tend to make the problems most people associate with the Affordable Care Act ― premiums or out-of-pocket costs out of reach for middle-class Americans ― worse rather than better. 
Republicans prefer this approach in part because they want taxes on corporations and the wealthiest Americans to go down, not up ― and in part because, fundamentally, they don’t believe in the whole idea of universal health care. Access to insurance regardless of income or medical status is simply not something most Republicans believe the government should guarantee.
The public doesn’t share that conviction. In fact, the more Republicans talk about repealing the Affordable Care Act, the more the public seems to like the law.
That may explain why Republicans are launching baseless attacks against a former Democratic presidential candidate who has mostly withdrawn from political life, rather than defending their own agenda on its merits.

Goes without saying, really, but Vice President Mike Pence is no MC Hammer.
MC made a name for himself in 1990 by reminding everyone of the things they could not touch (mainly, “this”). Pence, meanwhile, went to NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Thursday, and, upon encountering a piece of equipment marked “Critical Space Flight Hardware ― DO NOT TOUCH,” did this:
On Friday, Pence followed up on the gaffe that (metaphorically) sent Twitter into orbit, joking that Florida Sen. Marco Rubio (R), who accompanied him on the tour, peer-pressured him into it:
Sorry @NASA...@MarcoRubio dared me to do it! pic.twitter.com/qIYtKOPyFh
Apparently the veep has a habit of getting handsy, as he followed up on his original tweet with a humorous, photoshopped photo of him petting a porcupine:
Okay...so this isn't exactly the first time this has happened. pic.twitter.com/6Y7b3UlJXe
NASA, good sports that they are, gave Pence a pass.
“It was OK to touch the surface,” the agency tweeted Friday. “Those are just day-to-day reminder signs. We were going to clean it anyway. It was an honor to host you!”
“The signs are there as a day-to-day reminder, including the one visible on the titanium Forward Bay Cover for the Orion spacecraft,” NASA spokeswoman Jen Rae Wang told  in a statement.
“Procedures require the hardware to be cleaned before tiles are bonded to the spacecraft, so touching the surface is absolutely okay,” she added. “Otherwise, the hardware would have had a protective cover over it like the thermal heat shield, which was nearby.”


E does not = mc2! If E equaled mc2, then my name would be Mike Pmc2nce!#PenceScience
Like what you read below? Sign up for  HILL and get a cheeky dose of political news every evening!
Some presidents go to Europe and make grand speeches; Donald Trump goes to Europe and speaks like that cousin of yours who’s read one too many biographies of Erwin Rommel. We’re starting to think that Trump’s tendency to assign a wide array of tasks to Jared Kushner is based on Kushner’s ability to embroil himself in a wide array of scandals. And Eric Trump said that the “lines at Home Depot” are evidence of his father’s success as president. For the record: Nothing would creep us out more than coming across Eric Trump buying a saw. This is  HILL for Thursday, July 6th, 2017:
OGE DIRECTOR RESIGNS - We’d say that this is the most thankless job in Washington. But...  Dana Liebelson: “Office of Government Ethics Director Walter Shaub Jr. announced his resignation on Thursday, effective later this month. He is planning to join the Campaign Legal Center, a nonprofit that works on voting rights and campaign finance issues. Shaub’s resignation marks the culmination of a months-long battle between the federal government’s top ethics official and President Donald Trump, who once promised to ‘drain the swamp’ of corruption in Washington. In his resignation statement, Shaub appeared to be sending a message to the White House. He quoted federal law, praising ethics officials for their commitment to protecting ‘the principle that public service is a public trust, requiring employees to place loyalty to the Constitution, the laws, and ethical principles above private gain.’ Shaub said he was not pressured to resign, according to The New York Times.” []
There’s only one O.G. E who truly matters.
CHRISTENDOM CARNAGE - It’s amazing that a guy who sold steaks in an electronics catalogue is lecturing the world about the decline of Western civilization. Glenn Thrush and Julie Hirschfeld Davis: ”President Trump said on Thursday that Western civilization was at risk of decline, bringing a message about ‘radical Islamic terrorism and ‘the creep of government bureaucracy’ to the one European capital he views as most hospitable to his nationalist message. Mr. Trump, who broke with tradition by attacking American leaders and institutions while abroad, delivered his message in a speech to a friendly Polish crowd before a two-day summit meeting of Group of 20 leaders in Hamburg, Germany. Hours later, he flew from Warsaw to Hamburg, where he held a low-key private meeting with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, who perhaps best symbolizes the deep skepticism shared by Western leaders toward Mr. Trump’s persona and his policies, ranging from addressing climate change to confronting Russia.” [NYT]
What is reality, anyway? “Hours before a crucial meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, President Donald Trump stopped short Thursday of condemning Moscow for meddling in the U.S. presidential election — and refused to say if he would raise the issue when the leaders go behind closed doors…. Trump’s critique of Russia did not appear to extend to its actions during last year’s presidential campaign…. During a news conference before his speech praising Poland for overcoming adversity, Trump again questioned the reliability of U.S. intelligence on the election issue and argued that Russia wasn’t the only country that might be guilty of interfering. ‘Nobody really knows for sure,’ Trump said.” [AP’s Ken Thomas and Darlene Superville]
BOY’S NIGHT OUT - Just Vlad, Vlad’s guy, The Donald, and the winner of the Russian Order of Friendship. So, Vlad and three of his guys. Jonathan Swan: “There will likely only be six people in the room when President Trump meets President Putin on Friday at the sidelines of the G-20 meeting in Hamburg, Germany. According to an official familiar with the meeting’s planning, it will be Trump, Putin, the Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, the Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov, and translators.″ [Axios]
CAN GETTING PRETTY ACCUSTOMED TO ITS UPROOTED EXISTENCE - Or, you know, a joke about punting. Burgess Everett: and Josh Dawsey: ”Senate Republicans are highly unlikely to vote next week to repeal Obamacare and are tentatively preparing for a vote in approximately two weeks, according to senators and officials on Capitol Hill and in the White House. The Congressional Budget Office is reviewing legislative language sent by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell; the Senate parliamentarian must weigh in on controversial proposals; and GOP leaders still have not forged a bill that can get 50 votes. Those factors are likely to push the pivotal roll call closer to the end of July than immediately after the July 4 recess…. A White House official said there would be no health care vote next week and that the White House and Senate Republicans would consider nominations on the floor until the health care vote is ready. Republican leaders in the House and Senate originally hoped for a repeal vote as early as January.” [Politico]
...WHAT? This sounds suspiciously like responsible governance, so we’re assuming McConnell was misquoted. Bruce Schreiner and Alan Fram: “A bill focused on buttressing the nation’s insurance marketplaces will be needed if the full-fledged Republican effort to repeal much of President Barack Obama’s health care law fails, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Thursday…. ‘If my side is unable to agree on an adequate replacement, then some kind of action with regard to the private health insurance market must occur,’ McConnell said at a Rotary Club lunch in this deep-red rural area of southern Kentucky…. ‘No action is not an alternative,’ McConnell said. ‘We’ve got the insurance markets imploding all over the country, including in this state.’” [AP]
Sexist House dress code gets well-deserved scrutiny. This has been going on for a long time (and has nothing to do with Republicans), and it’s bad. “A young, female reporter recently tried to enter a guarded room known as the Speaker’s lobby outside the House chamber, but her outfit was considered inappropriate because her shoulders weren’t covered. She was wearing a sleeveless dress. Forced to improvise, she ripped out pages from her notebook and stuffed them into her dress’s shoulder openings to create sleeves, witnesses said. An officer who’s tasked with enforcing rules in the Speaker’s lobby said her creative concoction still was not acceptable.” [CBS News’ Rebecca Shabad]
Like  Hill? Then order Eliot’s book, The Beltway Bible: A Totally Serious A-Z Guide To Our No-Good, Corrupt, Incompetent, Terrible, Depressing, and Sometimes Hilarious Government
Does somebody keep forwarding you this newsletter? Get your own copy. It’s free! Sign up here. Send tips/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to eliot@.com. Follow us on Twitter - @Hill
JARED KUSHNER TARGETED FOR FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES - Sam Levine: “The ethics group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington asked the Office of Government Ethics on Thursday to probe whether Jared Kushner, President Donald Trump’s son-in-law, improperly failed to disclose his interest in a company and whether he has adequately divested from it since agreeing to serve as one of Trump’s top White House advisers. Kushner failed to include his interest in Cadre, a real-estate tech startup, on his financial disclosure forms, The Wall Street Journal reported in May. Jamie Gorelick, Kushner’s lawyer, told the Journal at the time that the stake would be included in a revised disclosure form.” []
ERIC TRUMP: JUST A NORMAL GUY WHO GOES TO HOME  DEPOT - Garet Williams: “On Thursday morning in an interview with Fox & Friends, President Trump’s son Eric Trump continued his father’s criticism of the media by saying that everyone — with the exception of Fox News — was focused on ‘garbage’ and ’distractions′ rather than how the United States is ‘thriving’ under the Republican administration. In fact, to see this abundance, apparently one need look no further than their local Home Depot. ‘I mean, go into Home Depot. Just a simple test. Look at the lines in Home Depot, right? I mean, we’re thriving as a nation,’ Eric Trump said. ‘Everybody wants to get focused on nonsense, on garbage, on distractions.’” [Vox]
NATION’S CAPITAL VERY POLITICAL: REPORT - Also, kind of (that is, very) segregated. Paul Schwartzman and Emily Guskin: ”One out of every three Washingtonians has marched in protest against President Trump or his policies at least once since January, making the District of Columbia the capital of national dissent, a new Washington Post poll finds.... According to the Post poll, 53 percent of white residents participated in a march or demonstration in opposition to Trump’s policies since the start of the year, compared with 16 percent of African Americans and 36 percent of Hispanics and those of other racial and ethnic groups. The overwhelmingly African American residents of Wards 7 and 8 are the city’s least likely to protest Trump, with only 12 percent saying they had. By contrast, 54 percent of residents in overwhelmingly white Wards 1 and 3 in Northwest D.C. say they have protested the president.” [WaPo]
Scalise returns to ICU. “House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, who was wounded by a gunman in Alexandria last month, was readmitted to ­MedStar Washington’s Intensive Care Unit on Wednesday, said officials from the hospital and his congressional office.” [WaPo’s Clarence Williams]
BECAUSE YOU’VE READ THIS FAR - Here’s President Cat.
THIS IS HILARIOUSLY STUPID - Joe Flint: “In a game largely sanctioned by TV-ratings firm Nielsen, television networks try to hide their shows’ poor performances on any given night by forgetting how to spell. That explains the appearance of ‘NBC Nitely News,’ which apparently aired on the Friday of Memorial Day weekend this year, when a lot of people were away from their TVs. The retitling of ‘NBC Nightly News’ fooled Nielsen’s automated system, which listed ‘Nitely’ as a separate show. Hiding the May 26 program from Nielsen dramatically improved the show’s average viewership that week. Instead of falling further behind first-place rival ‘ABC World News Tonight,’ NBC news narrowed the gap.” [WSJ]
COMFORT FOOD
- Fans of colors will really like this internet website.
- In case you were in the market for an online version of a World War II German cipher machine.
- Ahhhh! Bear!
TWITTERAMA
Repeal and Replace Rosslyn.
its now called wahabi lobby
Reporters ask Trump questions like he's a normal president even though he passed on John Bolton for Sec of State because of his mustache
Got something to add? Send tips/quotes/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to Eliot Nelson (eliot@.com)

President Donald Trump wants Congress to pass a law denying welfare benefits to immigrants for five years.
“I believe the time has come for new immigration rules which say that those seeking admission into our country must be able to support themselves financially and should not use welfare for a period of at least five years,” Trump said on Wednesday night at a rally in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 
The crowd cheered wildly at this latest example of Trump’s tough-on-immigrants rhetoric, and the president soaked in the applause. 
However, such a law already exists. 
As The Hill noted, the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act, which was signed into law by President Bill Clinton in 1996, prohibits immigrants from receiving federal benefits. 
One section of the law is even titled “Restricting Welfare and Public Benefits For Aliens,” and specifically sets a five-year threshold for “federal means-tested public benefit.” The section carves out some exceptions for refugees and those granted asylum as well as veterans and active-duty military, their spouses and dependents.
Although it’s not clear how Trump’s proposed law would be different, he still vowed to enact his legislation “very shortly.”


Like many Americans, I’m having politics fatigue. Or, to be more specific, arguing-about-politics fatigue.
I haven’t run out of salient points or evidence for my political perspective, but there is a particular stumbling block I keep running into when trying to reach across the proverbial aisle and have those “difficult conversations” so smugly suggested by think piece after think piece:
I don’t know how to explain to someone why they should care about other people.
Personally, I’m happy to pay an extra 4.3 percent for my fast food burger if it means the person making it for me can afford to feed their own family. If you aren’t willing to fork over an extra 17 cents for a Big Mac, you’re a fundamentally different person than I am.
I’m perfectly content to pay taxes that go toward public schools, even though I’m childless and intend to stay that way, because all children deserve a quality, free education. If this seems unfair or unreasonable to you, we are never going to see eye to eye.
If I have to pay a little more with each paycheck to ensure my fellow Americans can access health care? SIGN ME UP. Poverty should not be a death sentence in the richest country in the world. If you’re okay with thousands of people dying of treatable diseases just so the wealthiest among us can hoard still more wealth, there is a divide between our worldviews that can never be bridged.
I don’t know how to convince someone how to experience the basic human emotion of empathy. I cannot have one more conversation with someone who is content to see millions of people suffer needlessly in exchange for a tax cut that statistically they’ll never see (do you make anywhere close to the median American salary? Less? Congrats, this tax break is not for you).
I cannot have political debates with these people. Our disagreement is not merely political, but a fundamental divide on what it means to live in a society, how to be a good person, and why any of that matters.
There are all kinds of practical, self-serving reasons to raise the minimum wage (fairly compensated workers typically do better work), fund public schools (everyone’s safer when the general public can read and use critical thinking), and make sure every American can access health care (outbreaks of preventable diseases being generally undesirable).
But if making sure your fellow citizens can afford to eat, get an education, and go to the doctor isn’t enough of a reason to fund those things, I have nothing left to say to you.
I can’t debate someone into caring about what happens to their fellow human beings. The fact that such detached cruelty is so normalized in a certain party’s political discourse is at once infuriating and terrifying.
The “I’ve got mine, so screw you,” attitude has been oozing from the American right wing for decades, but this gleeful exuberance in pushing legislation that will immediately hurt the most vulnerable among us is chilling.
Perhaps it was always like this. I’m (relatively) young, so maybe I’m just waking up to this unimaginable callousness. Maybe the emergence of social media has just made this heinous tendency more visible; seeing hundreds of accounts spring to the defense of policies that will almost certainly make their lives more difficult is incredible to behold.
I don’t know what’s changed ― or indeed, if anything has ― and I don’t have any easy answers. But I do know I’m done trying to convince these hordes of selfish, cruel people to look beyond themselves.
Futility can’t be good for my blood pressure, and the way things are going, I won’t have health insurance for long.

Oregon has approved legislation with bipartisan support mandating predictable work schedules for low-wage employees, making it the first state in the country to adopt the labor protection.
A bill approved by the state House Thursday and previously passed by the state Senate on bipartisan lines requires large employers in the food service, retail and hospitality industries to provide advance scheduling notice to their workers. It intends to guarantee workers greater freedom to plan their lives and spend time with family.
Oregon Gov. Kate Brown (D) plans to sign the measure in the coming weeks after a legal review, a spokesman said. The law will take effect in July 2018.
“Especially at this moment in the country, when Congress is trying to strip overtime protections and take us backward, it is inspiring to see policymakers in Oregon take this bold measure to finally update workplace standards for the realities of today’s work week,” said Carrie Gleason, director of the Center for Popular Democracy’s Fair Workweek initiative.
The bill would require employers in affected industries with 500 employees or more to inform workers of their schedules one week beforehand. The notice period would increase to two weeks in 2020. The law also mandates that workers receive 10 hours of rest between shifts, or else get paid an overtime rate of time and half for their work.
Although Oregon is the first state to pass “fair work week” legislation, New York, San Francisco, Seattle and Washington are among major cities that have enacted similar measures.
The legislation culminated a growing movement among labor unions and other progressive groups to scale back flexible scheduling practices that have taken hold in industries typically dominated by low-wage workers.
The most notorious of these practices is known as on-call scheduling, in which companies ask workers to keep their days open in case they are needed. It allows employers to call employees to work on a moment’s notice and send them home just as quickly based on business needs, effectively preventing workers from planning other aspects of their lives.
Six major retailers announced that they were abandoning on-call scheduling in December amid growing pressure from state attorneys general concerned it might conflict with existing labor laws.
In Oregon, the Center for Popular Democracy provided policy research and strategic advice to the Oregon Fair Workweek Coalition, which led the push for the new law. Key coalition members included the Oregon Working Families Party and the regional chapter of the United Food and Commercial Workers union.
The coalition pressured lawmakers to take up the issue by gathering enough signatures to make it a referendum on the ballot in the 2018 midterm elections.
They also won the support of Republican lawmakers and business groups by excluding manufacturing and other industries that depend on being able to change workers’ hours on short notice.
Oregon is a national leader in other progressive labor legislation. In December 2015, it became the fourth state to guarantee workers paid sick leave.


WASHINGTON ― This year’s 4th of July “Freedom Fest” at Guantanamo Bay featured a live music performance by a band whose music was used to interrogate detainees at the Naval base.
The heavy metal band Drowning Pool played a show for U.S. troops at Guantanamo Bay on Tuesday before the fireworks display, the Miami Herald’s Carol Rosenberg first reported. Years ago, interrogators blasted the band’s song “Bodies” as part of an effort to break down prisoners’ will and keep them awake during extended interrogation sessions.
In a 2006 story in Spin about using music as a tool of torture, David Peisner wrote that almost every interrogator and soldier he spoke to mentioned “Bodies” as their preferred song for “psyching out enemies and captives.”
Years later, the Senate Armed Services Committee confirmed in a report that military interrogators used “Bodies” during interrogations with Mohamedou Slahi, a Mauritanian detainee.
Slahi, who was transferred from a CIA black site to Guantanamo in 2002, was released last year after 14 years of detention. He was never charged with a crime. While in prison, he hand-wrote a diary, chronicling his experiences being subjected to interrogation techniques that have since been banned. A redacted version of Slahi’s diary was published in 2015. In it, Slahi wrote that he “might never forget that song.”
The chorus of “Bodies” includes the line, “let the bodies hit the floor,” a reference “the brotherhood of the mosh pit,” the band has said.
Slahi told the Miami Herald that he still has hearing problems because of lengthy exposure to loud music during interrogations. “I love art and good music and feel much pain for music to be used as a tool of torture,” he wrote in an email published by the Herald. “This is so twisted on many levels. Because music is supposed to make you happy and make you a better person; sometimes.”
A 2005 internal review of alleged prisoner abuse at Guantanamo found that loud music was part of a “futility technique” designed to break down prisoners’ ability to resist answering questions. “Futility technique included the playing of Metallica, Britney Spears, and Rap music,” the report read.“On a few occasions, detainees were left alone in the interrogation booth for an indefinite period of time while loud music played and strobe lights flashed.”
Southern Command spokeswoman Army Col. Lisa Garcia told  that because the event was planned by the Naval station’s recreation office and not the joint task force that oversees the prison at Guantanamo, “the link between past interrogations using music was not on the forefront on the planners’ minds.”
“It is likely that leadership was not informed of the potential for negative connotations because individuals were more familiar with the song ‘Let the bodies hit the floor’ than the name of the band that performed it or its past history with detainees,” Garcia wrote in an email.  
Some bands have objected to the military using their music as part of interrogations. “Just as we wouldn’t be caught dead allowing Dick Cheney to use our music for his campaigns, you can be damn sure, we wouldn’t allow him to use it to torture other human beings. Congress needs to shut Guantanamo down,” The Roots said in 2009.
A manager and a spokeswoman for Drowning Pool did not respond requests for comment, but one member of the band has said in the past that he was not concerned by the military’s use of his music. “People assume we should be offended that somebody in the military thinks our song is annoying enough that, played over and over, it can psychologically break someone down,” bassist Stevie Benton told Spin in 2006. “I take it as an honor to think that perhaps our song could be used to quell another 9/11 attack or something like that.”
Benton later posted an apology on MySpace and said his comment was taken out of context.
Before their performance at Guantanamo, the band went on a tour of the Naval base. “Words can’t describe what an honor and privilege this is,” band manager Paul Gargano posted on Instagram. Another post by Gargano shows the band performing before an enthusiastic crowd.
A post shared by Paul Gargano (@paulgargano) on Jul 4, 2017 at 4:36pm PDT
The metal band regularly performs shows for and to benefit members of the military. Days before the show at Guantanamo, Drowning Pool played at Soto Cano Air Force base in Honduras. They are scheduled to perform in the Rock the Troops concert next month in Colorado Springs.
This story has been updated to include comment from Southern Command.

As states have pushed back on turning over data to the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity, officials are modifying their statements about what kind of information will be released to the public and how it will be transmitted.
In a June 28 letter to states requesting voter information, Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R) advised states that “any documents that are submitted to the full Commission will also be made available to the public.” But in a court filing Wednesday as part of a privacy lawsuit to stop the committee from collecting information, Kobach said he only intends to make public the “narrative” information he gets from states, and that he intends to “de-identify” personal voter data before making it public.
“My letters state that ‘documents’ submitted to the Commission will be made available to the public. That refers only to the narrative responses,” he said in the court filing.
A White House official elaborated on the filing, saying the “narrative responses” refer to seven questions Kobach posed to state officials about election administration, and that the commission “will not release any personally identifiable information to the public.”
Republican and Democratic election officials have expressed skepticism over Kobach’s request for publicly available voter roll data. Some states have outright refused to comply, while others say they will only provide information that is already public. A few officials have said they are barred by state law from sharing any information from the public.
The Kobach filing came in response to a request by the Electronic Privacy Information Center for a federal judge to issue a temporary restraining order against the commission. In justifying their request to stop the committee’s work, EPIC lawyers argued the commission hasn’t conducted a legally required privacy impact assessment. Collecting this kind of information, lawyers argued, could cause “irreparable injury” because the commission does not have a secure way of storing voters’ data.
Bob Gellman, a privacy consultant who worked on Freedom of Information Act issues on Capitol Hill for two decades, said he believed the commission was not subject to FOIA because it was not an agency and its purpose was to advise the president. While Gellman believes the commission has discretion to choose what kind of information to release, it’s less clear what public disclosure obligations they have under the 1972 Federal Advisory Committee Act, a separate law.
Regardless of whether personal details are released, building a massive national database of voter data would raise serious privacy and security concerns, said William McGeveran, a privacy expert and professor at the University of Minnesota Law School.
“One of the reasons that a lot of privacy advocates are concerned is that they keep changing their story about what they’re collecting, what they’re releasing and how they’re storing it,” McGeveran told . “As a matter of just sound judgment, information that includes things like [the] last four digits of Social Security needs to be held in a really secure way. And the more information like that you aggregate together, the more attractive a target it is for hackers.”
Michael Chertoff, the former secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, voiced a similar concern in a Washington Post op-ed on Wednesday, arguing that compiling a massive amount of voter information in one place could pose a national security threat.
In his initial letter to states, Kobach said officials could “submit your responses electronically to ElectionIntegrityStaff@ovp.eop.gov or by utilizing the Safe Access File Exchange (‘SAFE’), which is a secure FTP site the federal government uses for transferring large data files.” Some raised concerns that the request to transmit information over email meant the information could be vulnerable to hacking.
But in this week’s filing, Kobach said he only intended for states to submit the eight narrative responses by email. EPIC noted that Kobach offered no explanation for the discrepancy, and said that even the file exchange program Kobach wants to use doesn’t present enough protections for voters’ data.
“The Commission has not provided any evidence that the File Exchange system is designed, or even permitted, to be used to transfer sensitive personal information,” EPIC lawyers wrote in their filing. “The Commission also has not established that it has the authority to use the File Exchange system for this purpose, or that it has the authority to use ‘the White House computer system’ to store the personal data of hundreds of millions of voters.”
The prospect of storing information on White House computers is also notable because the original executive order said the committee would be supported by the General Services Administration. If GSA held the data, Gellman said, it would be subject to additional privacy requirements.
McGeveran said the commission’s cavalier attitude toward storing sensitive voter information is alarming.  
“Of course we know the federal government has been hacked for personal information multiple times,” he said. “The fact they are being so flippant about how it’s going to be transmitted and where it’s going to be stored and [changing] their story... I have concerns about this plan not being carefully thought out and presented in advance.”

WASHINGTON ― Following President Donald Trump’s latest inflammatory tweet that essentially promoted violence against journalists, top GOP lawmakers so far have responded with silence, perpetuating their pattern of doing little as the nation’s chief executive breaks more barriers in his war with the media.
Trump on Sunday tweeted what appeared to be an edited version of a 2007 clip of him beating up WWE founder Vince McMahon, with CNN’s logo replacing McMahon’s face. It was then retweeted by the president’s official White House account, @POTUS, following a week of renewed attacks against CNN and other news outlets, which Trump has branded as “fake news” and “fraudulent.”
“What about GOP leaders? What about Republican leaders?” CNN media reporter Brian Stelter asked Sunday about responses to the tweet. “Where’s [House Speaker] Paul Ryan? Where’s [Senate Majority Leader] Mitch McConnell? Are GOP leaders going to speak up about these attacks against the media?”
President Trump punches CNN in a juvenile tweet https://t.co/Tz2JyVAiNX https://t.co/8XhxZPndtl
As of Sunday evening, neither Ryan nor McConnell’s offices had responded to ’s requests for comment on Trump’s tweet.
Trump’s behavior and outbursts ―which likely would have sunk the political careers of anyone else ― have spurred GOP criticism in the past. But the party’s leaders have done little to try to stop him, and have remained supportive of his presidency.
The latest example came last week, after Trump attacked MSNBC host Mika Brzezinski in a series of sexist tweets. Republicans on Capitol Hill responded with various iterations of concern. They have also frequently lamented that Trump’s tweeting habits distract from the GOP’s legislative agenda. But their day-to-day dealings with Trump go on, seemingly unaffected by the controversies.
Trump has time and time again undermined the free press, which has galvanized opposition to the media among his supporters. During his White House campaign, he regularly incited protests and violence against reporters at his raucous rallies. As president, he and his administration have embarked on an anti-media crusade, keeping the press and the public in the dark, sometimes on even basic matters.
Trump’s treatment of the media has prompted press freedom groups to lower America’s ranking in their global assessments of press freedom, with some equating the level of press freedom in the U.S. to that of authoritarian nations.
Still, White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders on Thursday falsely insisted the president “in no way, form or fashion has ever promoted or encouraged violence,” as she defended Trump’s tweets targeting Brzezinski.
Earlier last week, after 3 CNN journalists resigned in the wake of the network retracting a story involving a Trump transition official, the president and White House aides treated the incident as a victory and used it to continue their attacks on “fake news.”
He also assailed the “fake media” during a July 4th event honoring military veterans on Saturday night.
Responding to Trump’s tweet during a television appearance Sunday morning, White House homeland security adviser Thomas Bossert initially appeared stunned by the video, but proceeded to defend it anyway. He told ABC’s Martha Raddatz that “no one would perceive that as a threat.”
“I’m proud of the president for developing a Twitter and a social media platform where he can talk directly to the American people,” Bossert said.


Donald Trump’s supporters are shaking like little schoolgirls afraid of the monster in the closet. Even while they point to the Middle East, they ignore the genuine threat of terrorism in America — the alt-right.
More Americans have been killed by white, under-educated, financially impotent, scared white men, aka likely ‘Trump supporters,’ in the past twelve months than by foreign terrorists screaming ‘Allahu Akbar.’
Now, Trump backers have a new dog whistle to follow which soothes their jangled nerves even as they go orgasmic for Trump, pick up their AR-15s and yell, ‘hold my beer.’
Is another Civil War brewing? Marshall Connolly writing for Catholic Online points out, “There are few differences. The rhetoric is almost seditious. Politicians give speeches telling persons to be ‘disruptors.’
The word, ‘revolution’ is being tossed about as a political term and it’s difficult to avoid the idea that the alt-right is being called to arms.
Terrorist Propaganda Courtesy of The NRA
A new ad from America’s largest gun lobby, the National Rifle Association, is being compared to a recruitment video produced by terrorists, experts claim.
Referring to persons on the left, the video claims “They use their media to assassinate real news.”
The video, featuring NRA spokesperson Dana Loesch, who is employed by the alt-right outlet The Blaze, claims the left is using former-President Obama to endorse the resistance.
The video urges viewers to link up with the gun lobby to fight back by raising “clenched fists of truth.”
Cynthia Storer, an adjunct instructor at Johns Hopkins, says, “This is the kind of rhetoric which creates extremists.”
Storer should know. She created the models used by the CIA in tracking the path of extremist radicalization.
“Extremism sparks extremism in return. It’s a cycle and the world burns,” says Storer.
While Trump-supporters continue to point to refugees and persons from the Middle East as being a threat to America, the real terrorists are right-wing Americans. According to a recent report, nearly twice as many terrorist attacks were carried out by American extremists as Islamist extremists within America.
In a recent interview with Newsweek, Susan Benesch, a researcher with Harvard’s Berkman Klein Center, said, ”…leaders used to condemn violence and the violent speech that incites hatred head on.”
Benesch held up Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders as an example of what more politicians must do. Following the shooting of Republican Whip Steve Scalise by a Sanders supporter, Sanders said, “Real change can only come about through nonviolent action. Anything else runs against our most deeply held American values.”
Jerry Nelson spends much of his time poking Trump’s meth-addled, uneducated fans with a pointy stick and is currently writing a book of muskrat recipes as well as a scrapbook of his favorite death threats. His life’s aspiration is to rule the world with an iron fist, or find that sock he’s been looking for. Feel free to email him at jandrewnelson2@gmail.com if you have any questions or comments — or join the million (seriously) or so who follow him on Twitter @Journey_America.
Never far from his Marlboro’s and coffee, Jerry is always interested in discussing future writing opportunities.

This is a bit of Trump's remarks about space today during his E.O. signing. Just listen (and watch Buzz Aldrin's face). pic.twitter.com/hrUFAUpptX
Either Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin had a bad meal or he was as confused as we were about President Donald Trump’s comments on space and security Friday in the Oval Office. 
The astronaut was at Trump’s side as the president announced a new executive order reestablishing the National Space Council — 24 years after it was last active — to direct space policy in his administration.
Trump’s remarks began with the president’s usual boasting: “We’re going to lead again like we never led before.” But he then appeared to claim all of space for the U.S., calling it the “next great American frontier.”
Trump also referred to space “providing the security that we need to protect the American people.” And he sent Aldrin’s eyebrows shooting up when he added, inexplicably, “At some point in the future, we’re going to look back and say, ‘How did we do it without space?’” 
pic.twitter.com/5bwrSAOnZq"One day we will look back and say how did we do it without space?"-Donald Trump #makespacegreatagain? 🤷🏼‍♂️
“We know what this is, space. That’s all it has to say: space,” Trump said as he prepared to sign his executive order. He then turned to Aldrin and asked, “There’s a lot of room out there, right?”
“To infinity, and beyond,” Aldrin quipped as others laughed. But Trump apparently didn’t get the reference to Buzz Lightyear’s catchphrase in “Toy Story.”
“This is infinity here. It could be infinity,” Trump answered in a rambling response. “We don’t really don’t know. But it could be. It has to be something — but it could be infinity, right?”
Besides Aldrin, three other astronauts also joined the president in the Oval Office for the ceremony. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence, however, only introduced the men — Aldrin, former astronaut David Wolf and current astronaut Benjamin Alvin Drew— and failed to mention the lone female astronaut on the scene, Sandy Magnus, The Washington Post reported. Magnus is currently the executive director of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics.
Pence and Trump talked about the "3" astronauts in the room: Wolf, Drew & Aldrin. But there were 4 - Sandy Magnus, standing right there.
Pence will head the new space council, despite trying in vain in 2005 to shut down NASA’s space exploration plans. The council will also include members of Trump’s Cabinet and representatives from NASA. It’s still awaiting a new head of NASA, whom Trump hasn’t yet named.
The executive order also creates a “users’ advisory group” to “ensure that the interests of industries and other non-Federal entities involved in space activities, including in particular commercial entities, are adequately represented” in the council.
Aldrin hailed the move to reestablish the space council on his Twitter account, linking to the vice president’s comments, not Trump’s.
I'm happy that space is getting the attention it needs to move us forward to committing to plans to get back to the Moon & on to Mars #GYATM https://t.co/1h3kY0L4DX

President Donald Trump launched another attack against “Morning Joe” hosts Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski on Saturday, saying the latter was “dumb as a rock.” This comes after outrage earlier this week when he directed blatantly sexist attacks against Brzezinski, insulting her appearance and intelligence.
Crazy Joe Scarborough and dumb as a rock Mika are not bad people, but their low rated show is dominated by their NBC bosses. Too bad!
In a Washington Post op-ed published Friday, Brzezinski and Scarborough, who are also engaged, said Trump is “not well.” Scarborough also disclosed White House aides had called to threaten him, demanding he stop his criticism of Trump or else the National Enquirer would publish an unflattering story. Scarborough said he and Brzezinski refused. On Twitter, Trump responded by saying that Scarborough had called him to stop the publication of the National Enquirer article and that he said no. 
Republicans expressed concern over Trump’s comments, but haven’t done much beyond that.
Trump has a long history of sexist comments. He once called Alicia Machado, a former Miss Universe contestant, “Miss Piggy” and “Miss Housekeeping.” He also mocked Kim Kardashian’s weight and called Rosie O’Donnell “fat” and a “slob.” During the presidential campaign, Trump believed former Fox News host Megyn Kelly treated him unfairly during a debate and said she had “blood coming out of her wherever.”
The Washington Post also released a tape last year of Trump bragging about being able to make unwanted sexual advances on women because he was a celebrity.
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House principal deputy press secretary, has defended Trump’s attacks so far, saying Trump “fights fire with fire.”


President Donald Trump on Thursday tapped Hans von Spakovsky, one of the most prominent voices for voter fraud, to his federal commission to investigate elections.
Von Spakovsky, who served in the Department of Justice’s voting section and the Federal Election Commission under former President George W. Bush, has long been an unapologetic proponent of voter ID measures. His appointment to the Election Integrity Commission raises serious questions about its neutrality, given his belief in widespread voter fraud and support of restrictive voting measures. Voting rights groups have been critical of the probe, which they say is merely a pretext for implementing more restrictive voting laws and justifying Trump’s claim that millions voted illegally in the 2016 election. Several inquiries have found that while voter fraud does occur, it is not widespread.
Rick Hasen, an election law expert and professor at the University of California, Irvine, told “The New Yorker” in 2012 von Spakovsky was responsible for making an obsession with voter fraud a focus of the Republican Party.
“Before 2000, there were some rumblings about Democratic voter fraud, but it really wasn’t part of the main discourse,” he told the magazine in 2012. “But thanks to von Spakovsky and the flame-fanning of a few others, the myth that Democratic voter fraud is common, and that it helps Democrats win elections, has become part of the Republican orthodoxy.” 
In 2005, while he was serving in the Justice Department, Georgia submitted its new voter ID law to the DOJ for review, as required by the Voting Rights Act at the time. Four of the five lawyers reviewing the request at back then recommended rejecting the law based in part on the way it would unfairly affect minorities and low-income people, according to “The Nation.” But von Spakovsky secretly gave the fifth lawyer, Joshua Rogers, his own articles and arguments supporting the Georgia law. Rogers authored a dissenting memo that eventually became the basis of the department’s decision to authorize the law, according to “The Nation.”
“There are few people who have worked harder to push voter suppression efforts than von Spakovsky.  He was one of the key drivers of the politicization of the Justice Department’s civil rights work during the Bush administration,” said Kristen Clarke, president of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law in a statement. “His appointment makes clear that the Election Integrity Commission is a vehicle intended to promote and advance policies that restrict access to the ballot box.”
Prior to von Spakovsky’s appointment, advocates raised concerns about Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach (R), who is leading the probe. Kobach is a staunch advocate for restrictive voting legislation and pushed a law in his state that required people to prove their citizenship when they register to vote and show photo ID at the polls. Federal courts have stepped in to block the law.
He has also attacked the National Voter Registration Act, the 1993 law that requires state motor vehicle agencies to offer people the opportunity to register to vote when obtaining a driver’s license. The law has dramatically expanded the franchise, but von Spakovsky once wrote in 1997 certain aspects of the law may “potentially destroy the security and integrity of the voter registration system and undermine public confidence in elections.” He also doubted voter registration issues were the reason many people did not vote.
“Recent changes in the federal law, intended to increase voter turnout, are based on the mistaken belief that low voter turnout is due to the difficulty or complexity of the registration process,” he wrote. “In reality, large numbers of Americans do not vote for reasons ranging from apathy to satisfaction with the status quo, with the majority of nonvoters being young, college-educated professionals in their 20s and 30s for whom voter registration poses no problem.”
The NVRA sets very specific conditions under which a state may remove voters from its rolls, but von Spakovsky has long been an advocate of purges. In his 1997 article for the Georgia Public Policy Foundation, von Spakovsky complained it was too difficult for states to remove voters from its rolls.
His longstanding interest in easing purging is notable because on Wednesday the commission requested  every state provide personal information about all voters on its rolls. Separately, the Department of Justice on Wednesday sent a letter to all states asking them to outline their voter removal policies under NVRA.
Von Spakovsky has also exaggerated the pervasiveness of voter fraud in the past. In a 2008 op-ed, he wrote “one doesn’t have to look far to find instances of fraudulent ballots cast in actual elections by ‘voters’ who were the figments of active imaginations.” He went on to cite a grand jury report from 1984 claiming to detail extensive voter fraud. But when Hasen requested von Spakovsky provide him with a copy of the grand jury report while he worked on a book, von Spakovsky refused. Von Spakovsky told “The New Yorker” the grand jury report recommended voter ID as a remedy for fraud. However, the magazine found that it actually only recommended voter ID as one of several possible remedies.
Von Spakovsky’s presence on the commission also raises concerns about the credibility of the final report it will issue. “The Nation” reported that when he was at the FEC, von Spakosvsky pushed to have the wording changed in an Election Assistance Commission report that stated, “There is widespread but not unanimous agreement that there is little polling place fraud.” Von Spakovsky reportedly pushed to have it change to say  “There is a great deal of debate on the pervasiveness of fraud.”
Allegra Chapman, director of voting and elections at Common Cause, said von Spakovsky only really pursued voter ID requirements and purging litigation under NVRA when he was at the Justice Department.
“The appointment of Hans to this commission just seals the deal that this is essentially somewhere between a sham and a witch hunt,” she said in an interview. “He really does nothing to advance voting rights. I think both he and Kris Kobach are pretty much infamously acknowledged as two master manipulators of vote suppressive efforts.”


As President Donald Trump’s administration appears poised to ramp up its punitive response to drugs, a study released this week finds that imprisoning people for drug offenses has no measurable effect on a number of the most pressing problems associated with these illicit substances.
In a letter Monday addressed to New Jersey Gov. Christie (R), whom Trump tapped earlier this year to lead his task force on the opioid epidemic, Adam Gelb of the Pew Charitable Trusts lays out state-by-state data on drug imprisonment, overdose deaths, drug arrests and self-reported drug use, not including marijuana. His conclusion: There is “no statistically significant relationship” between those numbers.
“If locking up more drug offenders worked as intended, then we would expect to see states with higher rates of drug imprisonment enjoy lower rates of drug abuse,” Gelb said in a release. “But that’s not what the data show. Instead, we see no correlation at all. There’s more punishment in those states, and higher taxpayer costs for prisons, but no evidence of benefits for public health or public safety.”
Gelb is director of Pew’s Public Safety Performance Project, which advocates for practical, cost-effective criminal justice reform policies at the state level.
His letter came a few days after the first meeting of the Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and Opioid Crisis, which Trump assembled in the spring. At a session on Friday, panelists reportedly pleaded with Christie to support evidence-based drug treatment options and spoke out aggressively against GOP-led plans to slash Medicaid, which provides coverage for people with issues related to mental illness and drug addiction.
It’s not yet clear how these recommendations will play in Trump’s administration. Many drug policy experts have expressed concern that the White House is intent on turning to the sort of enforcement-first approaches Attorney General Jeff Sessions has championed in his first few months at the Justice Department and throughout his political career.
In an op-ed last week, Sessions defended his recent decision to roll back Obama-era sentencing reforms, which had given federal prosecutors leeway to charge certain crimes in ways that would not trigger mandatory minimums, which automatically result in set prison terms. Under the new guidelines, prosecutors will once again be required to take the most aggressive approach possible against federal criminal defendants. Sessions described this as a move to “get tough again” and to begin fulfilling “the president’s promise to make America safe again.”
But Pew’s study suggests this is the beginning of a return to failed drug policies of previous decades, which led to nearly 300,000 drug offenders being held in state and federal prisons in 2015, up from less than 25,000 in 1980.
Although federal prison spending has grown nearly 600 percent between 1980 and 2013, the Pew report finds this approach has failed to provide a benefit to public safety. Rates of self-reported drug use have only increased over this period, as illicit drugs have gotten cheaper and more pure. And we’ve gotten very little return on our investment in prisons, as nearly a third of drug offenders who leave federal prison go on to commit new crimes or violate the conditions of their release — a rate that has remained stable over the past few decades.
By drilling down on state-level data and controlling for a variety of demographic variables, Pew said that while harsh drug enforcement may further the retributive, “values-driven argument” that the government must teach “wrong-doers a lesson,” it does little to address actual drug problems.
“For instance, Tennessee imprisons drug offenders at a rate more than three times greater than New Jersey, but the illicit drug use rate in the two states is virtually the same,” the report read. “Conversely, Indiana and Iowa have nearly identical rates of drug imprisonment, but Indiana ranks 27th among states in its rate of illicit drug use and 18th in drug overdose deaths while Iowa ranks 44th and 47th respectively.”
The Pew study proposes a variety of alternative approaches to drugs that have begun to show tangible results in some states. It encourages policymakers to focus on diverting offenders with substance use disorders into treatment, training police in overdose prevention, expanding probation and parole opportunities for drug offenders and providing public funds for medication-assisted treatment — which uses a combination of therapy and U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved medication to treat addiction.
“What research does make clear is that some ways of reducing drug use and crime are more effective than others — and that imprisonment ranks near the bottom of the list,” Geld wrote in the letter. “Putting more drug offenders behind bars — for longer periods of time — has not yielded a convincing public safety return. What it has generated, without doubt, is an enormous cost for taxpayers.”


What can be done when two nations’ leaders have very similar personality traits, do not like each other, have nuclear weapons, are headed for what appears to be inevitable conflict, and neither are inclined to back down? The answer is to find a way that both of them can declare victory without losing face, with each being able to look themselves in the mirror and honestly say he has won. This is of course no easy task, but, fortunately, both Donald Trump and Kim Jong-Un have strong negotiating positions, and neither appear to want to start a war, so there should be a way for both of them to be able to find some common ground.
Mr. Kim will not stop rattling his saber, he has already proven that North Korea has ICBM launch capability, and soon enough, it will have the ability to fit a nuclear warhead on top of its missiles. In response, Mr. Trump will not stop saying there will be grave consequences, but no matter how hard he tries, China is not likely to change its tune toward Pyongyang and the idea of multilateral negotiations is unlikely to go anywhere. Kim has the military advantage because of his (apparent) willingness to risk annihilation if attacked. Like all those U.S. presidents before him since the end of the Korean War, Trump will not launch a first strike against North Korea because the price is simply too high.
There is no need to engage in too much geopolitical strategizing, intelligence analysis, weapons capability calculations, and predictions about the future ― what we have is an old-fashioned stalemate. If that was not the case, something contrary to the status quo would have occurred many years ago. To figure out what needs to be done in order to move away from one minute to midnight, look no further than a common desire to find a middle ground and arrive at a hand shake.
That may sound like a tall order, and indeed, it is, but consider what each side wants. Kim wants respect, money, the ability to keep his nuclear weapons and missile programs, and a promise that the West will never attack his country or assassinate him. Chances are good that, short of an attack on North Korea, he can keep his weapons and stay alive, so why not admit it? That being the case, why bother engaging in some long, drawn out multilateral negotiation to freeze Kim’s weapons programs in return for cash, which have historically been proven to fail. Such a negotiation will only fail again, since Kim cannot keep his word or resist the urge to cheat.
Trump (and the West) ultimately want Kim to stop being belligerent, threatening nuclear annihilation, pestering his neighbors, waging cyberattacks, and engaging in illicit means of raising money. In calling a spade a spade, the West should admit that there is really no way to stop Kim from doing what he is doing, and suggest that Kim and Trump meet mano a mano at a spot of Kim’s choosing. Neither China, South Korea, Japan nor any other nation would be involved – just the two macho men.
Trump would offer to leave Kim alone, admit that he has a right defend his nation, and offer to give him a bunch of money, end sanctions, and respect him in the future. In return, Kim would agree to stop acting like a petulant child, fire his missiles only away from land (and into international waters), cease threatening his neighbors, find legal ways to earn money, and stop waging cyberattacks. Should the two leaders reach an agreement, Kim can then negotiate separately with each of the other nations. Given that the biggest perceived obstacle to peace from Kim’s perspective is the U.S., if he can reach an agreement with Trump, doing so with the other countries should be somewhat easier. None of them want a military conflict, and the stakes are higher for them than the U.S.
Pie in the sky? Perhaps. But what other alternatives are there, really? Rather than spending any more time and resources devoted to alternative approaches that have either proven not to work, or are unlikely to work in the future, what is there to lose by breaking the mold? In the meantime, the U.S. and it allies should get to work on creating an anti-missile shield system that will actually work against Kim’s arsenal. While they are at it, they should also figure out a way to take out the two satellites North Korea has orbiting the Earth, which may be capable of launching an electromagnetic pulse attack. There is much to do, and so little time.
Daniel Wagner is Managing Director of Risk Solutions at Risk Cooperative and is writing a new book on cyberterrorism.

“I mean, have you seen the other guys?”
That was one of the slogans recently proposed by Democratic Party strategists, presumably in a lighthearted way. But the joke, if that’s what it was, reflects an underlying belief among party leaders that Democrats should not take strong positions or moral stands on the issues that affect people’s lives. That belief was reflected in the other, presumably more serious suggestions, which were equally free of content or principle:
“Resist and Persist.” “She Resisted, We Persisted.” “Make Congress Blue Again.”
Where was the call to restore economic justice, rebuild the middle class, raise wages, end pointless wars, or protect the women and people of color who live under the daily threat of oppression and assault?
They fell down the big hole in the center of the Democratic Party.
Hey, Let’s Find Out What THESE Guys Think!
They call this posture “centrism,” although the resulting milquetoast policies usually fall to the right of popular opinion. But the indefatigable Democratic Party’s well-funded “centrists” remain undeterred by either the unpopularity of their ideas of the failure of their candidates.
The poster child for this evidence-resistant posture is Mark Penn, the high-priced consultant whose bad advice almost certainly cost Hillary Clinton the Democratic nomination in 2008. In what was presumably an unintended irony, Penn’s recent op-ed, a screed against (among other things) Democratic deficit spending, was co-authored by former Manhattan Borough President Andrew Stein. Stein personally contributed to government debt by declining to pay his own taxes, an act which eventually led to his conviction on tax-dodging charges.
(Stein was initially charged over a $30 million Ponzi scheme but, as the New York Times reported in 2011, “federal prosecutors dropped those charges in exchange for his pleading guilty in December to the single count of tax evasion.”)
Penn has offered expensive but unsuccessful advice to Democrats for many years. He served simultaneously as Clinton’s campaign manager and as CEO for Burson Marseller, a public relations firm whose clients have included Blackwater, the mercenary firm, and Big Pharma firm Amgen, which was accused of running a website that misled cancer patients (the site’s toll-free number was managed by Burson Marseller), and BP, the company whose negligence led to the Gulf oil spill that bears its name.
Penn’s corporate work led to the awkward spectacle of a PR firm becoming a public relations disaster for its most famous client.
Stein tried to run for mayor on the Republican and Conservative tickets in 1993 and endorsed Donald Trump in 2016, insisting rather unconvincingly that “Donald Trump is no racist.” They are hardly the kinds of people whose advice Democrats should be seeking, and their work brings to mind a comment Mary McCarthy once made about a fellow writer: “Every word she writes is a lie, including ‘and’ and ‘the.’
The Ideologues
That kind of harsh talk isn’t popular in the ‘bipartisan’ circles frequented by Penn and Stein, where comity between wealthy and powerful members of both parties is encouraged. But it is hard to describe their writing any other way when it plays so fast and loose with the facts.
“In the early 1990s,” Penn and Stein begin, “the Democrats relied on identity politics, promoted equality of outcomes instead of equality of opportunity and looked to find a government solution for every problem.”
Everyone who remembers that Democratic Party, raise your hands. For the rest of us, here’s a refresher: Bill Clinton campaigned against identity politics in 1992, choosing a Jesse Jackson event to rail against a little-known rapper named Sistah Souljah in order to demonstrate to white voters that he could be ‘tough’ on black people.
In his inauguration speech that year, Clinton called for “an expanding entrepreneurial economy” and specifically repudiated the idea of “a government solution for every problem.” He was not subtle or indirect about it. “There is not a program in government for every problem,” Clinton said. Did Penn and Stein miss that, or did they deliberately set out to mislead their readers? Either way, the Democratic Party was already in their ideology by 1992.
It lost Congress in 1994.
And make no mistake: Penn has an ideology. Like many highly-paid consultants, he likes to adopt the neutral posture of the technocrat. But Penn and his group are fierce defenders of an ideology that seeks to reconcile the aspirations of Democratic base voters with the financial interests and modified free-market economic beliefs of Wall Street and other corporate interests. That ideology is sometimes called ‘neoliberalism.’ It has failed economically, just as surely as their political approach has failed at the ballog box.
Time is a Flat Circle
Penn and Stein have a loose relationship with truth – and the calendar. They falsely claim that “the last few years of the Obama administration and the 2016 primary season … created a rush to the left.” But, they add, “the results at the voting booth have been anything but positive,” citing the loss of both houses of Congress and over 1,000 legislative seats.
This is utter fiction. Those losses began in 2009, after Obama spent his first year governing as a centrist. After another year in which Obama ostentatiously attempted to “reach across the aisle,” Dems lost Congress in 2010. Obama pivoted to the left rhetorically in 2012, partly in response to the Occupy movement, and it probably saved his re-election campaign. (His numbers rose shortly afterward.) But he continued to govern as a Penn-style “centrist,” leading his party to another stunning set of midterm losses in 2014.
It’s true that Hillary Clinton shifted slightly to the left rhetorically in 2016. But her campaign ads shied away from progressive policy issues, focusing primarily on Trump’s character. She chose “centrist” Tim Kaine as her running mate. She mocked Bernie Sanders’ progressive ideas in the primary. And she said this in 2015:
“You know, I get accused of being kind of moderate and center. I plead guilty.”
That’s the party Penn and Stein claim was in a “rush to the left.”
Left Out
Clinton’s fellow “centrists,” Penn and Stein, go on to say that the party has embraced “sharply leftist ideas.” They’re the ones outside the mainstream. The Huffington Post’s Daniel Marans cites poll data showing that their policy ideas are out of sync with Democratic Party voters. And while Penn and Stein rail that Democrats must “reject socialist ideas,” another recent poll found that a plurality of Democrats would prefer a “socialist” over a “capitalist” for party leadership.  That’s consistent with a poll from 2016 that found a majority of Democrats believe socialism has had “a positive impact on society.”
The demonizations of the past don’t work quite as well in the politics of the present. In a shifting political landscape, the center is well to the left of Penn and Stein.
Penn and Stein argue that “bigger government handouts” – a right-wing euphemism for government social programs – “won’t win working-class voters back.” They’re wrong. A poll conducted by the National Academy of Social Insurance found that most voters, including most Republicans, want to protect and expand Social Security. That finding was upheld by Lake Research Partners, who found that voters “overwhelmingly” favor expanding the program. And most Americans favor some form of Medicare For All.
Absurdly, Penn and Stein suggest that Democrats “reach across the aisle” to Trump on infrastructure “to show they understand that voters like bipartisanship.” But voters don’t like bipartisanship that leads to failed programs, as any Trump infrastructure plan will inevitably do. (His “infrastructure” plan is actually a major giveaway of public resources to private corporations.)
It is a measure of their dishonesty that Penn and Stein try to hide their own shifting positions even when they are forced to give way to reality. Democrats “need to support fair trade and oppose manufacturing plants’ moving jobs overseas,” they write. But they fail to note that, in saying this, they have adopted the “left” position on this issue. “Centrist” support for NAFTA and other destructive trade deals has contributed to massive political losses for Democrats. Instead of openly conceding their error, Penn and Stein adopt this “leftist” idea as their own.
That’s victory, of a sort, if only because it shows how much the landscape has changed since Penn and Stein’s heyday.
Not Fade Away
It’s striking that Penn, who crafted his own reputation around his alleged facility with voter data, studiously avoids citing any polling data on policy issues in this op-ed. The only finding he and Stein cite is one showing that only “a little more than a quarter of Americans consider themselves liberals” – they fail to mention that this number has risen – “while almost three in four are self-identified moderates or conservatives.”
Penn and Stein, who don’t cite their source data (it’s here), fail to mention the fact that the number of self-described “liberals” is growing while the number of self-described “moderates” is falling. Conservatives are likely to remain out of Democratic reach and, when polled, many of those self-identified moderates embrace “left” ideas on a number of economic issues. (Aren’t everybody’s opinions “moderate” in their own eyes?)
Face it: These two couldn’t find their own center with both hands. It’s tempting to simply ignore them, given their increasing irrelevance, but it would be unwise. Sure, their ideas have fallen out of favor. But there are a lot of deep-pocket funders who want to make sure that their ideology and their interest continue to control the Democratic Party. Don’t count them out yet.
Voters are embracing new ideas and new goals, and smart politicians like Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Keith Ellison are helping advance the process. These are the people the party must look to if it is to become a meaningful political force once again.
Besides, we’ve seen the other guys.

President Donald Trump blasted CNN as “FAKE NEWS” Tuesday after three of the network’s most seasoned journalists resigned over their involvement in a recently retracted story.
Trump attacked CNN and other media outlets in a torrent of tweets following the network’s acceptance of the journalists’ resignations Monday over the Russia-related story.
Wow, CNN had to retract big story on "Russia," with 3 employees forced to resign. What about all the other phony stories they do? FAKE NEWS!
The president also retweeted a doctored image of CNN’s logo remade into “FNN,” or “Fake News Network.”
pic.twitter.com/6sDcyiW4Kt
The veteran reporters and editors ― Thomas Frank, Lex Haris and Eric Lichtblau ― submitted their resignations Monday morning after CNN retracted and apologized for a story on Friday that linked a member of Trump’s transition team to Russian-related federal investigations.
The article alleged Anthony Scaramucci, a financier and close ally of Trump, was tied to a Russian investment fund allegedly being investigated by the Senate Intelligence Committee. The article was removed from the site and replaced with an editor’s note stating that the story “did not meet CNN’s editorial standards.”
On June 22, 2017, CNN.com published a story connecting Anthony Scaramucci with investigations into the Russian Direct Investment Fund.
That story did not meet CNN’s editorial standards and has been retracted. Links to the story have been disabled. CNN apologizes to Mr. Scaramucci.
The retraction marked only the latest in a string of embarrassing incidents for the news network, including firing one of its TV hosts, Reza Aslan, for tweeting that Trump was a “piece of shit.”
CNN’s blunder was red meat for conservatives hell bent on accusing the “mainstream media” of fabricating stories, especially articles focused on federal investigations into alleged ties between Trump associates and Russian government officials.
In another tweet, Trump accused CNN of publishing other “phony” stories, though it’s unclear to which pieces he was referring. He did go on to retweet “Fox & Friends,” a TV show that has been notably soft on its coverage of the president, several times. 
The president later lashed out several other media adversaries, tweeting that NBC, ABC and several other outlets were “fake news.”
He also tweeted that CNN was “looking at big management changes” in light of the retraction and claimed the network’s ratings were “way down.” Trump didn’t cite a source for his ratings claim, which differ from reports last month suggesting the network’s ratings were surging.
Fake News CNN is looking at big management changes now that they got caught falsely pushing their phony Russian stories. Ratings way down!
So they caught Fake News CNN cold, but what about NBC, CBS & ABC? What about the failing @nytimes & @washingtonpost? They are all Fake News!
CNN used facts to shut down Trump’s ratings claims, tweeting in response Tuesday that the network just posted its most-watched second quarter in history.


Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke announced a score of grants and donations on Wednesday to help protect America’s battlefields, including the recipient of President Donald Trump’s first-quarter salary.
Maryland’s Antietam National Battlefield, the site of the bloodiest one-day battle in U.S. history, will receive a $78,333 donation from the president to help fund two restoration projects, and additional donations to the battlefield from the National Park Foundation and several historic trusts will bring the full amount to more than $263,000.
However, the announcement comes as Trump plans to slash some $1.5 billion from the Interior Department under his proposed federal budget — including some $296 million from the National Park Service, which oversees protected battlefields like Antietam. If all $400,000 of the president’s annual salary were set aside for Interior, it’d take about 3,750 years of checks to make up for that shortfall.
​“As both the Secretary of the Interior and a military veteran, I’m deeply honored and humbled to deliver the donation to Antietam National Battlefield on behalf of President Trump,” Zinke said in a statement announcing the donation. “Visiting the hallowed ground the day after Independence Day is incredibly moving and it underscores the importance of why we must preserve these historic grounds. The President’s donation will allow generations of Americans to learn about our history and heritage on this sacred site.”
Zinke also announced grants totaling $7.2 million “to help identify, preserve and protect America’s battlefields” in nine different states. They will be administered through NPS’s American Battlefield Protection Program.
Trump’s donation follows through on campaign pledges that he would work for free during his presidency (he said during a meeting in 2015 the promise was “no big deal for me”). But the National Park Service will likely be forced to dramatically scale back its ability to serve the public under the White House’s proposed budget.
If passed, the budget would cut 13 percent of funding from the NPS, which would result in 1,200 full-time employees losing their jobs. Outside magazine notes almost all funding for land acquisition would be cut, and the $12 billion backlog needed for park maintenance likely would be pushed off even further.
“If enacted, this budget would represent the largest cut to the National Park Service since World War II,” Theresa Pierno, president of the National Parks Conservation Association said in May. “Agencies like the National Park Service and EPA are already operating on shoestring budgets, and this budget, if enacted, will only make a bad situation worse.”
In April, Zinke himself noted many of America’s battlefields were among the areas protected by the NPS that had a backlog in maintenance.
“We’re about $229 million behind in deferred maintenance on our battlefields alone,” the secretary said.
Conservation groups slammed the president’s initial salary donation announcement as a “publicity stunt.”
“If Donald Trump is actually interested in helping our parks, he should stop trying to slash their budgets to historically low levels,” the Sierra Club said in April. “This publicity stunt is a sad consolation prize as Trump tries to stifle America’s best idea.”
CORRECTION: An earlier version of this article and headline said Trump’s proposed budget would cut $1.5 billion from the National Park Service. It would slash that amount from the Interior Department overall and $296 million from the National Park Service.

An Ohio city councilman concerned about the price of emergency services for opioid overdose victims wants to cut costs by denying some people access to life-saving treatment.
Last week, Middletown council member Dan Picard asked the city to explore the legality of a proposal to refuse city-dispatched medical services to any overdose victim who has sought an intervention twice before. Some local media outlets have branded the proposal as a “three strikes” policy.
“I want to send a message to the world that you don’t want to come to Middletown to overdose because someone might not come with Narcan and save your life,” Picard told Ohio’s Journal-News. “We need to put a fear about overdosing in Middletown.”
Narcan is the brandname of naloxone, a drug that reverses the effects of an opioid overdose by essentially blocking the opioid receptors that heroin, fentanyl and other narcotic painkillers target.
Middletown’s law department hasn’t come to a determination on the legality of Picard’s idea, and city officials have largely held off on commenting until it does.
Picard did not respond to ’s request for comment.
Middletown Fire Chief Paul Lolli told the Journal-News that he understands the “frustration” people like Picard are feeling, but clarified that his department will continue responding to service calls and administering Narcan until it’s told to do otherwise.
Narcan, which is often administered as a nasal spray, has become a standard part of first responders’ toolkits to fight a surge in opioid-related deaths around the country. Naloxone doesn’t produce a high, but typically sends the recipient into an immediate withdrawal, which can leave some individuals seeking the very same drugs that nearly killed them.
Supporters of harm reduction have pushed for broader access to naloxone, noting that the alternative in many of these cases is death.
But Picard seems to believe that EMS crews are working a bit too hard to stem the tide of overdoses, and is upset that taxpayers are footing the bill to revive people, many of whom are transients and not residents of Middletown, he says.
Picard also proposed that instead of immediately arresting or jailing overdose victims, they should receive a court summons and be required to work off the cost of treatment by completing community service. But there’s a catch.
“If the dispatcher determines that the person who’s overdosed is someone who’s been part of the program for two previous overdoses and has not completed the community service and has not cooperated in the program, then we wouldn’t dispatch,” said Picard.
Although Middletown budgeted $10,000 for Narcan this year, overdoses across Ohio have skyrocketed in the first six months of 2017 as increasingly potent opioids flood the black market. The city is currently on pace to spend 10 times the amount it had allocated.
Middletown has suffered 577 overdoses so far this year, already eclipsing the 532 overdoses that occurred in 2016, according to local NBC affiliate WLWT5. With 51 fatal overdoses in 2017, the annual death toll appears likely to dwarf last year’s 74 fatalities.
Proposals like Picard’s are evidence of a phenomenon known as “compassion fatigue,” reports the Columbus Dispatch.
With 4,100 overdose deaths across Ohio last year, Martins Ferry Police Chief John McFarland said some people have begun taking these casualties as a foregone conclusion.
“You hear from the public, ‘Why don’t you let them die?’” McFarland told the Dispatch. “We’re not God; we don’t decide who lives or dies. … We have the ability to save them, so we do.”
Other policymakers have used arguments like Picard’s to justify controversial approaches to the opioid epidemic. Last year, Maine Gov. Paul LePage (R) vetoed a bill to expand access to naloxone, claiming that the drug “does not truly save lives; it merely extends them until the next overdose.” State lawmakers later overrode LePage’s veto.
Comments like Picard’s or LePage’s are a reminder that a “cold-hearted” ideology drives one side of the debate on drugs and addiction, said Jerónimo Saldaña, organizing and policy manager at the Drug Policy Alliance, a nonprofit that advocates for the progressive reform of drug laws. 
“You would never say there’s a limit on the number of times your grandmother can fall ill and be taken to the doctor,” said Saldaña. “Just because it’s a different type of illness, a different type of problem doesn’t mean you can allow yourself to quantify the number of times someone can reach out for assistance.”
Rather than worry so much about how much it costs to save the life of someone suffering from addiction, Saldana says policymakers should invest more in treatment and recovery programs so those individuals can get the help they need when they’re ready to get it.
“People are forgetting the humanity of these folks,” said Saldaña. “People are forgetting that we can’t throw away lives, and we have to ensure that all lives are taken into account and receive the medical care they need.”

North Korea is not a tourist destination that I generally recommend for Americans.
South Koreans have special reasons to visit the country – to see members of their divided families, to visit legendary places like Mt. Paektu, to experience an alternative Korean reality. Chinese tourists visit North Korea to get a taste of their own more austere Communist past. Humanitarian workers from a variety of countries go back and forth to North Korea to help people who would otherwise fall through the frayed safety net of the country.
American tourists, on the other hand, are usually looking for a good time. Although Pyongyang has a casino and a bowling alley and numerous restaurants, North Korea is not a fun destination. Still, some Americans go there as part of their quest to visit every country in the world or because they can claim bragging rights for having participated in adventure tourism. I’ve also met American tourists who were genuinely curious about North Korea. Some tour companies go the extra length by incorporating briefings by experts in North Korean society.
Otto Warmbier, a third-year student at the University of Virginia, took a trip to China at the end of 2015. On an impulse, he decided to take a side trip to North Korea on a tour sponsored by Young Pioneer Tours, which offers “budget travel to destinations your mother would rather you stayed away from.” He chose the New Year’s Party tour, which promises a good amount of drinking.
Warmbier was described as an intellectually curious kid. He was double majoring in commerce and economics with a minor in global sustainability. A sports fan and fraternity member, he also liked to have a good time. From the photos and videos taken by other members of his tour group, Warmbier looks like he’s enjoying himself sightseeing and engaging in a snowball fight.
Before he could board the plane and leave North Korea with the rest of his group, however, North Korean authorities pulled him aside. They wouldn’t let him leave. He had one last phone call with one of the tour guides in which he reported having a headache so severe that he wanted to go to the hospital. Twenty days later, the North Korean authorities announced that they were detaining Warmbier for committing a “hostile act.”
Eventually they put him on trial for stealing a propaganda poster. They sentenced him to 15 years hard labor. Warmbier gave a tearful confession and then he was led out of the courtroom. Later, North Korea released a grainy video that purportedly showed Warmbier stealing the poster.
After 17 months in captivity, Warmbier was released in a vegetative state. Transported back to the United States, he died shortly thereafter. He’d suffered severe brain damage. University of Cincinnati doctors reported that they couldn’t determine the cause of the brain damage but that the young man showed no obvious signs of trauma such as fractures. Unfortunately, Warmbier’s parents did not allow an autopsy, so it will be impossible to figure out his ultimate cause of death.
Otto Warmbier’s death is a tragedy. He was obviously a gifted young man. His offense, if in fact he did commit one, should have occasioned a slap on the wrist, not a sentence of 15 years hard labor.
But North Korea is notoriously sensitive about what it considers offenses to the state and its leadership. Before I made my first trip to North Korea, I was well briefed on protocol. Don’t throw out a copy of the newspaper – if it contains a picture of Kim Jong Il, then you are inadvertently insulting the leadership. Don’t fold a North Korean banknote in half – if it features a picture of Kim Il Sung, then you are inadvertently insulting the leadership.
In other words, you have to be especially careful when you’re visiting North Korea. Drinking a lot and engaging in high-spirited camaraderie is natural for college students abroad. But it’s not such a good idea in North Korea. I did the same when I studied Russian in the Soviet Union in the mid-1980s – and I threw up in Red Square after one especially rowdy party. I shudder to think what might have happened to me if I’d been in Pyongyang instead.
We don’t know what happened to Otto Warmbier during his period of detention. It’s tempting to conclude that he was beaten, perhaps even tortured. But the North Korean authorities have been generally quite careful with American detainees. They seize Americans for what they consider serious offenses – religious proselytizing, trying to sneak into the country – not just as bargaining chips (they rarely get anything in exchange for releasing such detainees). If they arrested Warmbier for no reason other than to send a message to the United States and if they then mistreated him in custody, that would mark a significant shift in policy.
Even if North Korea has changed its policies under Kim Jong Un, it would be unwise to militarize this tragedy. “We would be morally justified in launching a military attack,” writes former diplomat Chris Hill in The New York Times. This is an odd argument, particularly coming from a former American official. After all, the United States seized hundreds of foreign nationals, imprisoned them in Guantanamo, and denied them due process. Three prisoners died in custody in 2006, possibly after torture.
Hill goes on to recommend that the United States demand a full accounting of what happened to Warmbier and pursue more sanctions rather than a military attack. Certainly an accounting is necessary. But perhaps the punitive action should come after the accounting, rather than before.
U.S.-North Korean relations are at a nadir. The Trump administration has expressed anger at Beijing for not disciplining Pyongyang. And the United States may not look favorably at South Korean President Moon Jae-in’s proposals to restart north-south economic relations.
It’s hard to know how Otto Warmbier himself might have come down on this issue. Before he was detained, he had generally positive interactions with North Koreans. As a commerce and business double major, he probably believed that economic engagement could make a difference.
I’d like to believe that the best way of honoring his legacy would be to avoid war on the Korean peninsula, work to release other foreign detainees, and encourage citizen-to-citizen exchanges with North Korea. By improving the economic and social conditions of the North Korean population, we can best ensure that nobody has to face whatever Otto Warmbier endured while he was imprisoned in the country.
Originally published on LobeLog.

The head of the National Rural Health Association said the organization will oppose the Senate’s healthcare bill because the legislation will hurt rural America.
“In its current form, this bill is anti-rural,” said Alan Morgan, NRHA chief executive officer.
The bill, named the Better Care Reconciliation Act, contains several provisions that would hit especially hard in rural areas, Morgan said.
Among these are deep cuts in Medicaid spending and an end to Medicaid expansion. About 45 percent of rural children use Medicaid, compared with 38 percent in metropolitan areas, according to a Georgetown University study.
The bill would reduce funding for treatment of opioid addiction, another issue for rural America. The rate of opioid overdose deaths is 45 percent higher in nonmetropolitan counties, according to NHRA. The Senate bill provides $2 billion to fight opioid addiction in 2018, while the House version of the bill, called the America Health Care Act, provides $45 billion over 10 years.
“They actually found a way to make the House bill worse,” Morgan said. “You really had to work to do that.”
The Senate version does nothing to improve insurance market places for rural areas and could make them worse by cutting tax credits for insurance purchases, wrote Erin Zumbrun, an NHRA policy manager, in a blog post.
Premium costs were already a problem in rural areas because of lack of competition, Zumbrun wrote.
“The Better Care Reconciliation Act will further exacerbate this problem by substantially reducing the tax credits available to assist individuals in purchasing insurance,” Zumbrun wrote. That will “likely [lead] to many more individuals [being] unable to afford health insurance or purchasing coverage with high deductibles and low coverage that in essence is the same as being without coverage.”
Rural hospitals will continue to be at risk of closure under the new bill, Zumbrun said. “Expansion of insurance coverage is irrelevant if there is no one to provide care,” she wrote.
One analysis shows that 673 rural hospitals are vulnerable to closure. Since 2010, 79 rural hospitals have closed, according to a University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill health research center.
Morgan also noted one part of the bill that probably won’t attract much attention but ought to. The bill zeroes out the Public Health and Prevention Fund, which has been used to fight the zika virus, a mosquito-borne disease that can cause severe birth defects.
“There is a real concern that zika is going to reemerge this summer in rural communities along the southern border,” he said. “From a rural public health standpoint it’s a real problem.”
On Wednesday, Democratic senators held a hearing in advance of the bill’s release. Witnesses from rural organizations testified about the potential impact of Medicaid cuts for the disabled and the impact of removing mental health coverage requirements. Their comments were based on the House version of the bill and assumptions about what would be the Senate version.
“This bill is going to hit rural America like a wrecking ball,” said Democratic Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, who attended the Wednesday hearing.

Fox host Sean Hannity has spent the better part of a decade being, well, a massive jerk. And with a president like Donald Trump in power, his vitriolic tendencies have only been given more license to thrive.
On Thursday morning, Trump tweeted an unequivocally sexist comment about MSNBC host Mika Brzezinski that mentioned her “bleeding badly from a face-lift” and called her co-host and fiance Joe Scarborough a “psycho.” Considering the president’s history, which includes making fun of disabled reporters and boasting about grabbing women, this sort of derision is unsurprising.
In response to the tweets, CNN anchor Jake Tapper quipped about Trump’s commentary not aligning with Melania Trump’s stance against cyberbullying. So Hannity quote-tweeted his network nemesis with this:
Maybe liberal Joe should stop calling the @POTUS a schmuck, a liar, a thug and mentally unhinged. Were they kissing @POTUS ass at xmas? Yes https://t.co/Ehf4EHvcjS
Hannity consistently comes to Trump’s defense, regardless of how morally repugnant the president’s behavior and tweets. This is happening, in large part, because Trump’s behavior only continues to justify Hannity’s behavior. 
Now, it bears mentioning that Hannity’s hatred toward Scarborough isn’t new ― as recently as on his show on Wednesday, he remarked that the former Republican Florida congressman has been “vicious, nasty, one-sided, petulant and arrogant” in his coverage of Trump. It was a head-scratching slew of insults to throw down considering Hannity’s own critical comments of past presidents.
In November, he reported on a patently false story indicating former President Barack Obama, Michelle Obama, Elizabeth Warren and other notable left-wingers had unfollowed Hillary Clinton on social media. The story also said they had deleted tweets referring to Clinton. None of this was true, but Hannity delivered these “facts” and said they meant “Obama’s implicated” in Clinton’s purported misdeeds and that he deserved jail time. But his grandiose, incendiary statement turned out to be based on unfounded accusations, and he later apologized, citing his distraction with Clinton’s “crimes and lies” and “CHEATING Bernie Sanders.”
Then, in March, on his radio show, Hannity went so far as to remark that Obama had been “doing a little bit of weed and maybe even a little blow” with a federal judge in Hawaii who issued a ruling against Trump’s travel ban, and who happened to be Obama’s law school classmate. 
Hannity also openly disparaged former first lady Michelle Obama for years, repeatedly remarking on her appearance and calling her “unpatriotic” and a “bitter and angry” racial extremist. He later turned around and said on his radio show that it’s the “lowest of low” to pick on women, a statement made in reference to those who have criticized Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway.
So, he has the audacity to admonish those who talk negatively of Conway, but defends Trump’s insults of Brzezinski and can repeatedly denigrate the former first lady? Hannity may have implored liberals to “lead by example,” but his behavior shows he doesn’t actually care that the back-and-forth name-calling is reminiscent of schoolyard bickering.
Much like a teenager desperate to fit in with the popular crowd, Hannity has proven time and time again that he’s willing to change his opinions simply because he refuses to let himself fall out of Trump’s good graces.
Even Ann Coulter, who has made her career on being politically contentious, has found issue with Hannity’s unending loyalty to Trump. Coulter appeared on Hannity’s show and ranted about former Goldman Sachs president Gary Cohn, who happens to be Trump’s chief economic adviser ― though that rant never aired. Coulter took to her blog to share her grievances, and Hannity responded by reminding her that she had previously said she would blindly “worship” Trump.
Television personalities, network hosts and journalists have a responsibility to the public  ― which is to be truthful and trustworthy. Sean Hannity, with his uncritical coverage of the current administration and infinite deluge of insults to the left, can only be trusted to convey one thing: He loves Donald Trump and the attention he gets from Trump. 
Hannity once said that “the news media are at war with the president because their little egos are bruised,” neglecting to mention that he himself is part of the “news media” and is repeatedly waging war on his counterparts. Hannity has the right to deride the media for its criticism of the president all he wants, but he should acknowledge that when it comes to “bruised egos” and media “wars,” he’s part of the problem.


The White House is denying reports that the one division within the Office of Science and Technology Policy is now completely unstaffed.
CBS News reported no staff members were left at the office’s science division ―  one of four such branches that comprise the OSTP ― after three employees from President Barack Obama’s administration worked their final day on Friday. The OSTP advises the White House “on the effects of science and technology on domestic and international affairs,” according to its website.
When asked about the alleged vacancies, White House deputy press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders told  on Saturday the report was false.
“This is not true,” Sanders said in an email. “Sadly, someone was more concerned about attacking [President Donald Trump] than getting their story straight.”
A White House official familiar with the OSTP told  that there are 12 staffers currently working in the science division, despite the report that said otherwise. The official, who requested anonymity to discuss the matter, also said there are 35 people total on staff in the OSTP.
The official said the work of previous science division workers had been passed on to new staffers who have expertise in similar areas of study.
The three science division staffers who finished up on Friday included Elle Celeste, who was previously a biomedical and forensic science expert for the White House. The White House official told  that Friday’s departures were “a matter of contract expiration.”
After departing from the OSTP, Celeste tweeted her final goodbyes, along with a photo of the science division placard with text saying “science division out. mic drop.”
It's been an honor to work with truly exceptional colleagues at OSTP, and advance science for the American people. Onward. 🔬
science division out. mic drop. pic.twitter.com/RoYTJqLoXa
Kumar Garg, another former OSTP employee who left his job in January, tweeted that Friday’s departures mean there are “zero” people left in the division. He was the OSTP’s assistant director for Learning and Innovation, but said he left his position because of Trump after serving for nearly eight years. 
“I made the decision to leave at the end of President Obama’s term because I disagreed strongly with the policy goals of the incoming Administration,” Garg told  in an email.
The OSTP serves a critical role in the presidency, providing direct advice to the president on all science and technology topics, including all public health and national security issues that may emerge ― for example, the Deepwater Horizon oil spill of 2011 and the Ebola crisis of 2014 ― according to Garg.
“Currently, nearly all major positions (Science Advisor, OSTP Director, CTO, OSTP Associate Directors) remain unfilled, as well as general staff positions,” Garg said. “As such, this Administration is flying blind on a range of science and technology issues.”
By COB today, number of staffers in White House OSTP's Science Division = 0. https://t.co/o4dsn4y3hO
The Trump administration has faced sharp criticism from the scientific community. In April, tens of thousands of people participated in an estimated 600 March for Science events across the country in protest of the administration’s stance on various issues.
Trump, who has called climate change a “hoax” orchestrated by the Chinese, has proposed massive budget cuts for federal programs including the Environmental Protection Agency, NASA, the Department of Energy’s office of science, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
After Trump revealed his 2018 budget proposal in March, Jeffrey Mervis, science policy reporter for Science Magazine wrote that it “confirms two things that U.S. scientists have long suspected: The new president is no fan of research, and his administration has no overarching strategy for funding science.” 
The White House has also yet to appoint one of the most influential science roles in federal government, the presidential science adviser, who heads the OSTP. When asked about that vacancy, the White House official familiar with the matter told  that “several very promising candidates for OSTP director” are under consideration.
Celeste did not immediately responded to a request for comment from .
This story has been updated to include comment from Garg.


A U.S. judge rejected Hawaii’s bid to exempt grandparents from President Donald Trump’s temporary travel ban on Thursday, but ruled that the state could ask the U.S. Supreme Court directly to clarify which parts of the order should take effect.
U.S. District Judge Derrick Watson in Honolulu had been asked to interpret a ruling from the U.S. Supreme Court that revived parts of Trump’s March 6 executive order banning people from six Muslim-majority countries for 90 days.
The highest court let the ban go forward with a limited scope, saying it could not apply to anyone with a credible “bona fide relationship” with a U.S. person or entity.
Trump said the measure was necessary to prevent extremist attacks. However, opponents including states and refugee advocacy groups sued to stop it, disputing its security rationale and saying it discriminated against Muslims.
Watson said in Thursday’s ruling he “declines to usurp the prerogative of the Supreme Court to interpret its own order.”
A spokesman for the Hawaii attorney general office said they would refile the request to the Supreme Court. Representatives for the Department of Justice could not be reached immediately for comment.
The government said after the Supreme Court ruling last month that a “bona fide relationship” meant close family members only, such as parents, spouses, fiancés, siblings and children.
Grandparents, grandchildren, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews and cousins from Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen would still be banned.
The state of Hawaii asked Watson last week to clarify the Supreme Court’s ruling, arguing the government’s definition of “bona fide relationship” was too narrow.
Justice Department lawyers said its definition “hews closely” to language found in U.S. immigration law, while Hawaii’s attorney general office said other parts of immigration law included grandparents as close family.
The government reversed its position on fiancés before the ban went into effect last week, saying they could also qualify for exceptions. The government described in a court filing a 72-hour scramble to “coordinate among multiple government agencies, and issue detailed guidance” on how to implement the Supreme Court’s ruling.
The roll-out of the narrowed version of the ban was more subdued last week compared to January, when Trump first signed a more expansive version of the order. That sparked protests and chaos at airports around the country and the world.
(Reporting by Dan Levine in San Francisco; Editing by Peter Cooney and Paul Tait)

By  Jim Steyer, Founder & CEO, Common Sense
More than anything, we exist to make the world a better place for our children. That’s why we as educators, policymakers and community leaders devote so much energy to prevent bullying.
So it’s especially disappointing to see our current president bullying anyone who he feels threatened by, from women and minorities to his own government employees and our country’s allies.
In his latest attack on Mika Brzezinski, the co-host of MSNBC’s Morning Joe, our bully of a president childishly stooped embarrassingly low once again by calling Ms. Brzezinski “low I.Q.” and “crazy.” He followed that up with yet another sexist and offensive comment implying that Ms. Brzezinski missed a dinner he invited her to because she was “bleeding badly from a face-lift.”
Fortunately in this situation, Ms. Brzezinski and her co-host Joe Scarborough have a platform to stand up to our Bully in Chief. Their Washington Post column “Our President Is Not Well” and their response on television pulled no punches and, better yet, people all over the country responded in their own way on social media, from members of Congress and journalists to teachers and parents.
The question is, where are the members of this Administration? It is especially troubling that our Secretary of Education, Betsy Devos, a woman and someone who claims to care about our children, hasn’t said a word. What kind of example is she setting for the kids she wants us to believe she cares about?
Where is Vice President Pence, father of two daughters? His benign silence is as bad as defending the indefensible.
Speaking of which, how does Sarah Huckabee Sanders look herself in the mirror after not just defending the bully’s comments, but blaming the media? What kind of example does that set for kids?
And how can the FLOTUS say out one side of her mouth that she is combatting cyberbullying while on the other side of her mouth defend her husband’s cyberbullying behavior? She has said, when her husband gets attacked, he will “punch back 10 times harder.” Ms. Trump could have used a digital citizenship course to learn what cyberbullying is before she announced her anti-cyberbullying campaign.
At Common Sense, we define bullying as actions that make another person feel angry, sad or scared, usually again and again. That last part is important, because we all make gaffes. Bullying, however, is a repeated behavior, and this Bully in Chief has a track record of bullying that few can contest.
This matters a great deal to those of us who are working hard to turn the tide of bullying that plagues our children. In 2015, one out of five kids in America was bullied, according to a report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Our goal is to reduce bullying, not encourage it.
The bully in Washington’s behavior and rhetoric has had the opposite effect on our children. Recently, Richard Cohen, the President of the Southern Poverty Law Center said, “We’ve seen Donald Trump behave like a 12-year-old, and now we’re seeing 12-year-olds behave like Donald Trump.”
It’s clear that the toxic political rhetoric has poisoned our nation’s schools. For example, at a South Central Los Angeles school, girls were called “Miss Piggy,” repeating the slur Mr. Trump used against Alicia Machado, a former Miss Universe contestant. In San Fernando, Calif., students flailed their arms to mock students in special education as they lined up for P.E., mimicking Mr. Trump’s ridicule of a reporter’s physical disability.
In Washington state, teachers report a new type of bullying emerging on the playground, one targeting Muslim and Hispanic students. A Muslim student, for example, was called a terrorist, while a Hispanic student who was born in the U.S. was told to “go back to the border” and “it’s not right for you to be here.”
Tragically, those incidents do not appear to be isolated. In a survey of 2,000 teachers across the country conducted by the Southern Poverty Law Center, more than a third of educators surveyed reported an increase in bullying, harassment and intimidation of students whose races, religions or nationalities were targeted in caustic campaign rhetoric, with a number of teachers reporting that students were using the word “Trump” as a taunt or chant as they ganged up on others.
President Trump, if I were you, I’d take it as a wake-up call that my last name was being used as an epithet and a rallying cry for schoolyard bullies. Children mirror what they see in the real world, and what they see is someone in power belittling and abusing anyone who he is threatened by. I know of no one who thinks this will make us a great nation.
Mr. Trump, I urge you to have more respect for those who disagree with you. Using power to shut down opponents isn’t democracy—it’s totalitarianism. Our nation is built on dissent and our strength is in our capacity to grow from open, healthy debates. Words have power, and the podium of the U.S. Presidency gives those words vast amounts of power. To make America truly great, I urge you to use your words to build—not destroy. Unite the country—don’t divide it with a “put up or shut up” stance.
To American families who, like mine, are bewildered by the prevalence of hate speech and offensive comments cultivated by this administration, I want you to know that you aren’t powerless. In fact, each and every one of us has influence. You can choose to give bullies more power by mimicking their actions. You can reinforce their bullying by doing nothing and tacitly condoning their behavior. Or you can step in and defend the people being bullied, which is what we saw in Ms. Brzezinski ’s case.
At Common Sense, we teach children, families and educators how to stand up for victims of bullying. Why bother? Because it works. Bullying isn’t a problem between two individuals; it’s a group process. And research has demonstrated time and again that the intervention of bystanders is an effective way to stop bullying and mitigate the psychological damage it causes.
For the sake of our kids, whether it is the Bully in Chief, a colleague at work or a child’s friend online, we have to consistently stand up to bullies and stop the damaging behavior in our country. Particularly, the one with the loudest voice of all.
About James Steyer
James Steyer is the father of four children, Lily, Kirk, Carly and Jesse. He is also the founder and CEO of Common Sense, the nation’s leading independent nonprofit organization dedicated to creating a powerful voice for kids and families in the 21st century. Mr. Steyer authored the acclaimed Talking Back to Facebook and The Other Parent: The Inside Story of the Media’s Effect on Our Children and as a faculty member at Stanford University, he has taught courses on education, civil rights, and civil liberties issues.

Hillary Clinton said Tuesday that the U.S. is in the midst of one of the most important battles in the country’s history ― and librarians are on the “front lines.” 
The 2016 Democratic presidential nominee praised libraries for being essential to a free society and encouraged Americans to fight against President Donald Trump’s “deeply disturbing” proposed cuts to their federal funding.
“The work you do is at the heart of an open, inclusive and diverse society,” Clinton told a crowd at the American Library Association’s conference in Chicago. “I believe libraries and democracy go hand-in-hand.”
“You have to be on the front lines of one of the most important fights we have ever faced in history in this country: the right to defend truth and reason, evidence and facts,” she said.
The reference to defending “truth and reason” was an apparent swipe at Trump, whom Clinton has consistently blasted for ignoring science and facts while peddling debunked conspiracy theories.
Clinton, who told the crowd she found strength from reading (as well as the “occasional glass of chardonnay”) following her loss in the 2016 presidential election, noted that librarians play a critical role in communities nationwide.
“Reading is not just a nice thing to do. It’s how we help give our children the best possible start in life,” Clinton said, pointing to a study that suggests children in low-income families hear 30 million fewer words by the age of 4 than their affluent counterparts.
The former first lady added that libraries are critical to the well-being of rural communities and provide invaluable resources to help immigrants and refugees learn English and “know their rights.”
“Sparking someone’s love of learning, changing the course of a life, standing up for the freedom to read, to learn ― nothing is more important than that in a free society,” Clinton said.


Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), who is retiring from Congress at the end June, has signed on as a contributor for Fox News.
A Fox press release confirms that Chaffetz will make his network debut on July 1, and he’ll contribute to both Fox News and Fox Business. (Politico first reported in May that Chaffetz was considering joining the network.) 
Chaffetz, seen as a rising star within the Republican Party, shocked Washington, D.C., in April when he announced he wouldn’t seek reelection in 2018.
“For those that would speculate otherwise, let me be clear that I have no ulterior motives,” Chaffetz wrote on his Facebook page. “I have made a personal decision to return to the private sector.”
He then announced in May he would step down on June 30, ending his term a year and a half early. 
First elected to the House in 2008, Chaffetz rose to prominence after he was elected as chairman of the House Oversight Committee in 2014. As chairman, he frequently investigated former President Barack Obama’s White House. He led the congressional investigation of Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email service during her tenure as secretary of state, vowing to continue the investigation even after the FBI decided against recommending charges in the case. He was also one of the first Republicans to criticize Clinton’s response to the 2012 attack against two U.S. government facilities in Benghazi, Libya. 
After President Donald Trump’s inauguration, Chaffetz drew criticism for not investigating scandals involving the new president as vigorously as he had probed the previous administration. 
Chaffetz criticized Trump’s administration in a recent interview, claiming he doesn’t “see much difference between the Trump administration and the Obama administration.” 
While Chaffetz said he is leaving office to spend more time with his family, he’s left open the possibility that he will run for governor of Utah in 2020. 


Senate Republicans released their draft health care bill Thursday, unveiling a proposed rollback of Medicaid expansion and funding while ensuring hefty tax cuts for the wealthy and health care companies. Among other things, the bill reduces the number of middle-income people eligible to get tax credits for private health insurance, eliminates the individual and employer mandates, and bans Planned Parenthood from receiving any federal funding for one year.
The Senate’s bill is similar to the one the House passed last month. The Senate bill would cut Medicaid more than the House measure, allow insurers to charge older people higher rates and permit states to waive rules guaranteeing insurance covers a basic set of benefits. The Senate bill does not include some of the particularly harsh aspects of the House legislation, including a provision that would let states end protections for people with pre-existing conditions.
This story has been updated to reflect changes to the Senate legislation.
CORRECTION: An earlier version of this graphic said pre-existing conditions were treated the same under the House and Senate bills. The Senate bill has pre-existing condition provisions similar to the current law, and the graphic has been updated.


As Democrats rummage through the debris of the catastrophic 2016 election, a bevy of pundits and warring ideological factions has sprung up to explain the party’s misfortune and advise it on the best path forward.
Given the glut of electoral analyses, party leaders might do well to cross one item off their list: Listening to anything Mark Penn has to say.
Together with the former Manhattan borough president Andrew Stein, Penn, a Democratic pollster, co-wrote a column in The New York Times on Thursday calling on Democrats to “move back to the center.”
The column has some ideas that are uncontroversial among rank-and-file Democrats like rebuilding the country’s infrastructure, tackling the opioid crisis and beefing up protections for workers in the “gig economy.”
But Penn and Stein’s calls to “reject socialism,” moderate stances in favor of transgender and immigrant rights, and fight crime by increasing police are tougher sells.
The path back to power for the Democratic Party is to put people like Mark Penn in the Republican Party pic.twitter.com/7L6jSEM2PH
The thing is, taking advice from Penn about how to win elections is a little like turning to Phil Jackson for wisdom on how to win an NBA title. It was a decent idea in 1996, now, not so much.
Indeed, in the Times column, Penn references his success helping then-President Bill Clinton win reelection in 1996.
But Penn’s record as a campaign consigliere since then has been characterized by high-profile losses.
Most famously, Penn presided over Hillary Clinton’s defeat at the hands of Barack Obama in the 2008 presidential primary.
Penn’s mistakes during the campaign, enumerated comprehensively in a September 2008 story in The Atlantic, included assuming that the American public would never elect a black man with a foreign name. He reassured Clinton that the right-wing media was cheering Obama on because they wanted Democrats to lose in the general election and advised her to attack Obama for his “lack of American roots.”
Clinton reportedly chose not to take this route, but Penn’s counsel nonetheless appears to have seeped into her thinking. In one of her biggest campaign blunders, Clinton said, “Sen. Obama’s support among working, hard-working Americans, white Americans is weakening.”
Penn ultimately resigned from his self-appointed role as Clinton’s “chief strategist” after it emerged that he met with Colombian officials about promoting a free trade agreement through his consulting firm that Clinton officially opposed.
Penn went on to spearhead a public relations campaign for Microsoft targeting Google for allowing companies to purchase preferential search engine placement. The campaign’s “Scroogled” ads drew widespread mockery for using political war room tactics in an intercorporate struggle. Efforts to stoke public outrage about the Silicon Valley giant’s practices quickly fizzled.
As a result, Penn’s reemergence from political oblivion to save Democrats from their transgender bathroom and “government handout”-loving selves was met with incredulity on Twitter. 
Mark Penn illustrates how no scale of political malpractice & exposure of ugly tactics can keep someone from thinking their punditry matters
Dems lost to rebranded GOP that ran against trade and globalists. Why on earth would the lesson be "to the center!" https://t.co/mbCFVkJqYX
the thing people like mark penn always leave out of their very bad political analysis is that republicans will always call us socialists. pic.twitter.com/LQ0CGcNHmS
Elon Green, an editor at Longform, even discovered evidence that Penn has been dispensing centrist advice since his days as a Harvard undergraduate. In an October 1973 column in the Harvard Crimson, Penn argued Democrats should exercise “care” in impeaching then-President Richard Nixon lest they impeach him on “political grounds,” which he said would be “wrong.”
Mark Penn has been giving shitty advice for literally forever. https://t.co/u3wI6WA6cP pic.twitter.com/L9ubK4UhxG
As for the substance of Penn’s advice, it is best described as frozen in the amber of the 1990s. At the time, Democrats believed that their ticket to victory was deregulating financial markets and locking up more of America’s black and brown men.
Faced with rising income inequality, Democratic voters, moderate and liberal alike, favor more government spending on social programs, not less, according to an April Pew Research Center poll. An Associated Press poll from February 2016 found that half of Democratic voters think Wall Street reform has not gone far enough.
The socially moderate, pro-business “centrism” described by Penn remains extremely popular with Silicon Valley billionaires and other elites. But it is hard to avoid the conclusion that the public is moving in the opposite direction, flocking to populists like President Donald Trump and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) to take over a system whose cast of players they no longer trust.
Even as Penn proposes hiring more cops in American cities, a feature of the tough-on-crime 1990s, there is a growing recognition in both parties of the severe unintended consequences of this approach, which was implemented by former President Bill Clinton under Penn’s guidance. In Congress, finding ways to undo the harsh sentencing laws that have given the U.S. the largest prison population in the world is a rare area of bipartisan agreement.
There are surely debates to be had about how Democrats should talk about cultural issues in more traditional parts of the country.
But Penn’s advice to ease up on the issue of transgender bathroom rights flies in the face of a key piece of empirical evidence. As the Post’s Dave Weigel points out, Democrats flipped the governorship in North Carolina in 2016 thanks to popular opposition to the state’s so-called bathroom bill that allowed discrimination against LGBT people.

Thursday evening at 8 p.m., part of Donald Trump’s Executive Order temporarily banning people from six Muslim-majority countries went into effect.
Thanks to the Supreme Court, visa applications from Libya, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Yemen and Somalia will be blocked for 90 days and resettlement for refugees for 120 days unless an individual can prove a “credible claim of a bona fide relationship with a person or entity in the United States.” Under this vague definition, parents, siblings, step-siblings, half-siblings or a fiancé of someone in the U.S. for example are allowed entry, but not their grandparents, nieces, nephews, uncles, or aunts.
If this appears confusing and illogical, that’s because it is. As we await the ramifications of this action in the days, weeks and months ahead, as well as SCOTUS’ final ruling on the entire E.O. later this fall, the message has been heard loudly round the world and already solidified by the highest court in our country: Muslims are the ultimate “other” and will be treated as such.
Earlier this year, Pew Research conducted a survey asking people to rate religious groups based on a “feeling thermometer” from 0 to 100 (0 being the coldest/most negative). Muslims were given an average rating of 48 degrees – less than the seven other religious groups in the survey. This is no coincidence. When most Americans don’t know a Muslim personally (or don’t realize that they know one), all they can base their perceptions on is what has been reinforced continually in the press, pop culture and society at large. When the U.S. is separated from much of the world – including the proverbial “Muslim world” – by large bodies of water, many Americans have no concept of what a Muslim is in actuality.
Donald Trump campaigned for the highest office in the land by calling for a “total and complete shutdown” of Muslims entering the country until we can figure out “what the hell is going on.” Well, I can tell you what the hell is going on. This didn’t start with Trump and he’s not the only one to blame for where we are today. The SCOTUS Justices who allowed for this partial implementation to take place are guilty; the State Department that set out the arbitrary guidelines for this rollout are guilty; the news outlets that don’t bring Muslims into the conversation are guilty; Hollywood that routinely demonizes Muslims is guilty; the politicians who went along with this ban for their own political advancement are guilty; those who don’t speak up for fear of retribution are guilty; and of course well-meaning citizens who are silent because they think this has nothing to do with them or are duped into believing so are guilty.
Muslims in the U.S. only constitute about 1 percent of the population. When a group is in such a minority, routinely stereotyped and misrepresented, and then further silenced by not having a seat at the table, are we really surprised that the majority don’t appear to care if we start shifting policy that impacts their family members directly or people of that community? When the Trump Administration rolled out its initial Muslim ban in January, there were massive protests at airports and elsewhere around the country, as well as a flurry of attorneys that literally sat on the floor with their laptops writing briefs to assist those caught in the middle of the chaos. It was a beautiful moment; Americans of all stripes were standing, marching and protesting in solidarity with the Muslim community. Unfortunately, that level of outrage has not sustained itself in the months since. While there were protests at some airports and cities on Thursday as part of the Muslim ban 2.0 launched, they weren’t nearly on the level that we saw earlier this year. And even though there was some coverage of this ban, there was more indignation and attention paid to Trump’s tweets about Mika Brzezinski than there was about restricting entry into the United States from six countries (granted, the Brzezinski story absolutely warranted coverage, but it dominated the news cycle and made all else an afterthought).
On a day when such a drastic measure went into effect, hardly any Muslims appeared on cable news outlets. In fact, references to Muslims were almost absent as the accepted norm is now to refer to this E.O. as a “travel ban” ― as if people are packing their bags to go on vacation somewhere. To act like this isn’t a partial test run of Trump’s campaign promise to ban Muslims is misleading at best. As the ACLU and others have so rightfully argued, you do not need to discriminate against all members of a group in order to discriminate against that group. Just because all Muslims aren’t banned, doesn’t negate the fact that this is, was and will in fact be a Muslim ban.
Now some claim (and SCOTUS has apparently agreed) that this ban is about “national security.” As many have already highlighted, no one from these six nations has ever committed a terrorist attack in the U.S. But let’s really delve into the issue here. If the argument is that we cannot properly vet people from these countries, then don’t we need to be honest about our role in destabilizing many of these areas?
Whether it was our drone campaign in Somalia or Yemen (and our current support of a proxy war in Yemen by supplying weapons to Saudi Arabia), or the massive destruction and utter chaos that was left in Libya after the U.S.-led NATO operation that helped to overthrow Gaddafi, or the horrific mess that is Syria where everyone from Assad to Russia to the U.S. and others are dropping bombs (not to mention ISIS rising out of the vacuum left in Iraq and spreading elsewhere), we have contributed greatly to the factors that made many of these places failed states. After such intense involvement, we then want to then turn around and block those trying to escape the madness and instability. It is a crazy dynamic, and one that is almost never brought into the conversation when discussing Trump’s Muslim ban. Instead, we are presented with the notion that “those people over there” are bad and we must keep them out. What a disingenuous way to approach such a complex issue.
As people pontificate the legality of certain provisions of this ban and prepare their talking points, it’s important to keep in mind that this is happening, now, in 2017. There is no clarity as to what will be done differently vetting-wise during this temporary halt. In fact, on a background call with reporters regarding this E.O., senior Administration officials failed to answer a question about what was wrong with current vetting procedures. The truth is, the refugee resettlement process already takes anywhere from 18 to 24 months, or even longer for people from places like Syria. To act as if our borders are somehow open and people can just walk through as they please is such a farce, it’s hard to believe that anyone would ever believe it.
The most vulnerable among us, refugees, will be hit the hardest by this ban, as it is difficult for many to prove they already have a “bona fide relationship” to a country they are attempting to seek refuge in. To add insult to injury, refugee organizations do not constitute as a bona fide relationship, making it even harder for a refugee to gain entry. This E.O. also limits the total number of refugees into the U.S. from 110,000 to 50,000 for this year. History will not look favorably upon this moment.
SCOTUS will have the final word on Trump’s Muslim ban this October, though Hawaii has already filed an emergency motion over its partial implementation and the White House’s interpretation of Monday’s ruling. While the legalities play out, Muslims abroad and Muslims here at home have been sent a very succinct message: the United States can slowly begin to block some of you, break families apart and the masses won’t even blink an eye.
It’s important to remember how we arrived at this moment – for it didn’t happen overnight. And who knows where this may lead, as Trump’s ban leaves room for other nations to be added to the list. As for Muslims in the U.S., it’s also critical to note that Sec. of State Tillerson never ruled out a Muslim registry when asked during his confirmation hearing.
When you continually dehumanize a group, fail to include their voices, have a Presidential candidate who promises to ban them (and still gets elected), start to impose special limitations on their entry and there is no large-scale outcry, then who’s to say more draconian measures won’t come down the pipeline?
Regardless of what SCOTUS finally decides this fall, the damage has already been done and Muslims now know that policies can be put in place in 2017 targeting them specifically and most people will sadly just carry on.
Nothing to see here folks.

A new National Rifle Association recruitment ad appears to have outraged both gun control advocates and gun owners alike, even leading critics to launch a petition urging Facebook to delete the “inflammatory” message for “inciting violence.”
The minute-long clip, posted on the NRA’s FB page earlier this month, features Dana Loesch of TheBlaze who begins: “They use their media to assassinate real news. They use their schools to teach children that their president is another Hitler. They use their movie stars and singers and comedy shows and award shows to repeat their narrative over and over again.”
The ad continues with Loesch declaring that “their” former president advocated resistance, leading to protests that “bully and terrorize the law-abiding.”
“The only way we stop this, the only way we save our country, and our freedom, is to fight this violence of lies with a clenched fist of truth,” the spokeswoman concludes. “I’m the National Rifle Association of America and I’m freedom’s safest place.”
Many commenters, including some who say they are gun owners, blasted the ad for being “incendiary” and “divisive” while “encouraging violence.”
A 50-year-old former Republican from the Midwest replied to the video on Facebook, calling it “Orwellian nonsense designed to make you cheer and fist pump for your ‘freedom’ like dogs drooling when the bell gets rung.”
The commenter, who asked not to be named because he feared for his safety, said he owns firearms for his own protection and for occasional target practice. He told  that despite the negative reaction to the video in some corners, he suspects it won’t damage the NRA.
“I don’t think much of anything can actually backfire on them, to be honest,” he said. “Much of their core membership seems impervious to logic and reason, sadly.”
The NRA did not immediately return a request for comment on the criticism.
Watch the video above.

The Gulf crisis that pits Saudi Arabia and the UAE against Qatar is set to escalate with Doha certain to ignore Monday’s deadline that it complies with demands that would undermine Qatari sovereignty and humiliate Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani at a time that he is riding high on a wave of Qatari nationalism sparked by the Gulf crisis.
Four weeks into the crisis, the demands appear to have been crafted for what is becoming a longer battle that the two Gulf states hope will end with Qatar, with or without Sheikh Tamim, adopting policies crafted in Riyadh and Abu Dhabi. Saudi Arabia and the UAE have declared the demands to be non-negotiable, offered Qatar no face-saving way out of the crisis, and appear to have designed them to be deliberately insulting.
The Saudi-UAE-led coalition against Qatar is likely to further tighten the boycott of Qatar once the Monday deadline passes. However, UAE State Minister for Foreign Affairs Anwar Gargash’s prediction of a parting of ways, which ultimately could include Qatar leaving the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) that groups the Gulf’s monarchies, would neither reduce tensions or end the crisis. Neither would an effort to suspend Qatar’s membership of the Arab League.
Saudi and UAE perceptions of Qatari policies as a threat to the survival of their regimes would not be allayed by a divorce that would allow Qatar to continue to chart its own course. It is those perceptions that drove the two countries to launch their zero-sum game. Moreover, a Qatar capable of defying its more powerful neighbours would put on public display limits to Saudi and UAE power.
The lesson of the past weeks is that Qatar can survive the boycott as long as countries like Turkey and Iran help it meet its food and water requirements, retains access to international shipping lanes, maintains its oil and gas exports; and has uninterrupted, normal dealings with the international financial system.
Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Qatar have so far exempted oil and gas from their fight. Qatar continues to pump natural gas to the UAE through a partially Emirati-owned pipeline. Dubai is dependent on Qatar for 40 percent of its gas.
Similarly, Saudi Arabia has been careful not to disrupt the tanker market and complicate Qatar’s energy exports by blocking shared vessel loadings. Such a move would create logistical challenges not only for Qatar but also for the kingdom’s own clients who would be forced to reorganize dozens of cargoes. It could also reduce the number of available vessels and drive up shipping costs.
Qatar hopes that its ability to defy the boycott will force Saudi Arabia and the UAE to tighten the boycott in ways that could backfire. Potentially, that could happen if Saudi Arabia and the UAE act on a threat to take a you-are-with-us-or-against-us approach towards their trading and commercial partners. That would put to the test, Saudi Arabia and the UAE’s ability to impose their will on others.
So far, it’s not been easy going for Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Qatar refuses to bend, most Muslim countries are unwilling to follow the Saudi-UAE lead, and many in the international community are irritated by the two countries’ approach that threatens to complicate the fight against the Islamic State, risks volatility in energy markets, and increases instability in what is already the world’s most unstable region.
Despite denials, Saudi Arabia and the UAE’s take-it-or-leave-it approach appears to include the option of fostering an environment conducive to regime change if Qatar proves capable of circumventing the boycott for an extended period of time.
State-controlled media in the kingdom and the Emirates contributed to efforts to undermine Sheikh Tamim’s position with for the Gulf almost unprecedented attacks on Qatar’s ruling Al Thani clan and interviews with little known dissident family members as well as former military officers opposed to the emir’s policies.
The Saudi and UAE strategy risks painting the two countries into a corner with Qatari support for Sheikh Tamim complicating suggestions voiced by a prominent Saudi journalist with close ties to the government and a Washington-based Saudi lobbyist that the brutal 2013 Egyptian coup that brought general-turned-president Abdel Fattah Al-Sisi to power could be repeated in Qatar in some form or fashion.
Saudi and UAE tactics as well as some of the demands that include halting support for militants and Islamists, closing a Turkish military base in the Gulf state, reducing relations with Iran, and shuttering Qatar-sponsored media, including the controversial Al Jazeera television network, could however prove to be a double-edged sword.
In a move that likely contributed to turning Qatari public opinion against them, Saudi Arabia and the UAE, citing unsubstantiated allegations that the Gulf state supported Houthi rebels, expelled their nemesis from the Saudi-led military coalition fighting the insurgents in Yemen a day after six Qatari soldiers were wounded defending the kingdom’s southern flank.
The two Gulf states implicitly included Houthi rebels in Yemen in their demand that Qatar break off its relations with militants and Islamists. While there is little doubt that Qatar at times went too far in nurturing those relationships, it is equally clear that some of them enjoyed tacit Western and Saudi backing.
In the case of the Houthis, Qatar likely maintained clandestine contacts while joining the Saudi-led fight against them given Qatar’s repeated efforts over a period of more than a decade to mediate between the rebels, the Saudi-backed Yemeni government and the kingdom. Qatar negotiated since 2004 various ceasefires in intermittent wars between the government and the Houthis only to see them thwarted with the support of Saudi Arabia.
Former U.S. diplomats in cables to the State Department while serving in Yemen and more recently in interviews suggested that Saudi Arabia’s obsession with the Houthis predates the rebels closer relationship with Iran since the invasion began in 2015. If anything, Saudi obsession drove them further into the hands of the Iranians.
Moreover, closer analysis of the Saudi and UAE demands creates the impression that certainly in the case of the kingdom the pot at times is blaming the kettle. Abd al-Wahhab Muhammad Abd al-Rahman Al-Humayqani, the only Yemeni on the Saudi-UAE list of alleged terrorists associated with the two Gulf states’ demands, is a U.S. Treasury designated terrorist linked to Al Qaeda who, reportedly lives at least part-time in the Saudi capital.
The Treasury designation in 2013 did not prevent the Saudis from including Mr. Al-Humayqani in the delegation of the Saudi-backed government to failed peace talks in 2015 or from serving as an advisor to Yemeni President Abd Rabbuh Mansur Hadi, who is resident in the kingdom.
All of this makes hopes for a negotiated solution of the Gulf crisis all but an illusion. Maintaining the status quo is not an option for Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Escalation of the crisis is risky not only for the Gulf states themselves but also for the international community. Yet, pulling the protagonists back from the brink without loss of face is a non-starter as long as both sides of the divide target absolute victory at whatever cost.
Dr. James M. Dorsey is a senior fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, co-director of the University of Würzburg’s Institute for Fan Culture, and the author of The Turbulent World of Middle East Soccer blog, a book with the same title, Comparative Political Transitions between Southeast Asia and the Middle East and North Africa, co-authored with Dr. Teresita Cruz-Del Rosario and three forthcoming books, Shifting Sands, Essays on Sports and Politics in the Middle East and North Africa as well as Creating Frankenstein: The Saudi Export of Ultra-conservatism and China and the Middle East: Venturing into the Maelstrom.

WASHINGTON ― This year’s 4th of July “Freedom Fest” at Guantanamo Bay featured a live music performance by a band whose music was used to interrogate detainees at the Naval base.
The heavy metal band Drowning Pool played a show for U.S. troops at Guantanamo Bay on Tuesday before the fireworks display, the Miami Herald’s Carol Rosenberg first reported. Years ago, interrogators blasted the band’s song “Bodies” as part of an effort to break down prisoners’ will and keep them awake during extended interrogation sessions.
In a 2006 story in Spin about using music as a tool of torture, David Peisner wrote that almost every interrogator and soldier he spoke to mentioned “Bodies” as their preferred song for “psyching out enemies and captives.”
Years later, the Senate Armed Services Committee confirmed in a report that military interrogators used “Bodies” during interrogations with Mohamedou Slahi, a Mauritanian detainee.
Slahi, who was transferred from a CIA black site to Guantanamo in 2002, was released last year after 14 years of detention. He was never charged with a crime. While in prison, he hand-wrote a diary, chronicling his experiences being subjected to interrogation techniques that have since been banned. A redacted version of Slahi’s diary was published in 2015. In it, Slahi wrote that he “might never forget that song.”
The chorus of “Bodies” includes the line, “let the bodies hit the floor,” a reference “the brotherhood of the mosh pit,” the band has said.
Slahi told the Miami Herald that he still has hearing problems because of lengthy exposure to loud music during interrogations. “I love art and good music and feel much pain for music to be used as a tool of torture,” he wrote in an email published by the Herald. “This is so twisted on many levels. Because music is supposed to make you happy and make you a better person; sometimes.”
A 2005 internal review of alleged prisoner abuse at Guantanamo found that loud music was part of a “futility technique” designed to break down prisoners’ ability to resist answering questions. “Futility technique included the playing of Metallica, Britney Spears, and Rap music,” the report read.“On a few occasions, detainees were left alone in the interrogation booth for an indefinite period of time while loud music played and strobe lights flashed.”
Southern Command spokeswoman Army Col. Lisa Garcia told  that because the event was planned by the Naval station’s recreation office and not the joint task force that oversees the prison at Guantanamo, “the link between past interrogations using music was not on the forefront on the planners’ minds.”
“It is likely that leadership was not informed of the potential for negative connotations because individuals were more familiar with the song ‘Let the bodies hit the floor’ than the name of the band that performed it or its past history with detainees,” Garcia wrote in an email.  
Some bands have objected to the military using their music as part of interrogations. “Just as we wouldn’t be caught dead allowing Dick Cheney to use our music for his campaigns, you can be damn sure, we wouldn’t allow him to use it to torture other human beings. Congress needs to shut Guantanamo down,” The Roots said in 2009.
A manager and a spokeswoman for Drowning Pool did not respond requests for comment, but one member of the band has said in the past that he was not concerned by the military’s use of his music. “People assume we should be offended that somebody in the military thinks our song is annoying enough that, played over and over, it can psychologically break someone down,” bassist Stevie Benton told Spin in 2006. “I take it as an honor to think that perhaps our song could be used to quell another 9/11 attack or something like that.”
Benton later posted an apology on MySpace and said his comment was taken out of context.
Before their performance at Guantanamo, the band went on a tour of the Naval base. “Words can’t describe what an honor and privilege this is,” band manager Paul Gargano posted on Instagram. Another post by Gargano shows the band performing before an enthusiastic crowd.
A post shared by Paul Gargano (@paulgargano) on Jul 4, 2017 at 4:36pm PDT
The metal band regularly performs shows for and to benefit members of the military. Days before the show at Guantanamo, Drowning Pool played at Soto Cano Air Force base in Honduras. They are scheduled to perform in the Rock the Troops concert next month in Colorado Springs.
This story has been updated to include comment from Southern Command.

Adults who are at least 21 years old can now legally purchase recreational marijuana from select retail shops in Nevada. 
Sales began just after midnight on Saturday. There are a total of 44 licensed dispensaries around the state open for business so far, according to the Nevada Department of Taxation, which oversees the industry. Thirty-three shops in Las Vegas and four shops in Reno are among those that have licenses.
Customers can legally be in possession of up to an ounce of marijuana or one-eighth of an ounce of cannabis-infused edibles or extracts.
Nevada joins Colorado, Washington, Oregon and Alaska in rejecting marijuana prohibition and legalizing the sale of weed for recreational purposes. A total of eight states ― along with the District of Columbia, which does not allow sales ― have already enacted laws to legalize, regulate and tax recreational marijuana. Licensed dispensaries are expected to open for business next year in California, Maine and Massachusetts.
More than 54 percent of voters supported Nevada’s legalization measure last year, which required the state to begin selling recreational marijuana by Jan. 1, 2018. But the state’s tax commission adopted temporary regulations to begin sales early, making Nevada the fastest state to move on implementing its recreational marijuana program, according to The Associated Press.
“The marijuana prohibition era is finally coming to an end in Nevada,” said Mason Tvert, director of communications for the Marijuana Policy Project, the drug policy reform group that backed the state’s measure to legalize. “Adults will now be able to purchase marijuana similarly to how they purchase alcohol, from regulated businesses rather than criminals in the illegal market.” 
Although pot sales are legal, there are still restrictions on public use. People won’t be allowed to toke up on the street or in the state’s hotels and casinos, where smoking cigarettes is still commonplace. Violations can lead to a $600 ticket. But there’s also still some confusion over how strictly police will enforce these laws ― many people already openly drink alcohol on the Las Vegas Strip, despite restrictions on such consumption.
In a statement issued Friday evening, just hours before retail sales began, Deonne Contine, executive director of the Department of Taxation detailed the specifics of the new law and also offered a reminder about moderation, especially when it comes to edibles.
“If Nevada is anything like Colorado, we’re likely to see people who have only smoked marijuana in the past try different products, like edibles,” Contine said.
The department warned that edibles can be much stronger than smoking and can take two hours or more before the effects fully set in.
“Because of this, officials caution consumers to start with one serving that has no more than 10 milligrams of THC and wait at least two hours before having more. Check the labels on products before you buy so you know how much THC is in each product and serving size,” the statement read.
 
 
(If you do find yourself feeling too high on marijuana edibles, here are some things to remember to help get you through.) 
Some parts of the state law are still being ironed out. Although existing medical marijuana retailers who have received state recreational licenses can begin selling their existing product on Saturday, restocking on weed may become an issue in the weeks ahead due to an ongoing legal battle over who will get state marijuana distribution licenses. As of last week, liquor distributors ― the only entity approved to distribute marijuana during first 18 months of sales under state law ― had not been issued transportation licenses yet.
Nevada’s push on recreational marijuana puts it in some uncertain territory. Despite the continued efforts to decriminalize the use, cultivation and sale of marijuana at the state level, the plant remains illegal under federal law.
Former President Barack Obama’s Justice Department allowed states to forge their own marijuana policies, issuing guidance that urged federal prosecutors to refrain from targeting state-legal marijuana operations. But that guidance is not law and President Donald Trump’s administration has already raised alarm among those who favor reforming drug laws.  
As a candidate, Trump said he was in favor of respecting states’ rights on legalization. But Attorney General Jeff Sessions, an anti-marijuana hard-liner who has issued some ominous warnings about states that have legalized marijuana, has suggested that a federal crackdown could be on the way. Although Sessions has said Obama-era marijuana guidance is “not too far from good policy,” officials in legal weed states expect the attorney general to make some changes to it.
Kevin Sabet, president of anti-legalization group Smart Approaches to Marijuana, said in a press statement that Nevada was rushing to duplicate what his group called the “failed pot experiments” of other states that have abandoned prohibitionist marijuana policies.
Nevada has the potential to become a massive legal marijuana market ―perhaps the largest in the nation ― once legal recreational sales begin there in January, largely thanks to the state’s thriving tourism industry. In Colorado, which has a population of about 5 million and sees more than 70 million tourists annually, marijuana business made $1 billion in sales in 2016. 
“Nevada is a major national and international tourist destination, which means it could become one of the largest adult-use marijuana markets in the nation,” Tvert told . “It will really hinge on whether the state and localities adopt reasonable laws and regulations for allowing social consumption in certain venues. Tourists who can legally purchase marijuana need to have places where they can legally consume it.”
Marijuana is the most commonly used illicit substance in the United States. National support for legalization has risen dramatically in recent years, reaching historic highs in multiple polls. Medical marijuana enjoys even more overwhelming support, with a recent Quinnipiac poll finding that 94 percent of Americans approve of allowing adults to use the drug for medical purposes if their doctor prescribes it.
A strong majority of Americans also say individual states should be able to enact their own laws on marijuana, without interference from the federal government. A that Survey USA released last week found that 76 percent of American adults want Trump to respect state marijuana laws. Majorities of Republicans, Democrats, independents and respondents of every age group agreed that federal authorities should not interfere with states that have ended prohibition.


Like many Americans, I’m having politics fatigue. Or, to be more specific, arguing-about-politics fatigue.
I haven’t run out of salient points or evidence for my political perspective, but there is a particular stumbling block I keep running into when trying to reach across the proverbial aisle and have those “difficult conversations” so smugly suggested by think piece after think piece:
I don’t know how to explain to someone why they should care about other people.
Personally, I’m happy to pay an extra 4.3 percent for my fast food burger if it means the person making it for me can afford to feed their own family. If you aren’t willing to fork over an extra 17 cents for a Big Mac, you’re a fundamentally different person than I am.
I’m perfectly content to pay taxes that go toward public schools, even though I’m childless and intend to stay that way, because all children deserve a quality, free education. If this seems unfair or unreasonable to you, we are never going to see eye to eye.
If I have to pay a little more with each paycheck to ensure my fellow Americans can access health care? SIGN ME UP. Poverty should not be a death sentence in the richest country in the world. If you’re okay with thousands of people dying of treatable diseases just so the wealthiest among us can hoard still more wealth, there is a divide between our worldviews that can never be bridged.
I don’t know how to convince someone how to experience the basic human emotion of empathy. I cannot have one more conversation with someone who is content to see millions of people suffer needlessly in exchange for a tax cut that statistically they’ll never see (do you make anywhere close to the median American salary? Less? Congrats, this tax break is not for you).
I cannot have political debates with these people. Our disagreement is not merely political, but a fundamental divide on what it means to live in a society, how to be a good person, and why any of that matters.
There are all kinds of practical, self-serving reasons to raise the minimum wage (fairly compensated workers typically do better work), fund public schools (everyone’s safer when the general public can read and use critical thinking), and make sure every American can access health care (outbreaks of preventable diseases being generally undesirable).
But if making sure your fellow citizens can afford to eat, get an education, and go to the doctor isn’t enough of a reason to fund those things, I have nothing left to say to you.
I can’t debate someone into caring about what happens to their fellow human beings. The fact that such detached cruelty is so normalized in a certain party’s political discourse is at once infuriating and terrifying.
The “I’ve got mine, so screw you,” attitude has been oozing from the American right wing for decades, but this gleeful exuberance in pushing legislation that will immediately hurt the most vulnerable among us is chilling.
Perhaps it was always like this. I’m (relatively) young, so maybe I’m just waking up to this unimaginable callousness. Maybe the emergence of social media has just made this heinous tendency more visible; seeing hundreds of accounts spring to the defense of policies that will almost certainly make their lives more difficult is incredible to behold.
I don’t know what’s changed ― or indeed, if anything has ― and I don’t have any easy answers. But I do know I’m done trying to convince these hordes of selfish, cruel people to look beyond themselves.
Futility can’t be good for my blood pressure, and the way things are going, I won’t have health insurance for long.

Goes without saying, really, but Vice President Mike Pence is no MC Hammer.
MC made a name for himself in 1990 by reminding everyone of the things they could not touch (mainly, “this”). Pence, meanwhile, went to NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Thursday, and, upon encountering a piece of equipment marked “Critical Space Flight Hardware ― DO NOT TOUCH,” did this:
On Friday, Pence followed up on the gaffe that (metaphorically) sent Twitter into orbit, joking that Florida Sen. Marco Rubio (R), who accompanied him on the tour, peer-pressured him into it:
Sorry @NASA...@MarcoRubio dared me to do it! pic.twitter.com/qIYtKOPyFh
Apparently the veep has a habit of getting handsy, as he followed up on his original tweet with a humorous, photoshopped photo of him petting a porcupine:
Okay...so this isn't exactly the first time this has happened. pic.twitter.com/6Y7b3UlJXe
NASA, good sports that they are, gave Pence a pass.
“It was OK to touch the surface,” the agency tweeted Friday. “Those are just day-to-day reminder signs. We were going to clean it anyway. It was an honor to host you!”
“The signs are there as a day-to-day reminder, including the one visible on the titanium Forward Bay Cover for the Orion spacecraft,” NASA spokeswoman Jen Rae Wang told  in a statement.
“Procedures require the hardware to be cleaned before tiles are bonded to the spacecraft, so touching the surface is absolutely okay,” she added. “Otherwise, the hardware would have had a protective cover over it like the thermal heat shield, which was nearby.”


E does not = mc2! If E equaled mc2, then my name would be Mike Pmc2nce!#PenceScience
WASHINGTON, June 26 (Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court on Monday overturned a statecourt ruling that allowed Arkansas to refuse to list both same-sex spouses on birth certificates, a decision that helps clarify the scope of protections provided by the high court’s landmark 2015 decision legalizing gay marriage.
The justices ruled in favor of lesbian couples by throwing out a December ruling by the Arkansas Supreme Court that upheld state officials’ refusal to name the wives of the birth mothers as parents on birth certificates.
The Arkansas court said state officials do not have to list both same-sex spouses as named parents on birth certificates, even though state law allows a birth mother’s opposite-sex husband to be listed when the baby is not biologically related to him. Both couples received the birth certificates they wanted when they won in trial court.
Conservative Justices Neil Gorsuch, Samuel Alito and Clarence Thomas dissented, saying the lower court decision should not have been reversed.
(Reporting by Andrew Chung; Editing by Will Dunham)


President Donald Trump wants Congress to pass a law denying welfare benefits to immigrants for five years.
“I believe the time has come for new immigration rules which say that those seeking admission into our country must be able to support themselves financially and should not use welfare for a period of at least five years,” Trump said on Wednesday night at a rally in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 
The crowd cheered wildly at this latest example of Trump’s tough-on-immigrants rhetoric, and the president soaked in the applause. 
However, such a law already exists. 
As The Hill noted, the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act, which was signed into law by President Bill Clinton in 1996, prohibits immigrants from receiving federal benefits. 
One section of the law is even titled “Restricting Welfare and Public Benefits For Aliens,” and specifically sets a five-year threshold for “federal means-tested public benefit.” The section carves out some exceptions for refugees and those granted asylum as well as veterans and active-duty military, their spouses and dependents.
Although it’s not clear how Trump’s proposed law would be different, he still vowed to enact his legislation “very shortly.”


The Environmental Protection Agency is set to undo yet another Obama-era environmental regulation after releasing a proposal on Tuesday meant to dismantle a rule protecting rivers and streams from pollution.
The latest target from the notably anti-environmental administration of President Donald Trump is the Clean Water Rule, which in 2015 updated a longstanding act passed during the advent of the EPA to clean up heavily polluted federal waterways. The rule, passed under former President Barack Obama, expanded federal authority to include all “navigable” waters under the jurisdiction of the Clean Water Act. The rule ultimately would have protected the drinking water of more than 117 million Americans, according to the EPA, but it has been stayed by a federal court since 2015.
The Clean Water Rule was the result of more than 400 meetings with stakeholders and a review of more than 1 million public comments. However, Trump has long called the update that environmentalists hailed a “disaster.” He signed an executive order shortly into his term, urging the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers to dismantle the rule.
EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt released a 42-page plan to do just that on Tuesday, the first step in a complicated, rule-making process experts have described as a “huge task.” The New York Times notes the process would require the White House to craft a legal reason for the rollback, and environmental groups have announced they are prepared to fight such plans.
“We are taking significant action to return power to the states and provide regulatory certainty to our nation’s farmers and businesses,” Pruitt said following the proposal’s release.
Today's #WOTUS action is a significant step to return power to states & provide regulatory certainty to our nation’s farmers and businesses. pic.twitter.com/TwUZeyphoB
The Natural Resources Defense Council on Tuesday lambasted the move, calling it a “big mistake.”Rhea Suh, the environmental nonprofit’s president, declared the Trump administration’s action a “reckless attack on our waters and health” and vowed to stand up to the president.
“This proposal strikes directly at public health,” Suh said in a statement. “It would strip out needed protections for the streams that feed drinking water sources for one in every three Americans. Clean water is too important for that. We’ll stand up to this reckless attack on our waters and health.”
The Clean Water Rule clarified legal protection for tens of millions of acres of wetlands & thousands of streams across the United States.
Kieran Suckling, executive director of the Center for Biological Diversity, said Pruitt is “smashing everything he touches in the EPA,” and called the move “gratuitous,” “vindictive” and “anti-clean water.”
BREAKING: Pruitt just issued proposal revoking Obama policy protecting small wetlands. Gratuitious, vindictive anti-Obama, anti-clean water. pic.twitter.com/yXYAMYz971
Language in this story has been amended to clarify the current status of the Clean Water Rule.


By Thomas Kennedy
Driving without a license can be a daily nerve wracking experience for a lot of undocumented immigrants living and working in the United States. In a city like Miami, where a lack of public transportation makes driving a necessity for working class people, that fear is palpable.
I grew up undocumented here with my family. My heart dropped if my parents called me to say they had been involved in a minor traffic incident or pulled over by police. We understood that the simplest interaction with the police could potentially lead to detainment and possible deportation. And my family would be split apart.
Those fears have exacerbated because of the harsh anti-immigrant policies espoused by the Trump administration. Trump has threatened to pull federal funding from “sanctuary cities,” which choose not to turn over suspected undocumented immigrants to federal immigration agencies. Miami-Dade County was the first municipality to comply with Trump’s executive action and is currently facing a lawsuit by the University of Miami Law Clinic and the ACLU over its decision to put immigrants living in the County at risk.
Officials, such as the Miami Dade County mayor, have claimed when making the decision to comply with Trump’s order on sanctuary cities that police officers would not act as immigration officials.
Reality has shown otherwise. Law enforcement officials in jurisdictions in South Florida have turned undocumented immigrants over to federal officials for deportation after traffic stops.
Marcos Antonio Huete, a 31 year-old Honduran immigrant, was riding his bike to work when he was hit by a pickup truck. As he lay injured on the side of the road, a police officer from the Monroe County Sheriff’s office showed up at the scene and questioned him about his immigration status before offering medical care. “You illegal? Are you illegal? Citizen or no? You speak English? You got ID? You got a passport, visa, what,” the officer is seen asking Huete in the footage taken by his body cam.
After his release from the hospital, Huete was fined $75 and detained by federal immigration agents who took him to the Krome Detention Center in Miami Florida, where he awaits deportation proceedings.
Not long after the incident with Huete, the same officer, identified by Univision as David Lariz, pulled over another undocumented immigrant for an alleged traffic violation and questioned him regarding his legal status.
“So why don’t you have your legal documents?” Officer Lariz is seen asking Nestor Alfredo Duarte, who he forced to repeatedly say he was “illegal” and only had an Argentinean ID on his possession. “Sixteen years you’ve been in the United States and you haven’t bothered to do anything to get anything?” Officer Lariz is shown asking Duarte. After their interaction, Officer Lariz reported Duarte to border patrol. Duarte now also faces deportation proceedings.
In similar fashion, father of two Raul Quiroga ended up detained and facing possible deportation after a fender bender. Quiroga, who lived in the United States for 15 years, was driving a pick up truck when he was involved in minor collision. A state trooper showed up and asked Quiroga for his driver’s license and registration.
Florida is not among the states that enacted laws permitting undocumented immigrants to obtain a drivers license, so Quiroga was detained and eventually taken to the Broward Transitional Center, a private immigration detention facility. His family is now left to make ends meet without Quiroga.
It’s clear that politicians have broken promises that police would not act as immigration enforcement agents. Now, immigrant families are suffering the consequences of the cruel and inhumane anti-immigrant policies that have trickled down from the Trump administration to our local governments. At a time when Congress is voting on harsh anti-immigrant legislation like the “No Sanctuary for Criminals Act” or “Kate’s Law,” which seek to erode the trust between the public and authorities, we need local governments to stand up for what is right and protect vulnerable immigrant communities.
Thomas Kennedy is a writing fellow for the Center for Community Change.

WASHINGTON ― Pride Month comes to a close this year with no official White House recognition of the LGBTQ community’s struggle for equality in the U.S.
Rights advocates are worried about the views of many Trump administration appointees, including newly minted Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch, who this week ruled against confirming same-sex couples’ right to choose who is listed on their children’s birth certificates.
Despite President Donald Trump’s Islamophobia-tinged claims that he will protect queer Americans, experts on the LGBTQ community believe the Trump administration could actually jeopardize recent gains.
“He and the administration that he’s put in place will do everything to roll back and unwind any progress that we’ve been able to achieve as a community,” Sarah Kate Ellis, the CEO of the media monitoring group GLAAD, recently told the Daily Beast, describing Trump’s failure to acknowledge Pride Month as a negative signal.
Earlier this month,  sought perspective from beyond the U.S. On June 8, days before the D.C. Pride Parade, we sat down with ambassadors from five countries seen as pioneers for LGBTQ inclusion: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland and Iceland.
The diplomats described the philosophy of equality behind landmark moments like when Denmark became the first country in the world to legally recognize same-sex unions, back in 1989, and when in 2009 Iceland appointed the world’s first openly lesbian prime minister.
To these foreign officials, some aspects of the situation in America are still puzzling.
“The bathroom issue... was a big surprise to me,” Lars Gert Lose, the Danish ambassador to the United States said, referring to efforts to force transgender people to use restrooms associated with their assigned sex at birth rather than their actual gender. “In our country, we don’t think about these things anymore.”
Bjorn Lyrvall, the Swedish ambassador to the U.S., said the Nordic countries recognize that they still have progress to make. His government is focusing this year on the living conditions for transgender Swedes, for instance.
The diplomats believe full equality will take more mobilization ― of resources, of people and of countries working together. International cooperation, particularly among countries that prioritize LGBTQ rights, is key, said ambassador Kirsti Kauppi of Finland. She highlighted the role of the United Nations, a body the Trump administration has said it wants to punish for its alleged anti-Israel bias.
The message that could work abroad ― including in countries in Asia and Africa where LGBTQ individuals face major persecution, often thanks to U.S. evangelists’ intervention ― is that equality is part of the recipe for creating successful nations and economies, Kauppi continued.
Kare R. Aas, Norway’s ambassador to the U.S., said he’s optimistic that the success of the Nordic countries will encourage the Trump administration to see the light and follow their lead.
That kind of progress appears more likely when more Americans make their views known. 
“I think if people are concerned about developments in this country, they need to become engaged,” Iceland’s ambassador to the U.S. and former Prime Minister Geir Haarde said.
The five diplomats collaborated on a Twitter town hall event on LGBTQ equality hosted by the Human Rights Campaign nonprofit the day of the interview;  interviewed them at the HRC offices following that event. Two days later, they marched together at the D.C. Pride Parade.
Watch the video above for more of their comments and more context on their countries.


President Donald Trump on Thursday threatened “some pretty severe things” against the North Korean regime for its nuclear test earlier this week, without offering any specifics while saying “something will have to be done about it.”  
“We’ll see what happens. I don’t like to talk about what we have planned, but I have some pretty severe things that we’re thinking about,” Trump said during a joint press conference with Polish President Andrzej Duda in Warsaw. “They are behaving in a very, very dangerous manner.”
“We’ll just take a look at what happens over the coming weeks and months,” Trump added, without providing any details.
North Korea on Monday conducted a successful test of an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), a weapon capable of reaching as far as Alaska, escalating already dire diplomatic tensions.
Over the last few days, Trump tweeted several tirades complaining about what he perceived as insufficient diplomacy toward North Korea, singling out China, its only ally, for not enacting strict economic punishments. The president also wondered: “Does this guy have anything better to do with his life?” referring to the country’s dictator Kim Jong Un, and suggested South Korea and Japan should not “put up with this much longer.”
Trump’s Twitter rants came as numerous U.S. diplomatic posts remain vacant or only temporarily filled, including the ambassador to South Korea, as well as the assistant secretaries that oversee East Asia policy and nuclear nonproliferation.
As Trump remained vague about how he plans to deal with North Korea, former U.S. Defense Secretary William Perry expressed doubts that any diplomatic solution is possible with the regime. But Perry, who headed the Pentagon from 1994 to 1997 for President Bill Clinton, also warned that the alternatives to diplomacy “are really very grim.”
During Thursday’s press conference, Trump also continued to cast doubt on Russian interference in last year’s U.S. election, saying “nobody really knows for sure” ― even though top U.S. intelligence agencies have affirmed that Russian President Vladimir Putin’s government sought to influence the outcome of the 2016 vote.
Trump is scheduled to meet with Putin on Friday during the G-20 summit in Hamburg, Germany. North Korea is expected to loom large during the meeting of leaders from the world’s 20 major economies.


Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) on Tuesday delayed a vote on the Republican plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act until after the July 4 recess, indicating he lacks support to advance the bill.
The delay came one day after the Congressional Budget Office estimated that 22 million people would lose coverage under the GOP plan, thanks in large part to massive cuts to Medicaid.
The delay buys McConnell, who could only afford to lose two GOP votes, more time to shore up support in his caucus. While many Republicans have firmly expressed support for the bill, and others who say they’re still reviewing the legislation are likely to vote in favor of it, there remain several holdouts among conservative and moderate factions of the party.
Here’s a look at where the senators who forced McConnell to postpone the vote currently stand: 
Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine)
Collins announced Monday she will vote no on a procedural motion to advance the bill in its current form. 
I want to work w/ my GOP & Dem colleagues to fix the flaws in ACA. CBO analysis shows Senate bill won't do it. I will vote no on mtp. 1/3
CBO says 22 million people lose insurance; Medicaid cuts hurt most vulnerable Americans; access to healthcare in rural areas threatened. 2/3
Senate bill doesn't fix ACA problems for rural Maine. Our hospitals are already struggling. 1 in 5 Mainers are on Medicaid. 3/3
Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.)
Heller, the first moderate senator to oppose the legislation, has vowed to withhold support for the bill because of its cuts to Medicaid.
“It’s going to be very difficult to get me to a yes,” Heller said Friday. “They have a lot of work to do.” 
He said the CBO analysis “doesn’t look good.”
Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.)
Johnson has said he’ll vote against a motion to proceed, and took issue with Senate leadership pushing for a vote this week.
“There’s no way we should be voting on [the bill] this next week, no way,” he said Sunday.
It’s unclear whether Johnson’s position has changed now that the vote has been delayed. 
Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah)
Lee announced Tuesday he will not vote to advance the bill without changes. 
Previously, Lee said he believes the bill doesn’t do enough to lower health care costs. 
“The Senate bill keeps the Democrats’ broken system intact, just with less spending on the poor to pay for corporate bailouts and tax cuts,” Lee said in a statement Friday. 
Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.)
Paul told reporters on Monday that the bill is “terrible.”
“It’s worse to pass a bad bill than to pass no bill,” he said. “And 2018 is going to roll around and people are going to ask themselves, ‘Are my premiums lower?’ and they’re going to find out, ‘You know what, my premiums still went up 25 percent.’”
Paul has accused GOP leadership of refusing to negotiate with the party’s holdouts, and is taking his concerns to President Donald Trump. 
Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) 
Capito and Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) said in a joint statement Tuesday they could not support the bill “as drafted.”
Capito, who represents a state hit hard by the opioid crisis and faces pressure at home to oppose the legislation, previously expressed discomfort with the bill’s extensive cuts to Medicaid. Capito and Portman requested far more funding for the opioid crisis than the bill ended up including.
“As drafted, this bill will not ensure access to affordable health care in West Virginia, does not do enough to combat the opioid epidemic that is devastating my state, cuts traditional Medicaid too deeply, and harms rural health care providers,” Capito said.
Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio)
Portman said Tuesday the bill “falls short,” after previously saying he had “real concerns about the Medicaid policies in this bill, especially those that impact drug treatment at a time when Ohio is facing an opioid epidemic.”
Sen. Jerry Moran (R-Kan.)
Moran announced his opposition to the current version of the bill shortly after McConnell said he was postponing the vote.
The Senate healthcare bill missed the mark for Kansans and therefore did not have my support.
I am pleased with the decision to delay the vote – now is the time to take a step back and put the full legislative process to work.
Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-La.)
Cassidy previously said an Obamacare repeal bill would have to meet the “Jimmy Kimmel” test ― ensuring parents won’t have to choose between saving their child’s life or going bankrupt ― to earn his support. While Cassidy said last week he believes the current bill does pass that test, he shifted slightly after the release of the CBO score.
“It makes me more concerned,” he said.
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) 
Cruz has expressed opposition to the bill as its written, and has cited the CBO’s conclusion that premiums wouldn’t go down under the legislation. However, Cruz has declined to say whether he would vote against the bill this week, saying it’s still “a work in progress.” 
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.)
McCain told reporters on Monday there’s “lots” of things in the bill he doesn’t like, but is not opposed to moving to debate. 
McCain: "Yeah, I'll vote for the motion to proceed; I always do."Reporter: "Do you have any concerns?"McCain: "I have lots of concerns."
Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska)
Murkowksi said Monday she doesn’t “have enough information” to vote in favor of the legislation, but has not yet firmly said she opposes it. 
“This is big stuff, and so making sure that we get it right is something that I have said is an imperative,” she said. 
In addition to concerns for her constituents who benefitted from Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion, Murkowksi has vowed to preserve funding for Planned Parenthood  — something the current bill doesn’t do. (Collins said Tuesday she’s working on an amendment with Murkowski to address this.)
This article has been updated to reflect changes in position. 

The night of my Grandpa Homer’s high school graduation, he was living in the barracks of a detention center in California with his mom, his sister and thousands of other Japanese-Americans imprisoned during World War II.
Last weekend, he finally got the graduation party he missed out on all those years ago.
My mom had received Grandpa’s diploma by mail from his old school district in Oregon, and she saved it for a family get-together the day before Father’s Day. She asked my aunt and uncle to bring my cousin’s mortarboard cap, and the family came over and played “Pomp and Circumstance” at Grandma and Grandpa’s house.
“It kind of took me by surprise,” Grandpa told me later. “[Your mother] said, ‘I have something for you,’ and someone gave me the cap and I opened the package and saw my diploma and said, ‘Oh my god!’
Seventy-five years ago, Grandpa lost his chance to walk onstage in his cap and gown with the rest of his class. On May 13, 1942, he, his mother and his little sister Yuka were rounded up with other Japanese-Americans in Hood River, Oregon, and put on trains to what was then called an “assembly center” in Pinedale, California ― a hastily converted detention facility where thousands of Japanese-Americans were temporarily imprisoned before being sent to more permanent prison camps around the country.
Grandpa was 17 then, and a typical American teenager. The military instructed everyone to bring only what they could carry, so he packed a baseball mitt and baseball hat. He remembers thinking it was “kind of stupid” that everyone at the station was formally dressed.
Grandpa’s senior class was scheduled to graduate the following month, but by then, he and all the other young Japanese-Americans in the Hood River Valley, along with their families, had become prisoners of their own government.
Not that he was bothered much at the time. For years, Grandpa would joke about the “freedom” he had behind barbed wire, first at Pinedale and then at a “relocation center” in Tule Lake, California. No longer forced to work all summer on the family farm, he could smoke, play poker and chase girls.
The FBI had already taken his father away, shortly after the Pearl Harbor bombing in 1941. (Grandpa’s father, Masuo Yasui, wouldn’t be released until 1946, and was never actually charged with a crime.) Grandpa’s older brother Min was forced to endure months of solitary confinement for deliberately breaking a discriminatory wartime curfew. But for Grandpa, the injustice of his family’s ordeal didn’t really register until years later.
“I was so dumb in those days. I wasn’t worldly,” Grandpa said. “I also said, ‘Well, I’m in camp, OK.’ I never thought about my civil liberties being denied me and all that. Most people my age never thought about it.”
He eventually settled into a job as a hospital orderly, where he remembers tending to a white boy with terrible burns. With no big cities nearby, the prison camp at Tule Lake was the closest option for medical care in an emergency. The young man yelled that he didn’t want to be treated by “Jap” doctors. Ultimately, he succumbed to his injuries and died.
The boy’s death made an impression on my grandfather, and he told us all the story years later. Once he left Tule Lake, he went on to graduate from the University of Denver and then Hahnemann Medical School and Hospital in Philadelphia. He married my grandmother, Miki, and became a surgeon.
“The only graduation I ever participated in was my medical school graduation,” Grandpa told me. “I got my cap and gown, and Miki saw me and she blew a gasket, because a bunch of us doctors didn’t even have the sense to get our gowns pressed.”
He has one graduation photo from that day, taken by an itinerant street photographer. “We’re all dressed alike and we look real crummy,” he said.
In the years and decades that followed World War II, America’s consensus that people like my grandfather had been imprisoned “for their own protection” or “for the good of the country” began to erode. (But that sentiment lives on, as evidenced by the 2016 presidential campaign and its aftermath.)
Grandpa’s sister Michi triumphantly returned to the University of Oregon in 1984 to accept her college diploma ― decades after she was barred from her own graduation ceremony because of the military curfew imposed on Japanese-Americans. She was in her 60s at the time.
In 1988, President Ronald Reagan signed the Civil Liberties Act, acknowledging that the imprisonment of 120,000 Japanese-Americans was based on “race prejudice, war hysteria, and a failure of political leadership.”
And in November 2015, Grandpa and his sister Yuka met President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama at the White House. There, among Hollywood stars, trailblazing scientists and sports icons, Obama awarded their brother Min a posthumous Presidential Medal of Freedom for challenging the U.S. government’s wartime policies all the way to the Supreme Court.
Grandpa shook the president’s hand and got a hug from the first lady. He said it was one of the proudest moments of his life.
Compared to that, maybe it wasn’t such a big deal when Grandpa got a message from Hood River Valley High School this year, offering him a chance to come back for an official graduation ceremony. He declined, because at 92, he wanted to stay home with Grandma and take it easy.
I asked Grandpa about the invitation and whether he thought it meant his hometown had taken a step forward. He chalked it up to his brother Min being recognized as an “exemplary citizen.”
“I think Hood River’s very late in doing this,” he said, “because many colleges have done this earlier, and cities like Seattle and Los Angeles recognized their mistakes after 30 or 40 years. And it took Hood River 75 years.”
“But that’s great,” he added. “Better late than never, while some of us are still alive to tell the tale.”
Listen to Homer tell the more of the Yasui family’s story on the podcast “Hear in the Gorge,” produced by Sarah Fox.

Eighteen states and the District of Columbia are suing Education Secretary Betsy DeVos over her decision to suspend a rule that helps student loan borrowers who were defrauded by for-profit colleges.
The lawsuit, filed Thursday in federal district court in Washington, D.C., was led by Massachusetts and joined by 18 other attorneys general. It takes aim at DeVos’ decision to freeze an Obama-era rule known as the “borrower defense to repayment,” which helped forgive student loan debt for people whose for-profit colleges closed amid fraud accusations, leaving students without degrees and with piles of debt. 
“Across the US, students and families are drowning in unaffordable student loan debt while predatory, for-profit schools rake it in,” Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey tweeted.
Students and taxpayers are being robbed by the billion dollar for-profit school industry. @BetsyDeVosED refuses to take a stand.
Secretary DeVos has canceled student protections, betrayed her office, and violated federal law. With 18 fellow AG's, I'm suing her. pic.twitter.com/pQR3VLRkQ9
The rule was set to take effect July 1, but was halted in mid-June by DeVos’ Education Department, which said the protection was a tax burden with language that was too broad. Some colleges, DeVos said, were concerned they could be unfairly affected.
“Fraud, especially fraud committed by a school, is simply unacceptable,” DeVos said in a statement when she blocked the rule. “Unfortunately, last year’s rulemaking effort missed an opportunity to get it right. The result is a muddled process that’s unfair to students and schools, and puts taxpayers on the hook for significant costs.”
Two groups, Public Citizen and the Project on Predatory Student Lending, also filed a lawsuit over the rule on Thursday on behalf of Meaghan Bauer and Stephano Del Rose, two former students of the for-profit New England Institute of Art in Massachusetts.


I have yet to win one friend or influence anyone. This book doesn't work. Sad.  #TrumpBookReport @comedy
It’s been a bad few weeks at NRA headquarters.
First, the gun lobby lost in the court of public opinion. The Pew Research Center released its annual survey of Americans’ opinions on guns – and the clear majority of us oppose the gun lobby’s policy priorities. Eighty-one percent, for example, oppose allowing people to carry concealed guns without a permit.
Next, the gun lobby lost before one of its legal challenges could even reach the Supreme Court. SCOTUS declined to hear the NRA-backed suit Peruta v. County of San Diego – a denial consistent with decisions by four federal appeals courts. Each ruled that the Second Amendment, contrary to gun lobby ideology, does indeed allow states and localities to decide who can carry concealed guns in public.
Then, the gun lobby lost again at a gathering of the leaders most directly accountable to voters for protecting public safety. The U.S. Conference of Mayors formally resolved to oppose “Concealed Carry Reciprocity,” the top item on the gun lobby’s wish list in Congress.
With the losses piling up, the gun lobby and its allies are getting desperate. Everytown for Gun Safety and Moms Demand Action responded to the latest incendiary, fear-mongering ad from NRA leadership, which has drawn condemnation from groups and individuals across the political spectrum – including gun owners and non-gun owners, and a former CIA analyst, who said the ad “fuels American extremists.” And as the gun lobby’s “guns for anyone, anywhere” agenda stalls in DC, one congressman is trying to jumpstart it with the argument that enacting “Concealed Carry Reciprocity” would be akin to the current system for recognizing driver’s licenses across state lines.
The gun lobby likes this argument, but the truth is, concealed carry permits are nothing like driver’s licenses. “Concealed Carry Reciprocity” would be more like a driver’s license if a dozen states allowed people to drive across the country without even having a license, learning to drive, or having their record checked for drunk driving.
States have largely identical standards for driving. You have to pass a vision test, a road test, and a written test. You have to be 18 or have completed a highly regulated training process. You cannot have criminal convictions for dangerous driving. Driver’s licenses are easily verifiable, too. With a keystroke or a phone call, the police can confirm that your license is valid. For these reasons, it makes sense for states to recognize each other’s driver’s licenses. That is why states have done so – by their own accord and independently, without Congressional interference.
Unlike driver’s licenses, concealed carry laws vary widely from state to state. Some states disqualify stalkers or abusive dating partners or drunk drivers from carrying; some do not. Some states empower law enforcement to deny applicants who have red flags and pose a public danger; some do not. Some states require some form of safety training or make you fire a gun before you get a permit; some do not. Twelve states do not even require any permit to carry – the standards in those states are practically nonexistent. Also, there is no national database that cops could use to verify permits from the states that do issue them. There is no hotline number to call, either.
So, if Congress imposes it on the states, “Concealed Carry Reciprocity” would gut state law on concealed carry. It would not create a national standard for who can carry concealed guns, as its proponents claim. On the contrary, it would force each state to recognize the concealed carry standards of every other state, no matter how low (or even nonexistent) those standards may be.
Under “Concealed Carry Reciprocity,” convicted stalkers, domestic abusers, other people with violent records, and people who lack even the most basic gun safety training could carry concealed guns across the country – and your local police would be powerless to stop them, regardless of local law. Cops would often be put in an impossible position, with no way to confirm who was following the law and who was not. Actually, the “Concealed Carry Reciprocity” bill in the U.S. House would even allow lawsuits against police officers for arresting, or even stopping, a person they think is not properly permitted. Cops would be on the hook for legal damages – and, thanks to the gun lobby, they would have to think twice before doing their job.
Thus, the NRA’s wish would actually pose a public safety nightmare.
The gun lobby needs a winner, but it continues to play a losing hand. Not even the gun lobby’s friends in Congress can defend “Concealed Carry Reciprocity” on its merits. That is why they are misleading the public about their dangerous legislation.
The good news is that the American people aren’t buying the gun lobby’s lies. The courts aren’t buying them. Local political leaders and law enforcement aren’t buying them, either.
Neither should Congress.
John Feinblatt is the president of Everytown for Gun Safety.

NEW YORK ― Rama Issa-Ibrahim says she and her fiance had planned to get married in the next few months. Not anymore.
The Trump administration on Thursday night began enforcing travel restrictions, days after the Supreme Court partially reinstated President Donald Trump’s ban on travel and immigration by citizens of six majority-Muslim countries: Libya, Somalia, Iran, Yemen, Sudan, and Syria. 
Issa-Ibrahim, 29, said she has a lot of extended family members who are Syrian nationals. Some are still in war-torn Syria, and there’s a cousin in Lebanon, and another cousin living as a refugee in Austria.
Issa-Ibrahim said she worried that the return of the ban would block all of these family members from coming to America for her wedding, or that they would be detained or deported if they tried.
She doesn’t want to get married without them, so she and her fiance have decided to put the wedding on hold. 
“What makes me most upset is that this administration is really redefining what family means,” Issa-Ibrahim, who works as executive director of the Arab-American Association of New York, told a crowd of protesters Thursday in Manhattan’s Union Square.
The federal government, she said, shouldn’t have “the right to say who should be part of your family.” 
In its unsigned order this week, the Supreme Court stipulated that Trump’s ban could be implemented while the court considers an appeal, but that it wouldn’t apply to individuals “who have a credible claim of a bona fide relationship with a person or entity in the United States.”
Trump’s State Department sent a memo Wednesday night to American embassies interpreting “bona fide relationship” as excluding “grandparents, grandchildren, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, cousins, brothers-in-law and sisters-in-law, fiancés, and any other ‘extended’ family members” from coming to the U.S. 
Widad Hassan, a 28-year-old Yemeni American graduate student from Brooklyn, also showed up at the Union Square protest, where hundreds held “NO BAN” signs and chanted, “Say it loud! Say it clear! Immigrants are welcome here!”
“I do have a grandmother who is in Yemen right now, and I personally can’t do anything for her,” Hassan said. “I know people in the community who have been devastated because they’ve been petitioning for extended family members ― grandparents, nephews, nieces ― [to come to the U.S.] and they can’t do anything for them at this point.”
It’s frustrating, she added, for people to work hard for years to bring their family members ― many of them from war-torn countries ― only to be suddenly told no.
“I think there’s just the emotional strain of being separated from your family members and knowing they’re not in a safe place,” Hassan said.
As the 8 p.m. starting time for Trump’s ban neared, volunteer lawyers flocked to airports in New York, San Francisco and Washington, ready to assist any travelers from the six affected countries who might find themselves detained by border agents.
It’s all déjà vu for Tarek Ismail, senior staff attorney at the City University of New York Law School’s Creating Law Enforcement Accountability & Responsibility project. He helped Muslim travelers in January, when Trump first signed an executive order indefinitely banning Syrian refugees from coming to the U.S., shutting down the whole refugee program for 120 days, and barring all immigrants and visitors from the six countries, plus Iraq.
Federal courts halted Trump’s ban ― as well as a revised version Trump issued in March ― ruling that both unlawfully discriminated against Muslims. Although the revised ban may be less severe, Ismail said it was still cruel and discriminatory. And it’s not normal.
“The idea that a refugee should have to prove a bona fide relationship to the U.S. in order to substantiate coming here is completely counter-intuitive,” Ismail said. “It completely defies purpose of having laws facilitating refugees seeking safe haven in this country.
“The Statue of Liberty doesn’t say, ’Give me your tired, your poor ... as long as you have a bona fide connection to the U.S.,” he added.
What’s needed is protests, like the massive demonstrations that broke out in January at the country’s airports, Ismail said. Decision-makers, he said, including elected representatives, Customs and Border Patrol agents, and judges, need to see that there’s resistance.
Thursday’s protest was certainly a start.
“We should be ashamed of ourselves that there are people sitting in refugee camps who are the victims of terrorism and violence, and we are telling them that they do not belong here,” Linda Sarsour, the prominent Muslim American activist and Women’s March organizer, told the crowd. “So what I say to you is this: We have to stay loud and outraged every single day.”
The crowd then marched uptown through Manhattan, taking up whole city blocks on the way to a town hall meeting on the ban, where they planned to discuss resistance strategies. 
“No ban, No wall!” they yelled, as tourists and other onlookers stepped out of shops to photograph them.
When they arrived at the town hall meeting on 19th Street, they were greeted by a middle-aged white man and a white woman, carrying signs that read, “Keep Syrians Out” and “Back the Ban.”
The couple began chanting, “Back the ban!” But the crowd of protesters drowned them out with a chant of their own.
“Say it loud, say it clear, refugees are welcome here!”

Some of the fireworks we can expect to see in Washington, D.C. soon will have nothing to do with the Fourth of July. They will be fireworks of the political kind over the future of America’s vast and vital electric system.
Energy Secretary Rick Perry lit the fuses last April when he ordered a study on whether federal support for wind and solar energy is making our electric system less reliable by forcing the retirement of coal- and nuclear-fired power plants.
This is not an insignificant issue. Energy is the lifeblood of our economy, the foundation of our quality of life and fundamental to national security. It matters where we get it, how reliable and secure it is, whether it enhances our energy independence and how it affects the quality of our air, land, water and climate. Now, new technologies, market forces and security concerns are challenging our dependence on fossil fuels and forcing a confrontation with some of the richest companies in history at a time when money is allowed an undue influence on public policy.
It is premature to judge a study before it is published, but Perry’s public statements have triggered concerns that this one is being done without sufficient transparency and public input, and that its real purpose is to support President Trump’s ill-advised plans to establish world dominance in the production and export of fossil fuels.
Trump has not shown much love for renewable energy options like wind and solar power, although that is the direction the rest of the world is moving. During last year’s campaign, he called renewable energy a “big mistake” and “just an expensive way of making the tree-huggers feel good about themselves.” It doesn’t seem to bother him that an overwhelming majority of citizens don’t agree. A new survey by Pew Research Center found that 83 percent of Americans agree that “increasing use of renewable energy resources is a top or important priority for the country’s energy policies.”
Unfortunately, it is common practice for a president’s team to affirm his preconceptions and misconceptions rather than speaking truth to power. Trump’s team appears to be creating a sycophantic echo chamber on energy policies. The science that contradicts the President’s dismissal of climate change and underscores the need for a transition to clean and sustainable energy is being dissed and defunded. Climate cynics occupy key posts in the Administration while federal climate scientists are getting pink slips.
So, it’s no surprise that clean energy advocates suspect that Perry’s study is designed to add to the echo chamber. A simple test of the study’s credibility will be whether its conclusions have been validated in a rigorous peer review.
The bigger question is why Trump is so out of touch with the American people, the international community, reputable science, and market trends. Bias and bad advice are part of the answer. Money might be a factor, too.
A fresh example of bad advice is a blog written by one of Trump’s former campaign advisors and published on-line last week. Stephen Moore, now a visiting fellow at the Heritage Foundation and until recently a contributor to Fox News, wrote glowingly that Trump’s energy plan — which would give oil, coal and gas producers free reign to operate without important environmental constraints — will make America the world’s new Saudi Arabia. Moore’s arguments are a litany of alternative facts and zombie logic – the old-think that keeps rising from the grave when we thought that real facts killed it long ago. Here are a few of many examples, with Moore’s arguments shown in italics:
Wind and solar power will be unviable for years to come because of low natural gas prices: Actually, unsubsidized wind and solar energy are already viable in a rapidly growing number of markets around the world. The World Economic Forum reports that electricity from unsubsidized wind and solar is competitive with coal in more than 30 countries and could achieve grid parity in two-thirds of the world within the next few years. Nasdaq concurs, saying that solar technologies are generating electricity at lower cost than new coal, nuclear and combined-cycle natural gas plants. Despite low natural gas prices, wind and solar energy accounted for more than 60 percent of all new electric generation capacity in the U.S. last year, as well as 55 percent of new global power capacity, the most ever recorded according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
We are entering an age of American (fossil) energy renaissance that will last for decades: Prolonging our unsustainable dependence on fossil fuels is not a renaissance. Although natural gas could be an important transition fuel if the industry dealt with its methane emissions and fracking controversies, there are legitimate uncertainties about how long fossil fuels will dominate our energy mix. Underground reserves are no longer good indicators of how long the carbon era will last. Not all proved reserves can be economically extracted and what’s economical is changing. The falling costs of solar and wind power, the carbon pricing already used in 40 countries, declining shareholder confidence in traditional energy companies, and the world’s resolve to slow climate change are among the market forces likely to keep much of the reserves in the ground.
Renewable energy is expensive, unreliable and a “bad” bet. ― If that’s true, then a lot of CEOs should be fired right now. A recent study found that 63 percent of America’s largest 100 companies have created renewable energy goals. Nearly 200 of the Fortune 500 companies saved about $4 billion last year by betting on 80,000 emission-cutting investments.
Many states and cities, red and blue, have pledged to get 100 percent of their energy from renewables in the years ahead. Why? In addition to better air quality and public health, solar and wind power are creating new jobs 12 times faster than the overall economy. Governors from both political parties have advised Trump that renewables are paying off in rural areas where he did well in last year’s election. “The nation’s wind and solar resources are transforming low-income rural areas in ways not seen since the passage of the Homestead Act over 150 years ago,” red and blue-state governors recently told Trump in a recent letter.
Without billions upon billions of government mandates, tax credits, production subsidies, and ‎other tax giveaways, there would be virtually no wind and solar industry today in the United States. – Like many other emerging technologies in U.S. history, renewable energy has been given a leg up by federal subsidies. The rapid progress of solar and wind technologies shows the subsidies are paying off. Besides, government assistance that helps beneficial new technologies break into the marketplace makes a lot more sense than the billions of dollars mature fossil fuel industries have been receiving for generations. By 2009, fossil fuels had received nearly $450 billion in taxpayer subsidies in the United States while renewable energy received about $6 billion, according to research by the investment firm DBL Investors. Now, federal subsidies for renewable energy are being phased out, but there is no visible momentum in the White House or Congress to phase out subsidies for oil, gas and coal.
The real renaissance waiting for Trump’s leadership is the modernization of the electric grid. It is considered the greatest engineering achievement of the 20th century and the largest integrated machine on Earth. But it has aged, improved energy technologies are making it obsolete, and it’s increasingly vulnerable to power interruptions from worsening weather and cyberattack. In its 2017 report card on the nation’s infrastructure, the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) concluded that our electric system deserves no more than a D+ today, that power lines have exceeded their life expectancy, and that we need to find an additional $177 billion to upgrade the system by 2025.
This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to reinvent the grid so that it supports today’s clean energy technologies and the growing number of customers who like to produce their own electricity. The ASCE concurs. It says that “increased investment in alternative sources of energy for power generation, heating and cooling, transportation, and process industries is needed for a sustainable future.” These investments are lagging mostly because of the lack of a solid federal energy policy, the ASCE says.
In regard to money, the financial disclosure report that candidate Trump submitted to the Federal Elections Commission (FEC) last year listed investments in a variety of fossil energy companies including ExxonMobil, Canadian Oil Sands LTD, Conoco Phillips and Halliburton. Since then, Trump has said he’s sold off stocks that might be considered conflicts of interest, but he reportedly has not offered specifics.
In addition, fossil energy companies were generous contributors to the more than $100 million spent on Trump’s Inauguration. Inaugural Committee records filed with the FEC show that Chevron, Exxon, British Petroleum and Citgo Petroleum each contributed a half million dollars; coal giant Murray Energy contributed $300,000; the CEO of the company that developed the Dakota Access Pipeline gave $250,000; coal plant developer White Stallion Energy donated $175,000; and $100,000 each came from the fracking company Continental Resources and from additional oil companies including Valero Energy Corp. and Anadarko Petroleum.
Politico reported in April that a dozen of the President’s advisers and White House staff also are invested in fossil energy companies including ExxonMobil and Chevron. Politico’s review of financial disclosure forms concluded that six of Trump’s senior advisors hold millions of dollars in energy company stocks.
If Trump wants to be the president that leads America in an energy renaissance, there are several things he should do differently. He should build on rather than reverse his predecessors’ clean energy work, he should add renewable energy experts to his advisors, he should prove that neither he nor the members of his team have vested interests that bias their work on energy policy, he should rejoin the Paris Climate Accord, he should stop emasculating federal science and clean energy programs, he should develop a roadmap for America’s transition to a competitive clean energy economy, and he should bury the energy zombies once and for all.
Donald Trump has become president at a historic inflection point in which the world needs to end energy poverty; the United States needs to modernize its power system; and everyone must act quickly to fend off irreversible climate instability. The question is whether Trump is the right president for this moment in history. So far, the answer is “no”.

If you have a beating heart, the images of families floating across the Mediterranean, hoping to survive, is sure to make you cry. It’s gut-wrenching to know that in the era of FaceTime, Instagram and Twitter, humanity is still capable of sitting on the sidelines, as so many children are slaughtered, maimed and exiled from their homes. Dictatorial tyrants are destroying the landscape of the Middle East as many Arab nations refuse to intervene and welcome-in their neighboring brothers and sisters.
I have no doubt that my fellow Americans, suffering mostly with first world dilemmas, are truly bothered when seeing horrific images of starving African children. We are concerned by the condition of woman in Saudi Arabia and we are horrified by self-immolating monks in Tibet, but today I ask the verboten question: What about the “refugee” down the block? What about your child’s classmate who’s too hungry to do their homework? What about the child in Bozeman, Montana who has never had a well visit with a pediatrician, a dentist check up and doesn’t know if their drunk “parent” is going to wake up in time to serve them breakfast?
Merriam-Webster dictionary defines Refugee as “one that flees; especially a person who flees to a foreign country or power to escape danger or persecution” but shouldn’t the definition be broadened to someone “seeking refuge”, period? According to US government statistics, on an average day in the United States, over 100,000 foster care children are yearning to be adopted, is this not a refugee crisis within our own borders?
As an adoptive father of four, I am keenly aware, how challenging it may be to meet the needs of these children. In fact, I don’t expect every American to foster or adopt children, but shouldn’t the “Welcome refugees” sign be held high not only at our nation’s airports but in our local communities as well? Wouldn’t it be noble and merciful if we were to hold up signs saying, “Welcome Johnny from down the block” or “no one chooses to be a refugee, including Maya from Butte, America”?
In August of last year, a lovely 12-year-old girl, Courtney, joined our Camp Gan Israel Jewish summer camp in Bozeman. Her mom died tragically when little Courtney was 5 years old and her dad, who loved her a lot, didn’t raise her with the stability that each precious child deserves. With the encouragement of her beloved grammie, she spent two weeks in our home and loved her time here. Upon returning home to Wyoming, she was unhappy and the question arose: Should we take her in as our own?
Chavie and I had adopted three babies before Courtney, but a pre-teen? Unlike babies, they come with a long history of “baggage” that affects their every day, their every thought, their every emotion. Courtney was placed by G-d at our doorstep and we needed to answer G-d’s call. I know G-d would’ve understood, if we would’ve said “sorry, we just can’t. We aren’t cut out for this”, but, how could we?
We said yes.
On Thursday September 1, 2016, Courtney AKA Shoshana (which means Rose in Hebrew), joined our family and just last week her adoption was finalized. She’s an amazing, talented, smart and fun young woman and she will undoubtedly grow to boundless heights. Does that mean she’s always easy? Not in the slightest! Are any girls her age easy? Does she have a lot to repair internally? She’d be the first to say so! But does she have a glowing soul that is in love with Judaism and is she a remarkable older sister to Chaya, Zeesy and Menny? You bet!
I know that, like our Shoshana, there are so many gem-like souls out there who need a loving, nurturing and non-abusive home. They don’t always scream for help, because so often they are certain that no one is listening. May G-d bless all the Courtney’s of the United States to find parents who view them as the Shoshana’s that they are!
Don’t ever give up!

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R) spent part of the weekend lounging on a state beach he ordered closed to the public amid a local government shutdown, photos show.
Christie spent Saturday night and part of Sunday at New Jersey’s Island Beach State Park with family and friends at a summer beach house owned by the government. The park was among those closed over the holiday weekend during the ongoing statewide government shutdown after lawmakers were unable to pass a new budget.
The governor’s family, however, were apparently excluded from the visitation ban and aerial photos obtained by NJ Advance Media show a group of people, including Christie and his wife, Mary Pat, alone on an empty beach.
“I don’t know if it’s fair, but ... my family doesn’t ask for any services while we are there,” Christie told reporters at a news conference ahead of his visit, saying he had no plans to cancel the trip.
He later added: “Run for governor, and you can have a residence there.”
Christie says about @AndyMills_NJ photo today: "The governor's allowed to go to his residence...what a great bit of journalism by the S-L."
More Christie: "I really wonder about journalists who spend money flying planes to look for people where they actually said they'd be."
Other outlets have noted the ban has been strictly enforced. NBC reports a local Cub Scout pack of about 25 kids was kicked out of Cheesequake State Park over the weekend by authorities.
NJ.com reports Christie told reporters on Sunday he didn’t “get any sun” during his visit. But when his team was informed of the photos, his spokesman clarified the governor was on the beach, but didn’t get any sun because “he had a baseball hat on.”

Two watchdog groups have sued Donald Trump over White House records, accusing the president of illegally destroying communications that must be preserved by federal law.
The suit — filed Thursday against Trump and the Executive Office of the President by Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) and the National Security Archive — focuses on an “auto-delete” app reportedly being used for messages sent from the White House that erase messages after they’re read. 
Such communications could involve correspondence among the president, aides, advisers, contractors, lobbyists and others. They’re part of a “historical record” that belongs to the public and must be preserved, as mandated by the Presidential Records Act of 2014, notes the suit, which was filed in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The law requires the preservation of communications in the White House and vice president’s office.
Yet “evidence suggests that President Trump and others within the White House are either ignoring or outright flouting these responsibilities,” the suit states.
“The American people not only deserve to know how their government is making important decisions, it’s the law,” CREW Executive Director Noah Bookbinder said in a statement. “By deleting these records, the White House is destroying essential historical records.”
CREW spokesman Jordan Libowitz told  that the only reason for the Trump administration to delete messages is to “keep them secret from the American people.” He said it’s part of a “larger, troubling pattern” of information suppression in the Trump administration, which also includes deletion of the president’s tweets.
The suit cites a vanishing tweet on Trump’s account about meeting with U.S. generals at Mar-a-Lago. Such tweets, involving official government business and policy statements by the president, are also subject to the Presidential Records Act, the suit argues. 
Trump repeatedly blasted Democratic rival Hillary Clinton during the presidential campaign for her use of a private email server while she was secretary of state, but those emails were still recoverable.
The lawsuit against Trump cites a report in The Washington Post that White House staffers use an app called Confide, which sends encrypted messages that “self-destruct” once they’re read. The Wall Street Journal also reported similar use of the encryption cloaking app Signal for White House messages. The use of the apps “knowingly prevent the proper preservation of records,” the suit charges.
Using “encrypted messaging apps that prevent any kind of preservation raise serious concerns that presidential records are at risk,” said Tom Blanton, director of the National Security Archive. Presidential records are not subject to the Freedom of Information Act while a president is in office. But they are accessible by law five years later — provided they have been preserved.
The suit demands the records be preserved against efforts by the president and his staff “that seek to evade transparency and government accountability.”
The White House hasn’t yet commented on the suit.
CREW also sued Trump in January, accusing him of violating the emoluments clause of the U.S. Constitution by collecting foreign income through his various businesses. The clause forbids a president from receiving payments from foreign governments. In one example, the Kuwait Embassy in February booked space and services for an event at Trump’s hotel in Washington, D.C., that was estimated to cost as much as $60,000.
More than 190 Democratic lawmakers also sued Trump last week over the emoluments clause, saying he had accepted funds from foreign governments through his businesses without congressional consent in violation of the U.S. Constitution.

Part Three of Storm Surge: How States Will Have to Step Up As Disasters Become More Frequent and Expensive
By Sarah Breitenbach
 
BATON ROUGE, La. — Alma Jackson’s modest red-brick rancher with the mint green shutters wasn’t supposed to flood.
The house sits half a block from the flood plain in this suburban pocket just outside the city limits, but when torrential rains overwhelmed nearby rivers last August, the water swept in, rising five feet high.
Like thousands of her neighbors whose properties were never expected to take on water, Jackson didn’t have flood insurance, so she had to rely on money from the Federal Emergency Management Agency to gut and repair her home.
But this spring, after living in a hotel for months and spending her entire FEMA payout on repairs, Jackson was no closer to coming home. It was then that volunteers from a local nonprofit arrived to install new floors, replace the kitchen cabinets and finish other projects that remained after her FEMA money ran out.
“I know I couldn’t get this house back together myself,” Jackson, 65, said as she worked on finishing touches in late April.  
Private donors and nonprofits like Rebuilding Together Baton Rouge, which helped Jackson, are expected to spend more on disaster recovery as natural disasters become more frequent and expensive. But philanthropy experts caution that while post-disaster giving, made easier by the internet, has become ubiquitous, foundations and nonprofits need to adjust their tactics to focus not only on immediate disaster response, but on reinforcing communities to better withstand disaster and supporting long-term recovery efforts.
It can take months to dole out federal payments to homeowners, and many times there isn’t enough money to fully repair devastated homes. Private money helps to some extent, but after the initial rush of volunteers go home and donations dry up, many homes are still not completely restored.
“If you think about the delay in federal money, it’s private philanthropy that fills the gap,” said John Spain, the executive vice president of the Baton Rouge Area Foundation, which has given more than $5.5 million to area churches, schools and other nonprofits for flood relief since August.

Disaster relief groups that step in immediately after a storm often lack the resources to continue serving communities that need long-term help. It is hard to quantify just how much private money is needed in Baton Rouge and surrounding localities, Spain said, but he knows his group and others like it haven’t raised enough to help everyone.
Jackson was unwilling to talk about the final cost of repairs, but Chris Andrews, the executive director of Rebuilding Together Baton Rouge, said his organization dispatched volunteers and paid for several thousand dollars’ worth of work and supplies at her home.
Thanks to post-flood donations, the group’s bank account has swelled from $40,000 to more than $800,000. Andrews hopes to push past $1 million this year, but expects to spend every penny. It costs the group about $12,000 to $15,000 to rehabilitate a flooded house.
“We just started contacting homeowners and asking if they needed assistance and they all, without fail, did,” said Andrews, a semi-retired Methodist minister.
Typically, the organization focuses on upgrades like wheelchair ramps and shower stall grab bars so low-income, aging residents can stay at home, but in the wake of the flood, Andrews said his group’s focus has shifted to flood victims.
They have refurbished 18 houses since August, which is usually how many they attend to in an entire year. Their volunteers are doing bigger projects than usual — replacing drywall, installing flooring, and building entirely new kitchens.
“Most of them would have been potential legitimate clients for us,” Andrews said. “They fit the age demographic, they fit the income requirement, and they are living in houses that they’ve occupied for 30 or 40 years with a lot of deferred maintenance.”

Reimagining Disaster Philanthropy
Americans have gotten good at responding to the immediate aftermath of natural disasters. Following a major storm there is often a rush to donate money and supplies while volunteers, organized by churches, schools, and first responder organizations like the Red Cross parachute into affected areas.
But that is not enough. Private donors and nonprofits need to expand their recovery focus to include improvements before disasters strike and long-term recovery to help communities rebuild quickly and affordably, said Robert Ottenhoff, the president and CEO of the Center for Disaster Philanthropy.
“We’re able to rescue people to put them in temporary housing. We’re able to provide them with food and clothing,” he said. “We’re not as well coordinated in terms of what it takes to do the long-term recovery.”
Sometimes organizations lack the volunteers, money and plans to stick around for long-term work. But one Louisiana nonprofit is proposing a solution to that.
SBP, a rebuilding organization that originated in St. Bernard Parish 11 years ago, following Hurricane Katrina, has launched a pilot program with the state under which the nonprofit will be reimbursed for some of the construction work it does.

The idea is to speed up recovery efforts by repairing homes before homeowners get money from the federal government. The program enables homeowners who cannot afford a market-rate contractor to take out a loan and use those funds to hire SBP to do their repair work. Once the federal money arrives, homeowners use it to pay off the loans.
The organization’s co-founder, Zack Rosenburg, said this process will expedite repairs for homeowners caught up in red tape and allow the group to put its cash toward other recovery projects. It will also help communities bounce back from disaster, he says, by getting people back in their homes and reducing blight that appears when houses get abandoned because a homeowner cannot afford to rebuild. 
“There is a human toll to a delayed recovery,” he said. “It also has financial consequences, too.”
Pat Forbes, executive director of the Louisiana Division of Administration, says he hasn’t seen anything like the SBP plan before. It could make a difference in future disasters because the state can count on swift rebuilding that won’t be hamstrung by federal timelines.
“It is an opportunity for them to jump in and start helping some people get back in their homes before our program is ready,” Forbes said at the end of April, noting that money from the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development to help last August’s flood victims had arrived just two weeks before.
In the first government study to assess just how much gets spent on disasters, the U.S. Government Accountability Office found that between 2005 and 2014, 17 federal agencies had spent $277.6 billion on disasters.
But that money could be at risk as FEMA, President Donald Trump and think tanks mull ideas for shifting more disaster costs to states. States have told FEMA officials that they cannot afford to rebuild from a major disaster without federal help and Ottenhoff is clear that private groups can’t fill the financial gap between them.
“It’s hard for me to see how [we] could fill the void if the federal government pulled out,” Ottenhoff said. 
Widespread Philanthropy
Previous generations thought about philanthropy in terms of estate planning and weekly contributions to the church collection plate. But today, social media and large events like benefit concerts mean more people donate more often.

A turning point came in 2010 when the Red Cross collected millions of dollars as donors committed to one-time $10 donations via text message in response to an earthquake that leveled Haiti’s capital and killed hundreds of thousands of people.
In 2014, individuals donated more money to disaster relief than foundations, corporations and bequests combined. But the amount of private money collected after a disaster is still dwarfed by what the federal government provides.
For example, the federal government committed about $60 billion to the Superstorm Sandy recovery, while private relief donations only came to a few hundred million, Ottenhoff said.
In fiscal 2014, the federal Disaster Relief Fund had $15.2 billion to spend whereas U.S. foundations spent just $226 million on disaster efforts that year, according to the Center for Disaster Philanthropy.
Getting Noticed
Disasters tend to attract people who want to give in response to the awful events they witness on the news. The majority of money collected to help victims arrives in the weeks following an event and drops off shortly thereafter.
“The community feels like, OK, what happened to all of those resources that were coming?” said Rowdy Gaudet, an assistant chief administrative officer with the city of Baton of Rouge.
But a storm that gets a lot of media attention is likely to draw more money.
Last June, for example, after massive flooding in West Virginia, counties that were in the news raised more recovery money than their less publicized neighbors, said Michelle Breeland, a FEMA liaison who works with volunteer agencies that respond to disasters.
In Baton Rouge, the August storm that dumped 7.1 trillion gallons of rain on Louisiana was overshadowed by the summer Olympics and the 2016 presidential campaign.

Floods generally tend to get less attention than hurricanes, which mount with drama and tension for days before they strike. It also doesn’t help that floods, including last year’s, don’t get named by the World Metrological Organization the way hurricanes and tropical storms do.
In 2016 there were 15 disasters in the U.S. that caused $1 billion or more in destruction, but only one, Hurricane Matthew, was a named storm. The Baton Rouge flooding caused an estimated $10.1 billion in damage and some people compared the devastation to that brought by Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
But save for the occasional pile of discarded furniture or a FEMA trailer parked in a front yard, it’s hard to tell that anything went wrong here. From the street, homes look untouched. But inside, walls and furniture are growing mold. 
“The drama of this is not there, and that affects funding for the nonprofit sector,” Andrews said.
All of this has made it difficult for nonprofits to raise money for ongoing recovery efforts in Baton Rouge.
The local United Way chapter raised $1 million in the first 30 days following the flood, but has only raised another $2 million in the months since.
The group needs more money to keep helping the homeowners and nonprofits that have yet to recover, but Sarah Haneline, a vice president for the group, expects fundraising over the next few years to be difficult, especially because 20 percent of its local donors who give to United Way through their employers are flood victims.
“We think for most people, they’re not going to be fully recovered within a year,” she said.


The news is back with a vengeance after the long weekend. Read at your own risk.
1. NPR tweeted out the Declaration of Independence and Trump supporters thought they were calling for revolution. The irony is just beautiful. More here.
2. An NYPD cop was in the Bronx was shot dead while sitting in her police vehicle in an unprovoked attack. More here.
3. The U.S. and South Korea have launched test missiles in response to North Korea’s missile test. Please God, don’t let President Trump tweet anti-North Korea memes. More here.
4. Russia and China have called for a freeze on all missile testing, which is pretty cool of Russia, to be honest. More here.
5. Martin Shkreli is tweeting from a secret account despite being banned from Twitter. He’s still an awful person. More here.

President Donald Trump again criticized MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” just one day after tweeting attacks at hosts Joe Scarborough and Mika Brzezinski.
In an op-ed published by The Washington Post on Friday, Scarborough and Brzezinski addressed their ongoing feud with Trump, arguing he’s not “mentally equipped” to watch their show. They also claimed White House staff members once warned them that the National Enquirer was considering publishing a negative story about them unless they “begged the president to have the story spiked.”
“We ignored their desperate pleas,” the two wrote.
Trump denied that in a tweet Friday, claiming Scarborough did call him to stop the alleged Enquirer article:
Watched low rated @Morning_Joe for first time in long time. FAKE NEWS. He called me to stop a National Enquirer article. I said no! Bad show
Scarborough responded by calling Trump’s tweet “another lie.”
Yet another lie. I have texts from your top aides and phone records. Also, those records show I haven't spoken with you in many months. https://t.co/TZWiElo6Gs
An NBC News spokesman backed up Scarborough’s claims, telling CNN the morning show host kept several network executives in the loop about the alleged threats.
New York Magazine’s Gabriel Sherman reported Friday that the editor-in-chief of the Enquirer, Dylan Howard, never spoke with David Pecker, owner of the paper and friend to Trump, about killing a story on Scarborough and Brzezinski.
Nat. Enquirer EIC Dylan Howard tells me he never spoke w/ owner David Pecker about killing Joe/Mika story
The Enquirer’s website did prominently display a story Friday morning about the “Morning Joe” co-hosts.
National Enquirer website right now: pic.twitter.com/KCjIji4u2k
Trump’s relationship with the Enquirer was described by The Washington Post as “very friendly” in March 2016. The tabloid published several stories about Trump’s Republican primary rivals ― including an unsubstantiated piece that claimed Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) was cheating on his wife ― while writing complimentary things about the business mogul.
The current back-and-forth gained attention Thursday when Trump lashed out at Scarborough and Brzezinski as “Morning Joe” was wrapping up the day’s show. He called the hosts “crazy” and “psycho” and claimed Brzezinski once “insisted on joining” him at his Mar-a-Lago resort while “bleeding badly from a face-lift.”
The National Enquirer weighed in on the conversation Friday morning in a statement:
National Enquirer statement pic.twitter.com/o8p1eCqnjh
This article has been updated with a statement from the National Enquirer.


Hillary Clinton said Tuesday that the U.S. is in the midst of one of the most important battles in the country’s history ― and librarians are on the “front lines.” 
The 2016 Democratic presidential nominee praised libraries for being essential to a free society and encouraged Americans to fight against President Donald Trump’s “deeply disturbing” proposed cuts to their federal funding.
“The work you do is at the heart of an open, inclusive and diverse society,” Clinton told a crowd at the American Library Association’s conference in Chicago. “I believe libraries and democracy go hand-in-hand.”
“You have to be on the front lines of one of the most important fights we have ever faced in history in this country: the right to defend truth and reason, evidence and facts,” she said.
The reference to defending “truth and reason” was an apparent swipe at Trump, whom Clinton has consistently blasted for ignoring science and facts while peddling debunked conspiracy theories.
Clinton, who told the crowd she found strength from reading (as well as the “occasional glass of chardonnay”) following her loss in the 2016 presidential election, noted that librarians play a critical role in communities nationwide.
“Reading is not just a nice thing to do. It’s how we help give our children the best possible start in life,” Clinton said, pointing to a study that suggests children in low-income families hear 30 million fewer words by the age of 4 than their affluent counterparts.
The former first lady added that libraries are critical to the well-being of rural communities and provide invaluable resources to help immigrants and refugees learn English and “know their rights.”
“Sparking someone’s love of learning, changing the course of a life, standing up for the freedom to read, to learn ― nothing is more important than that in a free society,” Clinton said.


MSNBC host Chris Matthews took a comparison too far on Thursday during a segment comparing President Donald Trump to a long line of power-hungry politicians, including Italian strongman Benito Mussolini.
Speaking of nepotism and the at-times baffling amount of power that Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner seems to wield, Matthews remarked, “So the son-in-law — you know, one good thing Mussolini did was execute his son-in-law.”
“I mean, I’m talking about Ciano,” he added, referring to Galeazzo Ciano, whom Mussolini had executed in 1944 after a sham trial found him guilty of treason.
Matthews sought support for the comparison from New York Times columnist Frank Bruni, who appeared on the segment as a guest, but Bruni wasn’t buying.
“I don’t think ... Let’s be careful there,” Bruni said, raising his hand sharply. 
“That was an extreme measure,” Matthews conceded, referring to Ciano’s execution. “But this was — this is a strange situation.”

Politicians and celebrities took to President Donald Trump’s favorite medium — Twitter — on Sunday to blast his tweeted video showing him pummeling a man whose head was replaced by the letters “CNN.”
Many were simply dumbfounded — and sassy. TV personality Andy Cohen bashed Trump in a tweet, saying simply: “Sweetie u cray.”
Sweetie u cray https://t.co/OkaTiUuLAe
Chelsea Clinton pointed out the disturbing timing of the video over the July 4th weekend.
July 2, 1776: Continental Congress votes for independence July 2, 2017: Trump auditions for @WWE https://t.co/in4xXfCQeG
Others expressed shock and outrage that America’s commander in chief appeared to incite violence against the press.
Rep. Frank Pallone (D-N.J.) called the president’s “promoting violence against the press... a disgrace, a threat to the presidency and our democracy.”
.@realDonaldTrump promoting violence against the press is a disgrace, a threat to the presidency & our democracy. We must all speak out. https://t.co/WfHeLuAjVt
Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-Md.) called the video a “deranged fantasy” that “should be rejected by all Americans.”
This deranged fantasy should be rejected by all Americans. The free press is not the enemy of the people, but the people's best friend. https://t.co/Xjoy8wOYGs
When asked if the president’s tweet violated Twitter’s standards against harassment or inciting violence, a Twitter spokeswoman told : “We don’t comment on individual accounts, for privacy and security reasons.”
The tweet was retweeted on the official POTUS Twitter page, which is passed on to all presidents and archived. White House press secretary Sean Spicer has also described Trump’s tweets on his own account as “official statements by the president,” which are hardly private. 
Twitter did not respond to a question asking if and how many people have complained about the tweet or felt threatened by it. The company also did not respond to a question about how Twitter would treat a video showing a man being pummeled whose head was replaced with the words “president” or “White House.”
A Twitter spokesman, however, told CNN that Trump’s tweet did not violate its rules regarding targeted harassment or incitement to violence.
Republican political operative Jack Posobiec tweeted a photo of an imagined staffer at the Republican National Committee (actually actor Jim Parsons in a scene from “The Big Bang Theory”) hyperventilating after the CNN video was posted by Trump. (The video appears to be a repurposed clip of Trump, then a reality TV star, appearing to beat up WWE owner Vince McMahon in 2007.)
Trump's RNC staffers right now after the wrestling tweet pic.twitter.com/xWnzwxfauq
Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.) characterized the video as another Trump “Twitter tantrum.”
Exactly what I meant when I said, #StopTheTwitterTantrums https://t.co/A7HMLKEemP
But most attacks came from Democrats, while Republicans were notably silent.
President Trump's tweet-- physically attacking CNN=inciting violence/bullying/suppressing press/outrageous new low. https://t.co/8dRBRgJ3Em
The modern mode of communication is not the issue. It's the crude, false, and unpresidential content. https://t.co/liEYbhkpnx
Violence & violent imagery to bully the press must be rejected. This #July4th, celebrate freedom of the press, guardians to our democracy
The President of the United States of America encouraging violence against free & independent press on Independence Day weekend. #UnAmerican https://t.co/sdsXSes5gb
Author J.K. Rowling quoted George Washington as she cautioned restraint in responding.
'To persevere in one's duty, and be silent, is the best answer to calumny.' George Washington https://t.co/nvhYdTBF0P
But several celebrity comments were pithier.
What????  Please, someone. Get out the straight jacket. https://t.co/B8fUowmJx7
How the fuck are you a president.
And then there was this tweet from attorney and University of New Hampshire law professor Seth Abramson:
Please RETWEET THIS if you want Twitter to suspend Trump's account for repeated crimes, civil offenses, and violations of terms of service. pic.twitter.com/qHlwsJ1XaG

President Trump said “the Panama Canal is doing quite well” and now all we can do is pray for a trip to the Great Wall of China. A Republican data firm exposed the information of nearly 200 million voters — marking the absolute first time this century the GOP has threatened citizens’ franchise. And Jared Kushner spoke publicly for the first time since arriving in the White Holuse and not long thereafter ominous clouds formed over the White House. Please direct all your letters about causality to our editors. This is  HILL for Monday, June 19th, 2017:
 FLYNN WORKED WITH GROUP THAT SOLD SPYWARE TO REPRESSIVE GOVERNMENTS - Paul Blumenthal and Jessica Schulberg: “While serving as a top campaign aide to Donald Trump, former national security adviser Michael Flynn made tens of thousands of dollars on the side advising a company that sold surveillance technology that repressive governments used to monitor activists and journalists…. He earned nearly $1.5 million last year as a consultant, adviser, board member, or speaker for more than three dozen companies and individuals, according to financial disclosure forms released earlier this year. Two of those entities are directly linked to NSO Group, a secretive Israeli cyberweapons dealer founded by Omri Lavie and Shalev Hulio, who are rumored to have served in Unit 8200, the Israeli equivalent of the National Security Agency…. [D]uring the time Flynn was working for NSO’s Luxembourg affiliate, one of the company’s main products...was being used to surveil political dissidents, reporters, activists, and government officials.” [] 
SENATE DEMS TO GAMELY ATTEMPT TO STOP THE SECRET SENATE HEALTH CARE BILL - It probably won’t work. Jennifer Haberkorn: “Democrats will grind Senate business to a halt in a protest against Republican efforts to repeal Obamacare. Beginning Monday night, Democrats will start objecting to all unanimous consent requests in the Senate, according to a Democratic aide. They plan to control the floor of the chamber Monday night and try to force the House-passed health care bill to committee in a bid to further delay it.” [Politico] 
SECRET HEALTH CARE BILL SPEEDING TOWARD SENATE FLOOR - Kegger at Paul Ryan’s house! Stephanie Armour and Kristina Peterson: “Senate GOP leaders are planning to vote next week on legislation to repeal large chunks of the Affordable Care Act, even though they don’t yet appear to have secured enough support to pass it. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R., Ky.) is intent on keeping pressure on Senate Republicans to move quickly on the bill rolling back and replacing much of the 2010 health law, lawmakers and GOP aides said.” [WSJ] 
Here’s the big non-secret about the secret Senate health bill: No matter what final form it takes, it’s an enormous tax cut financed by slashing health care programs for poor and middle-income people. [’s Jeffrey Young] 
GA-6 FINALLY HERE: OUR LONG, LOCAL NIGHTMARE IS FINALLY OVER - Why it doesn’t matter, from MoJo’s Tim Murphy: “The Georgia election is an awkward roadmap for future House races precisely because it’s been such an expensive slugfest. Virtually nothing that happens next year will look anything like it, and the circumstances in which the race exploded into the national spotlight — and had that electoral spotlight nearly all to itself — are unique…. After November the conservative suburban districts Hillary Clinton carried (or nearly carried) were a riddle: Were they a product of Trump’s unique unpopularity, or did they represent real opportunities for Democrats down-ballot? Ossoff’s performance in the first round of balloting, where he finished just shy of the 50-percent threshold needed to win outright, already went a long way toward answering that question, and his incredible fundraising haul and vast national support will only encourage other Democrats, from California to Texas, to follow his path.” [Mother Jones] 
Georgia GOP official super-stoked that Steve Scalise got shot. 
Not good: “Otto Warmbier, the former University of Virginia student who returned home to the U.S. last week after spending more than a year imprisoned in North Korea, died on Monday afternoon, his family said. ‘Unfortunately, the awful torturous mistreatment our son received at the hands of the North Koreans ensured that no other outcome was possible beyond the sad one we experienced today,’ his parents said in a statement.” [’s Willa Frej] 
MORE SAD NEWS FOR  - It’s been a rough couple of weeks so be nice if you see any of us around town. Sam is an incredible boss: His one-of-a-kind political instinct has benefited everyone on the  Politics team ― and he has helped make us a family. Best of luck to Cornell University’s favorite alumnus! Erik Wemple: “Days after  announced a round of layoffs, one of its longtime voices is making a leap of his own accord: Sam Stein, the site’s senior politics editor, is joining the Daily Beast in a similar capacity. He joins a 10-strong D.C. bureau at the Daily Beast, a site that has made a series of big-name hires in recent weeks, including luring former Guardian reporter Spencer Ackerman and former Gawker Media president Heather Dietrick…. Nearly a decade ago, Stein was among three staffers — Nico Pitney and Jason Linkins were the others — who launched the site’s Washington bureau in a one-office room at the Watergate.” [WaPo]
Like what you read below? Sign up for  HILL and get a cheeky dose of political news every evening!
Like  Hill? Then order Eliot’s book, The Beltway Bible: A Totally Serious A-Z Guide To Our No-Good, Corrupt, Incompetent, Terrible, Depressing, and Sometimes Hilarious Government
Does somebody keep forwarding you this newsletter? Get your own copy. It’s free! Sign up here. Send tips/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to eliot@.com. Follow us on Twitter - @Hill
ENRICHING YOURSELF OFF OF DEMOCRACY AIN’T EASY - Hey, remember the NGP VAN leak episode? That was annoying! Ryan Grenoble: “A Republican data analysis company called Deep Root Analytics left exposed an online database containing the personal information of almost all of America’s 200 million registered voters, the cyber security firm UpGuard has found. The data contained in the breach includes an unsettling amount of personal information, including voters’ first and last names, birth dates, home and mailing addresses, phone numbers, registered party, self-reported racial demographic and voter registration status. A Deep Root spokesman confirmed the breach in an email to , saying, ‘We take full responsibility for this situation.’” []
Line of the week (and, yes, it’s Monday): “Greg Gianforte emulated Jesus by assaulting Ben Jacobs, who was trespassing and invading his privacy.” [Missoulian] 
WILL SCOTUS SAVE FREE AND FAIR ELECTIONS? Ehhh…. Adam Liptak: “The Supreme Court announced on Monday that it would consider whether partisan gerrymandering violates the Constitution. The case could reshape American politics. In the past, the court has struck down election maps as racial gerrymanders that disadvantaged minority voters. But it has never disallowed a map on the ground that it was drawn to give an unfair advantage to a political party.” [NYT]
TRUMP NOT INTERESTED IN SAVING THE WHALES - Dominique Mosbergen: “The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s fisheries division announced on Monday that it is tossing out a pending rule meant to protect marine mammals and sea turtles, including several endangered species, from swordfishing gill nets off the West Coast…. Proposed in 2015 by the Pacific Fishery Management Council, which includes representatives from the fishing industry, tribal representatives, federal and state officials and other conservation experts, the gill net rule sought to impose a cap on the number of marine mammals and turtles that could be killed or injured by the long, near-invisible gill nets used to catch swordfish. Some of the animals covered by the rule are endangered fin, humpback, and sperm whales, common bottlenose dolphins and endangered leatherback and loggerhead sea turtles.” []
Maybe there is a God: “The debate over whether NBC host Megyn Kelly should have given air time to far-right conspiracy theorist Alex Jones garnered a lot more attention than her interview with him, one analysis found. With just 3.5 million viewers, ‘Sunday Night with Megyn Kelly’ came in last place among the four major networks during the 7 p.m. time slot, according to Nielsen Media Research. Nielsen hasn’t released details of its insights, but several media outlets obtained early copies.” []
PERRY GOES FULL CLIMATE SKEPTIC - Texas’ former governor has a showdown at high noon with science. Chris D’Angelo: “Energy Secretary Rick Perry on Monday dismissed near-universally accepted science, denying that carbon dioxide emissions from human activity are driving global climate change. Asked by CNBC ‘Squawk Box’ host Joe Kernen whether he believes carbon dioxide ‘is the primary control knob for the temperature of the Earth and for climate,’ Perry said, ‘No.’ ‘Most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in,’ Perry said. ‘I mean, the fact is, this shouldn’t be a debate about, “Is the climate changing, is man having an effect on it?” Yeah, we are. The question should be, you know, just how much, and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?’” []
JARED KUSHNER SPEAKS - We were expecting a “Peanuts” teacher-style womp womp womp wooomp womp but instead got D&D dweeb. Igor Bobic: “Jared Kushner, President Donald Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, on Monday spoke about the need to modernize technology and data used by the federal government. Appearing at an event at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, a massive, outdated facility that sits next to the White House, Kushner recounted the obsolete systems used by the Department of Veterans Affairs…. Unlike his father-in-law or his wife, Ivanka Trump, however, Kushner has kept a low profile. He rarely speaks in public, and he does not tweet. ‘We had never heard him speak before,’ MSNBC host Chris Jansing remarked on-air after Kushner spoke.” []
We’re now in our 21st week of speculating about whether Sean Spicer is going to get fired.
Why: “On Monday, President Donald Trump met with the president of Panama, Juan Carlos Varela, at the White House. During their meeting, the two world leaders discussed important international topics such as, uh, the Panama Canal. ‘The Panama Canal is doing quite well,’ Trump said during a photo opportunity with Varela. ‘I think we did a good job building it, right?’” [’s Elyse Wanshel]
BECAUSE YOU’VE READ THIS FAR - Here’s a puppy nervous about the floor.
‘KIMMY SCHMIDT’ HAS MORE REDSKINS MATERIAL - This ruling will put liberals in the same sort of bind that the ACLU’s position on campaign finance does. Travis Waldron: “The NFL franchise in Washington, D.C., received a major boost in its fight to save its controversial ‘Redskins’ name Monday morning, thanks to a Supreme Court ruling in a separate legal dispute.  At issue is the team’s federal trademark protections for the nickname, which Native American activists have described as a ‘dictionary-defined racial slur.’ The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s Trademark Trial and Appeal Board invalidated those trademark protections in 2014, ruling that the name was ‘disparaging to Native Americans’ and thus violated a clause in a federal trademark law. The Supreme Court, however, struck down that clause Monday, ruling that the law’s prohibition on providing federal trademarks for disparaging terms or logos violated the First Amendment’s free speech protections.” []
COMFORT FOOD
- A very earnest personal ad from 1865.
 - NASA has discovered 10 more potentially earthlike planets. 
- Active alarm clock has been stuck in family’s wall for 13 years. 
TWITTERAMA 
Eventually someone is going to actually change their name to Generic Democrat and they're probably going to win
2016: fuck your feelings, Snowflake2017: I found the latest Shakespeare in the park production quite untoward. I require a fainting couch
let's take a moment to recognize the best fathers: the founding ones I'm talking George WashingtonChet van Burenand the Broadway rap one
Got something to add? Send tips/quotes/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to Eliot Nelson (eliot@.com)

Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), who is retiring from Congress at the end June, has signed on as a contributor for Fox News.
A Fox press release confirms that Chaffetz will make his network debut on July 1, and he’ll contribute to both Fox News and Fox Business. (Politico first reported in May that Chaffetz was considering joining the network.) 
Chaffetz, seen as a rising star within the Republican Party, shocked Washington, D.C., in April when he announced he wouldn’t seek reelection in 2018.
“For those that would speculate otherwise, let me be clear that I have no ulterior motives,” Chaffetz wrote on his Facebook page. “I have made a personal decision to return to the private sector.”
He then announced in May he would step down on June 30, ending his term a year and a half early. 
First elected to the House in 2008, Chaffetz rose to prominence after he was elected as chairman of the House Oversight Committee in 2014. As chairman, he frequently investigated former President Barack Obama’s White House. He led the congressional investigation of Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email service during her tenure as secretary of state, vowing to continue the investigation even after the FBI decided against recommending charges in the case. He was also one of the first Republicans to criticize Clinton’s response to the 2012 attack against two U.S. government facilities in Benghazi, Libya. 
After President Donald Trump’s inauguration, Chaffetz drew criticism for not investigating scandals involving the new president as vigorously as he had probed the previous administration. 
Chaffetz criticized Trump’s administration in a recent interview, claiming he doesn’t “see much difference between the Trump administration and the Obama administration.” 
While Chaffetz said he is leaving office to spend more time with his family, he’s left open the possibility that he will run for governor of Utah in 2020. 
