
The first statements from the White House have trickled out on Twitter since the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, erupted  ― beginning with first lady Melania Trump.
FLOTUS tweeted her sentiments about the “hate” coming out of Charlottesville by saying the following:
Our country encourages freedom of speech, but let's communicate w/o hate in our hearts. No good comes from violence. #Charlottesville
On Saturday, white supremacists and other fringe groups took over Charlottesville in preparation for a “Unite the Right” rally that has turned violent. The rally of the so-called alt-right was then met with Antifa counter-protesters and skirmishes ensued.
Fights breaking out. Pepper spray in the air #Charlottesville pic.twitter.com/xWizCxArC0
More fights more pepper spray #Charlotteville pic.twitter.com/3a7G7U7U02
The violence and subsequent swarm of riot police making arrests, have caused a state of emergency in the state:
BREAKING: Virginia governor declares state of emergency in response to white nationalist rally.
President Donald Trump made a public statement about the rally, a little under an hour later, tweeting that the country has “no place for this kind of violence”:
We ALL must be united & condemn all that hate stands for. There is no place for this kind of violence in America. Lets come together as one!
The president is currently on a 17-day “working vacation” at the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, New Jersey. 
This piece has been updated.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Three people are dead and at least 35 have been treated for injuries following a white supremacist rally and a helicopter crash in the Charlottesville, Virginia, area.
At one point a car plowed into an anti-racist group amid clashes between white supremacist activists, some armed, and anti-fascist protesters. 
Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D) declared a state of emergency on Saturday afternoon. 
President Donald Trump blamed “many sides” for the unrest.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced a federal investigation into the violence at the rally. The FBI and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Virginia have also launched a civil rights investigation into the fatal car crash.
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. ― Thousands of white supremacists and armed militia groups faced off with counter-protesters during a violent and chaotic rally that raged for hours in this Virginia city on Saturday, resulting in the deaths of at least three people.
Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D), who declared a state of emergency Saturday afternoon, condemned the violence during a press conference that evening, sending a message to the white supremacists.
“Our message is plain and simple: Go home. You are not wanted in this great commonwealth,” he said. “Shame on you.”
“Please go home and never come back. Take your hatred, and take your bigotry,” McAuliffe added.
Charlottesville Police Chief Al Thomas said 35 people were treated for injuries by city personnel on Saturday, with injuries ranging from minor to life-threatening.
Three people died Saturday, including a 32-year-old woman who was hit by a car that plowed into a group of counter-demonstrators and two others who perished in a helicopter crash near the protests.
James Alex Fields Jr., 20, was arrested in connection with the car incident. He was charged with one count of second-degree murder, three counts of malicious wounding and one count of failing to stop at an accident resulting in a death, police Col. Martin Kumer told HuffPost.
“It was just terrifying,” said 23-year-old Thomas Pilnik, Charlottesville resident who witnesses the crash. “I remember people flying into me, telling me to run and get out of the way and watching people fly like they were just bowling pins.”
As of 10 p.m. Eastern on Saturday, police had made three other arrests related to the rally:
JUST IN: Virginia State Police have made three arrests today related to the #Charlottesville rally. Two of the people are from out of state pic.twitter.com/B1ZxtIp7wm
“You came here today to hurt people and you did hurt people,” McAuliffe said at Saturday’s press conference.
Groups in Charlottesville beat each other with flagpoles and bats, threw punches, chanted slogans and used chemical sprays on each other at a downtown park. Some reporters covering the event were doused in raw sewage.
“There was a cloud,” said a witness, who asked not to be named. “Things were flying. Most people managed to get out of the way.”
Attorney General Jeff Sessions said Saturday night that state U.S. Attorney Rick Mountcastle has opened a federal investigation into the violence at the rally, with the full support of the Justice Department.
The state attorney’s office and regional FBI office also announced a civil rights investigation into the circumstances surrounding the deadly car crash.
“The violence and deaths in Charlottesville strike at the heart of American law and justice,” Sessions said in a statement. “When such actions arise from racial bigotry and hatred, they betray our core values and cannot be tolerated.”
Folks said counter protesters were hit by a vehicle as they turned the corner.  Medics are here. #Charlottesville pic.twitter.com/qQAIRy7YSN
Andddd Antifa is here #Charlottesville pic.twitter.com/8Hmd1OJHY2
The “Unite the Right” rally was promoted by white nationalist Richard Spencer and drew several different groups, including activists from the so-called “alt-right,” Nazis, Ku Klux Klan members and other white supremacists, some of whom dressed in militia uniforms and were openly carrying long guns. Counter-demonstrators and anti-fascist groups also attended.
After demonstrations got heated Friday night, tensions were running high even before the rally officially began at noon, with members of the “alt-right” chanting the Nazi phrase “Blood and soil!” and “White lives matter!” as they marched toward Emancipation Park. With Confederate flags and Nazi memorabilia on full display, they also chanted “Fuck you faggots!”
James Allsup, who was in Charlottesville for the “Unite the Right” rally, told Mediaite that, “white people are tired of being told by the cosmopolitan elites that we are the problem.”
“This is the biggest racist rally in recent memory,” a 23-year-old anti-fascist from Michigan, who wouldn’t give his name, told HuffPost. “And we are all out here opposing these motherfuckers and trying to get a temperature check where the right is ― where the far right is at ― and how they’re organizing, and where we can apply radical strategies to defeat fascism.”
You heard that right. They're chanting "Fuck you faggots." 2017. #Charlottesville pic.twitter.com/pMwbSXZ3wW
These guys are so young #charlottesville pic.twitter.com/ucMt8E0Vrt
To those demanding photographic evidence of Nazi regalia in #charlottesville, here's what's on display before breakfast. Be safe today pic.twitter.com/sbdkgv9eD1
Early Saturday, McAuliffe asked on Twitter for a stop to the violence.
The acts and rhetoric in #Charlottesville over past 24 hours are unacceptable & must stop. A right to speech is not a right to violence.
As violence among the groups grew on Saturday morning, some fled the scene, while others coughed and cried from the chemical sprays. Two fences and a line of cops helped separate the opposing groups, though police did not immediately intervene in the violence.
Police donned riot gear as fights escalated. Meanwhile, hundreds more white supremacists joined in the fray through the afternoon, making their way under a banner hung by the city that read “Diversity makes us stronger.”
Violence erupts #charlottesville pic.twitter.com/yf9qUeGzX2
Those standing on the sidelines were baffled as to why police weren’t immediately stopping the skirmishes.
“If this were Ferguson, riot gear, tear gas, everything would have been used,” said Anthony Bennett, a pastor from Connecticut, referring to the Missouri town where protests broke out in August 2014 after Darren Wilson, at the time a police officer, shot and killed Michael Brown, an unarmed black teenager. “There’s a different standard here in Charlottesville.”
More people being sprayed with irritants, not by police #Charlottesville pic.twitter.com/YuNK9RE0xk
Unidentified militia members brandishing guns also showed up at the scene.
Unidentified militia has arrived at #EmancipationPark ahead of the #Charlottesville rally with guns in tow. pic.twitter.com/zCLCBU78PF
Just minutes before the planned noon rally was set to begin, police threatened arrest for “unlawful assembly.” Thousands of people began to disperse, but it wasn’t immediately clear where they were going.
Hundreds more Nazis showing up #Charlottesville pic.twitter.com/UjRLgYyYtX
Tear gas canisters fly in #charlottesville, not sure if police fired, but they've been a non factor so far as fights rage. No answers. pic.twitter.com/xp0h5hBj8w
Eventually, arrests began.
Arrests are being made following declaration of unlawful assembly at Emancipation Park in Charlottesville. #cvilleaug12 pic.twitter.com/6XAn1hYLAS
Late Friday night, a white nationalist march at the University of Virginia campus painted a sobering picture of what was to come. A torch-bearing procession of hundreds that included Spencer, at least one man wearing a Nazi SS T-shirt and another carrying a bat, ended with a clash at the campus rotunda where a Thomas Jefferson statue stands. Spencer admitted on Twitter that a group surrounded counter-protesters at the statue. 
Counter-protesters told HuffPost that some among their ranks were then hit with some type of irritant Friday night ― they claim it was Mace, unleashed by the white supremacists. Protesters on the fringe left, who come to these events to battle the fringe right, often try to hide their identities for fear of retaliation.
Some counter-protesters threatened a HuffPost reporter with a gun when he attempted to photograph, from a distance, those recovering from the irritant. 
“Don’t make me use my gun on you,” a woman said, grabbing a holster on her hip.
A #UniteTheRight torch rally ended in violence at the UVa Rotunda. The main rally starts in 12 hours.  https://t.co/n8s3hJoKDY
Punches and torches were thrown during the fracas, but local police eventually dispersed the crowds.
President Donald Trump did little to denounce the white supremacists, instead saying Saturday that “many sides” were responsible for the violence.
“We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides ― on many sides,” Trump said at a ceremony for the signing of a bill to reform the Veterans Affairs health care system. “It’s been going on for a long time in our country, not Donald Trump, not Barack Obama. It’s been going on for a long, long time.” 
Comments from state and local officials addressed the racism more directly.
Charlottesville Mayor Michael Signer spoke out against the white supremacists who gathered in his city.
“They do not agree with the rules of democracy and they are on the losing side of history,” he said during a press conference Saturday evening.
McAuliffe spoke directly to white supremacists during the press conference, reminding them that “we are a nation of immigrants.” McAuliffe said he spoke to Trump on Saturday and told the president he’d be willing to work together, despite their differences, to help prevent this kind of violence in the future.
“There has got to be a movement in this country to bring people together,” McAuliffe said.
The rally Saturday was thinly disguised on Facebook as an event in support of the statue of Gen. Robert E. Lee downtown, which is slated for removal as the city works to respect diverse voices in its telling of American history. It’s part of a nationwide effort to remove Confederate monuments from public property.
According to the Southern Poverty Law Center, more than 60 Confederate symbols have been removed from city- and state-owned land across the U.S. since avowed white supremacist Dylann Roof massacred nine parishioners at a black church in Charleston, South Carolina, in 2015. Most recently, the city of New Orleans toppled four statues honoring the Confederacy.
“These efforts have made us a target for folks around the country who oppose telling the full story of race,” Signer told HuffPost on Friday. “They don’t want the narrative changed or to tell the full story of race. I think this will have the effect of redoubling our progress. To become an honest society, I don’t think we have any choice but to tell the full story.”
The rally’s real purpose, however, shines through in the event’s advertising, which looks a lot like Nazi propaganda and reads like a poorly billed concert:
UNITE THE RIGHTAugust 12, 2017Charlottesville, Virginia pic.twitter.com/ZCqVA3tqA9
Spencer’s followers claimed that that violence was coming to Charlottesville in the form of “roving mobs” of Antifa ― groups of black-clad, masked anti-fascists, anarchists and socialists. It’s a scare tactic that white nationalists use regularly to pull crowds of people to a city in defense of it.
They were able to draw hundreds to Gettysburg over the Fourth of July weekend after claiming members of Antifa were coming to desecrate graves. Antifa never came, but the Ku Klux Klan did, and the only bloodshed came when a lone patriot shot himself in the leg.
The weeks and days leading up to the rally in Charlottesville had the city gearing up for war. The city had seen this type of menacing before: White supremacists showed up with torches at the Lee monument in May, an act that evoked Ku Klux Klan symbolism.
Some businesses closed down Saturday to keep employees safe. Others reportedly opened their doors solely as a safe space in case of an emergency. Some locals were prepared to take drastic measures to protect their city.
“As a lifelong resident of Charlottesville and a mother of two, this is about making the world more equitable for my children,” Leslie Scott-Jones of Solidarity C’Ville wrote in a news release. “I am not naive about the urgent threat of August 12, nor do I believe the threat ends there... My family has been here since the 1700′s, this is my home, and I have no other choice than to protect it.”
This article has been updated with new details, including comments from Trump and anti-fascist demonstrators, information about Fields and information about the various investigations into Saturday’s events.
Sebastian Murdock, Paige Lavender and Carla Herreria contributed to this report.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
President Donald Trump called the governor of Guam on Friday to reassure him of the island’s safety as nuclear tensions grow between the United States and North Korea.
Guam Governor Eddie Calvo (R) posted a video of the call on YouTube, in which Trump can be heard telling Calvo that the U.S. is “with you 1,000 percent.” In the candid call, Trump asserted that the U.S. Pacific island territory was safe and called Calvo “a helluva guy.”
The U.S. president also contended that increased media attention around Guam — a result of North Korea threatening to fire intermediate-range missiles that would land near Guam — would bring a boom of tourism.
“Eddie, I have to tell you, you’ve become extremely famous,” Trump can be heard saying in the video. “All over the world, they’re talking about Guam, and they’re talking about you, and I think you’re going to get tourism. I can say this, your tourism, you’re going to go up like tenfold with the expenditure of no money, so I congratulate you.”
His logic was that with images of the “beautiful” Guam being all over the news, people would be more interested in going there.
For his part, Calvo seemed thrilled by the call and expressed faith in the president.
“I have never felt so safe or so confident than with you at the helm,” Calvo said, adding that “we need a president like you.”
Not everyone is so confident.
Leaders around the world have called for calm and de-escalation, with the mayor of Nagasaki, Japan noting that “anxiety is spreading across the globe” that nuclear weapons may be deployed.
And experts in nuclear conflict say Trump’s threatening tweets and references to unleashing “fire and fury” on North Korea are only escalating tensions.
“That is about the stupidest and most dangerous statement I have ever heard an American president make,” John Mecklin, editor-in-chief of Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, told HuffPost of the “fire and fury’ remark shortly after it happened.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Is this real life? Did I just wake up to an Alt-right white nationalist protest lit with torches on my Twitter feed in 2017? Are ya’ll serious?
If you, for a single moment, think that what just occurred in Charlottesville is even remotely OK, at all, from any “open minded” standpoint you might try to argue, you are automatically wrong. This is not a topic that’s up for debate. Under no circumstances is what just took place in Charlottesville OK in any part of reality. If you, some conservative, are about to fly into an argument about why ‘free speech’ is important in our society and why ‘the liberals are over-reacting’ you need to check yourself. Obviously somebody failed the “Civil War” section of high school history class.
What just took place Charlottesville is the very definition of a double standard so entrenched into American consciousness that people are somehow attempting to rationalize what just took place by throwing organizations like Black Lives Matter under the bus. Not only was there violence and hate speech at the Charlottesville rally, but the government did nothing to get the situation under control. If a group of Muslims had peacefully assembled outside for a picnic, the National Guard would have been there and FOX News would have run a news story about the ‘looming terrorist plot.’ If a group of black people would have assembled there, someone would have been shot. Instead, a bunch of armed, white men whose wives Amazon Primed them their very own ”be a white supremacist kit” decided to use their insecurity and anger to meet up and scream at people about how unfair their lives are — if that isn’t a snowflake, I don’t know what is.
I am sick and tired of people telling me that the racism that minorities feel in this country isn’t real. Every single one of you needs to turn on the news and watch all of the insecure, angry white men running around in the middle of the night screaming slurs like frat boys at happy hour who never passed a fire safety class. Not only that, but the idea that protests like these have a valid argument is completely absurd. In no way is the experience of the white man remotely similar in anyway to the experiences of the black, LGBT, Japanese, Indian, Hispanic, Arab, or Jewish communities.
Now, I get that it sucks that white men don’t get to throw protests like everyone else, and even you guys want to get in on the fun, but that’s not how this works. Y’all do not get to throw a protest and jerk off in a circle to other people’s pain just because you’re angry that the black guy at work is better at his job than you are. You do not get to buy all the tiki torches that your heart desires and run around in the middle of the night terrifying everyone around you in the name of free speech. That’s not free speech — that’s domestic terrorism. If you think that a bunch of black people demanding they be validated as human beings is domestic terrorism because they decided to march down your street and ruin your Sunday brunch, then congregating in the middle of the night with fire is probably a little bit much.
And if you disagree with any of that, I suggest you pick up a history textbook and call the closest therapist you can find, because I feel like it’s time you reevaluate your priorities.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
As white supremacists descended on Charlottesville, Virginia, on Friday and Saturday in what they called a “Unite the Right” rally, local and national politicians have spoken out against hate and violence.
Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D) declared a state of emergency, as violent clashes erupted between white supremacists and anti-fascist protesters.
Late Saturday afternoon, a man drove a car into a crowd, killing a 32-year-old woman who was attending a counter-protest because she wanted to fight injustice. At least 19 other people were injured.
The acts and rhetoric in #Charlottesville over past 24 hours are unacceptable & must stop. A right to speech is not a right to violence.
Governor McAuliffe has declared a state of emergency to aid state response to violence at Alt-Right rally in Charlottesville
Lt. Gov. Ralph Northam, who won the Virginia Democratic gubernatorial primary over progressive hopeful Tom Perriello in June, released a statement ahead of the rally condemning white supremacists and asking others not to respond with violence.
“White supremacists have descended upon Charlottesville again to evoke a reaction as ugly and violent as their beliefs ― just as they did before, I am urging Virginians to deny them the satisfaction,” the statement reads.
GOP gubernatorial nominee Ed Gillespie also denounced the rally.
.@EdForVirginia weighs in on the events in #Charlottesville: "Having a right to spew vile hate does not make it right." #VAGov pic.twitter.com/NleFpysp6a
Ronna McDaniel, chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, spoke out against the rally on Twitter Saturday morning.
The hate & bigotry on display in #charlottesville is dangerous & cowardly.
Free speech may give them the right to do this but also empowers us to unite to loudly speak out against it.
However, Rep. Jim Himes (D-Conn.) shot back, suggesting that the GOP should be taking more responsibility for what was happening.
It's not cowardly, Ronna. They're marching openly without masks. They are empowered. Now let's talk about HOW and WHY they are empowered. https://t.co/tOQY5Kq3Z9
Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D), Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) were among the many politicians who weighed in.
I strongly condemn the hateful rally in #Charlottesville last night. White supremacy has no place in our discourse. Not now, not ever.
This is un-American. We must all stand against hatred and bigotry. Our unity is our strength and diversity is our power. https://t.co/nMlpA3ru6s
The views fueling the spectacle in Charlottesville are repugnant. Let it only serve to unite Americans against this kind of vile bigotry.
The white nationalist demonstration in #Charlottesville is a reprehensible display of racism and hatred that has no place in our society.
Nothing patriotic about #Nazis,the #KKK or #WhiteSupremacists It's the direct opposite of what #America seeks to be. #Charlotesville
President Donald Trump addressed the events of the day, but drew criticism for failing to call out white supremacy or racism specifically. He tweeted against “hate” and “violence,” but also blamed “many sides” for the day’s events.
We ALL must be united & condemn all that hate stands for. There is no place for this kind of violence in America. Lets come together as one!
But as local and national politicians largely opted to, at least to some degree, denounce the hate and violence seen at the rally, there was one notable exception.
Corey Stewart, a conservative who ran against Ed Gillespie in the Virginia’s gubernatorial Republican primary, posted live video to Facebook Saturday evening in which he attacked “democrats” and “the media” for never condemning violence from what he called “the unhinged left.” He added that he believed those same people would use the Saturday’s events as an excuse to crack down on “conservative speech.” 
Stewart’s previously had vocally opposed the removal of a Robert E. Lee monument that was ostensibly the spark for the rally in the first place. The gathering was originally billed as being in opposition to the removal of the monument to the Confederate general.
It drew extreme far-right figures like white nationalist Richard Spencer and former KKK leader David Duke. People who showed up to counter protest the rally included Antifa, a radical anti-fascist group. Though the rally was slated to begin at noon Saturday, demonstrators were already out in force Saturday morning, displaying Confederate flags, Nazi symbols and chanting “blood and soil” and “Fuck you, faggots.” There were also heated confrontations Friday night.
This story has been updated to reflect that Corey Stewart commented on the rally.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
The man who promised “I alone can fix it” in his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention last July has accomplished very little after six months in office as president. Instead, President Donald Trump has instilled a culture of chaotic infighting at the White House, he has failed to articulate a coherent foreign policy and unnerved America’s closest allies, and he has fueled unprecedented divisiveness within the Republican Party.
Trump’s bombastic campaign rhetoric mobilized millions of frustrated Americans to vote for him last November and secure him an electoral college victory. He made many brash and unrealistic promises, but thankfully he has failed to deliver on most of them. Trump has not drained the swamp in Washington; he has only muddied the waters. He has not built a wall along the U.S.-Mexican border. He has not reformed taxes, he has not fixed health care, and he has done nothing with the nation’s infrastructure despite the fact that Republicans control both houses of Congress and the presidency. Instead, he has blamed Congress for his lack of progress.
Trump has been on the defensive about Russia’s interference on his behalf in the presidential election. He fired FBI Director James Comey, he has considered firing Attorney General Jeff Sessions for recusing himself from the Russian investigation, and he has harshly attacked Russia special counsel Robert Mueller for his widening probe into the scandal. Yet he thanked Russian President Vladimir Putin for expelling 755 people from the American embassy in Moscow in response to new economic sanctions approved by Congress.  “I’m very thankful that he let go of a large number of people, because now we have a smaller payroll,” Trump inexplicably said, apparently not knowing that these diplomats and staff will continue to be paid.  Where’s the outrage, Mr. President?
While the stock market has reached a record high in anticipation to reduced corporate taxes and regulations, there is a growing concern about the future. Trump’s favorability rating in the national polls has slumped to a record low for any modern day president. Even some of his most loyal supporters are beginning to raise their eyebrows. But Trump has tried to manipulate public opinion through his constant use of Twitter, often attacking the “fake media” and his opponents.  The tweeter in chief explained his reason last month, “My use of social media in not Presidential ― it’s MODERN DAY PRESIDENTIAL.  Make America Great Again!”
Last December, then President-Elect Donald Trump laid out his military policy. “We will stop racing to topple foreign regimes that we know nothing about, that we shouldn’t be involved with,” he said at Ft. Bragg. “Instead, our focus must be on defeating terrorism and destroying ISIS, and we will.” But Trump’s failure to effectively govern the country, and his inability to stop investigations into Russian interference and possible collusion with his campaign, may have changed his perspective.
A timely leak that a U.S. intelligence agency “assesses North Korea has produced nuclear weapons for ballistic missile delivery, to include delivery by ICBM-class missiles,” triggered a brash response from the president. “North Korea best not make any more threats against the United States,” he said at a meeting on the opioid crisis at his New Jersey golf club. “They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen.” Trump’s shoot from the hip response rattled diplomats and military experts because an attack on North Korea would lead to millions of casualties in South Korea and the region, including Americans. Nonetheless, Trump continued his threats on Friday saying the U.S. was “locked and loaded,” although the military had taken no additional action.
But the president was not done issuing threats. Following a meeting with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and UN Ambassador Nikki Hailey the president directed remarks at Venezuela, which has been in a state of crisis under its president, Nicolas Maduro. “You know, we are all over the world and we have troops all over the world in places that are very, very far away,” he said. “Venezuela is not very far away and the people are suffering, and they are dying.  We have many options for Venezuela, including a possible military option if necessary.”
Suddenly the man who had campaigned vigorously against senseless wars was warmongering. American diplomats scrambled to ease growing tensions in both Asia and South America. Meanwhile, Chinese President Xi Jinping warned Trump by phone on Saturday to “avoid remarks and actions that escalate tensions on the Korean peninsula.” And Peru’s foreign minister, Ricardo Luna, who has been a vocal critic of the Venezuelan government, issued a statement, saying in part,  “All foreign and domestic threats to resort to force undermine the goal of reinstating democratic governance in Venezuela, as well as the principles enshrined in the UN charter.”
As tensions escalated with North Korea and Venezuela, violence broke out in Charlottesville, Virginia, led by hundreds of white nationalists protesting the removal of a statue of Robert E. Lee, a Confederate army general.  The Virginia governor declared at state of emergency.  The former imperial wizard of the Ku Klux Klan, David Duke, was among the protestors.  “We are going to fulfill the promises of Donald Trump,” Duke told reporters Saturday, to “take our country back.” President Trump, who failed to denounce David Duke and the KKK during his campaign, tweeted a response on Saturday that failed to specifically mention the KKK. “We ALL must be united & condemn all that hate stands for. There is no place for this kind of violence in America!  Let’s all come together as one!”
As events around the world continue to spin out of control, the man who bragged “I alone can fix it” has once again revealed himself to the world as unqualified to be president.  Trump told Reuters reporters last April, “I thought it would be easier.” Unfortunately, the longer Trump is president the tougher it gets for everyone else.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
It is fascinating to watch some U.S. senators tripping over themselves as they attempt to defend their support for or opposition to proposed legislation that would make it a federal crime to support the international campaign to Boycott, Divest, or Sanction (BDS) Israel for its continued occupation of Palestinian lands. What ties these officials up in knots are their efforts to square the circle of their “love of Israel,” their opposition to BDS, their support for a “two-state solution,” and their commitment to free speech.   
The bill in question, S720, was introduced on March 23, 2017 by Senator Ben Cardin (D-MD). S720 opposes calls by the United Nations to boycott or “blacklist” companies that support Israeli activities in the territories occupied in the 1967 war. The bill further prohibits any US person from supporting this UN call to boycott and establishes stiff fines and/or imprisonment for Americans who violate this prohibition. 
There are a number of problems with the legislation. In the first place, supporters of S720 grossly mischaracterize the intent of the UN approach as “anti-Israel.” In fact, as S720, itself, acknowledges, the UN Human Rights Council specifically targets only businesses that engage in activities in “territories occupied [by Israel] since 1967.” The UN target is not Israel, but Israeli actions that serve to consolidate its hold over the occupied territories. 
Then there is the concern that by making illegal either the act of boycotting Israel, or advocating for such a boycott, S720 is criminalizing free speech and stifling legitimate peaceful protest.
Finally, the legislation continues to build on earlier Congressional legislation using slight of hand language in an attempt to erase the distinction in U.S. law between Israel and illegal Israeli settlements in occupied territories. While earlier legislation accomplished this by referring to “Israel and areas under Israel’s control,” S720 notes that its boycott prohibition applies to “commercial relations...with citizens or residents of Israel, entities organized under the laws of Israel, or the Government of Israel.”
Since S720 quickly gained 48 co-sponsors (35 Republicans and 13 Democrats) and has been supported by AIPAC and the Anti-Defamation League, one might have expected it to sail effortlessly through the Congress and be put on the President’s desk for his signature. That, however, has not been the case due to the efforts of many, including the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and other progressive organizations led by MoveOn. 
While the ACLU has based its opposition on the concern that the legislation violates the free speech rights of American citizens, MoveOn has taken a more expansive approach addressing both the concern with free speech and the fact that S720 “erases the distinction in US law between Israel and Israeli settlements.”
Given the capacity of both organizations to influence and organize liberal opinion, some Democratic senators have felt compelled to either justify their support for the bill or to distance themselves from it. In too many instances, these efforts have been awkward.  
Two sponsors, Senators Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Ron Wyden (D-OR) have gone to great, but unconvincing, lengths to explain that S720 does not violate an individual’s right to free speech. They argue that the bill is only directed at businesses or individuals who boycott Israel in response to international entities (like the UN or the European Union). But what they cannot explain is how punishing an American citizen who advocates for a UN boycott would not violate that citizen’s right to free speech.  
Cardin, Wyden, and other Democrats who support S720 also go to great lengths to pledge their support for a “two-state solution.” But their pledges are hollow since they fail to acknowledge that the provision of S720 that protects Israel’s settlement enterprise (“entities organized under the laws of Israel”) makes realization of a “two-state solution” impossible — given the location, size, and continued expansion of these illegal settlements.  
Even those who have come out against S720 have had some difficulty explaining themselves. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand‪​ (D-NY), for example, was one of the bill’s early endorsers. She courageously removed her name as a sponsor after learning of the free speech concerns of constitutional lawyers, saying “…I cannot support the bill in its current form if it can be interpreted as stifling or chilling free speech... So I took my name off the bill.”
Gillibrand, nevertheless, felt the need to balance her free speech concern with her support for Israel and her opposition to BDS adding ‪​“I cannot state this more clearly: I vehemently oppose the BDS movement.”
It’s this last point that requires closer examination. While Israel and its supporters make a brave show of shrugging off the threat of BDS, they clearly feel threatened — otherwise why the hyper-activity to punish BDS. S720 isn’t the first such effort in the Congress and nearly one-half of the 50 states have been pressed to pass their own versions of anti-BDS resolutions. 
In order to build support for their effort, advocates for Israel have tried to portray BDS in the harshest of terms. They have made Israel the victim and while portraying advocates of BDS as “virulently anti-Semetic” aggressors. All of this has been done to obfuscate the reality that BDS is nothing more than a “strategic Palestinian-led form of nonviolent resistance to the occupation and denial of human rights.”
After 50 years of occupation, Palestinians have taken it upon themselves to challenge the world community to act. They have had enough of seeing their homes demolished and lands confiscated to make way for Jewish-only roads and settlement colonies in their midst. They want an end to the daily humiliation of being a captive people denied basic freedoms and justice. Instead of submitting to the occupier, they have decided to boycott and have urged those who support their human rights to join them in their call for an end to the occupation. Their action is as legitimate as was the call of African Americans in the Deep South in the ’50s, and that of Nelson Mandela in South Africa in the ’80s.
For the Senate to oppose or to punish those who support this Palestinian call to individuals, businesses, and governments to boycott, divest, or sanction Israel for its oppressive occupation would put the Senate in the position of saying that: they support Israeli practices; they don’t want Palestinians to use non-violent means to protest their treatment; and/or they simply don’t believe that Palestinians are equal humans who deserve to have their rights protected.
And so the messages we should send to senators are clear. To those who support S720: “Shame on you.” To those who oppose S720: “Thank you for your opposition, but think again about whether the problem is BDS or the occupation that gave birth to it.”  And to all senators: “Stop hiding behind your hollow profession of support for ‘two states.’ If you are serious about peace, justice, and equality, stop enabling the occupation that makes the realization of those goals impossible.”
Follow @jjz1600 for more.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Mr. Trump, congratulations! You won the grand prize. How cleverly you convinced your base that their troubles would be over when you became president. You told them what they wanted to hear, and they listened and loved you for soothing their pain. Now, the campaign is over and, you are stuck with the job.
Mr. Trump, it’s clear that you don’t want to clutter your mind with the stuff of governing. Winning was the fun part, and now you have to deal with a pesky Russian investigation, that blowhard Kim Jong Un, and the silly concept of climate change all those scientists keep harping on. What trivia you’re being bothered with while you try to make America great again.
Mr. Trump, it’s time to go. You can get rid of all those annoying issues before they get nastier and more complicated. I am sure you can tweet a good reason to resign so your fans will still love you. Perhaps you can develop a stress-related condition or a family matter that requires the expert and devoted attention that only you can provide?
Mr. Trump, think about it. You can spend even more time playing golf at your resorts. You can hire cheap immigrant labor and get the best import prices without the media picking on you. You can go beyond Facebook and develop the Trump Television Network to keep in touch with your dedicated base and fire anybody you want to without being accused of “obstructing justice.” And now that your big-league language can be held responsible for a death in Charlottesville, everyone will understand and respect your decision to resign. After all, we all knew this day would come.
It really is time to go, Mr. Trump, so consider this my Dear Don letter to you. Please get on your golf cart and head east toward the sunset over Trump Tower. Everyone knows it’s “fake news” that the sun sets in the west, so just keep going. We will all wave goodbye behind you as we watch you go.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
A white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, devolved into chaos when racist demonstrators clashed with left-leaning counter-protesters.
African-American leaders were quick to condemn the racist event.
Derrick Johnson, interim president of the NAACP, accused President Donald Trump of emboldening bigots.
When Trump gives permission for hate to thrive, this is what happens. Sick. #Charlottesville@NAACP
In era of Trump, bigots have found refuge. We see the faces of #hate. #Charlottesville @NAACP
Roland Martin, host of TVOne’s “NewsOne Now,” expressed a similar sentiment.
This is because @realDonaldTrump doesn't care about whites committing domestic terrorism https://t.co/0q8OWYkSAK
Bree Newsome, the activist who removed the Confederate flag from South Carolina’s Capitol building, blamed the Republican party as a whole.
When GOP tries to distance itself from events happening in #Charlottesville today, a reminder: https://t.co/KdYEv5b8Ze
DeRay McKesson, an activist affiliated with the Black Lives Matter movement and police accountability advocate, remarked on how police appeared to exercise caution with the white demonstrators despite their violent behavior.
watch whiteness work. https://t.co/hCz5DgQ0YO
Ben Jealous, a former NAACP president running for governor of Maryland, suggested that bigotry would fail “if we stick to our values.”
In the face of hatred and ignorance, we stick to our values. The arc of history does not bend towards justice on its own. We push it there. https://t.co/Gea6XYrTUS
Justin Fairfax, a candidate for Virginia lieutenant governor who would be Virginia’s highest-ranking black official if he wins, also emphasized rising above “hate mongers.”
“We cannot allow hate mongers to divide us and make us forget our core beliefs of fairness and inclusion in the Commonwealth of Virginia,” Fairfax said in a statement. “The citizens of the city of Charlottesville need our assistance at this time as hate groups continue to use the city to demonstrate their hate.”
“This moment is also a reminder of the need to tone down political rhetoric and the negativity we often see in our current politics,” he added. “We must be deliberate and transcend politics to stand united against those who want to divide communities.” 
Earlier in the day, Trump elicited criticism for failing to condemn the rally. He has since condemned it on Twitter.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON ― Republican infighting exploded into a full-blown brawl this week as party officials bickered over their stalled agenda six months after they seized complete control of the federal government. 
Sniping over the pesky predicament, congressional Republicans have yet to pass a single major legislative achievement, prompting speculation things will worsen after they return from recess next month. The issue came to a head Thursday after President Donald Trump publicly rebuked Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) over his failure to repeal the Affordable Care Act. 
“They lost by one vote,” the president said on Thursday, referring to last month’s failed Senate effort to repeal Obamacare. “For a thing like that to happen is a disgrace.”
When asked by reporters whether McConnell should step aside from his leadership post, Trump suggested the Kentucky lawmaker should do so if he doesn’t deliver on top administration items such as tax reform, Obamacare repeal, and an overhaul of the nation’s crumbling infrastructure.
“If he doesn’t get that done, then you should ask me that question,” he said at his Bedminster, New Jersey, golf club, where he is vacationing for the month. 
The reproach, as well as several earlier tweets Trump posted that called on the Kentucky lawmaker to “get back to work” to repeal Obamacare, came in response to McConnell’s surprising criticism of the administration earlier this week.
The soft-spoken majority leader, who usually shies away from directly challenging Trump, charged that the president and his top aides had been overly optimistic about the ease with which Congress could enact major legislation. 
“Part of the reason I think that the storyline is that [lawmakers] haven’t done much is because, in part, the president and others have set these early timelines about things need to be done by a certain point,” he said during Monday remarks to a Rotary Club in Kentucky. 
Rarely, if ever, do Americans get such a display of discord between top leaders of the same party. Intraparty squabbles are usually kept strictly behind closed doors to project unity and maintain message discipline. (A memorable example otherwise came from Washington Post journalist Bob Woodward, who wrote in 2012 that House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) once muted former President Barack Obama during a conference call, an account that she later denied.)  
But while Trump’s feud with McConnell and what it means for the feasibility of tax reform drew headlines in Washington, it was but one of the several public skirmishes that have exposed Republican divides this week.
In Arizona, hedge fund billionaire and top Trump donor Robert Mercer put the president’s critics on notice on Wednesday after he contributed $300,000 to a super PAC supporting former Arizona state Sen. Kelli Ward, who is mounting a primary challenge to Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) next year.
Flake is viewed as one of the most vulnerable GOP senators up for reelection next year, so Mercer’s contribution to his opponent appears significant. The move comes after the Arizona senator publicly criticized Republican officials as he promoted his new book, Conscience of a Conservative, where he accused the GOP of violating their principles in supporting Trump. 
“That unnerving silence in the face of an erratic executive branch is an abdication, and those in positions of leadership bear particular responsibility,” Flake wrote, urging his colleagues to speak out when they disagree with the president.
Also on Wednesday, Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) expressed his frustration over the failed Senate health care repeal vote by implying in a radio interview that Sen. John McCain’s (R-Ariz.) brain tumor may have had some kind of influence on his decision to oppose a bill that would have repealed Obamacare. Johnson issued an apology several hours later. 
“You know, he has a brain tumor right now ― that vote occurred at 1:30 in the morning ― some of that might have factored in,” he said, before his retraction.
Failure to deliver on their 7-year-old promise to repeal Obamacare isn’t just causing consternation among top GOP lawmakers, however. Republican candidates up and down the ticket are also blaming each other over health care. 
Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.), for example, drew a primary challenge this week from businessman Danny Tarkanian, who criticized the Nevada lawmaker’s shifting stance on Obamacare repeal and accused him of “obstructing” the president’s agenda.
In Alabama, an ad released this week by GOP Senate candidate Roy Moore criticized McConnell over the health care repeal vote, charging that the majority leader lied to his constituents about his intention to repeal. 
Republican National Committee spokesman Michael Ahrens, however, was eager to point out signs of discord among Democrats, who carry their own bag of problems. Major challenges in raising money, as well as a bitter dust-up among California Democrats in recent weeks, Ahrens said Thursday, “are emblematic of the lack of unity, enthusiasm, and leadership plaguing today’s Democrat [sic] Party.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
HONOLULU ― Months before President Donald Trump threatened North Korea with “fire and fury,” before North Korea claimed to be planning a mid-August attack on Guam and well before Trump tweeted that the U.S. military was “locked and loaded” to strike, officials in Hawaii began organizing guidelines for civilians in case of a nuclear attack on the islands.
The Hawaii Emergency Management Agency has been preparing for possible threats from North Korea since January while trying to avoid causing undue anxiety among residents. But as the state began rolling out its response plan, North Korea successfully test-launched two intercontinental ballistic missiles in July with ranges within reach of Hawaii. Then a very public exchange of threats and one-upmanship began between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
“Of all the worst things that can happen is to stoop to the level of North Korea [with] threats of destruction and nuclear weapons,” Carl Baker, director of programs at the Honolulu-based Pacific Forum Center for Strategic and International Studies, told HuffPost.
Though most experts are certain the risk of a North Korean attack on Hawaii, much less anywhere in the continental U.S., is still very low, Baker said the president’s “rhetoric isn’t doing anybody any good.”  
President Trump vows America will respond to North Korean threats with "fire & fury" in a warning to the rogue nation pic.twitter.com/UaE2rPkZ6f
“Most people are dismissive [of North Korea’s threats] and understand that this isn’t a problem,” said Baker, a retired Air Force officer who served as an intelligence analyst for U.S. Forces Korea. “But when you ratchet up the rhetoric like that and you get the bombast from both sides, it just makes everyone more uncertain.”
Hawaii is one of the first states to begin preparing for a nuclear strike from North Korea. Gov. David Ige requested the attack response plan from the state’s Department of Defense in December after military officials briefed him on North Korea’s potential threats to Hawaii.
“It’s only a matter of time that North Korea will be able to strike Hawaii with any kind of accuracy,” Lt. Col. Charles Anthony, a spokesman for the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency, told HuffPost.
“We want to get ahead of” the threat, Anthony added. “To us, it made much more sense to try to get a public information campaign out there before [North Korea] had a series of successful ICBM tests.”
If a missile were to be launched at the islands, officials say, the state would have approximately 20 minutes to respond. The U.S. Pacific Command in Hawaii would identify the launch within five minutes, giving the islands’ 1.4 million residents a mere 15 minutes to take shelter. 
This scenario is what the Hawaii Emergency Management Agency is preparing residents for with a public information campaign, a revised set of nuclear response guidelines and the restoration of statewide attack warning sirens that had been turned off after the thawing of the Cold War in the late 1980s. Ideally, all this would’ve rolled out without stirring up fears ― a just-in-case plan.
Then things between North Korea and the U.S. escalated in a very public way.
“When we started this process, North Korea was zero for five in terms of ICBM missile tests,” Anthony told HuffPost, referring to the five failed ICBM tests. “About a week after we rolled out the public information campaign [on the state’s nuclear response guidelines], North Korea had successfully tested the second ICBM.”
Anthony said that Trump’s increasingly intense exchanges of threats with North Korea aren’t disturbing the state’s plans to prepare residents and visitors for an attack.
“We’re not concerning ourselves with any rhetoric coming out of North Korea or Washington,” Anthoarny said. “We’ve got our plans, and we’re working on our plans on our particular time table.”
North Korea has made major advancements in the country’s weapon program, which now includes ICBMs and miniaturized warheads that are potentially within range of Hawaii, as well as the mainland’s West Coast and Denver. But most experts believe that there is no real threat to U.S. soil, especially since it remains unclear if Pyongyang has developed the accuracy to deliver a long-range missile to its intended target.
An attack on Hawaii also wouldn’t be a smart move for North Korea ― and they know that, according to Denny Roy, a senior fellow at the East-West Center in Honolulu who focuses on North Korea.
“An actual strike against Hawaii doesn’t make sense because it wouldn’t help North Korea win a war,” Roy told HuffPost. It “would result in immediate and massive U.S. retaliation, probably the complete destruction of Pyongyang, and would seal not only the defeat of North Korea but its erasure as a political entity.”
And leaders in North Korea aren’t suicidal, Roy added.
That's also what makes Guam a strategic target for North Korea's threats.  
However, it appears that Adm. Harry Harris Jr., commander of the U.S. Pacific Command, would disagree.
Harris, who could not be reached for an interview, told Congress in April that Kim is “clearly in a position to threaten Hawaii today” and requested that the government consider installing interceptors on Hawaii, which the state does not yet have, and a defensive radar. 
Asked about the state’s readiness in the event of an attack, a Pacific Command official told HuffPost in a statement, “We always maintain a high state of readiness and have the capabilities to counter any threat, to include those from North Korea.”
The Missile Defense Agency currently has 37 interceptor missiles in Alaska and California that the agency claims would protect Hawaii from a North Korean ICBM. 
As Trump’s threats to North Korea appear to be intensifying with every new statement, officials in Hawaii are calling for a de-escalation. 
The president tweeted Friday that U.S. “military solutions are now fully in placed, locked and loaded, should North Korea act unwisely,” later telling reporters that if Kim “utters one threat ... he’ll regret it.”
In a statement sent to HuffPost, Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) called for “steady American leadership” in order to de-escalate the tensions between the U.S. and North Korea.
“Bluster and saber-rattling will only exacerbate an already difficult situation,” Hirono said.
Sen. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) criticized Trump’s exchanges with North Korea in a series of tweets this week, calling the president’s statements “unwise in tone, substance,” and urging Americans to listen to the Pacific Command and U.S. Forces Korea commanders instead. 
Responding to reports that Trump improvised his North Korea remarks, Schatz said, “Am I supposed to be reassured?”
NOKO cannot hit any part of the United  States with nuclear ICBM but their progress is alarming and require a multi-pronged response.
We need vigorous diplomacy and to beef up missile defense.  POTUS statement unwise in tone, substance. No gain from using such language.
We are fortunate to have a Pacomm Commander and US Forces Korea Commander with lots of wisdom and experience. We should listen to them.
Amid all this war talk, some in Hawaii want to remind the president who he is endangering when threatening North Korea with nuclear war. 
“Trump’s rhetoric puts Hawaii and even more Guam ... on the front line,” DeSoto Brown, Honolulu Bishop Museum historian, told HuffPost, likening the situation to Hawaii’s positioning during World War II. 
“The situation is again beyond our capacity to control it,” DeSoto said of a possible nuclear threat.
“It’s just as it was in 1941 because of our geographic location and because of ... the country we are a part of,” he added, referring to the attack on Pearl Harbor. “There’s nothing we can really do about it except either ignore it or try to think seriously about what would we do.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
As President Donald Trump is on a “working vacation” at his private golf resort in Bedminster, New Jersey, the White House is undergoing a massive $3.4 million renovation project. 
The improvements to the White House include a new air conditioning and heating system, replacing the current 27-year-old system that’s kept past presidents cool and comfortable in the summer heat. 
Photos also show the South Portico steps getting a much-needed overhaul, with workers replacing carpet as well.  
Take a look at more photos from the White House renovation project below.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
 
“When you are accustomed to privilege, equality feels like oppression.”
I have tried to find an attribution for this quote, but I can’t find one. I feel like whoever said it was trying to tell us something about the world we are living in today.
As I watched white supremacists gather in Charlottesville, Virginia this weekend to chant things like “blood and soil” (a phrase popular among Nazis) and “you will not replace us,” I became angry. I became angry because I have done all that I can to see the shades of grey that exist in our current political landscape. I actually have friends who get frustrated with me, because I have tried over the last year to understand the mindset of those who voted for President Trump. As a teacher, I believe it is important to see the many sides of any particular issue, and I believe that it is important for teachers to ask students to suspend judgment while they collect evidence before making determinations.
When President Trump stated that the unrest and violence in Charlottesville could be blamed on “many sides,” I got angry.
While it is certainly true that there is more than one side to issues of equality in our country, it is important to say this: not all sides are right. The white supremacists who came to Charlottesville this weekend are wrong. Real conversations about race, equality, and social justice require honest, complex, and challenging dialogue among thoughtful people. The racists who marched through the streets of Charlottesville have no interest in that conversation; the problem is that they have become empowered to believe that their hateful rhetoric belongs in the conversation. They believe that the current political climate is an opportunity to bring hate, racism and intolerance into our national conversation about what it is to be an American. They are wrong, and we need to say so. Not only do we need to say so, but our leaders need to say so. I was pleased to see so many of our leaders call out the racism that was on display this weekend, but those who tried to spin a narrative that “many sides” were to blame should be ashamed of themselves.
I spent two days last week in a building with 2,000 educators talking about how we can make our schools better. Specifically, we were discussing how we create a culture in our schools in which ALL students believe they can succeed. We talk a lot about “achievement gaps” in our schools. There is no doubt these gaps are real, but the discussion becomes more challenging when we talk about the “attitude gaps” and the “opportunity gaps” that exist in our schools. As a group of white supremacists are marching around Virginia trying to convince us that they are being oppressed, we know there are real gaps in opportunities among students in our schools. It is going to take teachers, school leaders, political leaders and communities to address the fact that all of our students don’t find the same opportunities to succeed in our schools. But if we allow ourselves to engage in the hateful rhetoric of those who are spewing Nazi propaganda as a way to further divide us, then all is lost.
During my two days discussing the culture of our schools last week, there were a lot of great conversations, but maybe equally important was what wasn’t discussed. There wasn’t a discussion of how we can profit off of public education, there wasn’t a discussion of cracking down on affirmative action as a way to make our colleges and universities better, there wasn’t a discussion of how a reduction in after school programs would make our schools better, there wasn’t a discussion of how a reduction in arts funding would make our schools better, and there certainly wasn’t a discussion of how creating equitable learning conditions for ALL students comes at the expense of the white supremacists who were marching this weekend.
As schools across the country start up this month, teachers are going to open their doors and arms to ALL students. Teachers are going to work hard to close the opportunity gaps that exist in our system. It isn’t easy, because our students don’t all come to us looking like the kids you see in those back-to-school ads, and that’s the way we like it. We got into teaching not because it is easy work, but because we know there are kids in all of our schools who need us to give them hope. It is hard to convince a young kid to be hopeful in a world where white supremacists are recognized as just “another side” of our national debate about equality. Some of that hope will come from saying out loud that those people marching through the streets of Charlottesville are wrong. Hope will come to our students if they hear the message from Nelson Mandela that President Obama shared on Saturday:
No one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin, or his background, or his religion. People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love, for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
The U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Virginia has opened up a federal investigation into the violence that broke out at the white supremacy rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions said that state U.S. Attorney Rick Mountcastle launched the federal investigation, with the full support of the Justice Department.
“The violence and deaths in Charlottesville strike at the heart of American law and justice,” Sessions said Saturday in a statement sent to HuffPost. “When such actions arise from racial bigotry and hatred, they betray our core values and cannot be tolerated.”
Three people, including two state troopers and one counter-protester, died Saturday as the scene in Charlottesville grew increasingly violent.
The FBI’s regional Richmond office, along with the state attorney’s office, has also opened a civil rights investigation into the fatal car crash that killed one woman during the rally.
The investigation will look “into the circumstances of the deadly vehicular incident that occurred earlier Saturday morning,” the FBI and state attorney’s office said in a joint statement. “The FBI will collect all available facts and evidence, and as this is an ongoing investigation we are not able to comment further at this time.”
Events reached a boiling point early in the day when a car plowed into a group of counter-protesters, killing a 32-year-old woman and injuring 19 people.
Thousands of white supremacists, armed militia groups and Ku Klux Klan members attended Saturday’s so-called “Unite the Right” event with bats, chemical sprays and banners, including Confederate and swastika flags. Supporters of the white supremacy event clashed with anti-racist counter-protesters and fringe groups from the far left.
James Fields, 20, of Maumee, Ohio, was arrested after the car crash and charged with second-degree murder, three counts of malicious wounding and one count of failing to stop at an accident resulting in a death.
Fields’ mother, Samantha Bloom, told reporters on Saturday that she knew her son was going to an “alt-right” rally, but that she didn’t realize it was an event in support of white supremacy.
“I thought it had to do with [President Donald] Trump,” Bloom told The Associated Press. “Trump’s not a white supremacist.”
A state police helicopter responding to the riot on Saturday crashed seven miles from downtown Charlottesville, killing Lt. H. Jay Cullen, 48, and Trooper-Pilot Berke M.M. Bates, 40.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
(And want to get The Morning Email each weekday? Sign up here.)
THE INEVITABILITY OF WHAT HAPPENED IN CHARLOTTESVILLE Here’s what prompted white supremacist demonstrators to rally and attack counter-protesters in Virginia over the weekend. The mother of Heather Heyer, who was killed in Charlottesville on Saturday after a car allegedly driven by James Fields plowed into a crowd of protesters, spoke about her daughter’s strong sense of right and wrong. The White House moved to clarify President Donald Trump’s statements on the unrest, which came under fire for his lack of condemnation of white supremacy. And according to CNN commentator Van Jones, the U.S. needs to pay attention to the fact that “an American citizen was assassinated in broad daylight by a Nazi.” [HuffPost] [Tweet | Share on Facebook]
#FIREBANNON TRENDS In light of the White House advisor’s ties to the white nationalist movement. [HuffPost]
HOW UKRAINE MAY BE TIED TO NORTH KOREA’S NUCLEAR PROGRAM “North Korea’s success in testing an intercontinental ballistic missile that appears able to reach the United States was made possible by black-market purchases of powerful rocket engines probably from a Ukrainian factory with historical ties to Russia’s missile program, according to an expert analysis being published Monday and classified assessments by American intelligence agencies.” [NYT]
TRUMP DROPPED HIS FIRST REELECTION AD OVER THE WEEKEND Which labeled journalists as “the enemies.” [HuffPost]
18 DEAD IN SUSPECTED TERRORIST ATTACK IN BURKINA FASO And eight more injured after suspected jihadists attacked a restaurant in the nation’s capital. [Reuters]
HOW THE CONCUSSION CRISIS IS COMING FOR HIGH SCHOOL AND COLLEGE PLAYERS “How do you go from an incredibly intelligent, personable, kind, loving, funny ― all around just a great guy ― to so much mental anguish and pain you hang yourself in the garage?” [HuffPost]
SHONDALAND’S HEADING TO NETFLIX TV legend Shonda Rhimes just signed a multi-year deal with Netflix after years of making TGIT must-see TV for ABC. [HuffPost]
THE MOST MEMED MOMENT IN ‘GAME OF THRONES’ HISTORY HAS RETURNED Here’s a recap of which characters have Valerian steel, a look at the fan favorite who stopped rowing, and why Arya cared about that note from Sansa. [HuffPost]
THE NYC METRO TRANSIT AUTHORITY IS BEING SUED For allegedly storing the dead bodies of train accident victims inside worker break rooms. [Jalopnik]
‘CURB YOUR ENTHUSIASM’ EPISODES HAVE BEEN LEAKED AS PART OF THE HBO HACK As well as episodes of “Insecure.” [Variety]
KESHA’S ALBUM ISN’T JUST INSPIRATIONAL It’s good. [HuffPost]
WHY BONNIE AND CLYDE ARE HOLLYWOOD LEGENDS 50 years on. [HuffPost]
Airbnb is reportedly kicking white supremacists off its platform while GoDaddy is no longer hosting a Neo-Nazi website.
Take a look at the number of solidarity rallies held in response to the events in Virginia.
The two state troopers killed in a helicopter crash while monitoring Charlottesville were “well-known to Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe.”
Meet an incarcerated mom fighting to breastfeed her child.
The Asian American actress who stars in the touring musical production of Disney’s “The Little Mermaid” is speaking out about the racism she faces for playing Ariel.
This 1943 government film on fascism went viral over the weekend.
How a journalist disappeared aboard a submarine.
An investigation into the poor spelling habits of the Trump administration.
Yes, this “Game of Thrones” battle might be cooler with lightsabers.
All the summer corn recipes to enjoy before it’s fall.
Why Taylor Swift’s testimony matters.
Kristen Bell gets real about the Chris Pratt and Anna Faris split.
Feeling antsy about being back in the office Monday? Watch this video of a guy destroying a bunch of wood with double axes and feel better about it all.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Former President Barack Obama tweeted a quote from former South African President Nelson Mandela Saturday in an apparent response to the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia.
"No one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin or his background or his religion..." pic.twitter.com/InZ58zkoAm
"People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love..."
"...For love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite." - Nelson Mandela
“No one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin or his background or his religion. People must learn to hate, and if they can learn to hate, they can be taught to love. For love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite,” Obama tweeted.
The quote is from Mandela’s autobiography, Long Walk to Freedom. Obama’s series of tweets also featured a photo of him greeting children at a day care facility in Bethesda, Maryland, in 2011.
President Donald Trump mentioned Obama in his response to the Charlottesville protests, during which white supremacists and other fringe groups clashed with counter-protesters.
“We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides ― on many sides,” Trump said Saturday. “It’s been going on for a long time in our country, not Donald Trump, not Barack Obama. It’s been going on for a long, long time.”
At least three people died in the Charlottesville area Saturday. A 32-year-old woman was killed after a car plowed into a group of anti-racist protesters. Two more people were killed in a helicopter crash near Charlottesville. The Associated Press has reported that the crash was linked in some way to the violence in Charlottesville, but the details were not immediately clear.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
President Donald Trump had a chance to explicitly denounce white supremacy and racism on Saturday after violence broke out at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, leaving three dead ― one 32-year-old woman, who was struck by a car, and two state troopers, whose helicopter crashed outside the city while they were responding to the situation ― and at least 35 others injured.
But instead of specifically criticizing members of the Ku Klux Klan, the white supremacists or the neo-Nazis who brought torches and bats to the rally, Trump blamed the unrest on “many sides.”
In fact, Trump commented on the fighting in Charlottesville several times on Saturday ― on Twitter and in front of the press ― but none of his remarks named the violence for what it was: a fight over white supremacy.
So people did it for him.
"White supremacists are bad & wrong."There. Just copy & paste this, @POTUS. That's all we need from you right.
Just say the words: "Radical White Supremacist Terrorism"
Say "Nazis" Donny. Say "white supremacy." Say and condemn those things. https://t.co/J6e6mLOY4V
Celebrities, citizens and politicians from both sides of the aisle slammed Trump for failing to condemn the obvious and dropping the ball on moral leadership.
Mr. President - we must call evil by its name. These were white supremacists and this was domestic terrorism. https://t.co/PaPNiPPAoW
No, Mr. President. This is a provocative effort by Neo-Nazis to foment racism and hatred and create violence. Call it out for what it is. https://t.co/WibPqkLsLa
Did Trump really say that he condemns the violence on "many sides"? The white folks with tiki torches brought the violence, own it.
Trump's week✓Threatened nuclear war.✓Threatened Venezuela.✓Thanked Putin for expelling US diplomats.✓"Many sides" after neo-Nazi murder.
Trump can't even say neo-Nazis are bad without both-sidesing it and he can't even do THAT without bragging about himself
Presidents aren't all-powerful. They can't end racism. But their words can help or hurt. Today, Trump's words hurt: https://t.co/4DD4fv1c0j
Repeat after me, @realDonaldTrump: white supremacy is an affront to American values. #Charlottesville
What a profound moral failure on the part of the President of the United States.
While Trump failed to publicly decry violent racists on Saturday, other conservative political figures said exactly what the president would not.
The white supremacists and their bigotry do not represent our great country. All Americans should condemn this vile hatred. #Charlottesville
"White supremacy" crap is worst kind of racism-it's EVIL and perversion of God's truth to ever think our Creator values some above others.
Nothing patriotic about #Nazis,the #KKK or #WhiteSupremacists It's the direct opposite of what #America seeks to be. #Charlotesville
The views fueling the spectacle in Charlottesville are repugnant. Let it only serve to unite Americans against this kind of vile bigotry.
I urge the Department of Justice to immediately investigate and prosecute this grotesque act of domestic terrorism. pic.twitter.com/AwJLsfUEHl
Even former White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci argued that the president’s remarks were ill-advised, telling ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday that Trump should have been “much harsher as it relates to the white supremacists.”
By Sunday, Trump aides and White House officials — while defending the president — attempted to make clear that his remarks were, at least in part, meant to denounce the extremist groups that precipitated Saturday’s violence.
“When he condemned bigotry on all sides, that includes white supremacists and neo-Nazis,” national security adviser H.R. McMaster said on NBC’s “Meet The Press.” “I think it’s clear, and I know it’s clear, in his mind, and ought to be clear to all Americans.”
The White House later released an official statement indicating the same sentiment.
“The President said very strongly in his statement yesterday that he condemns all forms of violence, bigotry, and hatred. Of course that includes white supremacists, KKK Neo-Nazi and all extremist groups. He called for national unity and bringing all Americans together,” the full statement read.
Yet, it was attributed to an unnamed spokesperson and still did not come from Trump himself.
This article has been updated with comments from Trump aides and White House officials.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
As violence escalated at a white supremacy rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton called on leaders to speak out, take action and prove that “this is not who we are as Americans.”
White supremacists and armed militia faced off with counter-protesters on Saturday, attacking each other with flagpoles, bats and chemical sprays at the so-called “Unite the Right” rally.
Clinton said in a series of tweets that “incitement of hatred” was to blame for the chaos ― which turned deadly when a car plowed into a crowd of anti-racist protesters, killing a woman and injuring 19 people. 
“The incitement of hatred that got us here is as real and condemnable as the white supremacists in our streets,” Clinton wrote. 
“Every minute we allow this to persist through tacit encouragement or inaction is a disgrace, & corrosive to our values,” she added.
My heart is in Charlottesville today, and with everyone made to feel unsafe in their country.
But the incitement of hatred that got us here is as real and condemnable as the white supremacists in our streets.
Every minute we allow this to persist through tacit encouragement or inaction is a disgrace, & corrosive to our values.
Without mentioning anyone specifically, Clinton called on “leaders” in the country to be “strong in their words” and “deliberate in their actions” while responding to Saturday’s rally.
She also challenged people to take a stand against the rally and the hatred that fueled it.
“We will not step backward,” Clinton tweeted. “If this is not who we are as Americans, let’s prove it.”
Now is the time for leaders to be strong in their words & deliberate in their actions.
We will not step backward. If this is not who we are as Americans, let's prove it.
Clinton’s message was notably more pointed than President Donald Trump’s response to the violence, which didn’t acknowledge white supremacy or racism at all. In statements and tweets, Trump condemned hate, bigotry and violence but said that it was coming from “many sides.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Richard Spencer is one of the leading voices of the alt-right movement in the United States. He was scheduled to be one of the main speakers at Saturday’s event in Charlottesville. Spencer forcefully advocates a set of white supremacist views about race and religion that I find personally abhorrent. Nonetheless, back in April I wrote an op-ed in the New York Times defending Spencer’s First Amendment right to speak at Auburn University, drawing an analogy to the right of the American Nazi Party to march in Skokie, Illinois, in 1978.
On August 1, I received an email from Spencer, which led to the following exchange:
Dear Professor Stone,
This is Richard Spencer of Alt-Right fame.
I greatly appreciated your op-ed in the New York Times last April; indeed, I think it will be looked back upon as significant in changing the contemporary free-speech debate.
As you might know, I’m a Chicago alumnus. [Spencer received an M.A. from the University of Chicago in 2003.] I’m eager to return to campus, particularly [because the University has made clear that it] will not be a “safe space,” in the sense of protecting students from dangerous ideas.
In this line, would you be interested in engaging me on campus, or sponsoring an event at which I speak? This could take many forms: a formal debate (probably my least favorite idea), a discussion with you or another professor, or a speech and AMA with the student body.
I look forward to hearing your thoughts.
Best wishes,
Richard Spencer
My response:
Dear Mr. Spencer,
My strong support for the right of students and faculty to invite speakers to campus to address whatever views they think worth discussing does not mean that I personally think that all views are worth discussing. From what I have seen of your views, they do not seem to me at add anything of value to serious and reasoned discourse, which is of course the central goal of a university. Thus, although I would defend the right of others to invite you to speak, I don’t see any reason for me to encourage or to endorse such an event.
Best wishes.
Geof Stone
But what are the views of the alt-right that Spencer advances? Shortly after the election of Donald Trump, John Woodrow Cox wrote an excellent piece in the Washington Post describing those views, after spending some time with Spencer. “For years,” Cox wrote, “Spencer and his followers worked in obscure corners of the Internet to promote pride in white identity and the creation of an ‘ethno-state’ that would banish minorities.” Cox added that “no one is more critical to the alt-right movement than Spencer,” who “envisions a world in which his ideals are embraced by the mainstream” and who “has vowed to keep pushing until that happens.”
At the end of an alt-right dinner which Cox attended shortly after Trump’s election, Spencer closed the proceedings by declaring “‘Let’s party like it’s 1933,’ referencing the year Hitler was appointed Germany’s chancellor and the Nazis embarked on the creation of their own ethno-state. Beneath chandeliers and amid dark, wood-paneled walls, the alt-right erupted in cheers. Spencer, his expression now serious, waited for them to quiet, then spoke once more. ‘Let’s party like it’s 2016!’ he shouted, raising his bare arms and pumping them in the air as the room roared even louder.”
At the very core of the alt-right’s goal is “an all-white country.” Echoing Rev. Martin Luther King, Spencer declared: “I have a dream.” When asked how that dream could be achieved in a nation with more than 100 million blacks, Asians, and Latinos, he replied: “Look, maybe it will be horribly bloody and terrible. That’s a possibility with everything.”
At the end of the event that Cox attended, Spencer “referred to the media as the lügenpresse, a Nazi-era term meaning ‘lying press.’” He then proclaimed that: “We willed Donald Trump into office. We made this dream our reality. For us, it is conquer or die. For us, as Europeans, it is only normal again when we are great again? Hail Trump! Hail our people! Hail victory!”
No, I think I personally won’t invite Spencer to speak on campus. And I hope others will have the good sense to recognize ugly, ignorant, vile, hatred when they see it. But if our students or faculty want to hear what he has to say, I will vehemently defend their right to do so. And then I will make clear to anyone who cares to listen why I disagree with him.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
The mayor of Lexington, Kentucky, announced plans Saturday to relocate his city’s Confederate statues, following violent white supremacist protests in Charlottesville, Virginia.
Jim Gray, a Democrat, tweeted as groups clashed in Virginia:
I am taking action to relocate the Confederate statues. We have thoroughly examined this issue, and heard from many of our citizens.
“The tragic events in Charlottesville today have accelerated the announcement I intended to make next week,” Gray said in a statement. “On Tuesday I will ask the Council to support Lexington’s petition to the Kentucky Military Heritage Commission, a required next step. Details to come.”
The protests in Charlottesville stemmed from an event initially touted as a rally in support of a statue of Gen. Robert E. Lee, which is slated for removal. Another protest against the statue’s removal took place in May of this year. 
Charlotteville’s decision to remove the Lee statue is part of a nationwide effort to remove Confederate monuments from public property.
HuffPost’s Christopher Mathias and Andy Campbell reported in July:
In the two years since white supremacist and Confederate flag admirer Dylann Roof massacred nine black parishioners at a South Carolina church, the movement to remove Confederate symbols from public property has gained renewed purpose and momentum. So far, 60 Confederate symbols have been removed from city- and state-owned land across the U.S., according to the Southern Poverty Law Center. Most recently, the city of New Orleans toppled four statues honoring the Confederacy.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
It’s becoming increasingly difficult for Americans to recall that civilian leaders are supposed to command and control the military, not vice-versa.  Consider an article posted yesterday at Newsweek with the title TRUMP’S GENERALS CAN SAVE THE WORLD FROM WAR—AND STOP THE CRAZY.  The article extols the virtues of “Trump’s generals”: James Mattis as Secretary of Defense, John Kelly as White House Chief of Staff, and H.R. McMaster as National Security Adviser. The article presents them as the adults in the room, the voices of calm and reason, a moderating force on a bombastic and bellicose president.
I’ve written about Trump’s generals already at TomDispatch.com and elsewhere. The latest gushing tribute to America’s generals at Newsweek illustrates a couple of points that bear repeating. First, you don’t hire generals to rein in a civilian leader, or at least you shouldn’t if you care to keep a semblance of democracy in America. Second, lifelong military officers favor military solutions to problems. That’s precisely why you want civilians to control them, and to counterbalance their military advice. Only in a democracy that is already crippled by creeping militarism can the rise of generals to positions of power be celebrated as a positive force for good.
Speaking of creeping militarism in the U.S., I caught another headline the other day that referenced General Kelly’s appointment as Chief of Staff.  This headline came from the “liberal” New York Times: “John Kelly Quickly Moves to Impose Military Discipline on White House.”
Note that headline.  Not that Kelly was to impose discipline, but rather military discipline. What, exactly, is military discipline?  Well, having made my first career in the military, I can describe its features. Obedience. Deference to authority.  Respect for the chain of command.  A climate that sometimes degenerates to “a put up and shut up” mentality. Such a climate may be needed in certain military settings, but do we want it to rule the White House?
Here is what I wrote back in December about Trump and “his” generals:
Of course, now the threat of nuclear war looms with North Korea.  For a moderating influence, America places its faith in military generals controlling the civilian commander in chief, and that’s something to draw comfort from, at least according to Newsweek.
When military control of the civilian is celebrated, you know it’s truly opposite day in America.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Once again a U.S. citizen has been killed in a terrorist attack on American soil. Like the perpetrators of the recent London Bridge attack and the 2016 incident in Columbus Ohio, a man conducted a spontaneous attack based on an extremist ideology. He even copied the tactic of his predecessors, using his car to run down innocent pedestrians. This time, however, the killer was not an Islamist extremist, an immigrant, or even the children of immigrants. He was a White, Christian American with ties to a racist movement.
The investigation is ongoing, but a disturbing picture of James Alex Fields, Jr. is already emerging. The 20-year-old Ohio man (originally from Kentucky) accused of deliberately driving his car into a crowd, killing one person and wounding 19 others, traveled to Charlottesville, Virginia to participate in a “Unite the Right” rally convened to protest the planned removal of the statue of Confederate General Robert E. Lee from a local park. He was photographed at the rally holding a shield provided by Vanguard America, a white supremacist organization. The group released a statement insisting Fields was not a member but admitting handing out the shields to people who wanted them.
Like Dylan Roof, the perpetrator of the Charleston church massacre and Jeremy Christian, the man charged with murdering two people on a Portland train, Fields fits the profile of the lone wolf. He is also part of a pattern of right-wing terrorism that has plagued the United States in recent years. Lone wolves are difficult to combat. They often espouse the ideology of extremist groups to which they do not officially belong. Because they act alone, often spontaneously, lone wolves are hard to identify until they strike.
Disavowing Fields does not, however, relieve groups like Vanguard America of responsibility for the mayhem they inspire. Hate groups in the United States exploit the first amendment, walking a fine line between inspiring violence and openly inciting it. They spew their racist rhetoric knowing full well that some people will act upon it. Vanguard’s manifesto advocates a nation of “blood and soil” (i.e. a country dominated by Caucasians) and condemns multiculturalism. It then proclaims disingenuously that the group does not advocate lawlessness. Whatever their avowed intent, neo-Nazi, sovereign citizen, white supremacist and other hate groups create the ideological environment that motivates lone wolves to kill.
Countering the violence of extremists begins with challenging their belief system. First and foremost we must deny them any legitimacy. That means replacing the euphemism “white nationalist” with more accurate terms like “racist” or “bigot.” Our leaders need to condemn the perpetrators unequivocally and by name. Perhaps it is also time to have a serious discussion about free speech. Where does the boundary between the right of a group to say whatever it pleases and the rights of ordinary citizens to live secure in body and mind truly lie? “Freedom from fear” is a fundamental human right.
Each of us can help counter the extremists message with one small gesture. It would be a glorious thing if this Labor Day weekend we flew our flags over the “hate has no home here” signs that have been popping up on lawns all over America.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
In the past few days, thousands of “alt-right” members and white supremacists have taken over Charlottesville, Virginia, for a “Unite The Right” rally. The rally has also attracted plenty of counter-protesters, namely Antifa ― a fringe left radical group that stands for “Anti-fascism.”
Violence and chaos has since ensued on both sides. The governor declared a state of emergency early Saturday morning. 
Charlottesville has become a city under siege. 
In looking at photographs and video of the happenings in Virginia, you would think you’ve gone back in time to the Civil Rights era. They are clear indications that racism, anti-Semitism, sexism ― pure, unfiltered hatred ― is still thriving in America in 2017. 
If you’re thinking, “It’s not that bad,” then you’re not paying attention. Let the photos speak for themselves. This is the world we live in and we must do better:
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
 
It was hilarious and telling to see No. 45 Trump tweet that he condemns “all that hate stands for” following the racial-fomented violence by white nationalists in Charlottesville, Virginia.
We ALL must be united & condemn all that hate stands for. There is no place for this kind of violence in America. Lets come together as one!
The hilarity is that one would have to reach back to presidential candidate George Wallace in 1964, and maybe toss in GOP presidential candidate Barry Goldwater, to find someone who aspired to sit in the Oval Office who so blatantly, nakedly and shamefully pandered to racial bigots to snatch the office as Trump did. His broadsides against Hispanics, Muslims, immigrants, blacks and women are almost the stuff of political legend. They need not be repeated here.
Now, here’s what’s telling about his supposed condemnation of hate. He carefully and calculatingly did not utter the words “white” and “nationalists” or “alt-right” in his phony denunciation. He did not call out and lambaste any one organization or leader that precipitated the racial violence in Virginia ― and that included the KKK, which brazenly said it would be there. He was certainly not tongue tied when it came to pillorying Black Lives Matter for their alleged racism and egging on violence against police. Even more telling, he lumped the counter protesters against the white nationalists in the same hate mongering boat together.
Trump deftly sent yet another clear signal that when it comes to stoking racial hate and fomenting racial violence, there’s no difference between a white nationalist true believer and those who stand against what they stand for. Then again, Trump is just following a well-worn template that the GOP has used for ages when it comes to a racist crack, dig, slur, or in this case a racist ― and very violent ― march by white racists.
The ploy goes like this: Issue a pious, indignant statement denouncing the racist quip or act while at the same time being careful not to make any connection between the racist actions and the GOP. During the campaign, for instance, Trump refused at first to reject former Klan Kleagle David Duke’s endorsement, nor any other support from the Klan. But he then proceeded to stare down a supporter wearing a Klan-lettered t-shirt at a campaign rally. Trump was simply following the “shame on you for being an open racist but not the racism” script.
Trump learned from the GOP masters on this score. In 2010, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell flatly refused several direct, angled and nuanced efforts to discuss racism in the tea party. McConnell’s none-too-subtle refusal to weigh in on the issue was in direct response to the NAACP’s resolution demanding that the tea party speak out ― and speak out loudly ― against the racists among them. Long before the NAACP stirred debate on tea party racism with its resolution, a legion of Democrats, civil rights leaders, and even an online petition from an advocacy group, had begged the GOP to speak out against its naked bigots.
No go. The GOP would cut its throat if it denounced its racists and racism and really meant it. The shouts, taunts, spitting, catcalls, Obama as Joker posters, n-word slurs, Confederate and Texas Lone Star flag waved by some tea party activists ― and the deafening silence from GOP leaders during Obama’s early years in office ― was and still very much is an indispensable political necessity for the party.
GOP leaders have long known that blue collar and a significant percent of college-educated, white male voters who are professionals can be easily aroused to vote and shout loudly on the emotional wedge issues: abortion, family values, anti-gay marriage and tax cuts. They whipped up their hysteria and borderline racism against the Affordable Care Act ― and, by extension, Obama. These are the very voters that GOP presidents and aspiring presidents ― Nixon, Reagan, Bush Sr. and George W. Bush, McCain and Romney ― and an endless line of GOP governors, senators and congresspersons have banked on for victory and to seize and maintain regional and national political dominance. The GOP banks on them again in 2018 to keep congressional and state offices control.
It’s no coincidence that the “alt-right” and white nationalist movement has become, big, bold, and violent in the last few years. It cut its teeth and honed its attacks on Obama. It then quickly found and latched tightly onto the move by some Southern cities and states to remove the insulting and odious, racist Confederate statutes and monuments and other relics that for a century and a half have rubbed slavery in the face of the nation. Trump is no fool. He knows that politically, the loudmouths who spew “alt-right” garbage have the quiet ear of legions, and those are the exact legions that he and the GOP count as their shock troops to maintain their political edge.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
White supremacy is demonic, because it promotes an “unclean” spirit that delights in hatred, conflict and violence. It is profoundly wicked.
Look at these white faces from the “Unite the Right” rally just held in Charlottesville, VA. Holding their torches, they give the Nazi salute, a tribute to a genocidal regime that killed millions. “Blood and Soil!” they yelled, a reference to the Nazi racist and nationalist philosophy. Prominent white supremacist Richard Spencer specifically said the goal of the rally was to instill fear.
We have to call this travesty by its real name, even as Jesus did when he came upon a man so crazed with violence that all his neighbors were terrified of him. His neighbors couldn’t control him, and then Jesus specifically called out the demonic spirit:
“Come out of the man, unclean spirit!” Jesus calls, and then he asks him, “What is your name?”
And the man with the unclean spirit answered, “My name is Legion, for we are many.” (Mark 5: 8 and 9) Then Jesus dismissed the spirits, and they were destroyed.
You have to call white supremacy by its right name and let us make no mistake, these white supremacists are “legion.”
This “rally,” that should rightly be called a terrorist action, brought together white supremacists, Ku Klux Klan members, the so-called “alt-right,” Nazis and assorted armed militia members. Their numbers are growing in strength and visibility as they are empowered by the racist, anti-immigrant, religiously bigoted and homophobic rhetoric coming from Donald Trump and his administration.
It is not enough to just say white supremacy is demonic. That needs to be unpacked in a historical, theological and deeply cultural sense. There are so many forces that helped to create the horror in Charlottesville, VA in August 2017.
White supremacy didn’t just start in the Trump era. It is a long-standing system of vast exploitation and immorality, as Ta-Nehisi Coates wrote so powerfully in The Case for Reparations. “Two hundred fifty years of slavery. Ninety years of Jim Crow. Sixty years of separate but equal. Thirty-five years of racist housing policy.” There’s a lot for today’s white supremacists to build on for their current work of hate.
Many who are condemning what has just happened in Charlottesville are calling the racism that fuels it “sinful” and this rally “evil.” That’s true. But the kind of wickedness that defines the demonic is more than sin and evil. It is, in fact, the malignancy of sin and evil combining and reinforcing each other, as Mary Potter Engel put it so well in our book Lift Every Voice: Constructing Christian Theologies from the Underside.
Evil and sin together may be called “wickedness,” the complex condition of the lack of right relation in the world in which we live naturally, socially, and individually.
Evil is the systems created by centuries of racist oppression, sin is the “free and discrete acts … that create or reinforce these structures of oppression” in housing, the judicial system, the prison industrial complex, the economy and in politics. And in so much more. They mutually reinforce and that is what we call “wickedness.”
Structures. Systems. White Christian complicity. Take those as a given. Then, we need to move outside theology to get even more help to understand the many layers of the demonic in white supremacy.
Sociologists have described what they call wicked problems. These are problems that are driven by a vast number of interconnected forces that sustain and grow them. Wicked problems are characteristically difficult either to recognize or to solve.
Horst Rittel, one of the first to formalize a theory of wicked problems, cites 10 characteristics of these complicated social issues, some of which stand out as particularly applicable to white supremacy.
Wicked problems “have no definitive formulation,” as they have different patterns in different locations. White supremacy in Chicago, IL, for example, has important differences in terms of historical roots, as well as economic and political structures than the white supremacy of let’s say, Virginia.
White supremacy is a “wicked problem” because it “bleeds.” That means there are no boundaries to its causes or its effects. Instead, white supremacy permeates education, law, law enforcement, economics, politics, religion and, broadly speaking, culture. Sexism, racism, homophobia, trans-phobia, Islamophobia and classism all need constant examination, critique and corrective action because white supremacy is a constant force of depravity and deformation.
So when I say white supremacy is demonic, I mean it is this kind of wicked problem that hides and lies and denies and warps and corrupts. It is the unclean spirit that percolates through all of this and cannot be easily confronted. See it in yourself as you track the mud of it around, perhaps unknowingly.
The time for thinking oneself innocent just because you didn’t give a Nazi salute in Charlottesville is over. The corruption bleeds, remember that.
The time to acknowledge and confront the demonic forces of white supremacy is now.
As Jesus taught, we must call white supremacy by its right name and destroy it.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Amid the violence and chaos taking place in Charlottesville, Virginia, this weekend, one Twitter thread has gone viral for nailing exactly what’s going on.
User @JuliusGoat began a poignant Twitter thread that explained why the white supremacists protesting have absolutely no reason to be protesting and rioting: They have not experienced any kind of oppression, unlike marginalized groups in the U.S.
Imagine if these people ever faced actual oppression. pic.twitter.com/dhPCbtfEjO
The law neverEnslaved their great-grandparentsRobbed their grandparentsImprisoned their parentsShot them when unarmed
Their churches were never burned.Their lawns never decorated with burning crossesTheir ancestors never hung from trees
THIS is 'white people' oppression:We used to be the only voice. Now we hold the only microphone.
Give them a world where their polo shirt makes people nervous, so they're kicked off the flight from Pittsburgh to Indianapolis.
The thread has been retweeted thousands of times and has been quoted by many high-profile Twitter users, including Gabby Sidibe, Cheryl Strayed, Paul F. Tompkins and J.K. Rowling.
A similar sentiment was posted on Facebook by The Love Life Of An Asian Guy who asked “WHAT THE FUCK ARE THESE WHITE PEOPLE FIGHTING FOR?”
You can read the whole thread here.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Three people are dead and at least 34 injured after “Unite the Right” brought frenetic scenes and deadly violence to Charlottesville, Virginia. An estimated 500 white supremacists joined the rally, which supposedly was organized to protest the removal of Confederate monuments across Southern states. The rhetoric employed by the organizers clearly indicates that the gathering had other ambitions as well.
“It’s about white genocide. It’s about the replacement of our people, culturally and ethnically,” Jason Kessler told his followers on Periscope before the rally. Speaking at Unite the Right, David Duke stated: “We are going to fulfill the promises of Donald Trump. That’s what we believed in, that’s why we voted for Donald Trump, because he said he’s going to ‘take our country back,’ and that’s what we gotta do.”
At the rally itself, racist chants and “sieg heils” abounded. By most reports, the most popular incantation was “blood and soil” (from the German “blut und boden”). Originating in late 19th century Germany as an evocation of ultranationalist sentiment, it became incorporated into Nazi propaganda, where it was utilized to glorify “pure” German countryfolk who had a unique kinship with the land.
At the Friday evening tiki torch-bearing congregation at the Lee monument, the theme was the Richard Spencer shibboleth “we will not be replaced.”
No, the poison is not very hard to put together. Unite the Right was the official pitch of American fascists of all shades to become part of mainstream politics. It was the affirmation of the American far-right that they are no longer willing to be small fry content with furtive cross burnings and Nazi salutes. They want to be recognized as a national movement. They want political legitimacy.
Neither is it any coincidence that this moment has come during the presidency of Donald Trump. Even though they gained momentum by riding the tide of racist backlash during the tenure of America’s first black President, it was not until Trump entered the White House that they dared to stake their claim. Not only was Donald Trump’s campaign rife with thinly veiled white nationalist rhetoric, his cabinet contains at least two men who belong firmly in the far right. Steve Bannon and Sebastian Gorka are two of the primary architects of the “alt-right” narrative since their days together at the Breitbart News Network.
It is not just that white supremacists see in the Trump administration’s xenophobia and ultranationalism a coded affirmation of their fascist dreams. The fact is that Breitbart, Trump and many Republicans have themselves inspired new white supremacy among Americans. Their demonization of minorities, their denial of systemic racism and their blaming of immigrants and liberals for the misery of the working class amount to nothing less than soft-core white supremacy.
Today is a moment of reckoning for America. Fascism has reared its vile head, and prejudices that many had thought were either extinct or dormant are being shouted with pride and gusto. Right-wing militancy and violence continue to be on the rise. There is an administration in charge that shows zero motivation to frankly condemn or sever itself cleanly from white supremacy. Either because that would interfere with its raison d’être of liberal-hating or perhaps because it contains sympathizers with this ideology.
Most poignantly, though, this is a moment of reckoning for that cohort of liberals who choose to sit on the moral fence, looking down their noses at both left and right. That navel-gazing legion that prides itself for defending the free speech rights of neo-Nazis and equates the “regressive left” with the “alt-right.” That hypocritical, cowardly, egocentric nonsense will no longer stand.
Enough of the tripe about the left being more antisemitic than the right, of the sniveling, intellectually dishonest refrains of the left’s “soft bigotry of low expectations.” It is high time that it was clearly and loudly pointed out that there is no longer any daylight between the rhetoric of the “alt-right” and left-hating liberals. From “regressive left” to “hard left” and from “SJW to “PC police,” this confusion of tongues with the “alt-right” is a testament to the neurosis of freeze peach liberals.
The fact is, economic ideology and the scandalous Democratic primaries have already created much distance between centrist liberals and the left. The fact is that whether it is fighting immigration bans, police brutality or fascism, the left has shown it is able and willing. It is fence-sitting liberals that must prove their moral integrity and distinguish themselves from the right.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
As the official start of the “Unite the Right” rally kicked off in Charlottesville, Virginia, former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke said the gathering of white supremacists, neo-Nazis and far-right individuals pointed to a future fulfillment of President Donald Trump’s “promises.”
David Duke now here in #charlottesville for #altright #unitetheright rally @USATODAY @RbtKing pic.twitter.com/au69sTiTlR
“This represents a turning point for the people of this country,” said Duke in video uploaded to Twitter by Indianapolis Star photojournalist Mykal McEldowney. “We are determined to take our country back. We are going to fulfill the promises of Donald Trump. That’s what we believed in, that’s why we voted for Donald Trump. Because he said he’s going to take our country back. That’s what we gotta do.”
In a tweet, Trump condemned “hate” and “violence” in response to clashes at the rally on Saturday, though he did not call out white supremacists in particular.
Duke responded to Trump’s tweet by stating that Trump should “remember” that “White Americans’ were the ones to put him in office.
I would recommend you take a good look in the mirror & remember it was White Americans who put you in the presidency, not radical leftists. https://t.co/Rkfs7O2Ykr
Duke, a former KKK Grand Wizard, has long connected his message of white supremacy to ideas espoused by the president.
During the presidential campaign, Duke stated that he and Trump had similar messages, pointing to Trump proposing policies like a border wall or Muslim ban.
“Donald Trump is talking implicitly. I’m talking explicitly,” Duke said last year, according to Time.
Duke supported Trump’s campaign and publicly celebrated his lead on election night. Trump disavowed Duke and the KKK, but only after initially declining to do so, claiming he didn’t “know anything about” him.
This weekend’s rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, called “Unite the Right,” was nominally billed as a protest against the removal of a monument to Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee. The rally drew out hundreds of demonstrators bearing Nazi symbols and Confederate flags and chanting racist slogans. Violence has erupted between the far-right rally attendees and counter-protestors, leading Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D) to declare a state of emergency.
Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly referred to far-right rally participants as “far-left.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Last night a bunch of white supremacists and Neo-Nazis marched on University of Virginia’s campus holding torches and chanting things like “blood and soil,” “white lives matter,” “you can’t replace us,” and “anti-white.” Participants were also doing Nazi salutes and some fights broke out among the participants and counter-protesters.
I find it interesting (and frustrating) that most news coverage on this event is calling it either a protest, rally or march rather than what it should have been called: a riot. Google “Charlottesville” and see what comes up. I would bet money that you would have to scroll until you find an article or headline that refers to last night’s event as a riot. The same thing is happening on Twitter. I have seen many, many tweets about what has happened, but I have not seen it being called a riot.
The reason this is interesting and frustrating to me is because I know, based on the past three years or so, that if it had been a group of black people protesting for their right to live, it would have immediately been deemed a riot. However, here we have a group of white supremacists and literal Nazis who are starting fights and throwing torches, and this is somehow still only being called a protest/rally/march. While the dictionary definition of “riot” doesn’t necessarily mean that there is physical violence, it obviously carries a much more dangerous and less respectable connotation to us than “protest” or “rally” or “march,” which all carry the connotation (at least to me) of people just exercising their political right.
At first thought, it may not seem like such a big deal that different protests are called different things. But I have said it before and I’ll say it again, words are powerful. If they weren’t, political candidates wouldn’t give speeches, commercials wouldn’t have catchy slogans, and you probably wouldn’t be reading this.
So, the difference in what these events are being called is important. This difference highlights the fact that whiteness is always protected, even at its worst. Even when there is violence and racism involved on a large scale, whiteness is still protected. This was showcased by this riot not only in the way that it’s being talked about, but also in the lack of police presence. Judging from photos and videos on Twitter, it seems that there were not many police, and the officers that I saw were not in riot gear. This can be compared to the many instances we’ve seen online of black people protesting and having to face off against swarms of police, many in riot gear and willing to get physical with anyone. An example can be seen in this now famous photo.
People have commented on this stark difference between how the “protesters” last night were treated by the police versus how people of other races would be treated in similar situations.
Since the birth of this nation, there has been nothing as strongly valued and protected as whiteness (capitalism is a close second). That is clear not only from the riot that took place, but also by the way it is being discussed in the mainstream media — using names that soften the impact of what happened — and the way that these rioters were much more free than other protesters of color to do what they wanted. Black protesters have to worry about being beaten by a cop with a baton, or maybe even worse, while these Neo-Nazis felt free to start fights and throw torches in part because of the lack of police presence. White supremacy doesn’t always look like a group of white people marching on a college campus holding torches and giving the Nazi salute; it often looks like doing whatever is necessary to still somehow hold whiteness on a pedestal no matter what is taking place.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
In less than two weeks, a petition calling for Congress to censure President Donald Trump for misconduct and misdeeds has attracted more than 14,500 signatures.
One of the initiators of the petition is Richard Painter, a lifelong Republican, professor of corporate law at the University of Minnesota, and chief White House ethics lawyer for President George W. Bush between 2005 and 2007. Discussing the petition, Painter said:
The Constitution of the United States protects every citizen’s right to petition the government for a redress of grievances. And Congress has the right to censure its own members as well as presidents. The behavior of President Trump in his first six months in office, as specified in our Petition, clearly warrants his immediate censure by Congress. I urge our fellow citizens to join us in our effort, and I implore every member of Congress to exercise his or her authority to censure President Trump for his gross misconduct in office as specified in our Petition.
A growing number of other prominent Americans have endorsed the petition, including former Manhattan Borough President Ruth Messinger, legal and human rights scholar and Tufts University Professor John Shattuck, political theorist Michael Walzer, and attorney and writer Richard North Patterson.
The petition, which can be found on its website, asks both the Senate and the House of Representatives to censure Trump and sets forth a description of misconduct and misdeeds that have occurred since Trump’s inauguration, including:
The petitioners plan to collect more signatures and then present them to every member of Congress for appropriate action.
Censure is a condemnation while impeachment involves a trial, starting with the House adopting “articles of impeachment” and the Senate holding the trial. In the case of the impeachment of a president, the chief justice of the United States presides over the trial.
“While many of our grounds for censure may support President Trump’s Impeachment,” Jules Bernstein, a veteran Washington, D.C. labor lawyer who helped start the petition drive, “at a minimum they warrant his immediate censure by both Houses of Congress.”
The petition “is a simple and easy way for people to be heard and fight back,” explained Bernstein. “It would serve to combat Trump’s normalization, let Congress know how people feel, and remind the press and public of all the terrible things he’s done.”
Throughout American history, Congress has censured its own members as well as the president at least 40 times. In 1834, for example, the Senate censured President Andrew Jackson for removing government deposits from the Bank of the United States and refusing to give them to Congress. In 1954, the Senate censured Senator Joseph McCarthy (R-Wisc) for, among other things, bringing the Senate into “dishonor and disrepute.”
Peter Dreier is the E.P. Clapp Distinguished Professor of Politics at Occidental College. His most recent book is The 100 Greatest Americans of the 20th Century: A Social Justice Hall of Fame (Nation Books).
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
President Donald Trump on Saturday responded to the violence that erupted this weekend as white supremacists and a fringe group clashed in Charlottesville, Virginia.
He refused to single out the activity of white supremacists, however, arguing that there was blame to go around on “many sides.”
“We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides ― on many sides,” Trump said at a ceremony for the signing of a bill to reform the Veterans Affairs health care system. “It’s been going on for a long time in our country, not Donald Trump, not Barack Obama. It’s been going on for a long, long time.”
“It has no place in America,” he added. “What is vital now is a swift restoration of law and order and the protection of innocent lives.”
Trump went on to emphasize that he loves “all the people of our country,” and called for Americans of different races and backgrounds to remember their shared Americanness.
“We want to get the situation straightened out in Charlottesville and we want to study it,” he said. “We want to see what we’re doing wrong as a country where things like this can happen.”
Trump’s comments were his third attempt at addressing the unrest in Virginia. Earlier on Saturday, he’d condemned “hate” and “violence” via Twitter, but didn’t mention Charlottesville by name or directly address any of the groups demonstrating there. 
We ALL must be united & condemn all that hate stands for. There is no place for this kind of violence in America. Lets come together as one!
He followed up that tweet with another one 41 minutes later, finally mentioning Charlottesville by name but not referencing the white supremacists whose rally triggered the chaos.
Civil rights leaders criticized Trump for failing to squarely denounce the white supremacists who organized the rally.
“The president’s remarks were morally frustrating and disappointing,” former NAACP president Cornell Brooks told CNN. “While it is good that he says he wants to be a president for all the people and he wants to make America great for all of the people, let us know this: Throughout his remarks he refused to” call out white supremacists by name.
Trump condemned "hatred, bigotry, and violence on many sides." This isn't a many sides issue. This is about white supremacy, plain & simple.
.@realDonaldTrump never misses an opportunity--to miss an opportunity. Failure 2 honor dead or denounce white supremacists utterly shameful.
In a statement to The Guardian’s Ben Jacobs, a White House spokesperson defended the president’s reaction as “condemning hatred, bigotry and violence from all sources and all sides.”
“There was violence between protesters and counter protesters today,” the spokesperson said. 
David Duke, a white nationalist and supporter of Trump, criticized the president’s initial statement, arguing that “it was White Americans who put you in the presidency.”
I would recommend you take a good look in the mirror & remember it was White Americans who put you in the presidency, not radical leftists. https://t.co/Rkfs7O2Ykr
Duke said Saturday that the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville is in line with Trump’s “promises.”
“We are going to fulfill the promises of Donald Trump,” Duke said. “That’s what we believed in. That’s why we voted for Donald Trump, because he said he’s going to take our country back.”
Charlottesville Mayor Mike Signer thanked Trump for his statement:
@realDonaldTrump, thanks, at long last, for condemning hate in speech and action. Our work here is just beginning. Yours is too.
Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D) declared a state of emergency Saturday as fistfights broke out in streets, objects were thrown and reporters were covered in raw sewage. The White House said it has been in contact with McAuliffe’s office, and Tom Bossert, Trump’s homeland security adviser, has had contact with local authorities.
First lady Melania Trump issued a statement Saturday condemning the violence, becoming the first White House official to offer a public reaction to the events in Charlottesville:
Our country encourages freedom of speech, but let's communicate w/o hate in our hearts. No good comes from violence. #Charlottesville
The president’s responses to incidents of violence have varied since he took office.
He immediately condemned a June attack in London, calling it “horrific” while criticizing London Mayor Sadiq Khan and calling for implementation of his proposed travel ban against citizens from several majority-Muslim countries. In February, he called anti-Semitic incidents in the United States “horrible” and “painful.”
But his responses to other attacks have been delayed or nonexistent.
In May, several days after the fact, Trump tweeted from the @POTUS account ― an official White House account, not the personal one he most often uses ― to recognize victims of a knife attack in Portland for “standing up to hate and intolerance” in confronting a man yelling slurs and hate speech. Trump never issued a response to an attack on a mosque in Minnesota earlier this month.
The violence in Charlottesville erupted in the middle of Trump’s 17-day “working vacation” at the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, New Jersey. Trump has remained active on Twitter throughout his vacation, tweeting criticisms of several lawmakers, making comments on the situation with North Korea and retweeting stories from Fox News.
UPDATE: 8:40 p.m. ― Trump acknowledged those who died in the Charlottesville area Saturday ― including two people who died in a helicopter crash and one woman who died after being struck by a vehicle that plowed into anti-racist protesters ― in a pair of tweets Saturday evening:
Deepest condolences to the families & fellow officers of the VA State Police who died today. You're all among the best this nation produces.
Condolences to the family of the young woman killed today, and best regards to all of those injured, in Charlottesville, Virginia. So sad!
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
President Donald Trump loves to sound tough. He likes his insults in the strongest, most direct and offensive terms. As a candidate last year, he called his opponents “Crooked Hillary,” “Crazy Bernie,” “Lying Ted” and “Little Marco.” He has called journalists “enemies” and loves to accuse people who challenge him of being “overrated” (Meryl Streep! “Hamilton!”) or “failing” (the New York Times, the National Review) or a “disaster” (President Obama, Obamacare). “Disloyal” is another favorite (Macy’s, Republicans). He never documents these extreme terms with any specific, verifiable details, and when he tries, his accusations are often random or irrelevant or not true. There was that time when he accused “dumb as a rock” journalist Mika Brzezinski of bleeding from the face, disproven by photos. The New York Times documented 351 Trump insults as of last month.
President Trump likes to make threats. HIs “fire and fury” warning to North Korea was closer to Saddam Hussein’s “mother of all battles” threat than any statement made by an American leader with an understanding of statecraft or diplomacy. When he could not get Trumpcare passed, he threatened to stop making payments on the health care plans for Members of Congress, at that point more like a tantrum than a bargaining chip.
He especially likes to sound tough when it comes to terrorism and cannot wait to tweet his outrage — as long as attacks appear to be by immigrants or Muslims. When a Minnesota mosque was bombed, he was silent, even after his advisor, Sebastian Gorka, suggested that it may be a “fake hate crime.” There was no such “wait and see” before he responded to the terrorist attack in Paris, even before local authorities had identified it as such.
The only two categories where this proudly outspoken president consistently gets weak at the knees and pulls his verbal punches are:
1. Russia/Putin. When Congress voted overwhelmingly to impose sanctions on Russia, all of the president’s criticism was aimed at the elected officials, not the reason for the sanctions: Russia’s interference in the 2016 U.S. election, as well as its human rights violations, annexation of Crimea and military operations in eastern Ukraine. To add insult to injury, the president bizarrely thanked Putin for seizing U.S. property and throwing out 755 U.S. staff, “joking” that he had saved us payroll expenses. Of course, he didn’t. We may find out that Russians control some aspects of this administration, but even if they do, it does not extend to the employment of U.S. officials. They are still on the payroll; they just can’t do their jobs anymore.
2. White supremacists/Nazis/citizen terrorists and traitors. Today, white American citizens carrying the flag of the world’s greatest enemy government, the Nazi party, as well as the flag of the treasonous Confederate Army, who withdrew from the United States in order to preserve slavery according to their own documents of secession, marched through Charlottesville, Virginia, to declare their belief that white people of European descent are better than other races and are the only true inhabitants of the United States. They echoed the followers of Adolf Hitler by raising their arms to declare, “Heil Trump!” The BBC reported that Robert Ray, a writer for white supremacist site Daily Stormer, was heard to yell, “The heat here is nothing compared to what you’re going to get in the ovens,” apparently a reference to the Holocaust.
There could not be a clearer statement of views that are antithetical to the fundamental beliefs of the United States, going back to the literally revolutionary assertion in the Declaration of Independence that all men are created equal and are equally entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. We have not always lived up to that ideal, but we have never questioned our commitment to it. And now, at the very spot where the man who wrote those words established one of the greatest institutions of higher learning in the world, we have a small group of ignorant, hateful, bigots. And President Trump cannot bring himself to condemn them. Indeed, he has surrounded himself with people affiliated with the euphemistically termed “alt-right” or “White Nationalist,” a failed effort to rebrand bigotry and anti-Semitism.
This is not a partisan issue. Republican leaders Jeb Bush, Marco Rubio, Paul Ryan, Orrin Hatch, and Rob Portman spoke out unequivocally against the white supremacists, using words like “evil” and “terrorism.” But not President Trump. The man who bragged, “I have been hitting Obama and Crooked Hillary hard on not using the term Radical Islamic Terror” cannot bring himself to use the word “terrorist” about white Christian groups, even after a deadly violent attack. He refused to respond to reporters who asked him whether he would call the white supremacists in Charlottesville terrorists. Now he decides to get moderate with his language, saying only that the event was a “display of hatred, bigotry, and violence on many sides.” He repeated, “on many sides.”
No.
There is only one side here, and it is the American side.
Weekly Standard editor Bill Kristol responded to a tweet from CNN’s Jeff Zeleny about Republicans “privately wincing” at the president’s statement: “It’s getting harder and harder to abide the Grand Old Party of Private Wincers.” Now is the time for everyone in public life to join together to say that they will not support this assault on our commitment to justice and liberty and for all of us in private life to hold them accountable if they don’t. Starting with President Donald J. Trump.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
The escalating tension with North Korea reminds us once again that in matters of war and peace, there are often no good options. But that does not mean that there aren’t particularly bad, even catastrophic options. That is why the founders divided constitutional war-making authority, granting Congress alone the power to declare and fund wars, while making the president the commander-in-chief of the armed forces. Decisions about going to war may be so difficult that Congress at times would rather sit them out, but weighing in on potential new wars is a constitutional responsibility, not an elective activity.
That’s why, in the wake of President Trump’s strikes against the Syrian government earlier this year, we at Protect Democracy demanded to know the president’s legal justification. The debate about war powers has gone on for decades, but prior presidents have felt obligated to at least explain their legal justification for military action. We filed FOIA requests, and when the administration refused to comply, we went to court ― and have already won a preliminary decision. We took no position on the wisdom of the strikes themselves, and many in Congress and in the public may have supported the strikes, but as U.S. District Court Judge Christopher Cooper put it in his ruling, “Being closed off from such a debate is itself a harm in an open democracy... Military strikes cannot be undone.”
Now, even as we work through the schedule to obtain those Syria documents, the court’s words ring like alarm bells. As the prospect of a nuclear conflict looms, even if in the distance, the president continues to act as if decisions of war and peace are his alone to make. And though some in Congress express comfort in the generals the president has surrounded himself with, there are now reports that Trump’s own national security team was caught unaware when he dramatically escalated tensions with his “fire and fury” comments. (We’re filing a new round of FOIA requests on Trump’s legal authority to strike North Korea today.)
There has already been movement to reassert Congress’s war powers. Even before the escalation with North Korea, the House embraced an amendment to demand a new war authorization for the fight against ISIL (it was later stripped from the legislation behind closed doors by Speaker Paul Ryan). And now, in addition to senators of both parties raising concerns about the president’s escalating rhetoric, Republican Senator Dan Sullivan of Alaska stated flatly, “if one of the military options that the administration is looking at is a preemptive war on the Korean peninsula launched by the United States, that would require the authorization of Congress,” adding that “Article I of the U.S. Constitution is very clear about that.”
It is probably no coincidence that the most definitive demand for a vote came from one of the states that is geographically closest to North Korea. With a volunteer army increasingly bearing the burden of wars with their families outside the direct experience of most Americans, including most Members of Congress, decisions to enter military conflicts can increasingly seem like an abstract policy debate. But it should not take the vivid image of a nuclear missile aimed at one’s state for Congress to fulfill the responsibilities that the founders placed in them.
The president could actually bolster his own authority if he went to Congress and got support for any actions he pursues against North Korea. Under the famous framework laid out by Justice Jackson in the 1952 Youngstown Steel Seizure case, the president’s powers are at their zenith when he has Congress behind him. As Justice Jackson’s concurring opinion explained: “When the President acts pursuant to an express or implied authorization of Congress, his authority is at its maximum, for it includes all that he possesses in his own right plus all that Congress can delegate. In these circumstances, and in these only, may he be said (for what it may be worth) to personify the federal sovereignty.”
On the flip side, if other members of Congress share Sen. Sullivan’s fears, they can constrain the president. As Justice Jackson put it, “When the President takes measures incompatible with the expressed or implied will of Congress, his power is at its lowest ebb, for then he can rely only upon his own constitutional powers minus any constitutional powers of Congress over the matter.” While the Court’s language looks to legal constraints that Congress may impose, strong statements from members of Congress can create a powerful political check as well.
As it stands now, with Congress neither authorizing nor forbidding action against North Korea, we stand in what Justice Jackson called the “zone of twilight.” As he explained: “congressional inertia, indifference or quiescence may sometimes, at least, as a practical matter, enable, if not invite, measures on independent presidential responsibility.”
With nuclear war being threatened, and dangerously unpredictable men holding power in the U.S. and North Korea, the stakes are simply too high for Congress to leave things to the president. President Trump’s apparent view that he alone can start new wars stands as an open breach in our democracy, and he is making decisions based on this misunderstanding by the day, with potentially unimaginable consequences. President Trump must acknowledge the role of Congress, not continue to act as if he alone holds all war-making powers.
If the president continues on this misunderstanding, Congress can, and must, correct him before it is too late. There are many ways for Congress to do this, both formally and informally. Congress can hold hearings on legislation like the bill introduced earlier this year requiring congressional approval for nuclear first strikes. It can consider legislation to prohibit (or authorize under specific conditions) the preemptive use of force against North Korea. It can conduct oversight through document requests and hearings with witnesses from the administration to better understand the president’s strategy or views of his legal authority. Or members of Congress can serve as a strong political restraint by joining Sen. Sullivan in speaking out forcefully against the president’s view that he alone can choose to start a war. Whatever path Congress takes, it is time for members to engage ― this is not an elective activity, it’s their job.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Over the past seven years, as Republicans repeatedly blocked Indiana’s most populous and Democratic-friendly county from adding early voting locations, election officials in GOP-leaning districts approved several early voting locations of their own.
This years-long trend correlated with a substantial increase in early voter turnout in the Republican-friendly counties, while early vote turnout in the Democratic county declined, according to a new analysis by The Indianapolis Star.
Individual, bipartisan county election boards in Indiana must unanimously approve a decision to add early voting sites. Three-person election boards in Indiana consist of the county clerk and one Republican and one Democrat appointed by the circuit court clerk.
In 2008, the election board in Indiana’s Marion County ― home to the capital, Indianapolis, and the state’s highest African-American population ― voted to add two early voting sites at a local high school and community center in an effort to make it easier for people to vote. The new additions brought the county’s total number of early voting sites to three. Marion County voters that year overwhelmingly voted for Barack Obama, who became the first Democrat to win Indiana since Lyndon Johnson in 1964.
Two years later, the Marion County election board again tried to add more early voting sites, but the single Republican sitting on the board blocked it. The same thing happened in 2012, 2014 and 2016.
Maura Hoff, the Republican who voted against expanding early voting sites in 2016, declined to comment on her vote, citing ongoing litigation.
When the move was rejected in 2014, it came after Elizabeth White, at the time the Marion County clerk, described the success of early voting locations. Marion County at that point was down to just one early voting location again, and White pointed out that parking lots at that site would soon be unavailable due to construction. White and another member of the board supported the motion to add new locations, but the Republican member voted no, killing the motion. Minutes for the meeting do not offer an explanation for why Vincent Perez, the Republican on the board at the time, voted against the motion.
Today, Marion County, the state’s most populous county, has only one early voting site, and it’s made a difference. Marion County saw a 26 percent decline in the number of in-person absentee ballots ― the kind used at early voting locations ― between 2008 and 2016, the Star found.
While Marion County has struggled, Hamilton County, a Republican-friendly area north of Indianapolis, has had more success increasing early voting opportunities. The county added two new locations in 2016 and has seen a 63 percent increase in in-person absentee voting since 2008. The county, which has a population of 316,373, has three early voting locations. Marion County, which has a population of 941,229, has just one.
Kathy Richardson, the elections administrator in Hamilton County, said that even with the two new locations, some of the voting sites have had waits of up to two hours. In 2012, 30,146 people voted absentee in Hamilton County, and while the county did not track in-person early voting, Richardson estimates that 20,000 people may have voted early that year. In 2016, after Hamilton County added its two new vote centers, 42,132 people cast in-person absentee ballots there.
The Star notes that three other Republican-friendly counties also added early voting sites and have seen a similar increase in early voting. While different boards are making the decisions in each of the counties, the discrepancies underscore how a heavily Democratic part of the state has suffered due to repeated Republican refusals to expand early voting.
Richardson said it’s difficult to compare the expansion of early voting opportunities in her county to the lack of a similar expansion in Marion.
“I can’t judge what Marion County needs to do, because I don’t know what their capabilities are as far as equipment and stuff,” she told HuffPost. But if the county has the equipment and the personnel, she added, then it would make sense for them to add new early voting sites.
“If they don’t have the resources to man them, it gives you another site, but I don’t know that it’s any better,” she said. “The fact that that is a large county like that ― the ability to have to go downtown or whatever, I don’t know how easy it is to go to a government center and park. I don’t have the resources to answer that question, whether it’s better for them or not.”
Julia Vaughn, policy director of the Indiana chapter of Common Cause, a progressive watchdog group suing the Marion County election board over its refusal to expand early voting, said she believes adding more early voting locations wouldn’t cost much, because there are already plenty of government buildings where the county could hold early voting.
In March 2010, Patrick Dietrick, the Republican then serving on the Marion County election board, voted against adding early voting sites, citing concerns about “process” and backend operations. He also said he didn’t believe the county should be spending money on early voting given an uncertain economy. Two years later, Dietrick again voted to block adding more satellite vote locations, but meeting minutes don’t offer an explanation for his vote.
In a June filing in the Common Cause lawsuit, which is also being brought by the Indiana NAACP, lawyers for the board conceded that early voters and Election Day voters in Marion County were more likely to experience “longer lines and wait times than would otherwise exist.” However, the lawyers said in the filing that Republican officials did not have to offer a reason for voting against new early vote locations.
Vaughn said the numbers in the Star’s analysis only support her group’s contention that a lack of early voting options makes a difference.
“Numbers don’t lie. This really bolsters the claims that we’re making in our lawsuit that the lack of early voting options in Marion County is having a significant impact on early voting,” she said. “The fewer locations you have, the more difficult it’s going to be for people to access early voting.”
Early voting has become a focal point of partisan battles in recent years. Republicans have generally sought to limit it, believing that it leads to increased turnout, which tends to help Democrats. Research, however, has shown that’s not really the case. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
WASHINGTON ― As President Donald Trump entered his second 100 days in office, he described an example of his common-sense leadership: New U.S. Navy aircraft carriers, he decreed, would not use high-tech electromagnetic catapults that only “Albert Einstein” could understand, but would go back to old-fashioned steam power.
“You’re going to goddamned steam,” he told Time magazine.
So what did the Navy do with this plain-spoken directive from the commander-in-chief?
Absolutely nothing.
When Trump visited Norfolk, Virginia, some weeks later to commission the new supercarrier Gerald Ford, she was outfitted with high-tech electromagnetic catapults to launch planes off the deck. So will every other new carrier in that class. In fact, the Navy didn’t even bother asking for a study to explore the costs of retrofitting the Gerald Ford to use steam.
It seemed less an act of defiance than an assumption that Trump couldn’t possibly be serious about ordering an expensive and time-consuming redesign of a major weapons system with very little background knowledge ― and in the context of a media interview.
“They ignored it,” Douglas Brinkley, a presidential historian at Rice University, said with a laugh. “The United States federal government is now just shrugging at and ignoring some of his statements.”
It’s a shrug that is becoming more common in the Trump presidency. Agency heads and lower-level bureaucrats appear to have concluded that the combination of Trump’s impulsive nature and short attention span means that the president’s sometimes random commands can – and should – be safely ignored.
“His attention span is so short that what he said one hour, he doesn’t even remember the next hour,” Brinkley said.
That “ignore-what-he-says” attitude may become particularly important as the U.S. deals with a nuclear-armed North Korea. Just hours after Trump’s ad-libbed “fire and fury” statement on Tuesday appeared to escalate the conflict, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson gave far more measured remarks to reporters traveling with him.
“We have a very active, ongoing diplomatic effort, most of which is behind the scenes because that’s where diplomacy is most effective, Tillerson said Wednesday as his Air Force jet flew homeward high over the Indonesian island of Borneo. “I think what the president was just reaffirming is the United States has the capability to fully defend itself with any attack, will defend our allies, and we will do so. So the American people should sleep well at night.”
Just six months into his term, Trump is finding resistance to his ideas not only from a Republican Congress ― which is ignoring his insistence that it return immediately to a health care bill before doing anything else ― but from some of his own executive agencies.
“I’m not talking about so-called ‘deep state’ bureaucrats,” wrote Jack Goldsmith, a former Justice Department and Defense Department lawyer in the George W. Bush administration. “I’m talking about senior officials in the Justice Department and the military and intelligence and foreign affairs agencies. And they are not just ignoring or contradicting him in private. They are doing so in public for all the world to see.”
Trump’s White House did not respond to queries about the aircraft catapult, or more generally about administration officials ignoring his directives.
But examples are rapidly accumulating.
Trump frequently calls the idea of Russian interference on his behalf in last year’s election a “hoax” invented by Democrats. Leaders of the U.S. intelligence agencies, including those appointed by Trump, like Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats and CIA Director Mike Pompeo, say the intelligence community’s analysis that Russia tried to help Trump win is correct.
Trump’s attorney general, Jeff Sessions, angered the president by recusing himself from the FBI’s investigation of possible collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign. More recently, Sessions has resisted Trump’s public ridicule and shaming, and has refused to resign his post – and in so doing has protected the special counsel now running that investigation, as Trump cannot independently fire that person.
Sessions’ deputy, Rod Rosenstein, rejected Trump’s recent call for a renewed investigation into Trump’s Democratic opponent last year, Hillary Clinton. “The president has not directed us to investigate particular people. That wouldn’t be right. That’s not the way we operate,” Rosenstein told Fox News.
Vice President Mike Pence, United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley and Defense Secretary James Mattis frequently deliver foreign policy statements at odds with Trump’s comments. Pence and Mattis guaranteed NATO allies of the United States’ commitment to the treaty obligations, even while Trump was projecting ambivalence. Haley reaffirmed U.S. commitment to a two-state solution in Israel and Palestine right after Trump said he didn’t really care how it sorted out.
Mattis’ Defense Department, meanwhile, seems to have taken the lead in flouting Trump. Mattis personally said torture doesn’t work, although Trump insisted it does. He stated that the United States would not be seizing oil from Iraq, even after Trump suggested it was still an option.
More recently, apart from disregarding the presidential command for steam, Mattis’ Pentagon has ignored Trump’s tweets last month banning transgender people from the military. “What you saw in the form of a tweet was representative of an announcement. That doesn’t result in any immediate policy changes for us. We will await formal direction,” said Pentagon spokesman and Navy Capt. Jeff Davis.
Coast Guard Commandant Paul Zukunft went one step further, saying recently he would not carry out the directive, period. “Very small numbers, but all of them are doing meaningful Coast Guard work today,” he said.
Norm Ornstein, with the conservative-leaning American Enterprise Institute, said experts in the various agencies are left with no choice when presented with unreasonable demands. “We’ve never had a president like this. We’ve never had a president with no knowledge base. Who’s not interested in developing a knowledge base. With no impulse control,” Ornstein said.
In the case of the aircraft carrier catapult, the electromagnetic version has been under development for years. It can launch everything from lightweight drones to heavy fighters while adjusting the acceleration force applied, easing stress on the airframes. It will require far less maintenance than steam, which the Navy has relied on for more than a half-century.
Trump did not appear to understand these benefits when he spoke to Time’s reporters. “Digital. They have digital,” he said, apparently describing how the electromagnetic catapult is computer-controlled. “What is digital? And it’s very complicated. You have to be Albert Einstein to figure it out.”
Trump, of course, is not the first president to deal with an executive branch that does not bend to his every whim.
Harry Truman reportedly laughed that successor Dwight Eisenhower, who during World War II had commanded all Allied forces in northwest Europe, was used to people following his orders, but that’s not how it worked with the presidency.
More recently, and perhaps more on point, Richard Nixon would routinely order his top White House aides to carry out bizarre and sometimes illegal orders, including at one point the bombing of the Brookings Institution to create a diversion allowing the theft of damaging documents. The aides, including some who history painted as villains following the Watergate investigation, protected the country by ignoring those orders, Ornstein said.
“It’s not the first time we’ve seen crazy orders given by a president angry that things didn’t work the way the president wanted them to,” Ornstein said.
Brinkley, the presidential historian, said Nixon’s top aides and Cabinet members actually took things a step further in his final year, as the Watergate probe and impeachment drew closer. Worried about his mental stability and his alcohol consumption, they essentially set up a system that required sign-off by the chief of staff and the defense secretary for the authorization of military strikes, he said.
“It was sort of extralegal,” Brinkley said, but operated on the premise that the United States was too important to let Nixon destroy it. “The whole issue became containing Nixon.”
Brinkley said Trump’s presidency has close parallels with the Nixon era. Now, like then, career public servants and military leaders appear to be siding with the law and the Constitution against Trump’s impulses.
“His tweets are just being seen as a weird aberration of popular culture, not to be taken as directives,” Brinkley said. “It’s unfortunate when a president behaves that way, but anyone in the military and the CIA have to understand what’s rational and what’s not rational. They’ve got to keep the world’s largest economy and the only real superpower safe.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
President Donald Trump suggested Thursday that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) may be in trouble if he doesn’t deliver on such top administration items such as tax reform, repeal of the Affordable Care Act, and an overhaul of the nation’s crumbling infrastructure.
Asked by reporters at his Bedminster, New Jersey, golf club whether McConnell should step aside from his leadership post, Trump said, “You can ask me that question” if McConnell fails to make sufficient progress on the president’s agenda.
“Mitch, let’s get to work and let’s get it done,” Trump said.
“They lost by one vote,” he added, referring to last month’s failed Senate effort to repeal Obamacare. “For a thing like that to happen is a disgrace.”
Trump has lashed out at McConnell several times this week while on a “working vacation” in New Jersey. Earlier in the day, the president implored the Kentucky lawmaker to “get back to work” and pass legislation on tax reform and infrastructure spending.
On Wednesday, Trump rebuked McConnell’s claim that the president had been overly optimistic about the ease with which Congress could enact major legislation. 
“Senator Mitch McConnell said I had ‘excessive expectations,’ but I don’t think so,” Trump tweeted on Wednesday. “After 7 years of hearing Repeal & Replace, why not done?”
McConnell has served as head of Senate Republicans since early 2007, first as minority leader and then as majority leader after the GOP won control of the chamber in the 2014 elections.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump’s threat on Tuesday to rain “fire and fury” down upon North Korea if the nuclear-powered hereditary dictatorship made any more threats against the United States immediately increased fears of a nuclear war that could kill millions. It took less than 24 hours for North Korea to cross Trump’s red line and threaten to shoot missiles near the U.S. island territory of Guam. In those same 24 hours, U.S. officials walked back the erratic president’s off-the-cuff and already-crossed red line.
Tensions between North Korea and the U.S. are undoubtedly at their highest levels in years. North Korea has been a nuclear power for more than a decade and now may possess long-range missiles with the capability to carry nuclear warheads to the U.S. mainland. Trump warned in the spring that there could be a “major, major conflict” between the U.S. and the North. And the United Nations security council just imposed its toughest-ever round of sanctions on North Korea.
But experts on Korea and nonproliferation agree that there is one incredibly easy way to avoid war: The U.S. should simply not pre-emptively bomb or attack North Korea.
“We can’t attack them,” said Robert Kelly, a professor of diplomacy at Pusan University in South Korea. “We’re talking about a million people who are going to get killed. So let’s not do that.”
“Kim Jong Un and the ruling regime of North Korea are not suicidal. They are not seeking martyrdom,” former Secretary of Defense William Perry wrote in HuffPost in March. “They want to stay in power, and they understand that if they launch a nuclear attack, their country will be destroyed, and they themselves will be killed — it would end the Kim dynasty.”
As every U.S. president has made clear since the Korean War armistice in 1953, any attempt by the North to move on South Korea or other U.S. allies like Japan would result in the end of North Korea as a nation and of the Kim dynasty.
The flip side of that coin is that any attempt by the U.S. to attack North Korea would be met with all-out force from the North. For decades, the 10 million people living in Seoul have lived with the possibility that the North could incinerate the city with conventional weapons at any moment. Now armed with nukes, the North could destroy more than one city on its way to the dustheap of history. The North would lose the war, but millions could die.
Neither North Korea nor the U.S. has initiated this mass blood-letting. It’s clear that none of the countries involved want that ― especially not South Korea. President Moon Jae-In made that clear in a phone call with Trump this week. Moon “emphasized that South Korea can never accept a war erupting again on the Korean Peninsula,” according to a statement from his office.
At this point, that leaves either punitive sanctions (which the North is already under) or negotiations as the options to get the North to pause its nuclear and missile tests and possibly reach the United States’ stated goal of having a nuclear-free Korean peninsula.
Negotiating, however, is far more difficult than the easy step of just not bombing North Korea.
A number of Democratic Party senators have begun to call on Trump to immediately enter into talks with North Korea without any preconditions. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who has said the U.S. is not seeking regime change in North Korea, is currently the only high-level Trump administration official calling for talks, but he has said those talks cannot begin until the North halts its missile tests for an unspecified period of time.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) is the most prominent Democrat, but not the only one, calling for the U.S. to immediately begin talks with the North Koreans.
“Reports that North Korea is capable of miniaturizing a nuclear warhead to deliver on an ICBM shows they’re closer than originally believed to building a nuclear weapon capable of hitting the United States,” Feinstein told HuffPost in a statement. “This accelerated timeline has created an urgent need to restart diplomatic discussions. Calls for preconditions on direct talks delay that effort. A diplomatic solution is only possible if we get North Korea to the negotiating table — time is not on our side.”
Those talks would likely begin in secret without any preconditions. The parties involved ― which, beyond the U.S. and North Korea would likely include South Korea, China and Japan and possibly Russia ― would be able to set any conditions for public diplomatic talks, including temporary moratoriums on missile tests and nuclear tests by the North. 
The North, of course, would need some assurances from the U.S. and its allies. Those nations would need to listen to North Korea seriously to decide what assurances to provide.
“The North Koreans say this over and over again,” said Joel Wit. Wit is a senior fellow at the US-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, and the former coordinator of the U.S.-North Korea Agreed Framework. “They are willing to put their [nuclear] program on the table if the U.S. drops its hostile policy toward North Korea. Well what does that mean, hostile policy?”
Wit, who has also spoken to the North Koreans as part of unofficial negotiations, explains that “hostility” means the general posture of the U.S. to North Korea in every regard from the political, security and economic.
One place to start is with North Korea’s ongoing complaints about the routine military exercises conducted by the U.S. and South Korea. After the North tested a medium-range missile in February, the U.S. sent nuclear capable B-52 bombers to fly over the Korean peninsula during these military exercises. Earlier this year, North Korea offered to halt nuclear testing in exchange for the U.S. and South Korea halting all military exercises.
Leon Sigal, a longtime Korea nuclear negotiations expert who has engaged in unofficial negotiations with the North Koreans for years, told HuffPost the North Korean proposal to stop all military exercises is “a nonstarter and they know it.”
But there is room for the U.S. to give North Korea something on military exercises. In past efforts to open talks with North Korea, the U.S. has varied the number of troops involved, the types of exercises undertaken and the types of bombers flown. For one year, under President George H.W. Bush, the U.S. and South Korea suspended the exercises.
“Sometimes [the North Koreans] say cancel the exercises,” Wit said. “But they just don’t want us to hold big exercises.”
He says the U.S. should make public changes to the military exercises as part of talks to get the North Koreans to agree to a moratorium on their nuclear and missile tests.
Initial talks are not going to result in the North giving up its nuclear program immediately, although the program should be on the table during formal talks. The program gives North Korea intense leverage in talks with the U.S. and provides a level of security not had by dead dictators Saddam Hussein and Muammar Gaddafi, who once sought nuclear weapons and met grisly deaths after U.S.-backed wars leveled their regimes. Obtaining a moratorium on tests would be a big step, but almost everyone agrees the final goal of the U.S. is and should continue to be the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.
“It would be a really serious mistake to drop the objective, the long-term objective, of a nuclear-free Korean peninsula,” Wit said. “I think the North Koreans would eventually agree to that.”
Getting to a nuclear-free peninsula, however, would require big steps that are not normally discussed in U.S. politics. That would including providing North Korea with a more permanent security guarantee by agreeing to negotiate a peace treaty to replace the Korean War armistice.
“I think people ought to start thinking about [a peace treaty] because the reason why 1994 and 2005 [deals] fell apart is we didn’t do anything about the larger steps of ending enmity,” Sigal said.
Ending enmity and hostility may be the only way to stop North Korea from being a permanent nuclear power. But that may be all pie in the sky, particularly with the disorganized, understaffed, inexperienced and undiplomatic Trump administration running the show. Not to mention the North’s insularity, intransigence and history of breaking deals.
Not everyone thinks that negotiations will work, of course. Kelly argues the U.S. should maintain President Barack Obama’s policy of “strategic patience.” He says the U.S. should tighten sanctions, go after North Korean money in Chinese banks and increase funding for missile defense.
He also supports talking to the North Koreans, even if they’ve cheated on deals in the past. But he adds, “The best possible outcome is that the North Koreans come to the table and they negotiate away their nuclear missile program for something reasonable. That’s just not going to happen. They’ll ask for outrageous concessions that we’re not going to give them.”
Sigal believes that it’s just too late in the process to wait on sanctions before starting negotiations. “I think the fundamental question that has to be asked to the people who are talking about sanctions is how long it will take and how many ICBMs, nuclear weapons and better nuke weapons will the North have in the meantime. I think that’s fundamental here. We don’t have a lot of time.”
Jessica Schulberg contributed reporting.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
The governor of Guam, Eddie Baza Calvo, told Fox News’ Brian Kilmeade on Wednesday that he’s used to threats against the territory and supports President Donald Trump’s warning that North Korea will be met with “fire and fury.”
“I want a president that says that,” Calvo said to Kilmeade, who was filling in on “Tucker Carlson Tonight.”
On Tuesday, Trump threatened North Korea after reports surfaced that the country was escalating its nuclear program, telling reporters: “North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States. They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen.”
On Wednesday, North Korea said it is considering using “intermediate-range ballistic missiles near Guam.” 
Calvo has responded calmly to the threat of a potential nuclear war. When Kilmeade asked him whether Trump’s remarks get “to the heart of the problem” or solve “the problem in the big picture,” he said: “As far as I’m concerned, as an American citizen, I want a president that says that if any nation such as North Korea attacks Guam, attacks Honolulu, attacks the West Coast, that they will be met with hell and fury.”
Calvo also said that while he is concerned and worried about North Korea, “there is no panic.”
“If you can recall, just going back to 2013, this is about the third or fourth threat made specifically to Guam.”
“We encourage everyone to go through their lives and live them like they would any other day,” he added.
The biggest concern Calvo seemed to have, which he referenced while appearing on “Tucker Carlson Tonight” and on CNN’s “The Lead with Jake Tapper,” was South Carolina Republican Lindsey Graham’s statement that Trump was ready to go to war with North Korea and that it wouldn’t impact Americans.
“If there’s going to be a war to stop [North Korean leader Kim Jong Un], it will be over there,” Graham said last week. “If thousands die, they’re going to die over there. They’re not going to die here, and [Trump’s] told me that to my face.” 
Calvo noted that Guam is home to many American citizens, and there’s also the rest of the Mariana archipelago to consider ― where over 200,000 American citizens live.
He said it was important “that those folks that are in a position of leadership ... understand, too, that war is the last option, because not only will tens of thousands of American military forces and dependents be affected by a regional war, but because the Western Pacific has American soil in it, then a couple hundred thousand Americans could get caught in the crosshairs.”
“I think it’s important to be very strong, at the same time be calm,” he told Kilmeade. “I’ve had enough briefings with the military, that there is a multilayered defense starting from Korea, Japan, as well as in the Western Pacific ― as well as our terrestrial assets here in Guam, with the THAAD missile defense system ― that American communities such as Guam, as well as other American communities, will be protected.”  
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Another day, another unprecedented moment in Donald Trump’s presidency. 
A giant inflatable chicken with Trump-like hair appeared near the White House on Wednesday. 
Aerial photos of the display show the fowl, known as “Trump Chicken” or “Chicken Don,” standing on the plot of land south of the White House called the Ellipse.
The area is situated between the president’s residence and the Washington Monument. It’s also in perfect view of the news cameras that are placed in front of the White House. 
BREAKING: There's an inflatable chicken with Trump's hair behind the White House pic.twitter.com/CPzyHeAixA
There's an inflatable chicken with Trump's hair behind the White House #TrumpChicken #TaxMarchChicken pic.twitter.com/M5waHZi3GB
The balloon was set up by documentary filmmaker Taran Singh Brar to protest the president “being a weak and ineffective leader.” 
In an interview with HuffPost’s Philip Lewis, Singh Brar said of Trump, “He’s too afraid to release his tax returns, too afraid to stand up to Vladimir Putin.”
He added that the president was “playing chicken with North Korea.”
Taran Singh Brar says he bought it for $1300. It's a visual protest. "Trump is too chicken to release his tax returns, to stand up to Putin" pic.twitter.com/JLohv0yl82
The filmmaker also confirmed that he obtained the necessary permits to display the 30-foot balloon. 
“The tallest thing they usually allow on the Ellipse is the national Christmas tree,” he told USA Today. “They gave me a waiver for the 30-foot Chicken Don.”
ABC News reported it took Brar five months to secure the permit and gain permission to stage the protest, which happened to fall during Trump’s 17-day vacation at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey.
When images of the chicken first surfaced Wednesday afternoon, news anchors were understandably perplexed. Fox News host Shepard Smith could not hide his surprise.
“What, what is that?” he asked his colleague Josh Lederman.
“Shep, it appears to be a very large chicken display,” Lederman said. 
“A what?” Smith asked. “Seriously?”
"Shep, it appears to be a very large chicken" pic.twitter.com/lHv1Y3bhh7
The chicken was set up in the morning and it wasn’t long before spectators flocked to the display, both on foot and via Segway. 
Had a great time with you all today #chickenmarch pic.twitter.com/Sp79ikfLOZ
The inflatable Trump Chicken made its first appearance in the U.S. in April at Tax March demonstrations held in cities across the country to protest Trump’s failure to release his tax returns.
According to The New York Times, a Seattle-based artist originally designed the chicken months earlier for a company that wanted a statue to commemorate the Year of the Rooster in China. Then an activist in San Francisco had the idea to re-create the statue as an inflatable balloon to use for the Tax March.
Chances are photos of the inflatable chicken did not make their way into the folder of complimentary news about the president that Trump reportedly receives twice a day.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Former White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci on Wednesday accused New Yorker journalist Ryan Lizza of recording him without permission.
In a tweet, Scaramucci called Lizza “the Linda Tripp of 2017” over the explosive interview that ultimately cost him his job. 
He wrote:  
.@RyanLizza is the Linda Tripp of 2017. People know. And he is up at night not being able to live with himself.
Two decades ago, Tripp secretly recorded some of her conversations with Monica Lewinsky, the White House intern who had an affair then-President Bill Clinton. 
In response to a question, Scaramucci called Lizza a “lowlife”:
Yes. He absolutely taped the call without my permission. #lowlife https://t.co/fTDcBw4vcT
However, in this comparison, Lizza being Tripp would mean that Scaramucci is Lewinsky ― a detail that not only drew immediate attention but also launched dozens of wisecracks:
LOL of the day. If @RyanLizza is Linda Tripp, you know who that makes you, right? https://t.co/drPQTFTx7x
Following @Scaramucci's analogy, that clearly makes him Monica Lewinsky. What's he trying to tell us about his relationship with Trump?
You called a reporter. Commented on the record. D.C. has one-party consent for recording calls. Your argument is worse than your analogies. https://t.co/ZmHzcle02g
Monica Lewinsky's tenure at the White House was 27 times longer than Anthony Scaramucci's. https://t.co/UqIuWY40ei
Tripp taped Lewinsky without her knowledge because she hated Clinton. Lizza taped you because that's what reporters do, Doofus.
Thus making Anthony Scaramucci the Monica Lewinsky of 2017. https://t.co/MigNVKqfCp
Monica Lewinsky served longer and did more for the public than Anthony Scaramucci.
Tripp secretly recorded calls of Lewinsky talking about Clinton. Lizza recorded you b/c it was on the record and that is LITERALLY his job https://t.co/Ltbe3hW6aE
Scaramucci will have a chance to clarify his comparison on Monday, when he’s scheduled to be a guest on Stephen Colbert’s “Late Show” on CBS. 
 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
WASHINGTON ― Mandy Martin, a 40-year-old woman living in Louisiana, talks to her husband on the phone for about an hour a day. But because he’s incarcerated at the Southern Correctional Center in Tallulah, those calls sometimes cost her more than $500 month. It’s money that “I really don’t have,” she told HuffPost in an interview. With other expenses, she said she’s maxed out three credit cards and has had to rent out her house.
“I’ve tried to talk to him to tell him, ‘look, we really need to cut down on these phone calls,’” Martin said of her husband who is serving a 5-year sentence for theft. But, “it keeps him out of a state of depression being able to pick up and call...that’s the only thing he feels in control [over], is being able to talk to his family.”
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under President Donald Trump has been scrutinized of late for facilitating an aggressive expansion of the conservative-leaning Sinclair Broadcast Group, as well as attempting to scrap strong net neutrality protections. But lost in the noise is how Trump’s FCC chair, Ajit Pai, abandoned the Obama administration’s attempt to cap exorbitant rates and fees that companies charge for phone service in prisons and jails—which impacts inmates and their families, like Martin. 
Regular contact between inmates and family members can lower recidivism and help with rehabilitation. And until the 1990s, inmates could make calls at about the same rates as other people, according to The New York Times. But over the next few decades, private phone providers sent rates and fees skyrocketing.
In October 2015, the FCC voted 3-2 to cap state and federal prison phone rates at 11 cents a minute, and jail rates at 14 to 22 cents a minute. The FCC also discouraged commissions, which Democrats have described as kickbacks to prison operators. Prison phone providers sued to block the rule, and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit put a hold on the rate caps in March 2016, although the cap on ancillary fees — charges tacked onto to inmate calls — was permitted to go into effect. In August 2016, the FCC, in an effort to appease opponents, slightly raised the rate caps (13 cents a minute for prisons, for example). But providers were able to block those, too until the legal fight is resolved.
One of the dissenters in the FCC’s 2015 vote was then-Commissioner Pai, whom Trump later picked to chair the agency. He called the action “well-intentioned” but unlawful, and also talked about contraband cellphones being “thrown over prison fences stuffed into everything from footballs to dead cats.”
Under Pai, the FCC changed course. One week before February oral argument in appeals court, the agency told the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit that it would no longer defend a key component of the Obama administration’s rule, namely, that the agency had the authority to cap in-state rates. (The agency did, however, defend the FCC’s authority to regulate interstate calls, which refers to calls between states.) 
In June, the court struck down the the regulations on in-state calls. Advocates see the Trump administration’s position as a key factor. The court’s decision “relied in large part on the fact that the FCC would not put forward a defense” for the agency’s authority to regulate in-state phone rates and fees, said Lee Petro, pro bono counsel for prisoner advocates, the Wright Petitioners, a group of inmates’ family members and loved ones. 
There was the feeling that “if the FCC isn’t going to defend its authority, why are we even here?” said Carrie Wilkinson, a campaign director for Human Rights Defense Center. (The appeals court issued a clarification order last week affirming that “we have carefully analyzed the contested provisions of the FCC’s Order and found that they cannot survive review.”)
The court’s order is not yet in effect as the Wright Petitioners have requested a rehearing.
More than 70 percent of all inmate calls are in-state, Petro claimed, so “the lack of price caps has permitted companies like Securus to charge more than $11 for a fifteen minute intrastate call for more than 60 correctional facilities in Michigan.” (A spokesman for Securus Technologies did not respond to a request for comment.)
Martin, the woman from Louisiana, said she’s already feeling the impacts. She sent HuffPost an email exchange showing that in February 2017, the local rate for Correct Solutions Group, her inmate phone company, was 25 cents per minute, plus tax. After the June court ruling, she said that jumped. Correct Solutions’ website shows a current Louisiana rate of 30 cents per minute. (Correct Solutions did not respond to a request for comment. Neither did LaSalle Corrections, which operates the Southern Correctional Center.)
“Obviously, they’re not trying to help us, they’re trying to make money,” she said.
For now, advocates are focusing on the petition for a rehearing, as well as actions on the state level. But going forward, Wilkinson said, “families unfortunately can expect that the government is going to continue to protect these companies and their profits, and not look out for the American people.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
In a special election on Tuesday, the Democratic Party maintained control of an Iowa House district that President Donald Trump won by a large margin in November.
Democrat Phil Miller, a 65-year-old veterinarian and president of the Fairfield school board, defeated Republican Travis Harris by about 9 percentage points in House District 82, which covers a southeastern stretch of the state.
Miller’s win to replace five-term Democrat Curt Hanson, whose death in June sparked the special election, would not ordinarily be notable.
But the district picked Trump over Hillary Clinton by some 21 percentage points in November, prompting Democrats to hail Tuesday’s win as a major victory. Miller also bested then-President Barack Obama’s winning 2012 re-election margin in the district by about 7 percentage points.
“DLCC is putting Republicans on notice ― tonight’s victory in a district Trump won by 21 points just last fall is a testament to Democrats’ strength in deep red districts,” Jessica Post, executive director of the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, said in a statement Tuesday night.
Miller’s win “shows that rural Iowans are rejecting an agenda that prioritizes the wealthiest at the expense of hardworking families,” Tom Perez, Democratic National Committee chairman, said in a statement Wednesday morning. 
The DLCC contributed $50,000 to Miller and sent their regional political director to help get out the vote and advise on strategy.
The DNC hosted get-out-the-vote phone-banking for Miller from its Washington, D.C., headquarters. In July, the central party body also increased its monthly contribution to state Democratic parties to $10,000 ― a one-third increase over its 2016 investment level.
Miller ran on a platform of making health care more affordable, increasing education funding and boosting worker pay. He emphasized his deep roots in the community as a veterinarian who helps many local farmers keep their livestock healthy.
Andrea Phillips, first vice chair of the Iowa Democratic Party, suggested to HuffPost that the Republican-controlled legislature’s passage of “horrible” bills had produced a backlash. Iowa, which remains under unified Republican control, gutted public sector collective bargaining rights and defunded Planned Parenthood earlier this year, Phillips noted.
“It’s looking more and more like what happened in 2016 was people who were feeling left behind and disaffected by the system wanted to shake things up a little bit,” Phillips said of Trump’s strong performance in the district. “But now they’re able to see what the policy effects of that are and both at the national level and the state level they’re not happy with that.”
Miller may have also benefited from an unforced error by Harris. The GOP candidate ran an ad attacking Miller for a school board vote allowing transgender students to use the bathroom of their choice. But Fairfield is still reeling from the June suicide of a transgender teenager, so it is possible the ad hurt Harris more than it helped.
In a series of special elections since November, Democrats have had more success at the state level than in congressional races. In addition to maintaining control of the seat in Iowa on Tuesday, Democrats have flipped four Republican-held state legislative seats that went heavily for Trump. The upset outcomes include victories in the New York and New Hampshire legislatures in May, and a pair of wins in the Oklahoma legislature in July.
Not all of the results were favorable for Democrats on Tuesday. The party failed to flip two GOP-held Missouri legislative districts in special elections, one in the House and one in the Senate. Democrat Michela Skelton was nonetheless able to win 48 percent of the vote in her failed bid for Missouri’s 50th House District. Democrats did not contest the seat in 2016, but Trump defeated Clinton there by 21 percentage points.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
President Donald Trump on Thursday lashed out at Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) over Republicans’ latest failed attempt to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.
Can you believe that Mitch McConnell, who has screamed Repeal & Replace for 7 years, couldn't get it done. Must Repeal & Replace ObamaCare!
He also implored the Kentucky lawmaker to “get back to work” and pass legislation on tax reform and infrastructure spending.
Mitch, get back to work and put Repeal & Replace, Tax Reform & Cuts and a great Infrastructure Bill on my desk for signing. You can do it!
Trump’s comments echoed similar ones he’d made the day before, rebuking McConnell’s claim that the president had been overly optimistic about health care reform.
“Senator Mitch McConnell said I had ‘excessive expectations,’ but I don’t think so,” Trump tweeted on Wednesday. “After 7 years of hearing Repeal & Replace, why not done?”
McConnell had accused Trump of having “excessive expectations” for legislative progress during remarks to a Rotary Club in Kentucky on Monday.
“Part of the reason I think that the storyline is that [lawmakers] haven’t done much is because, in part, the president and others have set these early timelines about things need to be done by a certain point,” he said.
McConnell hinted that Trump’s insistence on haste had made Congress’ failure to repeal the ACA, also known as Obamacare, look more damning than it actually was.
“Our new president, of course, has not been in this line of work before,” McConnell said Monday. “And I think he had excessive expectations about how quickly things happen in the democratic process.”
.@SenateMajLdr: "Our new @POTUS has of course not been in this line of work before, and I think had excessive expectations." pic.twitter.com/TDr9jG6J6f
Taking McConnell to the woodshed on social media apparently wasn’t Trump’s first move. Prior to the tweet’s posting, Trump phoned McConnell to complain about the senator’s remarks, The New York Times reported. Trump also reportedly vowed to continue calling for a repeal of Obamacare and urged McConnell to do so as well.
Trump had certainly projected optimism about the prospects of repeal well before there was any real chance of it. In February, he claimed repeal was on track to succeed by the middle of March. It went on to fail in the House in March, before passing in a revised form in May.
The president rarely lets criticism go unanswered. Trump’s social media director Dan Scavino lambasted McConnell on Twitter earlier on Wednesday for offering “more excuses.”
More excuses. @SenateMajLdr must have needed another 4 years - in addition to the 7 years -- to repeal and replace Obamacare..... https://t.co/6FOVBm6BQU
Trump has issued stinging indictments of trusted allies in the past, including Attorney General Jeff Sessions, his first supporter in the Senate. But this is his first public spat with McConnell, the steely tactician responsible for shepherding the remainder of Trump’s legislative agenda through the notoriously tricky Senate.
In a nod to McConnell on Tuesday, Trump endorsed McConnell’s preferred candidate in the Republican Alabama Senate primary: Sen. Luther Strange (R-Ala.), who has been occupying the seat vacated by Sessions earlier this year.
It is unclear how a chill in relations between Trump and McConnell might affect the GOP agenda. Trump is pushing a bill introduced by Sens. Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) and David Perdue (R-Ga.) that would dramatically reduce legal immigration. He also has ambitious plans to overhaul the tax code and pass a budget with deep spending cuts.
McConnell indeed presided over the narrow defeat of the so-called “skinny” Obamacare repeal bill at the end of July. McConnell appeared to be as blindsided and disappointed in the result ― made possible by Sens. Susan Collins (Maine), Lisa Murkowski (Alaska) and John McCain (Ariz.) breaking with their fellow Republicans ― as Trump was. The bill’s collapse signaled the end of efforts to repeal Obamacare for the foreseeable future.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
SEOUL ― Hours after President Donald Trump vowed to unleash “fire and fury” if North Korea threatened the United States, people in neighboring South Korea ― the most likely target of any North Korean military aggression ― showed few signs of immediate concern.  
A mere 35 miles from the North Korean border, in South Korea’s bustling capital of 10 million, Seoul residents enjoyed family strolls and picnics on Wednesday’s warm summer night. In the Hongdae neighborhood - an area popular among students at the nearby Hongik University - parks were filled with young people lounging with beers and desserts as dogs played nearby. Later in the evening, popular karaoke bars were raging as partygoers lined up to enter clubs and curbs were full with people grabbing a late night bite at street food stalls. 
“People get worried here, but people in the U.S. get way more scared about the news than we do,” said Crystal, a South Korean living in Hongdae who declined to give her last name. “The South Korean people know Kim Jong Un wouldn’t do anything stupid to risk the power he already has in his country.”
Trump’s latest threats against the North Korean government were unprofessional, Crystal said, adding “he’s emotional, and his comments are dangerous.”
Trump on Tuesday threatened to unleash “fire, fury and, frankly, power, the likes of which this world has never seen before” against North Korea, should Pyongyang continue to test and develop missiles that could deliver a nuclear weapon to American shores.
Trump’s comments came in response to reports that U.S. officials believe North Korea had reached a milestone in its nuclear weapons program and is now able to make a miniaturized nuclear warhead that could be delivered by an intercontinental ballistic missile. That stunning revelation follows claims from Pyongyang that it had successfully tested two ICBMs in past weeks.
North Korea was quick to respond to Trump’s confrontational comments, resorting to its typical bombastic language. A military spokesperson from the country’s official KCNA news agency claimed that Pyongyang was “carefully examining” plans to launch missiles at the U.S. island territory of Guam. Another military spokesman warned Trump that “war is by no means a game,” saying the “U.S. war-thirsty forces are engrossed in war hysteria without discretion.” 
On Wednesday, KCNA followed up with another statement threatening Guam and mocking Trump’s “fire and fury” rhetoric.
The miniaturization of a nuclear warhead would signify a major leap in North Korea’s nuclear program. But it remains unclear whether Pyongyang  has successfully tested miniaturized nuclear weapons and whether the country’s long-range missiles ― which experts now believe may reach the state of California ― could successfully deliver a strike on the U.S.
The Trump administration has been grappling with how to address North Korea’s nuclear program, so far relying on imposing new international sanctions, putting public pressure on China to rein in its neighbor, and threatening to use preemptive airstrikes on the country. A recent effort by the U.N. Security Council unanimously imposed harsh new sanctions on the country that could deprive the regime of $1 billion a year.
However, analysts say that if the United States were to launch a more aggressive attack, including preemptive military action, North Korea would likely retaliate against its southern neighbor - a key U.S. ally -  with thousands of short- and medium-range artillery currently deployed just north of the border. 
But in South Korea, those threats have been dulled by their frequency. The North has fired 18 missiles in 12 different test launches this year,  provoking international condemnation and Trump tweetstorms. 
Alex, an American who has lived in Seoul for two years and declined to give her last name, told HuffPost while sitting near a popular nightlife area that her family worries far more about the North Korean threats than she does. After months of bombastic language on both sides, she explained, “no one feels scared anymore.”
Amid the growing tension between the North and the U.S., South Korea’s newly elected president, Moon Jae-in, is pushing hard for diplomacy with the North, insisting that a negotiated settlement remains possible.
An official from Cheong Wa Dae, Seoul’s presidential office, said on Wednesday that North Korea’s threats should be considered more strategic, rather than aimed at inciting an actual conflict.   
“I do not agree with the claim that the Korean Peninsula faces an imminent crisis,” he said, according to South Korea’s Yonhap News Agency.
“It is true the situation on the Korean Peninsula is becoming very serious due to North Korea’s repeated provocations though many believe they are rather strategic provocations. We are working to fundamentally resolve the North Korean nuclear and missile issues at the earliest date possible, and are working with a belief that the possibility is very high,” he added.
U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, too, moved to diffuse tensions saying he believed “Americans should sleep well at night” and that he had “no concerns about this particular rhetoric of the past few days.”
White House sources told reporters not to “read too much into” Trump’s comments, describing them as “improvised” rather than the carefully vetted languages we have come to expect from former U.S. presidents.
In Seoul, a city that bubbles with activity into the early hours of the morning, sleep may come after a bottle of soju and a night of Korean barbecue. For now, South Koreans appear relatively unfazed to the presidential war of words compared to their American counterparts who are thousands of miles away, but who are also now possibly in reach of Pyongyang too.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Members of the alt-right movement are gathering this weekend to proudly display their white nationalism at a “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
In anticipation of the event, alt-right icon Richard Spencer on Friday released his doctrine for the movement, finally providing a manifesto for scared, angry, intolerant white men everywhere.
It’s pretty hard to read, and not just because the site Spencer published it on appeared to be broken for much of the day. Beyond the document’s more inflammatory points, it drips with douchebaggery and cringeworthy phrases that sound like they came straight from the mouth of a giant, anthropomorphized fedora.
Below are a few excerpts. Try not to punch yourself in the face. (It hurts. Ask Spencer.)
1. “Spirit is the wellspring of culture, and politics is downstream of that.”
2. “At stake is Europe’s very identity—whether the continent will be the locus of our people’s shared story, or become just another Islamic outpost.”
3. “We must overcome today’s debased and lonely ‘porn culture’ and return to a sexuality that is fruitful and erotic in the truest sense of the word.”
4. ”[T]he chimeras of globalism, humanitarianism, or the End of History.”
5. ”[T]he manly sport of hunting.”
6. ”‘Losing gracefully’ will eventuate in the destruction of our people and civilization.”
7. ”[T]he interests of businessmen and global merchants.”
8. “We have the potential to become nature’s steward or its destroyer.”
9. “The so-called ″68ers’ engage in childish narcissism of the most extreme kind.”
10. “Higher education—far from being a ‘right’ or a ‘pathway to the middle class’—is only appropriate for a cognitive elite dedicated to truth.”
11. “And every man, in his own way, must strive to be something more than a man.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
If it’s not painfully obvious by now that Donald J. Trump is completely unfit and already the worst U.S. president in history, it should be now.
Let’s not even get into domestic politics for the moment. Let’s ignore the fact that crops in California are rotting with no immigrants to pick them. Let’s not talk about banning transgender folks from the military at a cost upwards of $960 million. And let’s not talk about how Trump himself is making insurance premiums go up.
Let’s focus on the insanity ― the madness specifically brought upon on Friday, Aug. 11, 2017. In the midst of Trump’s “tough talk” on North Korea. The AP reported that back-channel negotiations between the U.S. and Pyongyang have been going on for months. In other words, calm down ― cooler heads will prevail. That’s how the world is supposed to work. The threats coming from North Korea are nothing new. Most experts seem to agree their primary purpose for a nuclear weapons program is a deterrent and to be taken seriously.
North Korea’s messaging also changed subtly after their threat to “envelope” Guam. The language changed, they started saying “IF provoked,” meaning they were backing off. However, Donald Trump continued to double down on his “tough” rhetoric. However, Trump made a critical error ― he doesn’t have a clue what’s going on. At the same time as Trump’s latest threat, the AP story about back-channel talks broke. All of a sudden, you had North Korea being North Korea and a U.S. president who now looked and sounded like a senile, foolish old man. Trump looks idiotic and weak.
As many generals, pundits and experts have also pointed out, neither the U.S. nor North Korea has made any military moves that would suggest either side is preparing for an imminent attack. You add in the news that it’s that time for the U.S. and South Korea to run their annual joint military exercise, and suddenly everything makes a lot more sense.
Amidst the talk of nuclear war and the reboot of Bert the Turtle, there were a few other things of note. The news of Paul Manafort’s raid and legal team shake-up made headlines, but there was also news of Trump’s longtime personal secretary being wanted for questioning in the Russia probe. That is significant. Back to this point a second.
Additionally, Trump said that Iran was not complying with the nuclear deal without providing any credible, sourced information. Unfortunately for Trump. that’s not his call to make. There are many more countries involved and a governing body. A week ago, Iran said the new sanctions imposed by the U.S. violate the deal and said they would take it to the governing body.
Finally, the most mind-boggling moment of Friday, Aug. 11, 2017 came when Trump told reporters that he had not ruled out military action in Venezuela. Both Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and UN Ambassador Nikki Haley ― standing next to Trump ― looked mortified at the suggestion. Earlier this week, National Security Advisor H.R. McMaster ruled out military action in Venezuela. Pure and simple, this is madness. There is much political turmoil in Venezuela, and the situation is dire, but why on Earth would the U.S. military go into Venezuela? Trump ― a multiple time draft-dodger ― has no idea what the U.S. military can, can’t and should or shouldn’t do in the world.
If it’s not obvious by now, let’s go back to that point about the Russia investigation. It’s heating up. Manafort got raided by the FBI, Trump’s longtime secretary is wanted for questioning and Bob Mueller has convened grand juries. About two weeks ago, the big story was that Trump was going fire Bob Mueller. That idea was met with near-universal condemnation from both sides of the aisle, with Democrats and Republicans both saying that would mark the end of the Trump presidency. Shortly after we endured the Scaramucci era and then the firing of Reince Priebus. It’s fair to assume at this point Trump knew he was screwed.
So what is a wildly unpopular president, who is sinking in the polls and under investigation for colluding with our sworn enemy, to do?
War.
Syria and Yemen are basically the world’s Wild West. But Trump wants a new war ― ANY war ― and he’ll look to start one wherever he can. Namely, Iran, North Korea or Venezuela. Trump wants a war to distract from Russia and to make himself look “strong” by certain moronic conservative standards. It’s painfully obvious now. Every time he tries to say Iran is noncompliant, he’s met with resistance and the fact he’s wrong. The entire North Korea crisis of the past week could very well have been fabricated to keep your mind off of Mueller’s investigation. This point is supported by the reveal of back-channel negotiations and China staying completely out of it.  So now it’s Venezuela. He’s even refusing calls from Venezuela’s president.
Trump is playing a dangerous game and putting millions of lives at risk by trying to start any war he can, while in the process crippling U.S. credibility in the world because he thinks this will stop or keep you from caring about the Russia investigation.
Congress, the cabinet and the vice president have the power to stop this mad man within hours and they should, because he’s willing to destroy the world to keep his life of crime and corruption from being exposed.
For more opinion and analysis, check out my politics-centric blog here: http://practicalamerican.blogspot.com/
And if you like politics, comics, movies and pop culture like I do, follow me on Twitter @kevinpowers70.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Like what you read below? Sign up for HUFFPOST HILL and get a cheeky dose of political news every evening!
If there’s one upside of the impending nuclear war, it’s the hilariously understated New York Times headlines we’ll get about it (“Radioactive Detonations Present New Challenges”). We’re 99 percent certain Senate Republicans have spent more time strategizing how to defend Mitch McConnell than they have coming up with even a moderately coherent health care package. And manchild Jared Kushner has been ordered to hammer out an Israeli-Palestinian peace, though we’re not sure if anecdotes about making out on a coach bus during a 1990s Birthright trip is the best way to end hostilities in the Holy Land. This is HUFFPOST HILL for Friday, August 11th, 2017:
BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS, FOR THEY SHALL ESCAPE FEDERAL INVESTIGATORS FOR A FEW DAYS - Would that Ron Howard could narrate this whole damn thing. Jeff Mason: ”President Donald Trump is sending his son-in-law Jared Kushner and negotiator Jason Greenblatt to the Middle East soon to meet regional leaders and discuss a ‘path to substantive Israeli-Palestinian peace talks,’ a White House official said on Friday. Deputy national security adviser Dina Powell will also be on the trip, which will include meetings with leaders from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Jordan, Egypt, Israel and the Palestinian Authority, the official said. ‘While the regional talks will play an important role, the president reaffirms that peace between Israelis and Palestinians can only be negotiated directly between the two parties and that the United States will continue working closely with the parties to make progress towards that goal,’ the official said.” [Reuters]
THIS SORT OF LANGUAGE WORKED OUT REALLY WELL FOR W - LOL, who are we kidding? No one remembers anything about the second Bush administration. Alana Horowitz Satlin: “President Donald Trump tweeted a dire new warning to North Korea on Friday, saying that the U.S. military is ‘locked and loaded’ in case its mercurial leader, Kim Jong Un, decides to ‘act unwisely.’” [HuffPost]  
Maybe we won’t get to use that “Here Today, Guam Tomorrow” headline. “China won’t come to North Korea’s help if it launches missiles threatening U.S. soil and there is retaliation, a state-owned newspaper warned Friday, but it would intervene if Washington strikes first. The Global Times newspaper is not an official mouthpiece of the Communist Party, but in this case its editorial probably does reflect government policy, experts said. China has repeatedly warned both Washington and Pyongyang not to do anything that raises tensions or causes instability on the Korean Peninsula, and strongly reiterated that idea Friday.” [WaPo’s Simon Denyer]
ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT - David B. Larter: “If you watch cable news or follow the president’s Twitter feed, you might be under the impression that the U.S. is heading to war with North Korea. But somebody, it seems, forgot to loop in the U.S. military…. ‘This may come as a shock, but the rhetoric doesn’t match reality,’ a U.S. official said. ‘[I’m] worried about a “Guns of August” scenario, where we stumble into a conflict,’ referring to the popular history book of World War I that argued the war happened because of a series of diplomatic miscues.  Out at U.S. Pacific Command, or PACOM, the command that would lead any attack on North Korea, its situation normal, according to a source familiar who spoke on background. ′Nobody at PACOM is setting their hair on fire; it’s calm and professional,′ the source said. ”It‘s really D.C. rhetoric that’s driving this whole thing.’” [Defense News]
TRUMP VS. THE STATE DEPARTMENT - This thing where federal officials have to ignore the president in order to do their jobs is bad all around. Nahal Toosi, Austin Wright and Bryan Bender: “The Trump administration has been pursuing backchannel talks with North Korea, according to two U.S. officials familiar with the matter, even as the president himself threatens to undermine such efforts with his off-the-cuff and inflammatory rhetoric toward the emerging nuclear power. The two officials confirmed to POLITICO that the State Department has been involved in diplomatic communications with North Korea, with one official adding that the National Security Council staff had also explored backchannel discussions. The Associated Press reported earlier on Friday that Joseph Yun, the U.S. envoy for North Korea policy, has been in regular contact with Pak Song Il, a senior North Korean diplomat at the country’s mission at the United Nations.” [Politico]
Like HuffPost Hill? Then order Eliot’s book, The Beltway Bible: A Totally Serious A-Z Guide To Our No-Good, Corrupt, Incompetent, Terrible, Depressing, and Sometimes Hilarious Government
Does somebody keep forwarding you this newsletter? Get your own copy. It’s free! Sign up here. Send tips/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to eliot@huffpost.com. Follow us on Twitter - @HuffPostHill
MCMASTER OF NONE - Considering tenures in the Trump administration should be measured in dog years given their intense briefness, Bannon ― should he be let go soon ― will have served roughly 521 years. Tara Palmeri: “The conservative news site Breitbart has waged a nonstop campaign against national security adviser H.R. McMaster, but so far it seems to have done the most damage to someone else: Steve Bannon…. The attacks on McMaster have put Bannon in an especially awkward position with his new boss, retired Marine Gen. John Kelly, who has been increasingly defensive of McMaster, a longtime friend and fellow general, according to interviews with 10 administration officials and people close to the White House. McMaster, who pushed Bannon off the National Security Council principals’ committee, hasn’t spoken to Bannon in weeks, one senior administration official said…. Bannon has grown more isolated without his ally Priebus [editor’s note: what?!?] in the West Wing. He remained in Washington this week while the president and other top staff have decamped to the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, New Jersey, and spends his days either holed up in his office or attending meetings.” [Politico]
YOUR DAILY DOSE OF HMMMMMMMMM - Can a thinky face emoji be one’s spirit animal?  Jonathan O’Connell: “Donald Trump’s company turned a $1.97 million profit at its opulent Trump International Hotel so far in 2017, dramatically beating its expectations and giving the first hard numbers to critics who charge that Trump is profiting from his presidency. The Trump Organization had projected that it would lose $2.1 million during the first four months of 2017 as it established a new hotel and convention business in the nation’s capital, according to newly released federal documents. Instead the hotel, with its namesake in the White House down the street, is already turning a hefty profit and charging more for its rooms than most or all of the city’s other hotels.” [WaPo]
SENATE REPUBLICANS COME TO MCCONNELL’S DEFENSE - We’re still waiting for Jeff Flake and his newfound sense of independence to take the lead on this one. Paige Lavender: “Senate Republicans are showing their support for Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) amid a downpour of criticism from President Donald Trump. GOP Sens. John Cornyn (Texas), Thom Tillis (N.C.), Johnny Isakson (Ga.) and Bob Corker (Tenn.) were among those to tweet their support for McConnell…. Antonia Ferrier, who as staff director of the Senate Republican Communications Center forms part of McConnell’s press operation, retweeted many of the lawmakers’ posts on Friday. (Ferrier has not responded to HuffPost’s request for comment.) But Matt Whitlock, communications director for Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), denied there was any kind of organized effort to get behind the Senate majority leader. ‘If you think some email went out to Senators yesterday to speak up for Leader McConnell, you’d be mistaken. They did that all on their own,’ [Whitlock tweeted].” [HuffPost]
CONGRESS ACTUALLY DOES THING - Trump learns about this and then immediately takes credit for it, right? Kellie Mejdrich: ”The House during a pro forma session Friday cleared a bipartisan bill aimed at paring down a massive backlog of appeals for veterans’ disability benefits. Passage of the measure brings to three the number of major veterans’ bills that now await President Donald Trump’s signature. In addition to the appeals bill, Congress before leaving for the August recess cleared a $2.1 billion funding patch for a private medical care access program, and the ‘Forever GI Bill,’ which extends education benefits to future veterans for an entire lifetime instead of the current 15-year window.” [Roll Call]
GONE FISHIN’ - Lots of empty desks in the federal government these days. Elana Schor: “The Senate ended its bitterly partisan health care debate last week with little-noticed harmony on confirmations, as more than five dozen picks by President Donald Trump were cleared for senior posts across the government. But that spree of approvals still leaves the president with 147 nominees awaiting Senate action — significantly more than the previous four administrations had as of early August, according to a tally kept by the independent Partnership for Public Service…. Trump also lags in naming advisers to critical positions, with 354 of the 577 top jobs tracked by the Partnership still unfilled more than six months after his inauguration.″ [Politico]
BECAUSE YOU’VE READ THIS FAR - Here’s a very chill otter.
NEGOTIATION EXPERTS NOT IMPRESSED BY TRUMP - We give it a few hours before the White House releases reaction comments from “Professors of Speaking Strongly” at a heretofore unknown university. Jennifer Bendery: “Last week, The Washington Post released transcripts of two phone calls Trump had with foreign leaders in January — one with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto and another with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull…. We asked experts in business and diplomatic negotiation to weigh in. ‘His skills are few,’ John Oesch, an associate professor at the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto, said in an email. ’He has relied on power (or perceived power), threats, and treating people very poorly to get what he wants. Most negotiation scholars agree that power is an unsustainable way to resolve conflict and a poor negotiating technique, unless you want only to take from the other party and not create any value for either side″” [HuffPost]
COMFORT FOOD
- An island in New York no one can visit ― and no, that isn’t a comment about the cost of life in Manhattan.
- How to make a sandwich with year-old ingredients.
- Making a flip book out of tattoos.
TWITTERAMA
As a Gen Xer I'll be completely unsurprised if a nuclear war is started by a Boomer and Millennial arguing over who's more important.
The day after Armageddon I look forward to the NYT tick tock saying the missile launch came as a surprise to the NSC and WH senior staff.
I know this is not a very "journalist-y" thing to say, but could we, like, not ask the President any more questions about North Korea?
Got something to add? Sen  tips/quotes/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to Eliot Nelson (eliot@huffpost.com)
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
A National Rifle Association member came under fire on Friday for suggesting that North Korea should bomb Sacramento, California, instead of Guam.
Grant Stinchfield, a Dallas-based host on NRA TV, decided to comment on growing tensions between President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
Stinchfield may have been trying to indicate that destroying the capital of California, a state with strict gun laws, would somehow make things better for gun owners, the New York Daily News notes.  
Stinchfield did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 
Media Matters reports that the NRA TV host also talked about North Korea on his show this week, referring to media criticism of Trump’s response to the nation as “deceitful” and “anti-American.” 
Many people seemed to think those phrases more accurately described the gun activist’s tweet about Sacramento. 
To all NRA members in Sacramento: Go die in a nuclear fire! That is basically what you just said.
So you want N Korea to bomb a US city?
You just advocated the murder of millions, confirming the NRA is a terrorist org and all its members must be arrested immediately. @fbi
Joking about bombing an American city shows that you really don't love your country.
Stinchfield eventually apologized.
“It was meant as a joke and I regret it,” he told the New York Daily News. “What’s going on with North Korea is no laughing matter.”
Stinchfield spoke out against inflammatory rhetoric in June, RawStory.com reports. 
“I think that when you have an unstable person, the rhetoric that is being pushed, the wink and the nod that violence is okay, actually enables these folks and is even a ‘go’ sign to go and be violent,” he said at the time. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
U.S. President Donald Trump on Friday threatened military intervention in Venezuela, a surprise escalation in Washington’s response to Venezuela’s political crisis.
Venezuela has appeared to slide toward a more volatile stage of unrest in recent days, with anti-government forces looting weapons from a military base after the installation of an all-powerful new legislative body.
“The people are suffering and they are dying. We have many options for Venezuela including a possible military option if necessary,” Trump told reporters.
More than 120 people have been killed in Venezuela and thousands arrested in over four months of unrest. The government in Caracas did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Trump’s threat.
Venezuelan authorities have long said U.S. officials were planning an invasion. A former military general told Reuters earlier this year that some anti-aircraft missiles had been placed along the country’s coast for precisely that eventuality.
In Washington, the Pentagon said it had not received any orders on Venezuela from the White House. Trump, asked if U.S. forces would lead any operation in Venezuela, declined to provide details.
“We don’t talk about it but a military operation - a military option - is certainly something that we could pursue,” Trump said.
The United States sanctioned Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro and other Venezuelan officials on July 31 after Maduro established a constituent assembly run by his Socialist Party loyalists and cracked down on opposition figures.
Washington has not placed sanctions on the OPEC member’s oil industry, which supplies America with about 740,000 barrels per day of oil.
Venezuela possesses a stockpile of 5,000 Russian-made MANPADS surface-to-air weapons, according to military documents reviewed by Reuters. It is the largest known cache of the weapons in Latin America and a source of concern for U.S. officials amid the country’s mounting turmoil.
The United Nations Security Council was briefed behind closed doors on Venezuela in May at the request of the United States. At the time, U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley said Washington was just trying to raise awareness of the situation and was not seeking any action by the 15-member Security Council.
 (Reporting by James Oliphant; Writing by Jason Lange in Washington; Editing by Toni Reinhold and Andrew Hay)
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
If President Donald Trump decided to authorize the use of nuclear weapons in a military conflict with North Korea, a possibility he has left open amid escalating tensions, it appears there’s little that could stop him.
The prospect of a nuclear flashpoint comes after a war of words between Trump and the North Korean government, with the president warning this week of “fire and fury” against Pyongyang if it continued making threats, and North Korea subsequently threatening an attack on the U.S. territory of Guam. Trump on Thursday suggested that his initial statement may not have been tough enough, and tweeted Friday that the U.S. military was “locked and loaded” should North Korean “act unwisely.”
Despite Trump’s bellicose rhetoric, diplomatic options are still available. And it’s far from certain that he would ever actually give an order for a nuclear strike.
But if he did, there’s little legally or procedurally to block him. While details of the process for launching a nuclear attack are largely kept secret, the delegation of authority is clear.
“There’s no veto once the president has ordered a strike,” Franklin Miller, who worked in the White House and Pentagon on nuclear issues, told the New York Times last year. “The president and only the president has the authority to order the use of nuclear weapons.”
The military employees charged with executing the president’s order could, theoretically, refuse to carry out the president’s order, but would risk a court martial, according to Michael O’Hanlon, a senior foreign policy fellow at the Brookings Institution.
“A president could push the button all by himself or herself, legally-and constitutionally-speaking. Physically, military personnel would need to carry out the strike of course. They could choose not to, perhaps at the instruction of the secretary of defense or the four-star officer leading Strategic Command — who together constitute the chain of command between the president and the trigger-pullers. But any military officer ignoring a presidential order would be in open insubordination, subject to dismissal and court martial,” O’Hanlon wrote in a blog post last year.
Alex Wellerstein, a historian of nuclear weapons at the Stevens Institute of Technology, said in a Washington Post op-ed last year that it’s unclear if the secretary of defense could block a nuclear attack.
“The chain of command as widely understood requires that the president order the secretary of defense to carry out a launch; the secretary serves as the conduit for implementation by the military,” he wrote. “Could the secretary of defense refuse to carry out a presidential order for a nuclear attack? The legal and constitutional aspects are not clear. The official doctrine that has been released says nothing about this question, and the cryptic public responses to official inquiries, even from Congress, indicate that it is not something that can be openly talked about.”
“Could the president simply fire the defense secretary and move on to the deputy secretary, the secretary of the Army and so on through the chain of command? Maybe. Such an action would at least slow things down, even if the refusal to carry out the order was illegal,” Wellerstein continued. “But the secretary may not even be formally required to participate — U.S. Air Force doctrine does not indicate he is a necessary part of the chain of command, and holds that the president can communicate directly with the military, in the form of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to order a nuclear strike.”
According to Vox, Trump would also have to speak with the Pentagon’s deputy director of operations and the commander of U.S. strategic command before an attack was launched. Those officials could try and convince Trump not to launch an attack, or resign. If they resigned, they’d likely be quickly replaced with officers who would carry out the president’s orders.
In the past, there have been instances where military officials have questioned a U.S. president’s ability to launch an attack or quietly tried to block it.
In 1969, President Richard Nixon wanted to put U.S. nuclear forces on high alert in order to attempt to scare the Soviet Union into thinking the U.S. was prepared to use nuclear weapons in the Vietnam War. Nixon’s Secretary of Defense, Melvin Laird, tried to delay the plan from going into action, citing ongoing readiness exercises, but was ultimately unsuccessful, according to the Times.
Five years later, in the days leading up to his resignation, Nixon’s secretary of defense, James Schlesinger, ordered that any nuclear order be cleared by him or Henry Kissinger, the secretary of state, the Times reported. The order may have been illegal, but aides at the time were concerned with Nixon’s stability and drinking and it went unquestioned.
Even questioning the president’s authority to launch a nuclear attack can lead to trouble. In 1973, Harold Hering was training to be a missile launch officer when he asked his teacher how he could be sure an order to launch a nuclear attack was lawful.
Hering told Radiolab in April he felt he was being asked to assign “blind faith values” to the president, and recalled asking what a person should do if a president giving the order wasn’t sane. Hering was dismissed from the military for even asking the question because supervisors didn’t think he could be trusted to follow the chain of command.
Congress intended for the president to have the authority to act alone when it came to nuclear weapons, according to Wellerstein. The president’s nuclear power was codified in the Atomic Energy Act, which President Harry Truman signed in 1946.
“The members of Congress who wrote the law, largely with the backing of the scientists who worked on the Manhattan Project, framed it explicitly as a question of who controls the power to use nuclear weapons: Is dropping an atomic bomb a military act or a political one?,” Wellerstein wrote in The Washington Post in December. “If it is inherently political, above and beyond a regular military tactic, then that power could not be entrusted to the military. Ultimately, the president was supposed to be the check against the Pentagon pushing to use nukes more often.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Throughout her presidential campaign, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton received daily support from her pastor and longtime friend, Rev. Bill Shillady.
Clinton, a lifelong Methodist, met the United Methodist pastor in New York in 2002. They formed a spiritual bond that would later help the politician get through one of the most grueling and divisive presidential campaigns the country has seen in years.
Shillady’s pastoring to Clinton largely took the form of daily devotionals he sent to her by email. These prayerful meditations are collected in Shillady’s new book, Strong for a Moment Like This, set to publish on August 15.
“She told me that my email was the first she opened every day and and it helped keep her grounded and centered,” Shillady said of Clinton in an interview with CNN published Thursday.
Shillady’s emails didn’t stop on election day. The pastor continued his daily devotionals into December to help Clinton through the defeat. Leaving the Javits Center ― where Clinton supporters were gathered on election day for what they hoped would be a victory rally ― Shillady knew he had a difficult task ahead of him.
“I went home to bed, and then I got up to write the hardest devotional I had to write,” he said.
On the morning of Nov. 9, Shillady sent Clinton an email with the message that “God doesn’t close one door without opening another, but it can be hell in the hallway.” His devotional that day compared her loss to Good Friday, the day Christians commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus. 
“For the disciples and Christ’s followers in the first century, Good Friday represented the day that everything fell apart,” he wrote.
He continued with a word of hope: “While death had seemingly won, Jesus knew better. When he said, ‘It is finished,’ it wasn’t meant to be a statement of concession. It was a declaration that a new day was on the way.”
First published on CNN, this is the email Shillady sent Clinton on the morning of Nov. 9, with the subject line “Sunday is Coming”:
It is Friday, but Sunday is coming. This is not the devotional I had hoped to write. This is not the devotional you wish to receive this day. While Good Friday may be the starkest representation of a Friday that we have, life is filled with a lot of Fridays.
For the disciples and Christ’s followers in the first century, Good Friday represented the day that everything fell apart. All was lost. The momentum and hope of a man claiming to be the Son of God, the Messiah who was supposed to change everything, had been executed.
Even though Jesus told his followers three days later the temple would be restored, they had no idea of what that Sunday would be. They betrayed, denied, mourned, fled and hid. They did just about everything BUT feel good about Friday and their circumstances.
For us, Friday is the phone call from the doctor that the cancer is back. It’s the news that you have lost your job. It’s the betrayal of a friend, the loss of someone dear. Friday is the day that it all falls apart and all hope is lost. We all have Fridays. But, as the saying goes, “Sunday’s coming!”
Today, you are experiencing a Friday. Your Friday is what happened in the last few weeks and last night in the tragic loss. But Sunday is coming!
Jesus completed the excruciating task of giving up his life as a sacrifice for the sins of the world. It was his faith and belief in his heavenly Father, that gave him the grace and peace to submit to Friday. While death had seemingly won, Jesus knew better. When he said, “It is finished,” it wasn’t meant to be a statement of concession. It was a declaration that a new day was on the way.
Friday is finished. Sunday is coming. Death will be shattered. Hope will be restored. But first, we must live through the darkness and seeming hopelessness of Friday.
You know one of my favorite sayings is “God doesn’t close one door without opening another, but it can be hell in the hallway.” My sister Hillary. You, our nation, our world is experiencing a black Friday. Our hope is that Sunday is coming. But it might well be hell for a while.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
In an effort to combat so-called “fake news,” Alex Jones’ Infowars has embarked on another digital media endeavor in the form of “NewsWars.”
Jones announced the launch on Twitter on Friday. The site ― newswars.com ― looks a whole lot like the website of The New York Times, which Trump has repeatedly referred to as “failing.” NewsWars features the type of content you’d expect from a deeply right-wing media outlet:
Infowars launches new media platform in the battle against fake news!>>>>  https://t.co/cBcphgf7Og  <<<<#NewsWars #RealNews #WarRoom pic.twitter.com/3RZm1lxCch
If you’re wondering what the site’s goals are, you’ll have to stay on the homepage long enough to see their various taglines. Changing every few seconds, the taglines appear to be the following:
“Battling tyranny worldwide”
“Rebooting America...”
“Restoring the 2nd Amendment”
“Making America Free Again”
“Chronicling/Documenting the fall of globalism”
“Republics thrive in the light”
“Truth explodes in the light”
“Battling corrupt elites worldwide”
“Tyranny dies in the light”
The fact that the site was launched by Alex “they’re turning the friggin’ frogs gay” Jones gives these dramatic slogans a bit of a different tone.  
The content featured on the homepage appears to be mostly InfoWars’ posts put into a different skin. Other articles on the site hail from the Daily Caller, End of the American Dream, and, most intriguingly, Reuters. None of those outlets have been accused of being “fake news” by President Donald Trump, but wire service Reuters is the most mainstream of the ones that appeared on NewsWars Friday afternoon.
Two of the top articles on NewsWars’ site currently include negative press about other news organizations ― BuzzFeed and CNN. Both of those organizations have been referred to as “fake news” by the president. 
The site also breaks itself up into different sections with titles like “U.S. News,” “World News,” “Economy,” “World at War” and “Globalism.”
Alex Jones is the same guy who has claimed that the Sandy Hook shooting was a hoax and Hillary Clinton’s team ran a child sex ring out of a pizza parlor. To say it’s ironic that he’s now launching a site devoted to fighting “fake news” is putting it lightly, so we’ll put it this way:
Godspeed on this journey, Alex Jones. Perhaps that’ll do you better than hawking taint wipes.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Yisrael Kristal, the world’s oldest man, died Friday in Israel, local media reported. He was 113.
Kristal was born to a Jewish family in 1903 in Poland and became an orphan when his father was killed near the end of World War I, his mother having died in 1910.
He moved in with his uncles and opened a candy shop with one of them in the city Lodz, in central Poland. But then Nazis invaded and occupied Poland in 1939, marking the beginning of World War II, and Kristal was moved to a ghetto in the city with his wife, Chaja Feige Frucht, and their two children.
His children died in the ghetto and he and his wife were sent to the Nazi concentration camp of Auschwitz, where she was killed.
Kristal survived the ordeal and moved permanently to Israel in 1950 with his second wife, Batsheva, with whom he had a further two children.
Last year, Kristal made headlines after finally getting to celebrate the bar mitzvah he missed out on in 1916. With his mother dead and his father drafted into the Russian army, there was no one for the boy to celebrate with. 
Instead, Kristal was able to celebrate his bar mitzvah and 113th birthday with his two surviving children, nine grandchildren and 30 great-grandchildren, The New York Times reported. 
“My father is a religious man, and it was his dream his whole life to have a bar mitzvah,” his daughter Shulamith Kristal Kuperstoch, told the Times. “It was a miracle after everything that he has been through in his life. What else can you call it?”
In March of 2016, the Guinness World Records officially named him the world’s oldest man.
“There have been smarter, stronger and better looking men than me who are no longer alive,” he told the Guinness World Records at the time. “All that is left for us to do is to keep on working as hard as we can and rebuild what is lost.”
A spokeswoman for Guinness said it was with deep “regret and great sympathy” that they announced his death.
“Guinness World Records is consulting with our expert Gerontologists to verify the potential successor and will announce the new record holder as soon as we are in a position to do so,” spokeswoman Sofia Rocher said in a statement.
Kristal was one month away from celebrating his 114th birthday. He is survived by his two younger children and his many grandchildren and great-grandchildren. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON ― Twenty Korean-American elected officials sent a letter to President Donald Trump on Thursday urging him to avoid “dangerous language” on North Korea and to instead focus on a peaceful, diplomatic solution to the tensions between Washington and Pyongyang.
“While we agree that measures must be taken to reduce or end the tensions on the Korean peninsula,” they wrote, “we respectfully urge you to reconsider the way you and your Administration are reacting to this situation by avoiding dangerous language that could end up unnecessarily escalating the conflicts even more.”
They also urge Trump to “fully staff your State Department with policy experts who understand the Korean peninsula.”
The letter marks the first time Korean-American elected officials have joined together to speak publicly on a national issue, according to Virginia Del. Mark Keam, who spearheaded the effort with Philadelphia City Council member Helen Gym.
Earlier this week, Trump threatened to rain “fire, fury … the likes of which this world has never seen before” down on North Korea. Keam and Gym, both Democrats, realized they needed to bring Korean-Americans’ perspectives to the president’s attention.
“I think it’s incredibly important, especially as I’m watching generals, war hawks and pundits talk about Asia and its people as pretty much disposable collateral damage,” Gym told HuffPost.
The letter notes that there are 1.8 million Korean-Americans in the United States. While they make up one of the fastest-growing immigrant communities in the country and the fifth-largest Asian community, there are no Korean-Americans serving in Congress.
Someone needed to share Korean-Americans’ concerns about the prospect of a new war on the Korean peninsula, Keam told HuffPost. Considering the lack of Korean-American political representation at the national level, he and Gym thought, “Why not us?”
“I kind of realized, maybe me being a state legislator, maybe I am in a position where I have a little bit of an obligation to speak, not on behalf of everybody, but at least raise a concern that I know they have,” Keam said.
A war between the U.S. and North Korea ― particularly a nuclear war ― would likely cause millions of casualties in both North and South Korea. But that point is often dismissed by the president, his White House aides and pro-war members of Congress.
Last week, Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) said that “If there’s going to be a war to stop [Kim Jong Un], it will be over there. If thousands die, they’re going to die over there. They’re not going to die here.”
Many Korean-Americans are first- or second-generation immigrants with close relatives on the Korean peninsula. They don’t see their family members as collateral damage. And they’re not only worried about potential deaths in South Korea, but in the North as well.
Gym is a second-generation Korean-American. Her father was born in Pyongyang before the Korean War, which separated him from his mother and sisters. Gym’s grandmother has since died, but her aunts may still be living in the North.
“One of the things that has been really difficult ... is the idea that somehow the North Korean people and the South Korean people are completely different entities, when, in fact, we’re one people divided by war,” Gym said.
She added, “There’s no question that I’m one of millions of Korean families who’ve seen our families torn apart by all of this. What we’re looking for is not only an end to the brinksmanship and not only a peaceful resolution; we actually want to see a unified Korea.”
Noting that she is not “naive” about the North Korean dictatorship, Gym said, “We just have to reject this narrative that somehow there’s this othering of all of North Korea, including its people, because I think it’s a danger to our humanity and civilization.”
Keam also noted that war on the Korean peninsula would threaten approximately 150,000 American citizens who currently live in South Korea. This includes 28,000 U.S. troops stationed in the Yongsan district of Seoul. (The governor of Guam has made a similar point, noting the many American citizens who live on Pacific islands.)
Citing memories of both the Korean War and the atomic bombs the U.S. dropped on Japan at the end of World War II, the elected officials write, “The cost of maintaining peace may be difficult, but it is always a better deal than paying the ultimate price of war. And when it comes to atomic or nuclear weapons, we must collectively say, ‘Never Again.’”
It’s just the beginning of Korean-American leaders’ efforts to speak out on this issue, Gym and Keam said.
“Even though we’re all Korean-Americans serving in state and local elected positions, we’ve never really come together before this week on behalf of Korean-Americans or Korean issues ― mainly because we have just diverse constituencies,” Keam said. “It would be shocking to me for a community of that caliber and that relevance to just sit there and say this doesn’t really affect us.”
Read the letter 20 Korean-American elected officials sent to Trump below.
August 10, 2017
President Donald J. Trump
The White House
1600 Pennsylvania Ave, NW
Washington, DC 20500
Dear Mr. President:
We are a group of Korean American elected officials who serve at the state and local levels of governments throughout the United States.  Like all Americans, we are unnerved by North Korea’s continuing display of military actions and saber rattling rhetoric, and we fully recognize the threat that this regime presents to its own citizens and to the entire world.
There are more than 1.8 million Americans of Korean ancestry living in the United States today, many of whom we represent as constituents. While we agree that measures must be taken to reduce or end the tensions on the Korean peninsula, we respectfully urge you to reconsider the way you and your Administration are reacting to this situation by avoiding dangerous language that could end up unnecessarily escalating the conflicts even more.
The Republic of Korea is one of the world’s great democracies and a strong economic and military partner for the United States. It is also one of the most populated regions of the world, with 51 million people living in South Korea and 25 million people living – mostly unwillingly – under authoritarian rule in North Korea.
South Korea’s capital city, Seoul, has a population of 10 million living just 35 miles from the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ).  Among them are nearly 30,000 American military service members and civilians who work closely with the Republic of Korea’s government to protect our mutual interests. There are also over 130,000 American citizens who live, work or study in Korea today.
On a peninsula this small in geography, it is clear that no military action involving “fire and fury like the world has never seen” can be targeted solely at the North Korean regime. Any such attack will be absolutely devastating to the entire peninsula and surrounding regions, not to mention the long-term effects of destabilized international relations, destroyed communities, and depressed economies.
Mr. President, this is not a time for any side to escalate the language of warfare and to introduce the threat of nuclear weapons.
As Korean Americans, we have clear and deep memories of the last time military conflict arose on the Korean peninsula. Over 36,000 Americans gave their lives to fight against communism. Millions of Korean families live with collective memories of both the American and Korean bloodshed and the unending yearning for those loved ones who were lost or separated during the three year war.
As Asian Americans, we are also painfully aware of the unspeakable tragedy and destruction from weapons of mass destruction deployed in a small region, as we reflect upon the 72nd anniversary of Hiroshima and Nagasaki this week.
If we have learned any lessons from WWII, it is that the cost of maintaining peace may be difficult, but it is always a better deal than paying the ultimate price of war. And when it comes to atomic or nuclear weapons, we must collectively say, “Never Again.”
That is why we ask you to pursue all diplomatic options and strategies and to fully staff your State Department with policy experts who understand the Korean peninsula, so that, working with all stakeholders, we can find a workable and permanent peaceful resolution.
Sincerely,
Helen Gym                                             Mark Keam
Councilmember At Large                          Delegate, Dist. 35
Philadelphia, PA                                      Virginia House of Delegates
Susan Shin Angulo, Freeholder, Camden County, NJ
Mark Chang, Delegate, Dist. 32, Maryland House of Delegates
Christopher Chung, Councilmember, Borough of Palisades Park, NJ
Grace Han Cunningham, Councilmember At Large, Herndon, VA
Governor’s Advisory Commission on Asian Pacific American Affairs, Pennsylvania
Patty Kim, Representative, Dist. 103, Pennsylvania House of Representatives
Ron Kim, State Assemblyman, Dist. 40, New York State Assembly
Peter Kwon, Councilmember, SeaTac, WA
Jin Lee, School Board Member, Maine Township D207, IL
Sylvia Chang Luke, State Representative, Dist. 25, HI
David Moon, Delegate, Dist. 20, Maryland House of Delegates
Ilryong Moon, School Board Member At Large, Fairfax County, VA
David E. Ryu, Councilmember, District 4, Los Angeles, CA
Dennis Shim, Councilmember Ridgefield, NJ
Marilyn Strickland, Mayor, Tacoma, WA
Dr. Young Seok Suh, Former Councilmember, Crescenta Valley, CA
Daniel Park, Councilmember, Borough of Tenafly, NJ
Mark Park, Councilmember, Englewood Cliffs, NJ
Sam Park, Representative, Dist. 101, Georgia House of Representatives
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON ― Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai backed off from Obama-era regulations that sought to make phone calls more affordable for inmates but that also hurt one of Pai’s former clients: Securus Technologies, an inmate calling service provider.
The Human Rights Defense Center, an inmate advocacy group that brought Pai’s disclosure about his work for Securus to light this week, finds the connection troubling. However, an FCC spokesperson told HuffPost that his work “was cleared through the ethics office.” 
Pai listed Securus as one of the “few clients” that he did a “limited amount of work for” between April 25, 2011, and May 6, 2012, as a partner with the law firm Jenner & Block. (He also listed AOL, HuffPost’s parent company.) Pai disclosed his client list to the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation in 2011 before he was confirmed as an FCC commissioner, and again in 2017 for his pending confirmation as chairman. Jenner & Block and Securus did not respond to HuffPost inquiries about the nature of Pai’s work.
When inmates and family members stay in touch, that can lower recidivism and assist with rehabilitation. Until the 1990s, inmates could make calls at about the same rates as other people, according to The New York Times. But over the next few decades, companies like Securus made enormous profits by charging inmates and their families more money. 
Securus warned in 2015 that an Obama-era proposal capping inmate phone rates and fees could be a “business-ending event.” After the rule passed in a 3-2 vote (Pai dissented), providers, including Securus, sued to overturn it.
About a week after Pai became chairman, the FCC said it would no longer defend the key part of that rule. When the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit struck down the Obama-era regulations on in-state calls from jails and prisons in June, advocates blamed the decision in part on the FCC’s retreat. (The D.C. Circuit majority said the provisions could not survive legal review.)
The lack of price caps has permitted companies like Securus to charge more than $11 for a 15-minute intrastate call from more than 60 correctional facilities in Michigan, according to Lee Petro, pro bono counsel for a group of prisoner advocates known collectively as the Wright Petitioners. (Petro declined to comment on the filing.) 
The Human Rights Defense Center claims Pai’s prior relationship is a conflict of interest and is asking Pai to recuse himself from all actions and decisions involving Securus and other inmate phone service providers. They are also asking Pai to disclose any financial relationship he may have with these companies.
It’s not so uncommon for FCC officials, both Republican and Democrat, to have prior ties with companies they oversee. Pai, for example, previously worked as an attorney for Verizon, HuffPost’s other parent company. In his disclosure, Pai noted that during his time working with Securus and other companies, he did not appear before the FCC, Congress, executive agencies or in any court in connection with that work.
But while Pai’s work with Verizon is well-documented, the newly publicized Securus tie raises questions, in part because inmate calling services are dominated by only a few providers.
“Hopefully the [Senate] committee will ask for more information about what exactly he did for them before holding a confirmation vote,” Jordan Libowitz, a spokesman for Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, told HuffPost. “For there to be conflict, there needs to be more than just the previous relationship. It’s really important to know what that relationship actually entailed.” Pai will need to be reconfirmed by the Senate before the end of the year to continue as FCC chairman.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Senate Republicans are showing their support for Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) amid a downpour of criticism from President Donald Trump.
GOP Sens. John Cornyn (Texas), Thom Tillis (N.C.), Johnny Isakson (Ga.) and Bob Corker (Tenn.) were among those to tweet their support for McConnell.
Passing POTUS's legislative agenda requires a team effort .  No one is more qualified than Mitch McConnell to lead Senate in that effort.
Antonia Ferrier, who as staff director of the Senate Republican Communications Center forms part of McConnell’s press operation, retweeted many of the lawmakers’ posts on Friday. (Ferrier has not responded to HuffPost’s request for comment.)
But Matt Whitlock, communications director for Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), denied there was any kind of organized effort to get behind the Senate majority leader.
If you think some email went out to Senators yesterday to speak up for Leader McConnell, you'd be mistaken. They did that all on their own.
Trump has leveled several attacks against McConnell since Senate Republicans failed to pass a bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Even after he left for vacation last week, the president tweeted about McConnell multiple times, telling him to “get back to work.”
Senator Mitch McConnell said I had "excessive expectations," but I don't think so. After 7 years of hearing Repeal & Replace, why not done?
Can you believe that Mitch McConnell, who has screamed Repeal & Replace for 7 years, couldn't get it done. Must Repeal & Replace ObamaCare!
Mitch, get back to work and put Repeal & Replace, Tax Reform & Cuts and a great Infrastructure Bill on my desk for signing. You can do it!
While speaking to reporters on Thursday, Trump suggested he might ask McConnell to step down from his position in Senate leadership if the senator fails to deliver soon on health care, tax reform or infrastructure legislation.
On Wednesday, McConnell told reporters that Trump has “excessive expectations” for lawmakers, likely because of his lack of political experience.
“Our new president, of course, has not been in this line of work before. And I think he had excessive expectations about how quickly things happen in the democratic process,” McConnell said while speaking at an event in Kentucky. “So part of the reason I think people feel we’re underperforming is because too many artificial deadlines — unrelated to the reality of the complexity of legislating — may not have been fully understood.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
 
A large number of news stories and blog posts have just appeared on whether President Trump – or any president – has the authority to launch nuclear weapons without permission or counsel, and over the objection of top advisors.
The short answer is yes, a president has sole authority to order a nuclear strike. Even in a moment of inebriation, insanity, miscalculation, stress, emotional distress or anger, the president of the United States need not ask for anyone’s permission to launch a first strike.
Earlier this year, Bloomberg Politics published an explanation by Bruce Blair, a former Minuteman missile-launch officer now at Princeton University, of the procedure for launching a nuclear strike. First, the president convenes his military and civilian advisors, talks with other world leaders, and perhaps asks for a briefing on strike options from the U.S. Strategic Command. All of this lasts about a minute.
Next, a senior officer in the Pentagon’s war room authenticates that it’s the president ordering the launch. The officer gives the president a code. The president takes out the laminated card that he or his military aide carry at all times with the code he needs to complete the verification.
Then the National Military Command Center prepares a launch order that contains a war plan and a launch time, along with more authentication codes. It sends out an encoded and encrypted message about the length of a tweet. By now, two or three minutes have passed.
When crews at missile launch sites receive the message, they open safes to get a sealed authentication code. They compare the codes they received with the launch order. Two officers in each of five launch crews enter the war plan into their computers. With a few more keystrokes, the crews unlock the missiles, then both officers in each crew turn the launch keys they recovered from the safe. The five two-man crews must turn their keys simultaneously. This sends five “votes” for launch. Only two votes are necessary, so a mutiny by up to three of the other crews will not prevent the launch. Once the missiles are in the air, they cannot be called back.
This entire process takes about five minutes, or about 15 minutes on submarines.
As the Congressional Research Service confirmed last year, a president has sole authority to authorize the use of nuclear weapons and “does not need the concurrence of either his military advisors or the U.S. Congress.”
Recently, a podcast on Radiolab told the story of an Air Force Major Herald Hering, a former Minuteman missile crewman and one of the officers that would have to execute a launch. Hering knew that a rigorous protocol was in place along the chain of command, but he asked a question: “How can I know that an order I receive to launch my missiles came from a sane president?” As one writer put it, the entire system of protocols is “concerned with the president’s identity, not his sanity.”
To his superiors, Hering’s question indicated that he might have doubt at moment he was supposed to turn his key. The Air Force discharged him on grounds that he failed to demonstrate “acceptable qualities of leadership.” When Hering appealed and appeared before an Air Force Board of Inquiry, the Board decided that whether or not a launch order was valid and lawful was beyond the crew’s need to know. Hering argued, “I feel I do have a need to know because I am a human being. It is inherent in an officer’s commission that he has to do what is right in terms of the needs of the nation despite any orders to the contrary. You really don’t know at the time of key turning whether you are complying with your oath of office.”
Nevertheless, the board upheld his discharge.
So what, if anything, should be changed to ensure that the president of the United States makes a rational decision in ordering a nuclear strike (assuming for a moment that any decision to start a nuclear war can be rational)?
Two Democrats, Rep. Ted Lieu of California and Senator Edward Markey of Massachusetts, have authored a bill that would require a declaration of war by Congress before a president could launch a first strike. Congress’s approval would not be necessary for a president to launch a retaliatory strike.
But Congress is notoriously slow at making big decisions. There could be a case, God forbid, when a president has firm intelligence that another country is about to launch a nuclear attack against the U.S. Should the president have to get an okay from Congress before launching a preemptive strike?
These are the very difficult questions that occur in a world in which many nations become nuclear powers. A more fundamental question has been on the table unresolved for generations: How do we free the world from these weapons and the danger that someone will use them? The most important concern about sanity is why we have these weapons at all.
Author’s note: Thanks to Radiolab, Wikipedia and Bloomberg Politics for the reporting I drew on here.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
The foreign policy that President Trump previewed as a candidate – lots of rhetorical bluster with no actual policy ideas behind it – has metastasized as advertised during the first six months of his administration. Nowhere is that more apparent than in Trump’s approach to the growing nuclear weapons capability of Kim Jong Un’s despotic regime in North Korea. This week, Trump promised to rain “fire and fury” down on Pyongyang if Kim continued to threaten North America with a possible future ICBM-mounted nuclear warhead. As per usual, this threat had no specifics behind it, and was immediately backtracked by Trump’s Secretary of State, who feared an escalation of words that could spin into an escalation of actions.
But as a frequent and pointed critic of our president’s foreign policy (or lack thereof), let me give Trump credit for getting halfway there on a workable North Korea policy. For years, we thought North Korea was a decade away from being able to threaten America with a nuclear weapon. But Kim Jong Un has rapidly increased the pace of testing and development of rockets and nuclear weapons. In the face of this new evidence, we believe that the threat could mature before the end of Trump’s first term.
The most crucial question that remains is that of Kim Jong Un’s state of mind. There are, of course, two basic possibilities: either Kim is a rational actor who wants nuclear weapons as a means of securing his survival and will not actually use them because he knows the counterattack would be the end of his regime; or he is an actual madman and could be provoked into using the weapon despite the apocalyptic consequences that would follow. A sensible U.S. policy toward North Korea needs to acknowledge that both scenarios could be true and seek to counter both possible interpretations of Kim’s intentions.
If you believe the first interpretation, then tough talk – backed up by a credible military threat – is not an irresponsible policy tool. If Kim Jong Un is a rational actor, then he will not use the weapon out of fear of his own destruction. Thus, he needs to know that if he ever does something insane like launching a weapon at Guam, we have the capability and the willingness to respond disproportionately. Now, as could be expected, Trump mishandled the tough talk by using over-the-top language that seems more suited to Game of Thrones than modern international diplomacy. And his claim that in six short months he has dramatically upgraded America’s nuclear arsenal is both false and easily knowable as pure braggadocio since that upgrade could not happen in such a short timeframe and without funds or authorization from Congress. But Pyongyang does need to know that we are serious about a military response if the regime ever decides to test us with an attack on or near the U.S. or our treaty allies (like South Korea or Japan).
The problem is that tough talk and credible military options are only half of the necessary policy. The other half – an actual policy designed to protect our allies and pursue a path to halt North Korea’s nuclear weapons program – seems to be intentionally non-existent right now.  And if you are worried that Kim Jong Un might launch a weapon of mass destruction, then you either have to use the military option preemptively (assuring the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Koreans) or have a political and diplomatic strategy to either end the regime or end their pursuit of an ICBM-mounted nuclear weapon.
Here are some of the most important components of the second missing half of a tough and sensible North Korea strategy.
1. Name an Ambassador to South Korea and staff the senior State Department positions that deal with North Korea. Overall, Trump’s decision to gut the State Department and leave dozens of key posts unfilled has sent a chilling message to the world that the United States is engaged in a massive, unprecedented withdrawal from its position of global leadership. Nowhere are the consequences of this policy more disastrous than on the Korean peninsula. The failure of Trump to appoint an Ambassador to Seoul has symbolic ramifications – the North Koreans take it as a sign that the United States is disengaging from political and security questions on the peninsula. But no top diplomat in South Korea also makes it much harder for the United States to work hand in hand with Seoul to counteract the increased sabre rattling from Kim Jong Un.
It’s just as unthinkable that we’re seven months into President Trump’s term and he has not nominated anyone for two of the most important posts in the State Department – the Assistant Secretary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs and the Assistant Secretary for Non-Proliferation. If there is a diplomatic path out of this crisis, it’s unlikely that a president with no diplomatic experience and a Secretary of State with no diplomatic experience can find it alone. These two key positions are vitally necessary to find a path to peace. You simply cannot solve this problem if you have no one to solve it. Unbelievably, that’s the position we are in right now.
2. Make a run at Iran-style multilateral economic and political sanctions. Yes, North Korea is not Iran. When the early framework of the Iran Deal was being negotiated, the Supreme Leader didn’t yet have a bomb and was deeply worried about the viability of his regime. He was willing to deal in order to gain economic security. Kim Jong Un appears to have decided that his greater threat lies from outside and is willing to economically starve his people in order to get a weapon that keeps his foreign enemies at bay. But why not test this assumption and see how domestically secure Kim Jong Un really is? Quietly, during President Obama’s first term, he sat across the table from world leader after world leader and asked for one thing – sanctions on the Iranian regime. Without fanfare, countries slowly obliged, and Obama built up a backbreaking multilateral network of sanctions that ultimately forced the Iranians to the negotiating table. Admittedly, this seems to be an impossibility for Trump, who has alienated world leaders at a blinding pace since being sworn in. And with nobody home at the State Department, it’s hard to imagine this kind of effort working. But it’s not too late. Kim Jong Un may not respond to crippling sanctions like Iran did. But North Korea has come to the negotiating table before, and with time running out, the cost of trying this path does not outweigh the risk of it failing.
3. Drop the demand that negotiations must come with preconditions. Holding the position that you won’t negotiate until certain steps are taken by your adversary is a strategy that rarely works. It makes for good tough guy talk, but unless you have the upper hand, it just telegraphs that you’re afraid of sitting down. Again, the Iran nuclear negotiations offer a template. Dropping preconditions doesn’t mean you don’t drive a tough bargain when the talks begin. And it allows for small incremental agreements like the one that started the Iran negotiations. Tie an economic noose around North Korea and then extend an open offer to talk. The administration might be surprised at the answer they receive.
4. Ramp up the information campaign inside North Korea. Trump’s deconstruction of the State Department comes with a myriad of costs to U.S. national security. But at the top of that list is the lost opportunity to tip the political balance in North Korea away from the oppressive regime. My friend Tom Malinowski, former Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights, made a compelling case for how the United States, through increased State Department capacities, could ramp up the flow of information to the North Korean citizenry, giving them the ability to see the fraud that is being perpetuated on them by Kim Jong Un. Malinowski makes the case that the fall of Kim Jong Un is frankly more likely than the leader willingly giving up nuclear weapons, and though “regime change” doesn’t have to be official U.S. policy, helping set the conditions for the fall of Kim might be our best long-term strategy. The North Korean regime’s only hope of maintaining complete control over the country rests on its ability to keep the citizenry in the dark and strictly control what they see and hear about the world. Senator Rob Portman and I passed legislation last year establishing a new counter-propaganda office at the State Department. Inexplicably, Secretary of State Tillerson is now refusing to accept funding to help stand it up. This is the kind of center that could help counteract the Pyongyang’s misinformation campaign inside North Korea and provide the North Korean people with the truth ― that they don’t need to live the way they do.
5. Put someone other than Jared Kushner in charge of China. Foreign policy pundits often overstate how much influence China has over Kim Jong Un, but it’s not unfair to say that without China on board, no North Korea strategy will work. Right now, President Trump has no one on his senior national security leadership team with any experience in China, or for that matter, in the entire Pacific region. The three generals close to Trump – Mattis, McMaster, and Kelly – all earned their stars through Middle Eastern combat. None of the three ever served in a senior role in Asia. Neither Tillerson nor his new Deputy Secretary have any China experience. Trump is right to prioritize North Korea with the Chinese right now, but it appears that Trump’s main lines of communication with the Chinese are his Twitter feed and his son-in-law, who has zero foreign policy experience. This is outrageous and dangerous. An experienced China hand who can order our priorities with China and guide a more functional relationship is more necessary now than ever.
North Korea isn’t an easy problem to solve. There is no policy that has a high likelihood of success. But failure is virtually guaranteed if all you have in your arsenal is Hollywood western style threats and a policy that is dictated by the impromptu whims of the president’s Twitter finger. This problem requires a thoughtful approach with unity and clarity among the United States, diplomats and our allies. Keeping our country safe must be Washington’s top priority. America needs to be tough and smart at the same time – before it’s too late.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON ― Donald Trump is the best at making deals. The best! He’ll tell you himself by tweeting unsolicited advice on how to win in a negotiation or bragging about his book The Art of the Deal (which he didn’t actually write, but whatever).
Now we can see for ourselves how the president puts his deal-making skills to work. Last week, The Washington Post released transcripts of two phone calls Trump had with foreign leaders in January — one with Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto and another with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull. It’s a rare window into how Trump works his magic with people one-on-one when he doesn’t think anyone is watching.
There were no deals made on either call. Trump threatened Peña Nieto, a top U.S. ally, with tariffs on Mexican goods and then warned he’d never meet with him unless he stopped saying publicly that Mexico won’t pay for Trump’s promised border wall. In a heated exchange with Turnbull, also a key U.S. ally, Trump vented about the “stupid deal” the United States had made with Australia to accept refugees into the country. He all but hung up on Turnbull in the end.
Is this as bananas as it sounds? Or maybe Trump is deploying clever, art-of-the-deal tactics that casual observers might miss?
We asked experts in business and diplomatic negotiation to weigh in.
“His skills are few,” John Oesch, an associate professor at the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto, said in an email. “He has relied on power (or perceived power), threats, and treating people very poorly to get what he wants. Most negotiation scholars agree that power is an unsustainable way to resolve conflict and a poor negotiating technique, unless you want only to take from the other party and not create any value for either side.”
Anthony Wanis-St. John, an associate professor at the School of International Service at American University, said Trump’s approach was “very transactional,” a style that may have served him well in commercial real estate but will flop in international relations.
“He’s treating Peña Nieto as if he were a merchant and he were a souvenir purchaser haggling for a price,” said Wanis-St. John. “This is ill-suited for complex policy decisions that require much more persuasion and problem solving. It makes Trump look a little venal, a little weak. Not like the president of a great power.”
But some saw a deeper level of negotiation taking place, even in a constructive way. Daniel Shapiro, an associate professor of psychology at Harvard Medical School and director of the Harvard International Negotiation Program, said if you look past each leader’s stated position and consider his underlying interests, there’s a lot of overlap.
With the border wall, for example, Trump and Peña Nieto disagreed on everything about it, but both worried about losing credibility if they budged in their positions. As for accepting refugees from Australia, Trump worried about looking foolish for taking them in after imposing his travel ban, and Turnbull didn’t want to be strong-armed into breaking a U.S.-Australia agreement. The common denominator, says Shapiro, is saving face.
“Nobody wants to feel taken. Effective negotiators recognize that once we understand each other’s underlying interests, we can truly invent options for mutual gain,” said Shapiro, who wrote the book Negotiating the Nonnegotiable: How to Resolve Your Most Emotionally Charged Conflicts. “These leaders behind closed doors need to feel comfortable sharing information with one another so they can start figuring out options that address each of their constituency’s interests.”
There’s no question, though, that Trump’s default is bullying people to get his way. One of the first stories he tells in The Art of the Deal is about a call he made to a bank executive to try to help an older woman, Mrs. Hill, whose farm was facing foreclosure. Her husband had killed himself in the hopes his life insurance would save the farm, but it turned out it wasn’t enough. The bank executive told Trump the bank was moving ahead with auctioning off the farm, and there was nothing he could do about it.
“That really got me going,” Trump writes. “I said to the guy, ‘You listen to me. If you do foreclose, I’ll personally bring a lawsuit for murder against you and your bank, on the grounds that you harassed Mrs. Hill’s husband to death.’ All of a sudden the bank officer sounded very nervous and said he’d get right back to me. Sometimes it pays to be a little wild.”
His belligerent approach to negotiating is an example of what experts call distributive bargaining — making outrageous demands and hoping the other side gives ground in a zero-sum situation, says Fen Osler Hampson, a distinguished fellow at the Centre for International Governance Innovation in Canada. The problem with applying this tactic to something like, say, threatening tariffs on Mexican imports is that it would damage the U.S. economy, too, by driving up prices of products.
“As we’ve heard from American companies who do business across the border, it’s going to hurt U.S. jobs. You don’t negotiate by shooting yourself in your own foot,” said Hampson. “It’s a pretty weak weapon. Choose your weapons carefully.”
For those with firsthand experience in international diplomacy, a stunning detail from the president’s calls was that his team didn’t appear to bring him up to speed on the issues relevant to the world leaders he was talking to. For example, Trump told Peña Nieto that he could help him fight organized crime by sending the U.S. military into Mexico.
“Anyone who knows anything about the U.S.-Mexico relationship knows that the idea of U.S. troops on Mexican soil is a no-no,” said Arturo Sarukhán, who served as the Mexican ambassador to the U.S. from 2007 to 2013. “So no one briefed the president and said, ‘This is the type of stuff you can say, this is no-go territory?’ That’s troubling.”
Asked how he would respond to Trump’s push for a border wall if he were still the Mexican ambassador, Sarukhán said he would never challenge how the United States wants to handle its security matters. But he would make it clear to the Trump administration that a wall would tank relations with Mexico.
“All the issues in Trump’s campaign ― the qualifications of Mexicans as rapists and ‘bad hombres’ and the wall ― have poisoned the well of public perception of the U.S. in Mexico,” he said. “This is where I think Trump has had a more detrimental effect on the U.S.-Mexico relationship. He has turned the clock back on how citizens on both sides need to understand they are co-stakeholders.”
Besides, have walls ever really been effective? Even the former Mexican ambassador knows the White Walkers will eventually clear that 700-foot wall of icy magic in “Game of Thrones” and try to wipe out the human race.
“Oh, they’re going to get past it. We can see that coming,” Sarukhán predicted. “I’d love to see Daenerys and Jon Snow slugging it out with dragons and dragon glass.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
You’ve probably heard the story. It’s said that in ancient Rome, the emperor had a member of the Praetorian Guard who, amid all the pomp and all the accolades, would stand behind him and murmur: “Remember, Caesar, thou art mortal.”
Sadly, the Little Caesar who currently rules the United States from the nearest Trump golf course is instead surrounded by guards who murmur enthusiastically, “Anything you say, boss. You’re a genius!”
The new chief of staff, Marine vet John Kelly, allegedly was supposed to rein this kind of stuff in, but while the meetings now may run more smoothly, his boss continues tweeting any nonsense he hears from Fox & Friends, declares himself pretty much the greatest president ever and casually threatens to start lobbing missiles at North Korea because he seems to think it would be cool to see what a thermonuclear fireball looks like. Locked and loaded indeed.
VICE News reported on Tuesday, “Twice a day since the beginning of the Trump administration, a special folder is prepared for the president…”
You can’t make this stuff up. One glimmer of hope in all this pandemonium is that more and more, some Republican members of Congress finally seem willing to challenge their misbegotten king. Witness, for example, the three GOP senators standing up against the health care travesty, the opposition to rumors of Trump firing Attorney General Sessions or special counsel Mueller and the overwhelming passage of new sanctions against Russia — legislation Trump was forced to sign although it clearly gave him a conniption.
Even Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, that staunchest of company men, told the crowd at a Rotary Club meeting back home in Kentucky this week that he thinks Trump doesn’t understand how Congress works, and “had excessive expectations about how quickly things happen in the democratic process, and so part of the reason I think people feel we’re underperforming is because of too many kind of artificial deadlines unrelated to the reality of the complexity of legislating.”
This quickly prompted belligerent comments from Trump and a volley of poison pen tweets taunting the Senate’s inability to repeal Obamacare, starting with this one:
“Senator Mitch McConnell said I had ‘excessive expectations,’ but I don’t think so. After 7 years of hearing Repeal & Replace, why not done?”
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) Aug. 9, 2017
Meanwhile, The New York Times reported over the weekend that “President Trump’s first term is ostensibly just warming up, but luminaries in his own party have begun what amounts to a shadow campaign for 2020 — as if the current occupant of 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. weren’t involved.
The “sheer disarray surrounding the presidency” has “prompted Republican officeholders to take steps unheard of so soon into a new administration.” That includes Vice President Mike Pence, who The Times notes already has set up a fundraising committee and hired a new chief of staff with more experience running campaigns than governing.
The Times piece created such a stir that Pence immediately denounced it as “disgraceful and offensive to me, my family, and our entire team,” prompting The Washington Post to ask, why did the story make the vice president so hot and bothered? What is he so touchy about? Hmmm…
The fact is, the catastrophe that the Republican Party has brought down on itself with this president is of such a magnitude that it may never recover, even if Mike Pence ends up taking over ahead of schedule. Party leaders are looking at Trump’s poll numbers (plus a Real Clear Politics generic poll that shows Americans now favoring a Democratic Party-controlled Congress by almost 9 points). And they’re experiencing the genuine dysfunction at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue.
So far, the few GOP higher-ups who publicly have expressed concern about all this seem to have done so more out of frustration and expedience than principle. The one exception would appear to be Arizona’s US Sen. Jeff Flake, who made a splash the last couple of weeks with his book, Conscience of a Conservative, a title appropriated from a famous tome by Barry Goldwater back in the ’60s.
“Never has a party so quickly or easily abandoned its core principles as my party did in the course of the 2016 campaign,” Flake writes.
The choice of Trump as candidate and president was a “Faustian bargain,” Flake declares:
Yet as Esquire’s Charlie Pierce and others have pointed out, despite Flake’s rhetoric, he has voted with the Trump agenda, such as it is, 95 percent of the time.
But that doesn’t wash with this president; Flake has mouthed off and now must sleep with the fishes (remember, too, that Flake refused to endorse Trump’s candidacy).
The president has encouraged a primary challenge to Flake and met with three contenders. What’s more, Robert Mercer, the hedge fund billionaire who contributed heavily to the Trump campaign, is giving $300,000 to a super PAC backing Flake opponent Kelli Ward.
(You’ll recall that Dr. Ward recently suggested that cancer-stricken John McCain, to whom she lost a 2016 primary, should “step away as quickly as possible” and resign from the Senate. She added that she hoped the governor would consider appointing her to fill out McCain’s term. Classy.)
Republicans should forget about any White House loyalty to the party, especially now that Reince Priebus is gone. Trump has none — witness not only his attacks on incumbent senators Flake and McConnell but on any Republican not toeing the line or groveling in his general direction. Also note how he refers to Republicans as “they” and “them,” not “we.”
Plus, there’s a set of poll numbers he sees, too — as unpopular as he is, voters like Congress even less. According to a new CNN poll, “only about a quarter of all Americans (24 percent) judge the Republican Congress a success so far. President Trump gets the approval of 38 percent of Americans.”
Even as he mocks them, most of Republican leadership continues to grovel at the Trump shrine as they hope to continue the “sugar high,” as Jeff Flake calls it, that carried them to victory last year and which they keep thinking will advance their moribund agenda. But Trump’s base may not be buying it and already is turning on them. Trump sees this and will seize upon it as any opportunistic creature does with easy prey. Add to this lust for self-preservation an ego the size of a planet that takes credit for everything and blame for nothing.
And so, this scenario: Within months, Donald Trump has so riven the GOP that there is no unity left among Republicans except for those who see him as the second coming. Party members who attempt to field a Never Trump movement are as hapless as they were in 2016 and provide only token opposition to the careening Trump steamroller, despite its ever-expanding catalogue of catastrophe. If he hasn’t been drummed out of office, the Donald abides.
But Trump has no use for Republicans anymore, even if they provide him cover on Capitol Hill and a network of connections to deep pockets. He will announce the creation of a third party that will drumbeat for the re-election of Trump/Pence, incite the base and field its own slate of congressional candidates in 2020, perhaps even as soon as 2018.
It will, of course, be called the Trump Party.
You’ve been warned.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
President Donald Trump tweeted a dire new warning to North Korea on Friday, saying the U.S. military is “locked and loaded” in case the country’s mercurial leader, Kim Jong Un, decides to “act unwisely.”
Military solutions are now fully in place,locked and loaded,should North Korea act unwisely.  Hopefully Kim Jong Un will find another path!
Speaking to reporters Friday afternoon, Trump said the meaning of his words should be apparent.
“What I said is what I mean,” Trump said. “Those words are very, very easy to understand.”
Trump again warned Kim not to make a move against the United States.
“If he utters one threat, which he’s been uttering for years... he will truly regret it, and he will regret it fast,” the president said.
Trump and North Korea have been locked in a war of words for days, beginning with Trump’s promise to unleash “fire and fury” on the isolated communist nation, which in July completed its first successful test of an intercontinental ballistic missile.
“He has been very threatening, beyond a normal statement,” Trump said of Kim on Tuesday, in comments that were reportedly off the cuff. “And as I said, they will be met with fire, fury and frankly, power, the likes of which this world has never seen before.”
North Korea responded hours later by accusing the U.S. of “war hysteria” and threatening to strike Guam. Trump then told reporters on Thursday that his previous threats may not have been “tough enough.”
Should North Korea attack the U.S. or one of its allies, Trump said that “things will happen to them like they never thought possible, OK? He’s been pushing the world around for a long time.”
Trump’s comments are notably more aggressive than the messaging from many in his administration, including Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary James Mattis, who have said they will continue to pursue diplomatic talks rather than military action. 
Foreign policy experts have criticized the president’s language as “reckless” and “dangerous.”
“That is about the stupidest and most dangerous statement I have ever heard an American president make,” John Mecklin, editor-in-chief of Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, told HuffPost following Trump’s “fire and fury” remark.
“It increases the likelihood of nuclear war,” Mecklin added. “And those kind of threats are just not something an American president should make.”
This story has been updated with additional remarks from Trump. Paige Lavender contributed to this report.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
A former Republican senator is calling on lawmakers to use the 25th Amendment to kick President Donald Trump out of office. 
“He is sick of mind, impetuous, arrogant, belligerent and dangerous,” Gordon Humphrey, who represented New Hampshire from 1979 to 1990, said in a letter to his state’s members of Congress obtained by Manchester ABC station WMUR. 
Humphrey, who vehemently opposed Trump in last year’s election, said the president’s comments threatening North Korea with “fire and fury” show that he is “impaired by a seriously sick psyche” and could lead the nation into nuclear war. 
In the letter, reprinted in the Concord Monitor, Humphrey wrote: 
“The president alone has the authority to launch nuclear weapons, the only restraint being the advice of senior advisors who might be present at the time of crisis, and Donald Trump has shown repeated contempt for informed and wise counsel.”
Humphrey said the president’s “sick and reckless conduct could consume the lives of millions,” and he should be relieved of his duties “at the earliest possible date”  
His letter calls on lawmakers to support legislation in the House, HR 1987, which would create a commission to invoke the 25th Amendment and “carry out a medical examination of the President to determine whether the President is mentally or physically unable to discharge the powers and duties of the office.”
Humphrey is already receiving pushback.
Neither of the state’s two House representatives ― Annie Kuster and Carol Shea-Porter, both Democrats ― support the commission out of concern it would set a dangerous precedent, spokespeople said.
“The congresswoman agrees with Senator Humphrey that the Trump presidency has veered far off the rails,” a spokeswoman for Shea-Porter told the Union Leader. “However, she believes creating a commission to pass judgment on the President’s mental health sets a potentially anti-democratic precedent.”
A local Republican was even more blunt. 
“Well, I think the former senator is the one that’s mentally unfit,” Al Baldasaro, a Trump supporter who serves in the state House of Representatives, told WMUR. “I think he needs to go back into retirement.” Baldasaro made headlines last year when he called for Hillary Clinton to be shot to death.
Humphrey supported Ohio Gov. John Kasich during the Republican presidential primaries, but later quit the party in opposition to Trump, and ultimately endorsed Clinton. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
CNN ended its relationship with political commentator Jeffrey Lord after he tweeted “Sieg Heil” on Thursday. 
“Nazi salutes are indefensible,” a CNN spokesperson said in a statement. “Jeffrey Lord is no longer with the network.”
Sieg Heil!
The tweet was directed at Angelo Carusone, the president of Media Matters for America. Lord wrote an op-ed calling Media Matters a “fascist” group for launching a campaign to get advertisers to pull their support for Fox News’ Sean Hannity. 
Lord reportedly told The New York Times that he was in a CNN car when he learned he was fired. 
He also spoke with CNN’s Brian Stelter after his firing Thursday.
“I love CNN,” Lord said. “I feel like they are caving to bullies here.”
Lord also appeared to make light of the situation late Thursday, in his first tweet since the announcement that he’d been fired.
LOL!
Yashar Ali, a journalist who has written for HuffPost, tweeted that representatives from MSNBC, NBC and Fox News had confirmed they weren’t hiring Lord. 
Per a Fox News spokeswoman, they are not hiring Jeffrey Lord. MSNBC/NBC spokesman has confirmed that they aren't hiring Lord either. https://t.co/siU3wfFqy1
Lord joined CNN as a political commentator in 2015 and was known for his provocative and unabashed support of President Donald Trump. He once called Trump the “Martin Luther King of health care,” later arguing he did it “deliberately and with reason.”
But his inflammatory statements weren’t limited to his defenses of Trump. Among other things, Lord once claimed “there are no people of color” in America, called the Ku Klux Klan a “leftist” organization and argued singer Ariana Grande was partly to blame for the terrorist attack at her concert in the United Kingdom.
CNN host Anderson Cooper infamously criticized Lord in May when he argued Lord would defend Trump “if he took a dump on his desk.” Cooper later apologized for the comment.
This story has been updated. 
Matt Ferner contributed to this report. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Monica Lewinsky didn’t need 140 characters to tweet how she felt about Anthony Scaramucci’s comparing himself to her.
She needed just one emoji.
On Wednesday evening, Scaramucci griped about Ryan Lizza, the New Yorker reporter to whom he made a series of crass comments last month, setting the stage for his own swift exit as White House communications director.
.@RyanLizza is the Linda Tripp of 2017. People know. And he is up at night not being able to live with himself.
Linda Tripp is the woman who befriended White House intern Monica Lewinsky and secretly recorded some of their conversations in an attempt to get dirt on Lewinsky’s affair with then-President Bill Clinton.
Scaramucci made the comparison between Lizza and Tripp because he claimed the reporter taped their call without telling him. (Quick reminder: Unlike Tripp’s recording, Lizza’s actions were clearly legal.)
Yes. He absolutely taped the call without my permission. #lowlife https://t.co/fTDcBw4vcT
The bizarre tweets led many people to infer that if Lizza = Tripp, then Scaramucci = Lewinsky.
Lewinsky waited until Thursday morning to offer her opinion on Twitter. It was worth the wait.
😳 https://t.co/c8bprBIURs
For those not up on emoji arcana, the flushed face emoji is usually a comment on mistakes or other embarrassing situations.
Yep. And yep.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Marijuana legalization is going smoothly in Colorado and Oregon, state officials recently told the Justice Department as it prepares for a shift in federal law enforcement priorities that could include changes to marijuana policy.
But Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a staunch drug opponent, nevertheless is considering reversing the Obama administration’s relaxed approach to state legalization, and may resume strictly enforcing federal laws, which still regard all marijuana use as illegal.
Sessions in February named a task force to review U.S. enforcement of laws surrounding immigration, drug trafficking and violent crime. Colorado and Oregon, among the first states to legalize recreational marijuana, submitted lengthy reports to Justice Department officials, detailing well-regulated legal marijuana industries that generate vast tax revenue and no measurable increase in crime or health problems. 
The task force forwarded its proposals last week, Sessions said, but the Justice Department wouldn’t disclose what they are.
“Those recommendations went to the AG,” spokeswoman Sarah Isgur Flores said. “We’ll make announcements on policy changes when we have announcements to make.”
Colorado and Oregon ― among eight legal-weed states that know the issues best ― produced detailed reports on their experiences, officials said. 
A 140-page report from Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper’s (D) office contains data and analysis from six state agencies, showing that the state’s 2012 marijuana legalization didn’t significantly increase youth drug abuse, school dropouts or juvenile arrests.
Statistics do show a rise in car crashes and fatalities involving motorists testing positive for cannabinoids. But Colorado’s report notes the statistics may not prove more drivers are intoxicated, because inactive marijuana compounds can be detected for more than a month in some individuals. Marijuana DUIs have declined 21 percent in the first six months of 2017 from the same period a year earlier. 
Colorado reported collecting $459.5 million in marijuana taxes as of May, and used the money for school construction, regulation and enforcement of marijuana laws, youth prevention programs, substance-abuse treatment programs, and public education campaigns.
Legalization has “facilitated the transfer of hundreds of millions of dollars into the Federal Reserve System that would otherwise exist outside of the nation’s banking system,” the report says. Even though federal banking regulations continue to force the industry to rely on cash, the report says, legalization helps ensure the money is “not diverted to criminal enterprises.” 
A 19-page report prepared by Oregon Gov. Kate Brown’s (D) office gives a positive view of legalization that safeguards public safety, and describes the state’s robust system tracking weed from seed to sale. The document was first made public in June following a records request by Oregonian reporter Noelle Crombie.
Oregon’s report acknowledges the continued existence of a marijuana black market. It also notes legalization’s hiccups, including “overproduction” and new laws it needed to place limits on growers and to increase penalties for marijuana-related crimes.
Oregon reported collecting more than $60 million in marijuana taxes in 2016.
“We passed legislation to tighten down seed-to-sale tracking in the medical arena,” Brown told HuffPost in an interview late last month. “My staffers on this are working very closely with the U.S. Attorney’s Office.”
Brown said Sessions’ Justice Department hadn’t yet done anything to undermine the state’s laws.
“It is just making everyone nervous,” Brown said. “I haven’t seen anything ― it’s just different.”
Oregon and Colorado are among eight states that have legalized recreational marijuana. Twenty-nine states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territories of Guam and Puerto Rico have medical marijuana laws (17 other states have laws allowing limited use of cannabidiol, or CBD, the non-psychoactive ingredient in pot that some say has therapeutic properties).
It’s unclear whether other states submitted reports to Sessions’ office or met with task force members. 
Washington state, which also began selling legalized recreational marijuana in 2014, has sent Sessions’ office three letters defending the state’s legalization scheme under current federal policy, and requested a meeting with Sessions, a representative from Gov. Jay Inslee’s (D) office told HuffPost.
Inslee’s office received a reply from Sessions on Wednesday expressing skepticism of the state’s marijuana legalization. Sessions’ letter cites a 2016 law enforcement report that he says “raises serious questions about the efficacy of marijuana ‘regulatory structures’ in your state.”
States have pressed forward with legalization under Obama administration guidance urging federal prosecutors to refrain from targeting state-legal marijuana operations. But that guidance could be reversed or altered by Sessions in ways that could doom thriving industries many states now consider legal. 
National support for marijuana legalization has risen dramatically in recent years, reaching historic highs. A Quinnipiac poll from earlier this year found that 94 percent of Americans support allowing adults to use marijuana for medical purposes if their doctor prescribes it.
Advocates said the Colorado and Oregon reports confirm the success of state laws.
“This huge compilation of data shows that legalization is working very well,” said Tom Angell, chairman of drug policy reform group Marijuana Majority. “Legalizing marijuana is not only overwhelmingly supported by a growing majority of voters, it also protects public health and safety in the ways we always said it would.”
Mason Tvert, vice president of public relations and communications with VS Strategies, a Denver-based communications and government relations firm focused on marijuana policy, who was also instrumental in the passage of Colorado’s recreational marijuana ballot measure, said that if the Justice Department goal is to promote public health and safety, “it would be entirely counterproductive to dismantle the thoughtful state and local regulatory frameworks that have been established in states like Colorado.”
“The DOJ can either support state and local officials and work with them to control cannabis, or they can support criminals and cartels by forcing cannabis back into the illegal market,” Tvert said.
Jennifer Bendery contributed reporting.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) got people snickering on Monday with his use of a phrase that many consider a little... well... dirty.
“We’re not going back to health care. We’re in tax now,” he said, according to Politico. “As far as I’m concerned, they shot their wad on health care and that’s the way it is. I’m sick of it.” 
Many people rushed to social media to let the senator know that the reference to a “wad” being “shot” is commonly used as a crude term for ejaculation.
One reporter called the quote “graphic,” but Hatch communications director Matt Whitlock defended the phrase while cracking a joke about the 83-year-old senator’s age at the same time:
No it's not. It was used quite often during the Civil War when Hatch was just a young Senator. https://t.co/wJCeAukE4f
Whitlock’s tweet links to a Washington Post defense of the phrase from 2011, when some readers objected to its use in a news report, which was also about healthcare.
The Post noted that the term was used in previous centuries for firearms, which had a “wad” to keep the projectile from the propellant.
“‘Shooting one’s wad’ simply means that the charge contains no projectile and is therefore ineffectual,” the Post noted. “Those who apply it to potentially offensive activities have only their own sensibilities to blame.” 
In addition to the Post link, Hatch’s office sent a definition from the Oxford English Dictionary: 
As few of you were alive during the Civil War, here's a valuable jargon lesson on "wads" and the shooting of them. https://t.co/dOYvcfgImO pic.twitter.com/wk9aaNb3s2
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
By Jenni Bergal
 
The moon will block out the sun, and day will plunge into night. Birds will stop singing, crickets will start chirping, and many people will gasp, weep, or even howl when they see the sun’s corona shimmering in the darkened sky.
And some drivers, inevitably, will stop in the middle of the road to take a selfie.
The Aug. 21 total eclipse will cut directly across 14 states, from Oregon to South Carolina. About 200 million people live within a day’s drive of the “path of totality,” and millions are expected to flock there for the event. Every other state, including Alaska and Hawaii, will see a partial eclipse.
Transportation officials are worried not only about massive traffic jams but potential crashes that could result from drivers focusing on the skies, not the road.
Officials across the country say they’re doing all they can to put out the word to eclipse-watchers, using press releases, videos, public appearances and social media. But in the end, they caution, it’s up to locals and visitors to follow common sense rules to stay safe.
“Don’t stand on the interstate. Don’t pull your car over. Don’t take a selfie from a bridge,” said Doug Hecox, a Federal Highway Administration spokesman. “The risk of driver distraction from this once-in-a lifetime event has never been greater. We don’t want anyone to have an ‘eclipse in judgment.’ ”
Lloyd Brown, spokesman for the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, agreed that “an eclipse is clearly a transportation issue. We’re concerned that people will be driving down the road and just stop their cars and look up. They need to be safe in a situation like this.”
Officials are urging motorists to plan ahead and find a safe spot to view the eclipse. They say pulling onto the shoulder of a highway is a bad idea because it could block emergency vehicles from getting through and put drivers who get out to watch the event at risk of being struck by a car. And motorists on local streets need to pay special attention to pedestrians and cyclists, who may themselves be focused on the eclipse.
State transportation officials recommend that people find an event or designated location to safely watch the eclipse. Many state parks, for example, are hosting events or reserving areas to accommodate campers and day visitors.
But drivers, whether they follow that advice or not, could find themselves stuck in place for many hours, well after the eclipse has ended.
“People are thinking they’re just going to pop in, see it, and then turn around and head back home. They’re not,” said Dave Thompson, a spokesman for the Oregon Department of Transportation. “They need to be prepared for long backups and have a full tank of gas and stuff in their car like water and food and medications they might need.”
State transportation agencies are working with police and emergency management officials to plan for the major traffic jams many areas are expecting.
“The best advice is to find a safe location, arrive there early, stay put, and leave late,” said Matt Hiebert, a Missouri Department of Transportation spokesman who is heading up an eclipse task force for the state transportation officials association.
Eclipse Safety
A total solar eclipse occurs when the moon completely blocks the sun. In the 14 states, there will be darkness for a few minutes in most areas of the eclipse’s direct path. In other parts of the country, the sun will be partially eclipsed by the moon. All phases of the eclipse from beginning to end will last up to three hours, depending on the area.
 
For many, the coast-to-coast total eclipse will be a once-in-a-lifetime event. The next one won’t occur until 2045.
The last time a total eclipse was visible across North America was 1918. That year, there were only 6 million cars in the U.S. In 2015, the latest year data are available, there were nearly 264 million.
Twenty-one interstates are going to be in the total eclipse’s band, the so-called path of totality.
As a safety precaution, many of the 14 states in the direct path plan to suspend road construction projects, according to Hiebert. But motorists who pass through them still need to be alert because there may be merged lanes, cones, barrels and other equipment on-site.
Another concern is that people may want to take photos of the eclipse while they’re driving, which officials warn would be extremely dangerous.
For anyone viewing the eclipse, the only safe way to observe it directly is by using special-purpose solar filters, such as “eclipse glasses” or hand-held solar viewers. Officials worry some people may wear the glasses while driving — another no-no.
“These glasses are designed to look at an intensely bright light, and you can’t wear them and drive,” Hiebert said. “It’s almost like wearing a blindfold. You won’t be able to see out of them.”
Getting Ready
State transportation agencies in the direct path of the eclipse have been gearing up for the big event for months.
In Idaho, officials are estimating as many as a million people could descend on the state. The state transportation department has been working to identify locations that could become bottlenecks and trying to figure out ways to control traffic.
In Missouri, where officials are preparing for as many as 1.2 million eclipse-watchers, the transportation agency is coordinating with the highway patrol, which will monitor the capacity of state rest areas and welcome centers, where hordes are expected to gather. Once those areas reach capacity, troopers will shut them down, barring additional drivers from entering.
And in Oregon, which is expecting up to a million visitors and is experiencing a severe drought, transportation officials are concerned that the eclipse is occurring in the middle of wildfire season. They have issued an alert to drivers about how easily a vehicle can spark a blaze.
“If you pull into a weedy area and the undercarriage is very hot, your exhaust pipe can ignite a fire,” said Thompson, the Oregon spokesman. “Oil leaks can start one too.”

Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON ― Secretary of State Rex Tillerson sought to walk back President Donald Trump’s threat of “fire and fury” against North Korea’s escalating nuclear program, the latest example that doing damage control for his boss is a regular part of his job.
But adding to Tillerson’s challenge in this case is that, more than six months into Trump’s presidency, top State Department posts relevant to dealing with North Korea remain filled by officials serving on a temporary basis or are vacant.
The U.S. currently has no permanent ambassador to South Korea, according to the State Department’s website. The U.S. embassy’s top career official, Marc Knapper, heads the diplomatic staff in the country on an acting capacity until Trump nominates an envoy.
The assistant secretaries of East Asian and Pacific Affairs and nuclear nonproliferation are similarly in acting positions. And the role of undersecretary for arms control and international security is vacant.
Tillerson and White House officials have reportedly clashed over the staffing matters. White House officials have favored more political allies in diplomatic posts, rejecting Tillerson’s suggestions to elevate experienced career State Department officials, according to Politico and the Washington Post.
The State Department did not immediately return a request for comment.
When asked at a press briefing Wednesday about the lack of a permanent South Korean ambassador, State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert referred questions to the White House.
“A nomination would have to come out of the White House,” she said. “So I’d have to refer you to the White House on that.”
Nauert went on to praise Knapper’s experience. “He’s on the ground, so I’m confident that it’s good, solid hands until the president nominates somebody for that position.”
Trump’s comments on Tuesday mirrored sensationalist rhetoric the North Korean regime directs at the U.S.
Tillerson, returning from meeting with leaders in Asia, insisted that “Americans should sleep well at night,” despite the growing nuclear tensions.
He also told reporters: “I think what the president was doing was sending a strong message with language that [North Korean leader] Kim Jong-Un would understand, because he doesn’t seem to understand diplomatic language.”
Trump has often complained about diplomatic efforts in the region without offering any specific solutions. For example, he has frequently tweeted threats at China, North Korea’s only ally and an important U.S. trading partner. On North Korea, he also insisted that “it will be handled. We handle everything.”
The Senate Foreign Relations Committee, which is responsible for holding confirmation hearings for high-level State Department positions, has not received nominees for either ambassador to South Korea or undersecretary for arms control, a spokesperson for ranking committee member Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.) confirmed to HuffPost on Wednesday.
Earlier this month, Cardin decried the slow staffing process at the State Department, telling reporters that diplomats “don’t know what the policies are” unless they get direction.
“I’m extremely concerned about what is happening in the State Department. They are devaluing diplomacy and undercutting diplomats. I hear that all the time. I have had several conversations with diplomats in regards to specific issues, and in every one of those cases I get responses like, ‘We don’t know what the policy is. We are not getting the support we need,’” he said. “The people aren’t there that can give direction to the people that are out in the field as to what the policies are all about. Quite frankly, we don’t know what the policies are, and the diplomats don’t know what the policies are.”
This article has been updated with comments from Nauert and Cardin. 
Sign up for the HuffPost Must Reads newsletter. Each Sunday, we will bring you the best original reporting, long form writing and breaking news from The Huffington Post and around the web, plus behind-the-scenes looks at how it’s all made. Click here to sign up!
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Now that the former head of the scam Trump University is the President of the United States, the landscape has shifted dramatically for America's predatory for-profit colleges -- the ones that have been systematically ruining students' lives through a toxic mix of deceptive recruiting, sky-high tuition, low spending on instruction, and weak job placement.
These bad colleges seem ready for a resurgence, and a resumption of their abusive ways. If they succeed in that, the people who will suffer most are those whom candidate Trump most emphatically insisted he would help as president: the forgotten man and woman, the people living in what he still calls "inner cities," and our military troops and veterans.
President Trump in office has pursued little besides his passive-aggressive tweet agenda, and the GOP Congress has failed to pass much legislation. But Trump's cabinet heads are having a dramatic impact; they've pushed ahead with the agenda of the Koch brothers, big banks, and other special interests: dismantling a wide range of rules that protect workers, consumers, and the environment.
For her part, Trump's Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos, has, just for starters, now blocked the key Obama-era rules created to hold predatory colleges accountable for engaging in waste, fraud, and abuse with taxpayer dollars.
Last Thursday, speaking to the corporate front group the American Legislative Exchange Council, which has had many for-profit colleges as members, DeVos ratcheted up her previously polite criticism of the Obama gainful employment and borrower defense rules, sneering at them as "textbook overreach... solely to advance their administration-wide war on every type of organization they didn't like." DeVos made false claims about the Obama measures along the way.
There are honest, effective schools, and many great teachers, in the career education field. The point of these Obama rules is to channel federal aid and students to those schools, rather than to the dishonest, low-quality ones. The gainful employment rule would penalize career education programs that, year after year, leave graduates owing more in student loans than their income would allow them to repay. The borrower defense rule would: provide students defrauded or abused by their schools a process for having their federal loans cancelled, as the law already requires; prohibit schools from denying injured students the right to sue them; and place stronger requirements on financially irresponsible schools to put some cash aside in the event of collapse. Both rules, once implemented, should save taxpayers a lot of money, while helping students make better choices for their futures.
But the for-profit college industry has consistently rejected these reforms, and now they have friends on the inside. According to multiple Department career staff members, Robert Eitel, who previously worked for the predatory college companies Bridgepoint Education and Career Education Corp., and now is senior counsel to DeVos, is calling the shots on key issues related to for-profit colleges. A number of senior career Department officials who were dedicated to protecting against for-profit abuses have resigned or are planning their departures, after having been cut out of decision-making and seen their important work undone. The top two officials of the Student Aid Enforcement Unit, established last year to root out violations of laws and regulations, have both left the Department.
DeVos's Department also has stalled the process of approving current claims by students who say they were defrauded by schools approved by the Department for federal aid and thus should have their federal loans cancelled. It barely agreed to process the applications that already had been granted under the Obama administration. UPDATE 07-26-17 4:45 pm: AP: Student-loan forgiveness has halted under Trump
Meanwhile, in March the Pentagon weakened its own efforts to hold colleges accountable for deceptive recruiting of U.S. troops. Ongoing work at the Justice Department, Federal Trade Commission, and Securities and Exchange Commission to crack down on for-profit college fraud could potentially be imperiled as well, as Trump appointees tighten control.
What does this critical reversal of policy by the Trump administration, against the interests of veterans, single mothers and others seeking career training, and in favor of wealthy operators of predatory schools not unlike the awful Trump University, mean in the real world?
We're starting the see what it means. Bad behavior in the industry never stopped, but it was modulating in the face of stronger government enforcement, as well as media investigations, as some of the really bad programs and schools got caught misbehaving and / or shut down, and other schools, fearing they were next, toned down the abuses a bit. But now, as Trump lawyer Marc Kasowitz might say, it's on.
Predatory triumphalism
A few weeks ago, after a federal judge ordered a minor adjustment in the gainful employment rule appeals process for a small number of cosmetology schools, for-profit college industry lawyer Keith Zakarin of the firm Duane Morris celebrated on LinkedIn with some Trumpian triumphalism, referring to Obama administration Education officials as “vicious haters” and to industry critics as “anti-sector jihadis,” and mourning “the executions of Marinello and ITT” ― two for-profit colleges that each were caught engaging in particularly egregious deceptions against students and taxpayers and were eventually cut off from future taxpayer aid (not denied the right to exist). Poor, poor Marinello Schools of Beauty and ITT Tech (which at its peak was getting $1.1 billion a year from U.S. taxpayers)― and their poor wealthy executives who have thus far escaped accountability for their companies’ fraudulent behavior.
As if to join Zakarin's angry celebration, the DeVos Department of Education used the court's small tweak of the gainful employment rule, which the judge expressly wrote “avoids upending the entire GE regulatory scheme," as a false excuse to put the regulation on hold pending a years-long repeat of the entire regulatory process. DeVos's decision to block the gainful employment and borrower defense rules before completing new rule-making is, in fact, illegal, as was made plain in lawsuits filed by the attorneys general of 18 states and the District of Columbia, and by two former New England Institute of Art students who are represented by Public Citizen and the legal clinic of Harvard Law School.
But the for-profit college industry is gearing up, with a slew of law firms, including Skadden and Venable, as well as Duane Morris, in court fighting to undermine Obama era actions. The industry also has expanded its lobbying efforts, with the latest disclosure forms filed with Congress this month showing big for-profit colleges and their trade association CECU continuing to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to buy the lobbying teams we recently described.
Meanwhile, the for-profits are working to revitalize their businesses, many of which declined sharply in the wake of the Obama oversight efforts and growing public awareness of school abuses.
A new gold rush?
Three weeks after Trump's election day win, Michael Clifford, a long-time investor in for-profit college businesses, posted on his website and LinkedIn a manifesto. It wasn't vengeful like Zakarin's -- Clifford projects strong optimism and genuine concern for students -- but it was no less emphatic. It was titled, "EDUCATION INVESTOR UPDATE ALERT: IT IS A NEW DAY!"
Clifford began: "My phone is ringing with investors who are slowly waking up to the facts: A radically new government is about to change everything about Education K thru 20 in America on January 20, 2017…time to move forward." He praised Trump as someone who "has spent 50-years overcoming obstacles: unions, environmentalists, IRS, SEC, regulators, international governments, tort lawyers, media bias, financial ups & downs, strikes…but always winning for that which he was passionate…and he is passionate about Education."
Clifford continued, "We are now entering a new EPOCH of OPPORTUNITY for education, institutions, entrepreneurs, corporate training, human resource leaders, teachers, techies, marketers, administrative leaders…AND INVESTORS WHO LOVE TO DO WELL FINANCIALLY WHILE DOING GOOD FOR PEOPLE." He praised DeVos, whom Trump had just named as choice for education secretary as "a breath of fresh air.... Her family is the best example in American history of 'Compassionate Capitalism.'"
Clifford asserted that the Trump/DeVos era made conditions ripe for new "Public/Private Partnerships," where investors could put private capital into non-profit institutions as well as into for-profit schools. He wrote that it was "a time for investors to make more money from the education sector than ever before."  He offered his investment group as a partner: "We bring the Money, Management & Marketing… Our group is available to review all opportunities for Investors, For-Profit & Non-Profit Schools who desire to ethically exploit this new: EPOCH OF OPPORTUNITY."
This was the same Michael Clifford who said in 2015, "I do not believe there's any future in for-profit education anymore."
I spoke with Clifford last week; we mostly focused on the advent of new ventures where non-profit entities take over the operations of for-profit schools. Some of his comments are below.
Although as far back as her January confirmation hearing DeVos's comments cast doubt on whether she would live with the Obama rules, her precise course wasn't clear for a while, and, in fact, Justice Department lawyers in court continued to defend, against multiple industry lawsuits, the Obama rules and decisions.
But on June 14 DeVos announced her "regulatory reset" plan to put the gainful employment and borrower defense rules aside and begin a brand new rule-making process to address these subjects all over again. Now, DeVos's course was clear, and her compassion in the "Compassionate Capitalism" that Michael Clifford promised seemed squarely directed at rich for-profit college owners, rather than struggling students. Perhaps it was time for Clifford's vision of a new EPOCH to come alive. We're about to find out.
Earlier this month, an industry insider forwarded me an email from a long-time industry executive with the subject line "Midwest School investment oportunity" [sic]. According to the message, a client of the executive "is planning to launch a new campus in the Midwest in the near future.... They have most of their ducks in a row, including most of the regulatory approvals. They plan to start their first class in the fall, but they need a cash infusion... They are looking to raise $250,000 to stop gap operation until the FSA [federal student aid] starts to flow in late November 2017."
When I contacted him, the executive who sent the email declined to identify the school, and told me he did not see much of an acceleration of deal-making in the for-profit college industry. This could, indeed, be a minor blip. But, given how many for-profit colleges have shut down in recent years in the face of bad performance, bad publicity, law enforcement probes, and regulatory action, it was striking to read about a new operation with taxpayer dollars getting ready "to flow." Another industry executive who saw the email messaged me, "Here we go!"
Deceptive marketing
Toward the end of the Obama administration, the FTC began making moves to fight abuses in for-profit college lead generation -- the process of using online advertising and telemarketing to recruit new students. The FTC held an October 2015 public meeting that addressed the issues, and taking its first action, reached an April 2016 settlement with Orlando-based Expand, Inc., and its owner, for alleged deceptive practices. The company was claiming to visitors to its websites that it was “pre-screening” job applicants, when in fact it was gathering personal information and selling it to for-profit college recruiters.
Whether such FTC investigations will continue under Trump's new FCC chair, Ajit Pai, I cannot say, but many deceptive lead generation operations, including some I discussed on a panel at the October 2015 FTC meeting, are still going strong. These include army.com, which might look to many observers, including veterans, like an official U.S. Army site, but whose "Affordable Education" tool without fail tells prospective students that their best option is for-profit Grantham University. Others that steer U.S. service members and vets to for-profit college programs that pay for placement include GIJobs.com and Military.com.
Conversations with multiple people in the industry, and other reporting, reveal that some college admissions staff continue to engage in the kind of deceptive and coercive recruiting that was documented in previous government and media investigations: providing prospective students with false information about job placement rates and starting salaries, misleading them about the transferability of credits to other schools, pushing students into programs for which they're not qualified or are too weak to help them succeed, coaching students to lie about their status and maximize their federal financial aid, falsifying high school diplomas or GEDs so students can enroll, and exploiting a recruit's personal pain and shame to pressure them into signing up.
I discussed these concerns at length Tuesday with Greg Gragg, CEO of Blue Chair, LLC, and Gragg Advertising, and a prominent figure in for-profit college lead generation and admissions consulting. He told me, "I don't see rampant admissions fraud and abuse in the for-profit education industry. The majority of the schools we work with engage in compliant admissions practices and work hard to ensure that they remain compliant."
Conversion therapy
After public revelations of for-profit college abuses tarnished the industry's reputation, including among prospective students, and in order to avoid compliance with federal rules, such as the 90-10 rule and gainful employment, that create special obligations for for-profit schools, a significant number of for-profits in recent years moved to convert to become non-profits. Unfortunately, some switched their legal status without changing their predatory ways -- deceptive recruiting, under-spending on education -- and some did so through troubing deals that allowed the owner of the for-profit to keep making big money off the operation.
Last August, however, the Obama administration took a dramatic and laudable step: It rejected the application of the converted chain CollegeAmerica/ Stevens-Henager to be treated as a non-profit, concluding that despite the conversion, the chain was operating to benefit its prior for-profit owner, Carl Barney. That decision, which Barney's operation is contesting in court, imperiled the efforts of other for-profits that had undertaken similar conversions.
Among the handful of colleges whose conversions await Department of Education review is Tampa-based Ultimate Medical Academy, a mostly online school, receiving some $150 million annually in taxpayer aid, whose leadership has included several of Trump's former top lieutenants at Trump University.
Those decisions are now in DeVos's hands. And now, some other big predatory chains are making a run at their own non-profit conversions, hoping DeVos will approve.
Graham Holdings has announced that its Kaplan University will be acquired by Indiana's Purdue University, in a troubling deal that would allow Graham Holdings to to keep running the schools and getting paid.  The company chairman, Donald Graham, may be holding his breath, hoping the vengeful Donald Trump won’t find out about a March 2016 email in which Graham disparaged Trump’s business skills; Kaplan has been getting more than $800 million a year from taxpayers in student aid.
The faltering Education Management Corporation (EDMC) chain, which Attorney General Loretta Lynch in 2015 labelled a sham "recruitment mill," and which has faced numerous law enforcement probes, has announced its own troubling deal to have its schools acquired by the faith-oriented, Los Angeles-based non-profit Dream Center.
The idea of public-private partnerships in higher education is something Michael Clifford has been pushing for some time, including in last November's manifesto.  He told me, “I am thrilled that an idea I published five years ago many people are now taking seriously."
Clifford says, however, that he has nothing to do with the Dream-EDMC takeover deal.
On the other hand, he certainly has connections to the players involved.
Clifford recently left the Dream Center board of directors, but on his website homepage he still highlights the organization as "Our family's charity of choice."  The Dream Center has announced that its operation of the EDMC schools will be managed by Dream Center Education Holdings, LLC, under its new CEO Brent Richardson, the former CEO of for-profit Grand Canyon University. The Najafi Companies, one of the new owners of the for-profit giant University of Phoenix, are financing the acquisition, with additional funding from the Richardson Family Trust, meaning Brent Richardson's family. Michael Clifford engineered the transformation of Grand Canyon University in the previous decade from a non-profit Christian college to a for-profit and then a publicly-traded company. (Grand Canyon has a better record than many of the big chains in the past decade, but that school and other schools in which Clifford has invested have in the past run into some compliance issues; in 2010 Grand Canyon paid $5.2 million to settle a federal whistleblower lawsuit in which a former employee alleged that the school unlawfully paid sales commissions to recruiters.)
What Clifford told me regarding the EDMC deal was this: "The Dream Center people have a high level of integrity; they pour their hearts out to the poor."
Clifford also praised the Kaplan-Purdue takeover deal as "transparent and forthright," although I then apprised him of information suggesting that isn't exactly true: at the time of the deal's announcement, GOP allies of Purdue's president, former Indiana governor Mitch Daniels, enacted legislative provisions that would shield the new school from Indiana's open records, open meeting, and budget accountability laws, and Purdue has for months failed to fulfill an open government law request to release the attachments to the troubling Purdue-Kaplan operating agreement, including a referenced "policy guide" for the new school. (I might also have mentioned Daniels' false and defamatory attack on former Deputy Under Secretary of Education Robert Shireman, a critic of the deal and a long-time friend and colleague and sometime client of mine.)
Clifford had called me last summer, as for-profit ITT Tech was collapsing under the weight of law enforcement investigations and bad publicity about its predatory practices, and asked me what I thought of the idea of a non-profit group taking over ITT's schools.
I asked Clifford then, and again last week, why non-profits like the Dream Center or Education Credit Management Corporation, which acquired many of the campuses of Corinthian Colleges, or a state school like Purdue, were so determined to take over what seemed to me to be toxic assets, for-profit chains with troubling records, reams of bad publicity, trails of law enforcement investigations, and cadres of employees trained via a predatory playbook. Why not, if they wanted to enter the career education space, start fresh? His answer: It would take 25 years to build up the kind of networks of campuses and programs these deals offered.
Clifford told me that he knew of four or five other non-profit groups now thinking about taking over for-profit college operations.
Accrediting accreditors
In December, Obama's Education Secretary John King issued a landmark decision, ending the Department's recognition of the accrediting organization Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools (ACICS), which had been asleep at the switch for years while many of its for-profit college members, such as Corinthian Colleges, ITT Tech, Kaplan, EDMC, Career Education Corporation, Westwood, Globe, FastTrain, and Daymar, engaged in blatant abuses.
King's decision, thus far, has been upheld in court, and, even though ACICS has just hired a new president and is seeking to stay in business, it appears, from the latest Department docket, published Tuesday, that ACICS and its for-profit college allies have not managed to get the accreditor a shot at reinstatement, at least not yet. That means ACICS-accredited schools that want to get get federal aid need to get serious immediately about finding new accreditors.
One hopes those other accreditors will feel pressure to demand strong accountability from these ACICS refugee schools, lest they themselves face heavier scrutiny from the Department; that was the kind of chain reaction King's decision might have created, to the benefit of educational quality and, ultimately, student success.
Indeed, such new pressure on accreditors to demand quality may have helped convince the accreditor Middle States Council on Higher Education, two weeks ago, to reject, at least for now, EDMC's plan to sell its Pennsylvania-based schools to the Dream Center, citing “insufficient information and evidence” to justify the takeover.
But DeVos's stance on other regulatory issues puts the Department's prior commitment in doubt, and ACICS could still try to get her to short-circuit the process and put it back in business.
Last month's meeting of the Department's outside advisory panel on accreditation raised further questions. The panel is now somehow chaired by Arthur Keiser, whose own conversion of his for-profit college to a non-profit that rewards him handsomely has raised serious concerns. The panel recommended, without much discussion, the renewal of an accreditor called the Distance Education Accrediting Commission, whose members include: (1) Ashworth College, which in 2015 was the subject of the FTC's first case in many years against a for-profit college -- to settle Commission charges that it misrepresented to students regarding the usefulness of its programs and credits, Ashworth agreed to undertake reforms and accept an $11 million judgment that was "suspended based on the institution’s inability to pay"; (2) Penn Foster, an online school (owned by private equity firm Vistria), which in 2015 agreed to pay $73,000 to settle claims by the Oregon attorney general that it misled a student about transferability of credits and about its accreditation; and (3) Grantham University, the beneficiary of the deceptive Army.com website I discussed above.
Resistance
During the Obama years, as for-profit colleges dug in, fighting fiercely against any and all accountability measures, an alliance of advocates for students -- especially in government and in non-profits, buoyed by inspiring activism by former for-profit college students themselves -- worked to investigate the facts, advance enforcement and reforms, and build public support for accountability.  That work and that coalition-building is proving valuable now.
In addition to the state attorneys general fighting in court to protect the Obama-era rules, a member of the California legislature has introduced legislation to make the gainful employment rule standards part of California state law, which could force schools operating in California to comply with the mandates in the federal rule.
Iowa state regulators won a decision in state court this month to end Ashford University's eligibility for GI Bill student aid for its online programs across the country. Promptly after that decision, Curtis Coy, the deputy under secretary for economic opportunity at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, sent a clear message to student veterans letting them know that G.I. Bill funding for Ashford was now done. "However," Coy wrote, "you are free to pursue your education goals at another approved school or training facility."
Ashford is owned by Bridgepoint Education which, until earlier this year, was the employer of that key DeVos adviser, Robert Eitel.
Members of Congress, including Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL), Patty Murray (D-WA), and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), and Representatives Maxine Waters (D-CA) and Mark Takano (D-CA), have been stalwart fighters for students and against predatory colleges, and are objecting strongly now to DeVos's rollbacks. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, still run (for now) by Obama appointee Richard Cordray, a dedicated public servant committed to the public interest, continues its work to protect student borrowers.
And non-profit groups are more determined than ever to advance policies that curb deceptive and abusive practices, policies that help steer federal aid to career education programs that help students, and away from programs that hurt them. Most notable right now is the strong advocacy of America's veterans and service member organizations, 33 of which joined together to express opposition to DeVos's delay of the gainful employment and borrower defense rules. These groups are working to defeat the plan by DeVos and her lieutenants to turn their backs on hard-working Americans.
This article also appears on Republic Report.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
More than 15 years after then-President Bill Clinton signed a policy forcing gays to keep their sexual orientation a secret while in the military, congressional leaders felt they had just the right conditions to finally overturn it. Democrats controlled the House, Senate and White House. And the country had evolved a great deal on gay rights, to the point where marriage ― not just openly gay service members ― had become a conceivable reality.
But in the fall of 2010, that window appeared dangerously close to closing. Republicans had won control of the House of Representatives and they would take power in a matter of weeks.
“I get very nervous,” Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.) recalls. “And in October, I started telling everybody, the president, Harry Reid, Nancy [Pelosi], everyone I could talk to, ‘We now better get this done this year. ... We’ve got to be willing to do this in the lame duck.’”
In the latest episode of the “Candidate Confessional” podcast, Frank remembers those frantic days in which congressional leaders raced against the clock to finally overturn the policy. And he recounts the immense sacrifice that came with that achievement.
It wasn’t initially clear whether Democrats could move a bill during that lame-duck period. An overturn of “don’t ask, don’t tell” had been attached to a defense authorization bill, and the Senate was threatening to separate the two. Frank understood that doing so would ensure the defense money got passed while the overturn of DADT would be shot down. He pleaded with Pelosi to not follow the Senate’s lead.
They had one week to go. 
Frank and Pelosi decided to allow the House to pass the bill overturning “don’t ask, don’t tell” and send it to the Senate while holding back on a defense authorization until the upper chamber acted.
“We are going to hold the defense authorization bill hostage,” is how Frank puts it.
It was unclear whether the votes even existed in the Senate. Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) threatened to scuttle a nuclear non-proliferation treaty in response. But when Senate Majority Leader Reid brought the repeal bill to the floor, enough Republicans were supportive to put them comfortably over the 60 votes needed. Frank and other liberals returned the favor by voting the defense authorization bill out of the House.
“I held my nose and held up my thumb,” he said.
It was a remarkably swift end to a legislative battle that had persisted for over a decade. And the lack of blowback was notable. The military quickly adjusted to the new reality of openly gay service members. Those politicians who had warned of grave consequences quickly moved on to other issues when none materialized.
But the win came at a cost. In that same lame-duck session, Congress had also been contemplating passage of a bill that would have granted conditional U.S. residency to young undocumented immigrants who had gone to school or served in the military. The Dream Act was a major policy objective of immigrant-rights groups. And it failed to pass, Frank says, in large part because lawmakers took the “don’t ask, don’t tell” vote.
“There were some Republicans who would vote for one but not the other. You can only go off so many times. You have this count. I can only piss off my voters so many times on so many issues,” Frank says.
Listen to the full episode above.
“Candidate Confessional” is produced by Zach Young. To listen to this podcast later, download it on Apple Podcasts. While you’re there, please rate and review our show. To subscribe, visit the following: Apple Podcasts / Acast / RadioPublic / Google Play / Stitcher / RSS
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Maine’s Republican Sen. Susan Collins said that she would not be swayed by President Donald Trump’s apparent threats to pull the plug on key Obamacare funds, including subsidies for members of Congress and their staff.
In a Sunday interview with Jake Tapper on CNN’s “State of the Union,” Collins first said that even if Trump cut off Congress’ subsidies, it would not change her mind about opposing the health care repeal.
Tapper then asked whether if cuts to cost sharing reduction payments, or CSRs, that the federal government provides for low-income people would affect her decision.
“It would not affect my vote on health care but it’s an example of why we need to act ― to make sure that those payments, which are not an insurance company bailout, but rather help people who are very low income afford their out-of-pocket costs toward their deductibles and their co-pays,” Collins said in response.
Trump tweeted on Saturday that he would end “BAILOUTS for Insurance Companies and BAILOUTS for Members of Congress” if Congress did not act to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare. 
Although Trump did not make clear what he meant, he implied that he would withhold CSRs, which the federal government provides insurers to subsidize the coverage of people with incomes under 250 percent of the poverty level who buy plans on the Obamacare insurance exchanges. He also appeared to threaten the funding that the federal government uses to subsidize the cost of coverage for members of Congress and their staff, who are required to purchase the insurance of the Washington, D.C, Obamacare exchange.
Instead, Collins said she favors developing multiple pieces of legislation in the relevant Senate committees to address Obamacare’s flaws, noting that the Obamacare exchanges are “collapsing” in some areas.
Collins received a spontaneous round of applause at the airport in Bangor, Maine, on Friday from constituents pleased that she opposed the Obamacare repeal. Collins told CNN’s Tapper on Sunday that the warm reception was “encouraging and affirming.”
Collins resisted virtually every iteration of repeal that the Senate considered in recent months. Early Friday morning, she joined fellow Republican Sens. Lisa Murkowski (Alaska) and John McCain (Ariz.) in voting down the so-called “skinny” repeal bill, which would have eliminated Obamacare’s individual insurance mandate and the requirement that large companies provide insurance to their employees.
Collins’ steadfastness has not discouraged the president or senior Trump administration officials from threatening to torpedo the exchanges through moves like cutting off the CSRs.
Kellyanne Conway, counselor to President Trump, suggested in an interview on “Fox News Sunday” that Trump was seriously considering halting the payments.
“He’s going to make that decision this week and that’s a decision that only he can make,” she said to host Chris Wallace.
Also on Sunday, White House budget director Mick Mulvaney affirmed that it was official White House policy that Congress should not enact any new legislation, including a raise of the debt ceiling, until Congress repeals Obamacare. He did not explicitly say whether that meant that the White House would not sign any such legislation.
“Go and poll the American public and find out what the most important issue is to them right now, and it’s health care,” Mulvaney said in an interview on CNN’s “State of the Union. “So, in the White House’s view, they can’t move on in the Senate.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A former U.S. Justice Department official has become the latest lawyer to join special counsel Robert Mueller’s team investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, a spokesman for the team confirmed.
Greg Andres started on Tuesday, becoming the 16th lawyer on the team, said Josh Stueve, a spokesman for the special counsel.
Most recently a white-collar criminal defense lawyer with New York law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell, Andres, 50, served at the Justice Department from 2010 to 2012. He was deputy assistant attorney general in the criminal division, where he oversaw the fraud unit and managed the program that targeted illegal foreign bribery.
Mueller, who was appointed special counsel in May, is looking into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia during the election, among other matters. Congressional committees are also investigating the matter.
That Mueller continues to expand his team means the probe is not going to end anytime soon, said Robert Ray, who succeeded Kenneth Starr as independent counsel for the Whitewater investigation during the Clinton administration.
“It’s an indication that the investigation is going to extend well into 2018,” said Ray. “Whether it extends beyond 2018 is an open question.”
The special counsel last month asked the White House to preserve all of its communications about a June 2016 meeting that included the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., his son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner, and Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya.
Russian officials have denied meddling in the U.S. election, and Trump denies any collusion by his campaign.
Among the cases Andres oversaw at the Justice Department was the prosecution of Texas financier Robert Allen Stanford, who was convicted in 2012 for operating an $8 billion Ponzi scheme.
Before that, Andres was a federal prosecutor in Brooklyn for over a decade, eventually serving as chief of the criminal division in the U.S. attorney’s office there. He prosecuted several members of the Bonanno organized crime family, one of whom was accused of plotting to have Andres killed.
A graduate of Notre Dame and University of Chicago Law School, Andrews was a Peace Corps volunteer in Benin from 1989 to 1992.
He is married to Ronnie Abrams, a U.S. district judge in Manhattan nominated to the bench in 2011 by Democratic President Barack Obama.
Others on the special counsel team include Andrew Weissmann, chief of the Justice Department’s fraud section; Andrew Goldstein, former head of the public corruption unit at the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Manhattan; and James Quarles, who was an assistant special prosecutor in the Watergate investigation that helped bring down President Richard Nixon.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON ― An Ohio man facing federal charges for reblogging a threatening GIF on Tumblr was sentenced to 20 years in federal prison on Wednesday.
Terrence McNeil pleaded guilty to five counts of solicitation to commit a crime of violence and five counts of making interstate threats after he shared a GIF that called for attacks on members of the military and featured names, photos and addresses.
Dana Boente, the acting head of the Justice Department’s National Security Division, said the DOJ “will continue to investigate and prosecute those who use social media to threaten acts of violence against our military members and their families, on behalf of terrorist organizations.”
The GIF that McNeil reblogged included the banners “Islamic State Hacking Division,” “Target: United States Military” and “Leak: Addresses of 100 U.S. Military Personnel.”
Here’s how the Justice Department described the GIF: 
The file type is a .gif file, which allows multiple still images to be looped in one file, with a timed delay between each image.  The text of the first file reads “O Brothers in America, know that the jihad against the crusaders is not limited to the lands of the Khilafah, it is a world-wide jihad and their war is not just a war against the Islamic State, it is a war against Islam…Know that it is wajib (translated to “necessary”) for you to kill these kuffar! and now we have made it easy for you by giving you addresses, all you need to do is take the final step, so what are you waiting for? Kill them in their own lands, behead them in their own homes, stab them to death as they walk their streets thinking that they are safe…”
The file then loops several dozen photographs, purportedly of U.S. military personnel, along with their respective name, address and military branch. The final image looped is a picture of a handgun and a knife with text that reads “…and kill them wherever you find them…”
As HuffPost reported when McNeil was charged in November 2015, federal authorities watched as he cycled through Twitter accounts and kept tabs on his Facebook page. Before it was taken down upon his arrest, McNeil’s Tumblr page featured images of elephants, cats, baby sloths and “South Park” memes intermingled with photos of Islamic State fighters and a post showing a cake with Osama bin Laden’s image and candles that wrote out “9/11.” McNeil also posted an photo that this HuffPost reporter shot of a detainee in Guantanamo Bay. 
McNeil had no prior criminal history and had never even been arrested before this incident, his lawyer said in a sentencing memo. The lawyer, Nathan Ray, described McNeil as a “devoted son” who enjoys cooking and taking nature photos.
“While Mr. McNeil recognizes the seriousness of his conduct, it is important to remember that while his posts, tweets and reposts could be seen by anyone, he himself never left Akron, Ohio,” Ray wrote. He requested a sentence on the low end of the agreed-upon sentencing range: 15 years. 
Attorneys for the government wanted McNeil sentenced to 20 years in federal prison, and wrote there were indications that he intended to take action in the real world:
Defendant corresponded with these fellow supporters by reblogging, retweeting, chatting and liking communications between them. The conduct relating to Defendant’s charged offenses stem from five specific social media posts made by Defendant in September and October 2015. But the investigation also revealed many instances where Defendant researched the price online of firearms for sale at local firearm dealerships and possessed detailed bomb-making instructions. Defendant’s conduct both online and offline, however, demonstrate his intent to threaten, intimidate, and solicit the murder of United States servicemen and women.
The government also said that McNeil’s social media accounts were “filled with ISIS propaganda and disturbing posts” such as “I can’t wait for another 9/11, Boston bombing, or Sandy Hook!!!” and “I would gladly take part in an attack on this murderous regime and the poeple [sic].”
Federal prosecutors also presented victim impact statements from service members whose information was included in the GIF that McNeil reblogged.
“This crime has affected my family emotionally and financially,” one victim wrote. “It has affected not just my immediate family, but also my extended family. Immediately following the release of my family’s personal information, my family (including my wife, parents, and siblings) experienced a significant increase in stress, fearing for their lives. No one should ever have to fear physical harm to themselves or families in their own home.”
“It’s one thing to be vaguely threatened by a terrorist overseas,” another victim wrote. “It’s quite another to be threatened by name with your address.”
As HuffPost previously reported, the FBI has frequently pointed to retweets in terrorism cases. But McNeil’s case appeared to be the first in which a person was charged directly for an offense like reblogging a GIF on Tumblr. At the time, the FBI special agent in charge of the Cleveland Field Office said McNeil’s reblogging of the GIF went “far beyond free speech” and the protections of the First Amendment.
Tumblr is owned by Oath, which also owns HuffPost.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
The bait and switch: it’s one of the oldest tricks in politics—one of the oldest tricks in life. It’s a fundamentally dishonest ploy, and typically appeals to vulnerable people’s most base instincts in order to get them to, as the term suggests, take the bait. Donald Trump is a master at it.
Trump’s Electoral College victory relied heavily on support from white working-class voters. According to data from the Voter Study Group analyzed by Lee Drutman, Trump won 27 percent of the “populists”—people who are economically left-of-center, i.e. supporters of social spending in general, but conservative on racial and cultural identity issues—who had voted for Barack Obama four years earlier. Furthermore, 14 percent of these Obama-voting populists picked a minor party candidate in 2016. Hillary Clinton won only 59 percent of the populists who went for Obama. On the flip side, Trump held on to 93 percent of the populists who had voted for Mitt Romney, and almost none went to Sec. Clinton, while Trump won 43 percent of the populists who had voted for a minor party candidate in 2012. Clinton won only 15 percent of them, and the rest went to other candidates.
Trump got these populist Obama supporters to vote for him by appealing to their racial and cultural identity issues, while at the same time reassuring them that he would not be a typical Republican who favored the rich by promising more infrastructure spending than his Democratic opponent, taking a hard protectionist stance on trade, etc. How do we know the latter worked? Obama-Trump voters told us so. They clearly identified Trump as a different kind of Republican—only 21 percent of them said his economic policies would favor the rich, while 40 percent of them said Congressional Republicans would, and 42 percent said Congressional Democrats would (it wasn’t either/or, each respondent was asked about all three separately). As Jamelle Bouie noted: “For the first time in recent memory, populist voters didn’t have to prioritize their values. They could choose liberal economic views and white identity, and they did.”
Obama-Trump voters are not the only voters worth going after. I am using them here as a proxy for people who voted for Trump but who are absolutely gettable votes for Democrats. Trump sold them a bill of goods, and he has not delivered. However, with a number of policies put forth in just the past week, he is doing his best to re-sell them all over again.
After Democrats recently issued their “Better Deal” plan, a set of proposals aimed directly at the wallets of Americans struggling to make ends meet, the Trump White House knew what it had to do. He couldn’t tout any populist economic policies he’d enacted—because no such policies exist.
The most substantial policy he’d gotten behind as president has been a Republican-only health care plan that would result in tens of millions losing their health coverage in order to pay for a tax cut for the wealthiest. The various Trumpcare plans were so unpopular—even 60 percent of Republicans disapproved of their party’s handling of the issue according to a recent Quinnipiac poll—in large part because the American people saw them, to paraphrase Hillary Clinton, as right-wing, trickle-down economics on steroids. The same goes for his official tax plan, cooked up in partnership with the Koch Brothers. On trade, he’s passed nothing and hasn’t even made progress toward any kind of change. How about that $1 trillion infrastructure plan? Nothing there either.
So what did Trump do this past week? He brought out cultural wedge issues all over the map. Some, like his hare-brained, half-witted “announcement” banning transgender Americans from serving in the armed forces, were aimed at the religious conservatives who are his most loyal true believers. Other proposals, i.e., those seeking to counter affirmative action and to restrict immigration—in part by giving a preference for those who already speak English—are right in the sweet spot of white cultural and racial anxiety.
Finally, although it wasn’t a formal proposal, Trump’s truly sickening remark—it was no joke, as Jelani Cobb explained—encouraging police to abuse suspects upon their arrest was another dog whistle aimed at those “law and order” enthusiasts who rallied behind him in 2016. Importantly, police pushed back hard against Trump’s suggestion. Additionally, on July 26, in Youngstown, Ohio, Trump also used graphic, inflammatory language in describing violent crimes committed by those here illegally, without citing any specifics about where such a thing happened:
In other words, it was a banner week for Steve Bannon and his ally in white nationalism, Attorney General Jeff Sessions. Alex Shephard wrote at the New Republic that these types of actions reflect Trump’s declaration of an “all-out culture war.” Trump understands that if the next election is fought over economic issues, Democrats will do much better than if it is fought over non-economic issues—especially now that he’s been exposed as just another Republican on economics. GOP economic policies are harmful to the majority of Americans, and a majority of Americans know it.
Democrats need to force the Obama-Trump populists, and other voters who are reachable on economic issues, to do what Bouie said they didn’t have to do in 2016, namely choose between a party who will not help their family’s bottom line and a party that has and will continue to do so.
Even more than that, Democrats must emphasize that Trump pushes those racially divisive issues specifically because his actual economic plans won’t help them. Let’s talk about that immigration proposal, for example. He claims it will help American workers, but actual evidence demonstrates that it will do the opposite. UC Davis economist Giovanni Peri summed it up thusly: “the average American worker is more likely to lose than to gain from immigration restrictions.”
Trump’s immigration restriction plan has no chance of getting through a Congress where enough members of the Republican majority still have their bread buttered by corporate interests that rely on cheap, unskilled labor. The plan is merely an attempt at distraction, another bait and switch—just like the Mexican wall Trump made a central selling point to voters for more than a year before admitting within days of taking office that it was “the least important thing,” although “politically it might be the most important.” Of course, Trump never meant the American people to hear that truthful admission.
Trump’s economic policies are simply old-fashioned Republican ones, through and through. They will send wealth up the chain while the middle and working classes suffer. Even on the racially and culturally divisive issues he pushes to distract from that fact, Trump cares much more about politics than actually delivering. Democrats must make sure voters understand that.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
President Donald Trump, currently on a 17-day vacation at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, spent his Monday morning posting a tirade against his usual target, the “24/7 fake news,” criticizing the “failing” New York Times.
The failing @nytimes, which has made every wrong prediction about me including my big election win (apologized), is totally inept!
The Trump base is far bigger &  stronger than ever before (despite some phony Fake News polling). Look at rallies in Penn, Iowa, Ohio.......
...and West Virginia. The fact is the Fake News Russian collusion story, record Stock Market, border security, military strength, jobs.....
... Supreme Court pick, economic enthusiasm, deregulation & so much more have driven the Trump base even closer together. Will never change!
Hard to believe that with 24/7 #Fake News on CNN, ABC, NBC, CBS, NYTIMES & WAPO, the Trump base is getting stronger!
Trump also claimed his low approval ratings were fabricated, pointing to crowd sizes at his recent rallies.
But following the tirade, he made sure to note that he was “working hard from New Jersey.”
Working hard from New Jersey while White House goes through long planned renovation. Going to New York next week for more meetings.
On Saturday, he similarly insisted that “this is not a vacation ― meetings and calls!”
Working in Bedminster, N.J., as long planned construction is being done at the White House. This is not a vacation - meetings and calls!
On Sunday night, Trump did call the president of South Korea, Moon Jae-in, regarding North Korea’s latest missile tests.
The president’s Monday morning tweet tirade further suggested speculation that his new chief of staff, John Kelly, would help rein in Trump and his tweeting habits was simply wishful thinking.
Over the weekend, Bloomberg reported that Kelly has been advising Trump on tweets that “might cause an international uproar or lead to unwelcome distractions,” concluding that Trump’s tweets “have been more buttoned down” in recent days.
But it also noted that “it may prove difficult for Kelly to prevail on Trump to bottle up his tweets at those who defy or criticize him ― or to refrain from expressing his outrage at the expanding investigations into possible ties between Russia and the Trump campaign, a subject that’s given rise to some of his most explosive statements.”
Trump’s latest ire toward the Times followed a story published Monday detailing Trump’s pervasive pattern of lying and his “sheer magnitude of falsehoods and exaggerations.”
Over the weekend, the paper also reported that Vice President Mike Pence is among several Republicans weighing a “shadow campaign” in 2020, in case Trump does not seek re-election.
Pence on Sunday responded in an unusually defensive statement pushing back on the story, calling it “fake news” and affirming that he was “honored to be working side-by-side with a president who is making America great again.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
WASHINGTON ― A former jail administrator in Oklahoma was sentenced to over four years in federal prison on Wednesday in connection with the 2013 death of a diabetic inmate he allegedly accused of faking an illness.
Wayne Barnes, the former jail administrator for the McClain County Jail, was sentenced to 51 months in prison and ordered to pay a $10,000 fine on a federal civil rights charge in connection with the death of Kory Wilson, 27. Barnes admitted that, in failing to obtain medical care for Wilson, he willfully denied Wilson of his constitutional right to medical care, and that his inaction resulted in Wilson’s death.
A grand jury indicted Barnes in October 2016. At a hearing in February, Barnes admitted that he was aware Wilson was an insulin-dependent diabetic when he was booked into that jail, that he knew Wilson had a diabetic episode, and that he made the decision not to transport Wilson to the hospital. Barnes agreed that Wilson died because of Barnes’ deliberate indifference and willful decision to deprive Wilson of medical care.
HuffPost’s jail deaths investigation last year found that at least a dozen individuals with diabetes died in U.S. jails during the yearlong period examined.
While it’s relatively common for inmates to die after their medical needs are ignored by jail officials, it’s rare for officials like Barnes to face criminal charges in connection with alleged negligence. There have been just a handful of federal civil rights indictments alleging that corrections officials violated inmates’ civil rights through “deliberate indifference” to their medical needs.
Wilson’s family filed a lawsuit alleging that Barnes enforced a verbal policy at McClain County Jail that employees weren’t allowed to call for medical help for inmates without Barnes’ approval.
“Every law enforcement officer in this country takes an oath to uphold the United States Constitution,” John Gore, the acting head of the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division, said in a statement. “The Constitution ensures that persons detained pending the adjudication of charges against them are entitled to necessary medical care. This sentence affirms the importance of that right and underscores the continuing commitment of the Civil Rights Division to hold officers accountable to their oaths.”
Both the government’s sentencing memorandum and Barnes’ motion in connection with his sentencing were filed under seal.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Maine Gov. Paul LePage (R) threatened on Tuesday to raise the voting age in his state to 21 after lawmakers overrode his veto on legislation that increased the age limit to buy tobacco products. 
LePage, still fuming over the new measure that was passed last week, said he would introduce two bills in January 2018, which would raise the age for voting and military service to 21 in Maine. The 26th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, ratified in 1971, says all citizens 18 and older can vote, an obstacle that didn’t seem to deter LePage. 
“In January I’m putting up two bills. If 18-year-olds are too young and can’t make the right decision to buy cigarettes, then I don’t think they should be able to vote. And secondly, if they’re too young to buy cigarettes, then I think we ought to not send them to war until they’re 21,” he said in a Tuesday radio interview on WVOM. “I’m gonna put up two bills and let them look at the hypocrisy and see how sensible that was.”
LePage’s office did not respond to a request for comment. The governor made a similar threat in a letter to lawmakers on Tuesday.
“If you don’t believe 18-year-olds are adults who can make their own decisions, then I hope you will support legislation that increases the voting age to 21 and prevents military service until a person turns 21,” he wrote.
State Sen. Nate Libby (D), who co-sponsored the bill, became addicted to tobacco when he was 18. He disagreed with the governor’s comments about voting, saying that there were reasons for putting age restrictions on potentially dangerous behaviors. In Maine, he noted, one has to be 21 to buy alcohol or gamble.
“When the governor sent his letter calling us hypocrites, that’s pretty frustrating,” he said in an interview with HuffPost. “It’s pretty common for this governor to link unrelated subjects in policy discussions. It’s a pretty foolish idea.”
The new law is set to go into effect July 2018. Maine is one of several states to push for raising the age restriction to buy tobacco products this year. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
President Donald Trump on Tuesday threatened North Korea with “fire and fury like the world has never seen,” a line he likely came up with on his own, according to reports.
Reporters from The New York Times, Politico and The Washington Post all spoke to White House sources who advised not to “read too much into” Trump’s comments, which were “absolutely” Trump’s words and not those of his new chief of staff, Gen. John Kelly.
Trump's "fire and fury" threat to North Korea was "absolutely" his own wording, a WH official tells me, not reading a Kelly script.
Trump advisers found his NK comments “unexpected, but it wasn't surprising,” per WH official. https://t.co/OBOAmzxObZ
Per WH sources: Trump improvised 'fire and fury' -- paper he looked was an opioid fact sheet. Kelly 'surprised' not shocked... more tk
"Fire and fury" from yesterday was not carefully vetted language from Trump, per several ppl with knowledge. "Don't read too much into it."
The Weekly Standard reported Wednesday that the White House, including the president’s national security team, did not help Trump prepare his remarks on North Korea, which were delivered ahead of a meeting on the opioid crisis in the U.S. and prompted by new reports that North Korea has escalated its nuclear program. The New York Times reports that a sheet of paper Trump appeared to be reading from as he gave the statement was actually a fact sheet on the opioid crisis.
“North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States. They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen,” Trump said. “And as I said, they will be met with the fire and fury and, frankly, power, the likes of which this world has never seen before.”
North Korea’s official news agency, KCNA, carried a statement on Wednesday attributed to Gen. Kim Rak Gyom in response to Trump’s threat. The KCNA post reiterates North Korea’s threat to launch missiles at the U.S. territory of Guam and mocks Trump’s “fire and fury” remarks.
“Sound dialogue is not possible with such a guy bereft of reason and only absolute force can work on him,” the KCNA statement says of Trump. The president’s remarks are “a load of nonsense,” it added.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said Wednesday there is no “imminent threat” from North Korea, despite Trump’s remarks the day before.
“Americans should sleep well at night,” Tillerson told reporters.
“I think what the president was doing was sending a strong message with language that [North Korean leader] Kim Jong-Un would understand, because he doesn’t seem to understand diplomatic language,” Tillerson added.
Trump also addressed North Korea again on Wednesday in a series of early-morning tweets:
My first order as President was to renovate and modernize our nuclear arsenal. It is now far stronger and more powerful than ever before....
...Hopefully we will never have to use this power, but there will never be a time that we are not the most powerful nation in the world!
The Washington Post’s Philip Rucker tweeted that White House officials aren’t happy with people interpreting Trump’s remarks as a sign of nuclear escalation.
WH officials take issue with “people on TV who know nothing about North Korea” interpreting “fire & fury” as nuclear escalation, per source. https://t.co/1uicBCesZL
As The Toronto Star noted, Trump’s rhetoric during his North Korea remarks Tuesday ― specifically that the U.S. would issue a response “like the world has never seen” ― closely mirror statements he’s made before on food prices, the Chinese military and his grassroots campaign, among other things.
This article has been updated with KCNA’s statement.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Previously published in The Boston Globe.
Already, President Trump’s international impact is historic — indeed, unprecedented. Around the globe, particularly among our European allies, Trump is viewed as impetuous, intolerant, unqualified, and dangerous. A massive Pew study of 37 countries reveals that, remarkably, their citizens distrust America’s president more than Vladimir Putin. Trump is tarnishing America — a mere five months of Trump led to a 15 percent decline in those with a positive view of the United States.
America and the world badly need a capable and respected president. Democracies, autocracies, and stateless terrorists compete to shape our common future. That challenge requires an America which, by words and example, promotes democracy, humanitarianism, and global cooperation over intolerance, authoritarianism, and nativism. Whether the threat be nuclear, economic, or environmental, the United States cannot escape through withdrawal, or dominate through disdain.
But Trump’s disdain for diplomacy begins with his own State Department. “If you don’t fully fund [State],” Defense Secretary Mattis adjures, “then I need to buy more ammunition.” Yet Trump proposes to cut the State Department budget and foreign assistance by roughly one-third, starving America’s ability to combat the agents of global instability — pandemics, failed states, nuclear proliferation, and a massive refugee crisis that breeds terrorism.
His woefully unqualified secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, has not filled hundreds of positions essential to conducting foreign policy — including his own deputy. Instead Tillerson stumbles from one miscue to the next, avoiding the press, while Trump’s callow son-in-law and the ultra–nationalist crackpot Steve Bannon elbow him aside. In despair, gifted career diplomats jump Trump’s rudderless ship.
The result is a foreign policy as incoherent and capricious as Trump himself, linked only by the solipsism that governs his existence. He exemplifies the parody of an American abroad — the monolingual and suspicious ignoramus who shuns guidebooks, hates the food, and shouts to make the natives understand him.
Stymied by Trump’s shallowness and inattention, briefers strive to beguile him with sound bites and graphics. But instead of learning, he tweets, assaulting the world with contradictory demands, transitory proposals, ahistorical falsehoods, and juvenile bluster — alienating our allies, emboldening our adversaries, inflaming regional tinderboxes, and degrading the coin of American leadership.
Take North Korea. Trump dealt with its nuclear threat by, variously, menacing its regime with ships sailing in the opposite direction; deputizing China to solve the problem; becoming angry when China did not; complaining that South Korea was not paying its fair share of our common defense; praising the murderous Kim Jong Un as a “smart cookie”; and threatening military action which, experts agree, would decimate Seoul and, conceivably, lead to nuclear war on the Korean Peninsula. The one certainty is that Trump has no policy for dealing with an arsenal that could soon destroy Seattle.
Or consider Iran. Trump looks to abrogate the multi-power agreement that is curbing Iran’s nuclear program. Conversely, he naively approves a cease-fire in Syria, which helps Russia and Iran preserve the genocidal regime of Bashar al-Assad.
In fact, the most consistent thread in Trump’s foreign policy is an amoral affinity for authoritarian and often murderous leaders. Between flip-flops, he embraces Xi Jinping of China — ignoring China’s cruelty toward the late dissident Liu Xiaobo and, more broadly, its efforts to dominate Asia through economic and military leverage. After Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey rigged an election, Trump called to congratulate him. He hails the oppressive Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt as a “fantastic guy.” And he acknowledged Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte’s efforts to eradicate drug trafficking through extrajudicial killings by inviting him to the White House.
Trump’s first trip abroad was to Saudi Arabia, which suppresses women and acquiesces in the export of terrorism by Saudi jihadists like the perpetrators of 9/11. Oblivious, Trump used this forum to decry terrorism by Iran, then supported the Saudis’ aggressive agenda for the Middle East, alienating Qatar — host to a key U.S. military base — and placing our thumb on the scales of the Shiite-Sunni divide.
Later, in Poland, he praised its increasingly authoritarian leader while never mentioning democracy or human rights — offending our allies in the European Union and encouraging the regime to further repress civil liberties and free speech.
But the most dangerous of Trump’s autocratic attachments is to his tactical better, America’s odious antagonist Vladimir Putin.
Trump’s failure to punish — or even fully acknowledge — Russia’s attack on our election is a dereliction of presidential duty, confirming that his only loyalty is to self. Contemptibly, he preceded his first meeting with Putin by reasserting that no one really knows who hacked the DNC and the Hillary Clinton campaign — demeaning our intelligence agencies in the bargain.
The meeting itself — which Trump declared “an honor” — disgraced his office. First, Trump countenanced Putin’s preposterous claim to be ignorant of the blatant attack that he himself authorized. Trump topped this by discussing with Putin a joint Russian-American task force to safeguard future elections, a monument to Trump’s incompetence and gullibility so surreal that he was forced to disavow it.
Finally, he broke off from a dinner of G-20 leaders to meet alone with Putin and his Russian translator, an hour-long solo act insulting to our allies and unseemly in its secretiveness — because no record exists, Trump alone knows what was said.
Trump’s craven courtship of a reprehensible human rights violator is, in its most profound sense, un-American. Compelled to sign a veto-proof sanctions bill targeting Russia, he denounced it as unconstitutional, while conspicuously failing to protest Putin’s mass expulsion of our embassy personnel in Moscow. But Trump’s global value system — to the extent he has one — is more aligned with Putin than with his American predecessors.
Trump’s America is bereft of moral content — suspicious of our traditional democratic allies, indifferent to human rights, averse to international cooperation, contemptuous of trade agreements, and driven by a self-interest so myopic that it amounts to diplomatic paranoia. In Trump’s world, America has played the fool for supposed friends who have preyed on its naive attachment to liberal internationalism.
Trump’s ignorance merges with his pathology: By replacing international cooperation with one-on-one bargaining for advantage, he has reduced the globe to the only model he can grasp — a Hobbesian world pitting one self-seeking real estate developer against the next. Like a man who views a Rorschach test and sees a wolf’s head instead of a flower, Trump reimagines a post-World War II democratic order that promoted stability and human rights as a bad bargain in which America — despite unprecedented power and prosperity — got pantsed.
However imperfect, that world order rested on the premise that democratic values, ethnic and religious tolerance, human rights, and global trade and cooperation would ameliorate the aggressive nationalism that formerly made Europe — as but one example — a cradle for war and genocide. From this foundation came the postwar democracies of Germany, Japan, and Eastern Europe, as well as NATO, the UN, the Bretton Woods agreement and the EU. Flawed though these arrangements were, collectively they made the world more humane, prosperous, and secure.
Trump scorns them all. Critically, he views foreign trade as fueling job loss instead of growth and stability. Thus he withdrew from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade agreement covering about 40 percent of the world’s population, ceding economic primacy in Asia to China while provoking Japan to strike a new economic pact with the EU. He inveighed against our trade arrangement with South Korea, whose assistance is vital in combating the North Korean nuclear threat. He threatened a trade war over steel with the EU — which vows to retaliate.
Trump misapprehends reality: Globalization is irreversible and automation, not trade, is the principal driver of American job loss in dying industries. More fundamental, by scorning alliances, erecting trade walls, slashing humanitarian assistance, and abandoning democratic ideals, he will make America less safe in a world shadowed by nuclear arsenals and transnational terrorism.
Yet Trump careens recklessly on, offering up our allies as red meat for his base. His scornful rejection of the Paris climate accord deepened our isolation, cementing his reputation as an ill-informed and irresponsible rogue operator. Our European partners are turning away in disillusion and disgust, preferring to rely on one another rather than an America led by Trump. In a dangerous world, our president all too obviously lacks the temperament, preparation, cooperativeness, or credibility to confront the crises which await — or, worse, which he ignites through his own ignorance, impulsiveness, isolation, and ill-judgment.
The recent G-20 conference in Germany spelled out America’s precipitous loss of influence. The EU’s solidarity against Trump’s threatened trade war was but the beginning. Decisively, the other 19 members broke with Trump over the Paris Agreement, adopting their own climate plan to implement its goals. Observing this startling breach between America and its erstwhile allies, President Emmanuel Macron of France summarized Trump’s impact: “Our world has never been so divided. . . . I will not concede anything . . . [to] . . . those who are pushing against multilateralism. Otherwise we will be moving back toward narrow-minded nationalism.”
Thus does the ugliest American shrink our stature to his own.
Richard North Patterson’s column appears regularly in the Boston Globe. His latest book is “Fever Swamp.’’ Follow him on Twitter @RicPatterson.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
A right-wing pastor who serves on Donald Trump’s evangelical advisory board claims God has given the president “full power” to launch an attack on North Korea.  
Robert Jeffress, head of the First Baptist Dallas megachurch, told CBN on Tuesday that a biblical passage in Romans allows rulers to use “whatever means necessary ― including war ― to stop evil.”
He said:
“In the case of North Korea, God has given Trump authority to take out Kim Jong Un. I’m heartened to see that our president ― contrary to what we’ve seen with past administrations who have taken, at best, a sheepish stance toward dictators and oppressors ― will not tolerate any threat against the American people.”
Jeffress also said: 
When @POTUS draws a red line, he will not erase, move, or back away from it. Thank God for pres. who is serious ab. protecting our country.
His comments came on a day of heated rhetoric. Trump threatened North Korea with “fire and fury like the world has never seen” over that nation’s nuclear program, and Pyongyang said it was considering an attack on a U.S. military base in Guam.
While the New Testament is full of pacifist teachings, Jeffress told The Washington Post that those instructions are aimed at Christians. The government, he said, has another set of rules laid out in Romans 13.
That selection warns that governing authorities are “established by God” and are “agents of wrath to bring punishment on the wrongdoer.”
Jeffress told the Post “that gives the government the authority to do whatever, whether it’s assassination, capital punishment or evil punishment, to quell the actions of evildoers like Kim Jong Un.”
Romans 13 also says, “Love does no harm to a neighbor.”
Jeffress, who serves on Trump’s evangelical advisory panel and has been a guest in the White House, has a long history of intolerant rants directed against gays, Muslims, Catholics, Mormons and more.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Like what you read below? Sign up for HUFFPOST HILL and get a cheeky dose of political news every evening!
President Trump reportedly receives a daily brief that only contains media excerpts and images that portray him positively, so it’s only a matter of time until he discovers the makeup filter on Snapchat. Maybe it’s just us, but Trump’s foreign policy missives increasingly sound like they were written by a D&D nerd on too much Adderall. And it turns out the president interacted with an obsequious Twitter bot, a development not too far outside the comfort zone of a guy who deals with Kellyanne Conway on a daily basis. This is HUFFPOST HILL for Tuesday, August 8th, 2017:
GUY FORGETS HE ACTUALLY CAN DESTROY THE WORLD - We get it, this week’s “Game of Thrones” was cool, but maybe dial down the Daenerys Targaryen LARPing, you know? Marina Fang: ”President Donald Trump on Tuesday threatened North Korea, promising ‘fire and fury like the world has never seen,’ following new reports the country has escalated its nuclear program…. ‘He has been very threatening, beyond a normal statement,’ Trump said of the country’s leader, Kim Jong Un. ‘And as I said, they will be met with fire, fury and frankly, power, the likes of which this world has never seen before.’ Trump’s ultimatum, which mirrors North Korea’s rhetoric toward the United States, came as U.S. intelligence officials reportedly learned that North Korea has produced a miniaturized nuclear warhead that could be placed on a missile, a significant step in advancing its nuclear program.” [HuffPost]
R.I.P. THE ECONOMY - Also, Paul Ryan’s leadership tenure. Matt Fuller: “Republicans and Democrats will only have a few short weeks to raise the debt ceiling…. The gap between what House conservatives want for raising the debt limit and what they can actually get is looking increasingly vast ― and Ryan may pay a price if he simply turns to Democrats and passes a clean raise to the government’s borrowing authority. House Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) told HuffPost this week that conservatives have proposed a menu of options to GOP leadership. Their ideas include adding debt prioritization language to a limit increase, which would prioritize Treasury debt payments ahead of other spending, and codifying the Trump administration’s informal rule ― one regulation in, two out. Freedom Caucus Republicans are also open to making around $250 billion in mandatory spending cuts, as well as attaching a debt ceiling raise to their health care bill. But none of those options are looking all that likely, with any borrowing limit increase needing the sign-off of at least eight Senate Democrats. And with Republicans controlling Congress and the White House, there’s little incentive for Democrats to give Republicans any concession.” [HuffPost]
More on the Democrats’ thinking: “One senior Democratic aide told HuffPost that negotiations haven’t really begun at this point, but a lot of Democratic members are uneasy about approving more debt only to allow Republicans to cut taxes for the wealthy as a result. At this point, another senior aide said, Democrats are taking a ‘wait and see’ approach.” [Ibid.]
Haircuts: Jessica Schulberg (h/t Nick Baumann), Igor Bobic (h/t Eliot), Daniels Marans (h/t Nick Bauman).
Like HuffPost Hill? Then order Eliot’s book, The Beltway Bible: A Totally Serious A-Z Guide To Our No-Good, Corrupt, Incompetent, Terrible, Depressing, and Sometimes Hilarious Government
Does somebody keep forwarding you this newsletter? Get your own copy. It’s free! Sign up here. Send tips/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to eliot@huffpost.com. Follow us on Twitter - @HuffPostHill
HASTERT RULE, SCHMASTERT RULE - Rachael Bade and Elana Schor: ”The Trump White House is quietly courting a few dozen House Democrats on tax reform — eager to avoid the fate of the GOP’s straight party-line attempt to jam through a repeal of Obamacare. Even as congressional GOP leaders largely embrace a partisan path on taxes, White House officials have been wooing 15 to 20 centrist House Democrats since early summer. The Trump administration is all too aware of congressional Republicans’ struggles to come together on a range of hot-button issues — from health care to government spending — and tax reform is littered with political minefields for the party. So the president and his staff are opening a line of communication with moderate Democrats in case a Plan B is needed. At a mid-June dinner at the White House with four centrist House Democrats, President Donald Trump expressed interest in a bipartisan package combining tax reform with infrastructure spending, multiple sources said.” [Politico]
POMPE-OH-NO - Matthew Rosenberg: “Unlike past directors, who typically sought to avoid policy discussions, [CIA Director Mike Pompeo] readily joins in when the president asks for his opinion, even on matters far afield of national security, such as health care. And he brings to the table the views of a former congressman first elected in the Tea Party wave of 2010 who staked out ground on the far right of the Republican Party…. Yet the attributes that have endeared Mr. Pompeo to the president — his hawkish politics and eagerness to speak his mind — have been met with a more mixed reception at the C.I.A. The agency sees its role as delivering hard truths that are unvarnished by political preferences, and there are concerns in the intelligence community that Mr. Pompeo’s partisan instincts color his views of contentious issues, such as Russia’s interference in the election or Iran’s nuclear program.” [NYT]
TRUMP TAKING LEAK ISSUE INTO HIS OWN HANDS - By perpetuating it. Marina Fang: ”President Donald Trump on Tuesday promoted a news article that cited information from anonymous officials, a practice he regularly decries — except when it benefits him. Trump retweeted several posts from the Twitter account for Fox News’ morning show ‘Fox & Friends,’ which he watches and tweets about regularly. One of the Fox tweets linked to a story about U.S. spies spotting North Korean cruise missiles. The article cites ‘U.S. officials with knowledge of the latest intelligence in the region,’ including one that ‘requested anonymity to discuss sensitive information.’ It’s common to cite anonymous officials when reporting on intelligence matters, especially if information is classified. But Trump has regularly criticized the practice, as well as leaks of information in general, and has pledged to make the issue a priority for his administration.” [HuffPost]
DEMS SEEK ANSWERS ABOUT TRUMP’S LATEST BUSINESS VENTURE - Julie Bykowicz: ”Democratic lawmakers are making a new push for information about how much money the federal government is spending at [Trump’s] for-profit properties. Democrats on the House Oversight Committee on Tuesday asked departments to hand over information about their Trump-related spending by Aug. 25. ‘The American people deserve to know how their tax dollars are spent, including the amount of federal funds that are being provided to private businesses owned by the president and the purposes of these expenditures,’ reads the lawmakers’ letter to Elaine Duke, the acting secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. The lawmakers sent similar requests to all Cabinet secretaries.” [AP]
AREA MAN LITERALLY THE MOST INSECURE PERSON IN THE WORLD - Alex Thompson: “Twice a day since the beginning of the Trump administration, a special folder is prepared for the president. The first document is prepared around 9:30 a.m. and the follow-up, around 4:30 p.m. Former Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and former Press Secretary Sean Spicer both wanted the privilege of delivering the 20-to-25-page packet to President Trump personally, White House sources say. These sensitive papers, described to VICE News by three current and former White House officials, don’t contain top-secret intelligence or updates on legislative initiatives. Instead, the folders are filled with screenshots of positive cable news chyrons (those lower-third headlines and crawls), admiring tweets, transcripts of fawning TV interviews, praise-filled news stories, and sometimes just pictures of Trump on TV looking powerful.” [Vice]
HELLER GETS A PRIMARY CHALLENGER - Which is to say, “Dean Heller Gets A Guy To Make Him Talk About Trump’s Immigration Policies In A State With A Large Hispanic Population.” Hayley Miller: ”Businessman Danny Tarkanian, a staunch supporter of President Donald Trump, announced Tuesday that he will run against Sen. Dean Heller in Nevada’s Republican primary next year. Tarkanian ― who has mounted several failed political campaigns, including for seats in the House and Senate ― announced his run at 4 a.m. Las Vegas time on ‘Fox & Friends,’ a morning show the president frequently watches and praises on Twitter. ‘We’re never going to make America great again unless we have senators in office that fully support President Trump and his America First agenda,’ Tarkanian said.” [HuffPost]
TRUMP TALKS TO BOT - It’s not easy to find people who can relate to not having a soul. You got to take what you can get. Abby Phillip: “On Saturday, President Trump tweeted his gratitude to a social-media super-fan, ­Nicole Mincey…. There is no evidence the Twitter feed belongs to someone named Nicole Mincey. And the account, according to experts, bears a lot of signs of a Russia-backed disinformation campaign. On Sunday, Twitter suspended the Mincey account, known as @ProTrump45, after several other users revealed that it was probably a fake, created to amplify pro-Trump content. The incident highlights Trump’s penchant for off-the-cuff tweeting — and the potential consequences for doing so now that he holds the nation’s highest office. Even as the president has railed against multiple investigations into Russia’s meddling in U.S. politics, he may have become Exhibit A of the foreign government’s influence by elevating a suspected Russia-connected ­social-media user — part a sophisticated campaign to exacerbate disputes in U.S. politics and gain the attention of the most powerful tweeter in the world.” [WaPo]
BECAUSE YOU’VE READ THIS FAR - Here’s a child being introduced to Sour Patch Kids.
THE FUTURE IS HERE - And in the future, we will all dress up like car seats and pretend we aren’t driving. Adam Tuss: “A van that appeared to have no driver made headlines when it was spotted in Arlington, Virginia, last week. But when News4′s Adam Tuss saw the van on Monday and looked inside, he saw that it did have a driver: a man dressed in a costume made to look like just a car seat…. After multiple inquiries by News4, the Virginia Tech Transportation Institute said Monday afternoon that the van and van driver are part of a study they are conducting on driverless cars. The worker was wearing the uniform he was supposed to wear.” [WRC-TV]
COMFORT FOOD
- The “Game of Thrones” and Vanilla Ice remix you didn’t know you needed and, to be honest, probably don’t.
- The New York Times tells you what the opposite job from your current one is.
- 12 of Washington’s coolest homes.
TWITTERAMA
journalism: trying to go from dumb to less dumb on a subject as fast as humanly possible
cant believe i got fired for measuring female coworkers skulls with my phrenology calipers. welcome to 1984. i have committed "wrongthink"
v. tempted to write an Alabama senate race preview titled “ROY HE BOUT TO DO IT"
Got something to add? Sen  tips/quotes/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to Eliot Nelson (eliot@huffpost.com)
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Sebastian Gorka, a White House national security adviser, defended President Donald Trump’s silence on an explosion at a Minnesota mosque by suggesting it could have been a fake hate crime “propagated by the left.”
When asked on MSNBC Tuesday why Trump had yet to publicly comment on the Saturday incident, Gorka said the president wants to wait until he learns more about it. Trump, though, often is quick to comment on other attacks, particularly those carried out by Muslims. 
“When we have some kind of finalized investigation, absolutely,” Gorka said of whether Trump would respond to the bombing at the Dar al-Farooq Islamic Center in Bloomington. He then suggested the attack could have been a “fake” hate crime.
“There’s a great rule: All initial reports are false,″ Gorka said. “You have to check them and find out who the perpetrators are. We’ve had a series of crimes committed, alleged hate crimes, by right-wing individuals in the last six months, that turned out to actually have been propagated by the left.”
“So let’s wait and see,” he said. “Let’s allow the local authorities to provide their assessment, and then the White House will make its comments.”
No one was injured in the blast that occurred at about 5 a.m. as a few congregants gathered for morning prayers. The FBI is investigating the attack, which Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton (D) declared “a criminal act of terrorism” as he visited the site on Sunday.
In June, Trump immediately seized on a terror attack in London, using it to promote his travel ban targeting six majority-Muslim countries and lashing out at the city’s mayor, Sadiq Khan.
Gorka on Tuesday claimed that Trump commented swiftly in that case because the attack was “unequivocally clear for what it is.”
Of the explosion at the Minnesota mosque, Gorka said, “People fake hate crimes.”
“The question of who does it is a question, when you’ve had people fake hate crimes with some regularity in the last six months,” Gorka reiterated. He cited no specific examples.
Host Stephanie Ruhle pointed out that Trump could simply denounce the mosque attack. “You don’t have to make a statement about who did it, but you can make a public statement denouncing how terrible it would be to attack a building of worship,” she told Gorka.
“That’s fine, and I’m sure the president will do that,” he responded.
When Ruhle noted that on Twitter, Trump’s usual medium for communication, the president has spent the week mostly tweeting insults and accusations, Gorka said to wait.
“Just hold your horses, count to 10, and the president will do what he deems fit,” Gorka said.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump on Tuesday threatened North Korea, promising “fire and fury like the world has never seen,” following new reports the country has escalated its nuclear program.
“North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States. They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen,” he said in a short statement to reporters at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, before a meeting on the opioid crisis.
“He has been very threatening, beyond a normal statement,” Trump said of the country’s leader, Kim Jong Un. “And as I said, they will be met with fire, fury and frankly, power, the likes of which this world has never seen before.”
Trump’s ultimatum, which mirrors North Korea’s rhetoric toward the United States, came as U.S. intelligence officials reportedly learned that North Korea has produced a miniaturized nuclear warhead that could be placed on a missile, a significant step in advancing its nuclear program. 
A few hours after Trump’s news conference, North Korea’s official KCNA news agency carried a series of statements from military spokesmen responding to the president’s rhetoric. Using bombastic language typical to KCNA statements, a spokesman claimed that Pyonyang was “carefully examining” plans to launch missiles at the U.S. island territory of Guam. 
In a separate post, another North Korean military spokesman warned that “war is by no means a game” and claimed that “U.S. war-thirsty forces are engrossed in war hysteria without discretion.” KCNA also published a post titled “U.S. Reckless War Frenzy Slammed,” in which the propaganda arm blamed Washington for making plans to carry out a pre-emptive strike against North Korea. 
In recent weeks, the country has also claimed that it successfully tested two intercontinental ballistic missiles, which may be capable of reaching Alaska.
U.S. intelligence officials do not know whether North Korea has tested the miniaturized warhead yet, according to NBC News and The Washington Post.
On Monday, North Korea issued a similarly strong threat to the U.S.
“Should the U.S. pounce upon the DPRK with military force at last, the DPRK is ready to teach the U.S. a severe lesson with its strategic nuclear force,” foreign minister Ri Yong Ho said in a statement, referring to North Korea.
Trump has regularly responded to North Korea’s nuclear escalation with little specificity, insisting that “all options are on the table.” He has taken particular issue with China, North Korea’s only ally, for not doing more to rein in the nuclear program and suggested economic consequences against the country, an important U.S. trade partner.
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, criticized Trump’s rhetoric in an interview with KTAR radio on Tuesday.
“I take exception to the president’s comments because you’ve got to be able to do what you say you’re going to do,” McCain said. “In other words, the old walk softly but carry a big stick, Teddy Roosevelt’s saying, which I think is something that should’ve applied because all it’s going to do is bring us closer to a serious confrontation.”
McCain, however, said he was unsure of whether Trump’s statement could be interpreted as a threat to North Korea. “I don’t know what he’s saying and I’ve long ago given up trying to interpret what he says. It’s not terrible, but it’s kind of the classic Trump in that he overstates things.”  
Later Tuesday, Guam’s congressional delegate Madeleine Bordallo responded to North Korea’s provocation, saying she was “confident that Guam remains safe and protected.” 
“I am confident in the ability of U.S. defenses to protect our island and allies in the region,” she said. 
Meanwhile, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson is meeting with officials in Asia this week, exploring diplomatic solutions to the growing crisis.
This story has been updated to include comments from Sen. John McCain and Del. Madeleine Bordallo.
CORRECTION: A previous version of this story misstated that KTAR was an AM station in Glendale, Arizona. It is an FM station and is based in Phoenix.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
The federal government plans to give the exclusive license for a new liver cancer drug to a pharmaceutical company owned by China’s 63rd-richest man, HuffPost has learned.
The National Institutes of Health proposes to grant Salubris Biotherapeutics, Inc. exclusive worldwide rights to a portfolio of patents on antibody drugs used to treat liver cancer, according to a notice published Monday on the Federal Register.
The firm is the Maryland-based arm of Shenzhen Salubris Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd., the Chinese drugmaker valued at roughly $5 billion and run by former Shenzhen mayor and billionaire Ye Chenghai, who with his family controls about 66 percent of the company.
The proposal comes amid growing public backlash to deals that give pharmaceutical companies monopolies on drugs and vaccines developed through taxpayer-funded research without requiring them to sell the drugs back to Americans at a reasonable price.
Last week, Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) proposed a new rule that would require federal agencies and federally funded nonprofits, such as research universities, to secure a reasonable pricing agreement from a manufacturer before granting it exclusive rights to drugs, vaccines or other health care products.
Sanders’ proposal aims to stop the Department of Defense from awarding drugmaker Sanofi Pasteur an exclusive license and $173 million in research funding to produce a Zika vaccine developed over the past year by the U.S. Army. Zika virus, a tropical, mosquito-borne disease also spread through sexual transmission, causes devastating birth defects.
The French pharmaceutical giant demanded a license that would prevent other drugmakers from competing to manufacture the vaccine at a lower cost, then refused to agree to sell the vaccine back to taxpayers at a fair price. The company has a history of charging up to eight times more for its drugs in the U.S. than in France or the United Kingdom.
Less is known about Salubris Biotherapeutics. The company’s website lists offices in Boston, Istanbul and a suburb of Paris. In May, Maryland Lt. Gov. Boyd Rutherford (R) attended the firm’s ribbon-cutting ceremony for its new headquarters in Gaithersburg, about 45 minutes southwest of Baltimore.
Shenzhen Salubris, known in China for its cardiovascular, cancer and diabetes treatments, acquired the U.S.-based Salubris Biotherapeutics in October. Sam Murphy, the firm’s head of international development, plans to speak about why Chinese investors are “pouring money into biotech” at a major industry conference in Boston next month.
Neither Salubris Biotherapeutics nor Shenzen Salubris responded to multiple requests for comment on Tuesday.
The National Institutes of Health defended its decision in a statement to HuffPost on Wednesday, arguing “an exclusive license incentivizes companies to invest in the development of early stage ... technologies so they can benefit public health.”
“NIH considers carefully when a technology should have an exclusive or non-exclusive license,” a spokesman said in the statement. 
The treatment developed by the NIH uses therapeutic antibodies to target the harmful protein on cancerous cells. The two patents described in the license could be engineered to make the drug more precise and inhibit the growth of the cancer cells, according to Diane Singhroy, scientific and technical advisor to the Knowledge Ecology International.
The Washington, D.C.-based watchdog group, which spearheaded research into Sanofi’s proposed Zika license, submitted a letter on Tuesday to the NIH requesting more information about the deal with Salubris.
“Is anyone in the White House paying any attention to these NIH patent licenses?” Jamie Love, the director of KEI, asked in an email to HuffPost on Tuesday. “The NIH wants to turn this over, life of patent, with zero agreements on the price, to Ye Chenghai, the former mayor of Shenzhen, in total secrecy as regards every important element of the license.”
Love added: “It’s time to hold hearings on the NIH licensing practices, so people have a better understanding of what is going on.”
That seems unlikely to happen. The notice filed with the Federal Register provides for just 15 days of comment from the public. Those comments will not be published or made subject to a Freedom of Information Act request, according to the last paragraph of the notice.
The proposal is likely to roil the handful of lawmakers who have come out against monopoly deals like this.
The same day Sanders announced his bill in the Senate, Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.) introduced companion legislation in the House.
Last month, Sen. Angus King (I-Maine) tacked language onto the military spending bill that directed the Defense Department to break pricing monopolies when the cost of a taxpayer-funded drug is higher than the median price charged in countries that have at least half the per capita income of the United States.
Based on 2016 figures, that would apply to Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Canada and Australia. The Senate Armed Services Committee unanimously approved the directive.
Nine days later, Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio) introduced a similar amendment in the Department of Health and Human Services spending bill making its way through the House of Representatives. In an interview on Tuesday afternoon, she said her constituents are suffering under high drug prices and vowed to fight the NIH proposal.
“For the NIH to do that would not be in the interest of the American public, which is who they’re supposed to be there for,” she told HuffPost by phone. “Something is really, really wrong with this system.”
This story has been updated with comments from Kaptur and the NIH. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
The Department of Justice reversed its position Monday on an important case before the Supreme Court that deals with state procedures for removing people from the voter rolls. The move signals another break with Obama administration policy on voting issues and, according to critics, shows how hostile the Trump Justice Department will be to voting rights.
Under the Obama administration, the Justice Department supported a challenge to one of the ways Ohio purges voters from its rolls. If someone hasn’t voted in two years, the state sends them a confirmation notice and then removes them from the rolls if they don’t respond and fail to vote for an additional four years.
Challengers argue that this process violates federal law, which prohibits removing people from the voter rolls simply for not voting. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 6th Circuit agreed.
Now, the Supreme Court has agreed to hear the case next term, and in a filing on Monday, the Department of Justice said the Ohio process was legal and didn’t violate the 1993 National Voter Registration Act or the 2002 Help America Vote Act.
Lawyers for the department acknowledged that their position was inconsistent with their previous position in the case.
“The Department argued that the NVRA forbids that practice in a guidance document first issued in 2010 and in two recent amicus filings, including a brief filed in the court of appeals in this case,” they wrote in the Monday brief. “After this Court’s grant of review and the change in Administrations, the Department reconsidered the question. It has now concluded that the NVRA does not prohibit a State from using nonvoting as the basis for sending a [confirmation] notice.”
The reversal is unusual, said Justin Levitt, a former deputy assistant attorney general in the Justice Department’s civil rights division who worked on the Ohio case during the Obama administration.
“It’s quite rare for the DOJ to change course after ... filing a brief in the court of appeals: the Solicitor General’s office is often called the ′Tenth Justice,′ in part because while reversals happen, there’s a thumb on the scale to treat DOJ filings with some internal quasi-precedential weight,” he wrote in a blog post.
Levitt also noted that career civil rights attorneys had not signed the department’s brief, a signal that they may disagree with its content.
The Trump Justice Department is undermining the ability of people to vote, said Brenda Wright, the vice president of policy and legal strategies at Dēmos, which is representing the plaintiffs in the Ohio case.
“Yesterday, the Department of Justice abandoned this principled position that it has held for decades through three presidencies,” Wright said in a statement. “By reversing course and choosing to stand with Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted and his practice of purging countless eligible Ohioans from the rosters, the DOJ has confirmed many peoples’ worst fears that it will no longer work to protect and expand the right to vote, but instead undermine it.” 
The Justice Department’s reversal marks the second time the Trump administration has broken with the Obama administration on a major voting rights case. In February, the department changed its yearslong position that Texas’ 2011 voter ID law was discriminatory.
The Ohio brief also signals the department’s continued interest in voter purging procedures. In June, the department sent out a letter to all 44 states covered by NVRA asking election officials to describe their compliance with voter purging procedures.
Voting rights advocates said it was unusual for the Justice Department to send such a broad letter to so many states and worried that the department was preparing to force states to kick people off the rolls.
“Since taking office, this Administration has been hellbent on stripping eligible voters of their access to the ballot box. In keeping with their reversal in our Texas voter ID case, Veasey v. Perry, the Justice Department has once again discarded years of legal guidance and shirked its responsibility to defend the right to vote,” Sherrilyn Ifill, president of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, said in a statement.
“The DOJ’s interpretation of federal law would leave Americans vulnerable to getting purged from the voter rolls, dispossessing millions of a fundamental right simply because they did not exercise it,” Ifill added. “Just as we have fought this Administration’s illegal voter suppression task force, we will continue to vigorously resist any attempt to undermine the franchise.”
The Justice Department is interested in making it acceptable to conduct widespread voter purges, said Kristen Clarke, president and executive director of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law.
“The Department of Justice’s latest reversal of its position in a critical voting rights case represents just the latest example of an agency whose leadership has lost its moral compass,” Clarke said in a statement. “The law hasn’t changed since the Department accurately told the Court that Ohio’s voter purge was unlawful. The facts haven’t changed. Only the leadership of the Department has changed.”
“The Justice Department’s latest action opens the door for wide-scale unlawful purging of the voter registration rolls across our country,” Clarke added. “We fully condemn the Justice Department’s latest move to obstruct voting rights in the U.S.”
Stuart Naifeh, a Dēmos lawyer representing the plaintiffs in the case, said the Justice Department was reversing a position it had held for over two decades.
“The Justice Department has undermined its own credibility by changing positions in the same case,” he said. “The Justice Department has taken a position consistent with our position since the NVRA was passed. They tried to downplay that in their brief.”
Vanita Gupta, the former head of the Justice Department’s civil rights division under the Obama administration, said in a statement the shift in DOJ’s position “raises real concerns about the politicization of the Justice Department’s historic role in protecting voting rights.”
This story has been updated with a statement from Stuart Naifeh and Vanita Gupta. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
When Congress returns in early September, Republicans and Democrats will only have a few short weeks to raise the debt ceiling. House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) faces a problem: The gap between what House conservatives want for raising the debt limit and what they can actually get is looking increasingly vast ― and Ryan may pay a price if he simply turns to Democrats and passes a clean raise to the government’s borrowing authority.
House Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) told HuffPost this week that conservatives have proposed a menu of options to GOP leadership. Their ideas include adding debt prioritization language to a limit increase, which would prioritize Treasury debt payments ahead of other spending, and codifying the Trump administration’s informal rule ― one regulation in, two out. Freedom Caucus Republicans are also open to making around $250 billion in mandatory spending cuts, as well as attaching a debt ceiling raise to their health care bill.
But none of those options are looking all that likely, with any borrowing limit increase needing the sign-off of at least eight Senate Democrats. And with Republicans controlling Congress and the White House, there’s little incentive for Democrats to give Republicans any concession.
If anything, Democratic aides insist, it’s Republicans who will have to give in to Democratic demands. One possible option would be to couple the debt ceiling with funds to reimburse health insurance companies serving poor customers. The Trump administration has threatened to withhold those funds, which were promised to insurance companies as part of the Affordable Care Act, but Congress could guarantee the payments.
One senior Democratic aide told HuffPost that negotiations haven’t really begun at this point, but a lot of Democratic members are uneasy about approving more debt only to allow Republicans to cut taxes for the wealthy as a result. At this point, another senior aide said, Democrats are taking a “wait and see” approach.
Ryan’s office said it’s too early to comment on the negotiations or his position on the debt ceiling. But there’s a growing sense among conservatives that Ryan’s position is more tenuous than he anticipates, especially if he passes a clean debt ceiling raise with the help of almost every Democrat and a small coalition of Republicans.
“It would be extremely difficult for a Republican speaker to put forward a clean debt ceiling and look his conference in the face and believe he’s done a job well done,” Meadows told HuffPost.
What exactly that means is unclear ― Meadows wouldn’t say more. But Republicans speaking on the condition of anonymity were more candid, with one member saying that if Ryan puts forward a clean debt ceiling raise, “it becomes the start of the end for the Ryan speakership.”
Another conservative member summed up Ryan’s position this way: “He doesn’t get it. He’s not going to make it to tax reform if he doesn’t get through this.”
If conservatives actually make the debt ceiling a litmus test for the speaker, Ryan may resist the pressure from Democrats ― and, potentially, the White House and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) ― to simply raise the limit without changes. But taking a hard stance could have serious economic implications, calling into question the United States’ ability to pay its bills and raising interest rates for future government borrowing. In effect, playing a political game of chicken with the debt ceiling may end up costing the government, and taxpayers, more.
But if you believe some Republicans, Ryan isn’t going to cave.
“I would be surprised if Paul Ryan thinks we should do a clean debt ceiling increase,” former Freedom Caucus Chairman Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) told HuffPost. “Frankly, I can’t believe the speaker of the House is going to go along with a clean debt ceiling increase.”
Jordan insisted that Republicans, with control of Congress and the White House, had to get some concession for raising the debt limit. “The idea that we’re going to raise the debt ceiling and not do anything structurally on the long-term debt concerns just makes no sense,” he said. Jordan pointed to other deals in the past to argue that Republicans had to get something.
“Even if it was ‘no budget, no pay,’” Jordan said, referring to a gimmicky 2013 law that placed future restrictions on congressional salaries if lawmakers didn’t agree to a budget, “Republicans always get something.”
But part of the problem for Republicans is they’re still negotiating with themselves. Based on conversations with conservatives this week, even if Republicans secured some small concessions, it seems unlikely they’d get the support of every conservative. Even if they did, it still wouldn’t be enough in the Senate. And some Republicans are just apt to vote against more debt.
“It doesn’t make any difference to me whether it’s Barack Obama or John Boehner as president and speaker of the House; my position is unchanged,” Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.), who is running for Senate, told HuffPost. “I will not vote to raise the debt ceiling unless there is a serious effort to address the underlying cause of the problem.”
Brooks said a “clean debt ceiling raise” was actually a “dirty debt ceiling raise,” because lawmakers would be putting the country on a path to insolvency and bankruptcy, leading to the gutting of Medicaid, food stamps and national security.
“That seems like a pretty dirty thing to do to our kids and grandkids and our country,” Brooks said.
Asked what increasing the limit without any concessions would mean for the speaker, Brooks danced around the topic, but he suggested that no reforms would be a problem for him.
“I like Paul Ryan personally,” Brooks said. “I’m gonna limit this discussion to public policy, and an increase in the debt ceiling without any substantive effort to fix America’s deficit problem is a betrayal of America’s future and our children and grandchildren.”
Rep. Dave Brat (R-Va.) had a similar thought.
“It’s not about Paul Ryan,” he said. “It’s about the Republican brand and fiscal responsibility. Why would we put a clean debt ceiling increase without any reforms whatsoever on a Republican president’s desk?”
Brat continued that he had not seen any provision in the Republican platform calling for “$600 billion deficits as far as the eye can see and the bankruptcy of America on the backs of our children.”
Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-S.C.) told HuffPost that lawmakers needed “some sort of Spend-aholics Anonymous, a 12-step plan, and possibly an intervention in order to end the Congress’ propensity to spend money that we don’t have.”
But if Republicans can’t get Democrats to go along with the sort of sweeping ― or even more limited ― reforms they want in exchange for raising the debt ceiling, would Republicans actually let the government default?
President Donald Trump has recently settled on stock market gains as a signature achievement. The pressure to raise the debt ceiling would intensify quickly once markets start reacting to a default crisis. Already, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says Congress ought to just pass a clean bill.
That message, however, has been muddled elsewhere in the administration. For one, Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney ― himself once a fierce Freedom Caucus member who has voted against raising the debt ceiling ― has said he’d like to see spending cuts or debt prioritization changes before Congress raises the borrowing limit.
Trump hasn’t weighed in himself, but it’s easy to imagine him refusing to sign a bill that, say, continues government funding, raises the debt ceiling, excludes money for his wall along the southern border, and includes Obamacare-related funding. And with government funding running out at the end of September, around the time that Congress would have to increase the debt limit, it’s easy to see all those issues getting rolled into one debate that Ryan, or McConnell, or Trump, or conservatives, or Democrats could derail.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
TUCSON, Ariz. ― When Sean Arce, former director of Tucson’s banned Mexican-American studies program, took the witness stand in June, the state attorney’s line of questioning betrayed a clear agenda: She wanted to get Arce to describe white people as “oppressors.”
Despite repeated prodding, Arce offered a more subtle explanation of his views. “If you look at the disparities that exist within our society, if you look at prison rates ― if we look at a number of indicators, you see that there is, in fact, a dominant society and a subordinate society and you see that folks are marginalized,” the high school social studies teacher testified. “I am speaking of systems of racism and systems of oppression.”  
The 47-year-old educator was testifying on the fourth day of a trial that concluded last month ― and that will soon decide whether Republican state officials violated students’ constitutional rights when they torpedoed Tucson’s unique ethnic studies program in 2012.
Arce and a group of likeminded teachers in the Tucson Unified School District banded together in the 1990s to create a Mexican-American studies program that aimed to narrow the wide achievement gap between white students and the Hispanic students who constitute the district’s majority.
“Their self-esteem was really low,” Curtis Acosta, another former teacher, testified of his Hispanic students. “We wanted to work on that self-image while giving them an academic foundation.” 
Some of the programs’ teaching methods were commonsense. They taught books by Hispanic authors that students were rarely exposed to otherwise, and they studied overlooked episodes of Latino history in the United States.
Other methods were less conventional. The teachers believed that mending their students’ fractured relationship with school meant boosting their confidence and helping them find inspiration in their culture, which the traditional curriculum had largely ignored. Some teachers began class with the “unity clap” ― a nod to the United Farm Workers movement ― or recited “In Lak’ Kech,” a bilingual poem inspired by Mayan teachings, in unison. The curriculum often homed in on the most contentious issues that students in the largely Hispanic district were facing, like illegal immigration and racial inequality. At its peak, the program served 1,200 students, from kindergarten through high school.
Arizona’s Republican-dominated legislature, however, viewed the classes as an example of thinly veiled left-wing indoctrination that used discussions about “oppression” to breed resentment against whites.
In 2010, the legislature passed a four-part law forbidding any public school classes designed for a specific ethnicity or promoting “the overthrow of the United States government,” “resentment toward a race or class of people,” or “ethnic solidarity” instead of “the treatment of pupils as individuals.” Then-state Superintendent of Public Instruction Tom Horne and then-State Sen. John Huppenthal, both Republicans, crafted the bill to outlaw the Mexican-American studies classes specifically.
In 2011, Huppenthal took Horne’s place as state superintendent of public instruction and issued an order finding Tucson’s program in violation of the law he’d helped pass the prior year. To avoid losing state funding, the Tucson school board voted 4-1 to dismantle the classes in January 2012.
Students and parents in the district filed a lawsuit to overturn the state’s restrictions, accusing Arizona officials of passing and implementing the law with the goal of discriminating against Hispanics. The lawsuit argues that the ethnic studies law violates the 14th Amendment’s guarantee to equal protection before the law and students’ First Amendment right to receive information freely.
While Arizona Republicans accused the teachers of indoctrinating students, the state’s defense of its ethnic studies law was also largely ideological. Rob Ellman, one of the lawyers representing Arizona, accused the teachers of using “inflammatory materials” to “portray America as a racist society” ― and argued that it was well within lawmakers’ purview to ban such a program.
“If you characterize the relationship as Hispanics being oppressed and whites being oppressors, I think that’s of grave concern to any policymaker,” Huppenthal said.
One thing is clear: When U.S. District Court Judge A. Wallace Tashima rules on the case some time in the coming weeks, he will set a precedent for how far legislators are allowed to go when pushing their political views into the classroom.
The argument that the Mexican-American studies program taught students to despise whites formed the crux of Arizona’s defense during the two-week bench trial, leading to the contentious line of questioning about who Arce thinks the “oppressors” are.
It was a bizarre interaction. People of Hispanic heritage can belong to any racial group, and Arce’s daughter Maya Arce, a 19-year-old university student who also appeared as a witness against the state’s ban, is both Mexican-American and light-skinned. The state seemed to be arguing that Arce would devote his professional life to sowing resentment against a group of people that might include his own immediate family.
Acosta testified that maligning white people would offend him personally because he is himself biracial, and loves his Anglo mother. Sally Rusk ― one of the program’s former teachers, who watched the trial from the audience ― is a white woman with no Hispanic ancestry.
Lacking direct evidence that the teachers railed against whites in the classroom, the state of Arizona then sought to prove that the curriculum itself was overtly racist and politically biased.
Huppenthal testified that discussions of “oppression” have no place in classrooms if they delve too far into the subject of the privileged place of white Americans or the marginalized place of Hispanics in the United States. Doing so, he argued, would only undermine students’ ability to succeed in life.
“The idea that you have oppression taking place in society, I thought that was a dominant idea of the classes,” Huppenthal testified. “I thought that was an unhealthy idea.”
Yet the program’s outcomes appeared to show that teachers were successfully narrowing the achievement gap. Students who took the elective classes graduated at higher rates and scored higher on state tests than their peers, according to studies led by University of Arizona education professor Nolan Cabrera, who testified as an expert witness during trial. They even performed better on math tests, a subject the Mexican-American studies program didn’t cover at all. This unforeseen result may indicate that students’ attitudes toward education improved overall because of the program, Cabrera said.
The state’s defense made clear that officials’ criticism of the Mexican-American studies program hinged more on ideology than pedagogy.
Horne, Huppenthal’s predecessor as head of Arizona schools, first launched the state’s battle against ethnic studies in 2006, after civil rights leader Dolores Huerta said “Republicans hate Latinos” in a speech at a Tucson high school while referring to the toxic immigration debate. Horne testified that he had crafted the 2010 law to ban all ethnic studies from the state, based on his personal belief that they fostered separatism.
“Philosophically, I disagreed with dividing students up by race,” Horne said on the stand.
And the officials who spearheaded the passage of the ethnic studies law both testified that they had never witnessed a single class. Horne based his assessment largely on complaints from two Tucson teachers outside the program ― Jon Ward and Hector Ayala ― who accused the Mexican-American studies teachers of politicizing the classroom, using racially charged language and making white students feel out of place. (Neither Ward nor Ayala testified at trial.)
Horne said on the stand that he’d made of a point of not visiting the classes, arguing that teachers would mask their alleged racial and political agendas in the presence of a state official. Instead, he said he offered to videotape the classes at the expense of the state. The school district declined.
Huppenthal met with students in Acosta’s high school Latino literature class for a discussion once in the spring of 2010, when he was serving as a state senator. On the witness stand, Huppenthal described Acosta as an effective teacher, admired by his students. He also praised Acosta’s well-groomed appearance and neatly pressed shirt.
But Huppenthal testified that he walked away from the visit concerned about the poster of Argentine revolutionary Ernesto “Che” Guevara on Acosta’s classroom wall. (Acosta said he put it up at the request of a student.) And Huppenthal said he was disturbed when one of the program’s administrators described Benjamin Franklin as a “racist.” In 2011, he signed the order finding the Tucson classes in violation of the ethnic studies law he helped pass the year before. 
Arizona’s attorneys often focused on passages from the program’s textbooks they viewed as inflammatory, emphasizing Brazilian educator Paulo Freire’s Pedagogy of the Oppressed. They described Freire as a Marxist, intimating that such writings were unsuitable for a classroom ― despite the fact that the book is widely studied in American universities. The Tucson school board approved it for classroom use in 2013, after the Mexican-American studies program was dismantled, without complaint from the state.
Huppenthal said he viewed the book as emblematic of an “oppressor-versus-oppressed” framework that would teach Hispanics to resent white people. When a plaintiffs’ lawyer asked him to describe the parts of the book he found troubling, Huppenthal told the court: “Well, it’s hard to get past the name.”
Horne echoed that sentiment in disputing the educational value of Rodolfo Acuña’s classic Chicano history, Occupied America. “The mere title shows what kind of propaganda it is,” he said. “I read it and I was shocked by it.”  
The state often objected to specific terms in course texts as well, like “Aztlán,” a Mexica word used to describe the area known today as the U.S. Southwest. Horne testified that he suspected the term implied a desire to reconquer that territory on behalf of Mexico. “They keep referring to the ‘artificial’ borders, which are the borders of the United States,” Horne said.
Former Republican officials fixated in particular on the term “la raza,” which was once part of the curriculum’s title. The Spanish word can literally be translated as “the race” or “the breed.” But Mexican-Americans in the Southwest use “la raza” to refer to the mixed-race people of Mexico and Central America, a usage Mexican philosopher José Vasconcelos coined in the years after the Mexican revolution. He envisioned a “cosmic race” ― “la raza cósmica” ― would emerge from the racial mixing of European, indigenous and other peoples in Mexico. Chicano activists adopted the term during the civil rights era to describe Mexican-Americans living in the United States.
When Acosta tried to explain on the stand that the teachers used the term “la raza” as roughly equivalent to “Latino” or “Hispanic,” Arizona’s lawyers objected, arguing he wasn’t qualified to give expert linguistic testimony. Judge Tashima sustained the objection.
But both Huppenthal and Horne testified at length that they viewed the term “la raza” as a racist affront to whites. Huppenthal stood by his 2010 campaign vow to “stop la raza.” Horne described any other interpretation as preposterous, pointing out that the civil rights group National Council of La Raza had just weeks before his testimony changed its name to “UnidosUS.”
“‘La Raza’ means ‘the race,’” Horne said. “When they say it doesn’t mean ‘the race,’ it means ‘the people,’ they’re being deceptive. The people is the ‘gente.’”
Judge Tashima has considered the ethnic studies law before. In a summary judgment in 2013, he invalidated the section of Arizona’s law forbidding classes aimed only at a specific ethnicity. A three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld that part of his decision in 2014, but ordered Tashima to hold a trial because there may have been evidence that Arizona officials discriminated against Hispanics when they passed and implemented the law.
Proving that elected officials passed a law with racist intent ― “racial animus,” in legal jargon ― is difficult in a world where politicians rarely use ethnic epithets and are sensitive to allegations of racism. But Huppenthal gave the students’ lawyers an unusual gift in this case: When he was up for re-election as the head of the Arizona Department of Education in 2014, local media discovered that Huppenthal had made a string of racially charged and often offensive blog comments over the last four years.
Using the names “Thucydides” and “Falcon9,” Huppenthal had called for the end of all Spanish-language media ― except for some words on Mexican restaurant menus ― and compared the Mexican-American studies teachers to the Ku Klux Klan. He cried at a press conference after the local media exposed him, saying he “renounced and repudiated” his insulting commentary. The incident played a role in the failure of his re-election bid.
But on the stand this year, Huppenthal recanted his apology, arguing that the comments he’d made were racially neutral, if indelicately phrased. Rather than showing racial animus, he said, his comments reflected a desire to help Mexican-American students excel in school by learning fluent English.
Huppenthal emphasized that he grew up in majority-Hispanic south Tucson and retains Latino friends from those years. He testified that after losing his re-election bid, he dedicated his time to teaching math to Hispanic students.
Horne, for his part, described his life as a “crusade against racism,” saying that he’d attended Martin Luther King Jr.’s “I Have a Dream” speech in person and that he reads Mexican history books in Spanish in his free time.
But the students’ lawyers don’t have to show that Horne or Huppenthal are raging racists to clear the legal bar for proving racial animus. The U.S. Supreme Court set the legal standard for proving racial animus in Arlington Heights vs. Metropolitan Housing Corporation, a 1977 ruling that found it’s enough to show that officials’ actions disproportionately affected a specific group, fit into a larger pattern of targeting that group, and that officials took unusual measures to get the law passed.
So far, Arizona’s ethnic studies law has only shut down the Mexican-American studies program in Tucson ― though Horne testified that he hoped his law would eventually ban all ethnic studies classes from public schools.
The plaintiffs’ lawyers appeared to have less success in convincing Tashima that the law was part of a broader legislative trend that targeted mostly Hispanics. The lawyers pointed out that Arizona’s ethnic studies law was passed the same year as S.B. 1070, the state’s immigration crackdown that the Supreme Court later gutted. But Tashima sought to keep the trial focused on educational issues, rather than immigration laws.
The question of whether Republican officials strayed from normal procedures in banning the Mexican-American studies classes was less cut and dry. Lawyers for the state argued that nothing about the legislative process was unusual. Horne had written a law with the hope of banning ethnic studies across Arizona, submitted it to the Republican-majority legislature, and lawmakers voted to pass it.
But lawyers for the students noted that Arizona already had a law on the books restricting partisan materials in classes. If state officials objected to the books in Tucson’s classrooms, they could have lodged complaints without banning the program altogether. “They passed, enacted and enforced a law they didn’t need,” argued Steven Reiss, one of six lawyers representing the students, on the last day of trial.
Even if the students’ challenge is successful, it’s unclear whether the prohibited curriculum will resurface in Tucson. Some of the teachers who started the program have since left the district. Others lost their jobs, went on to teach different subjects, or tried to salvage the work they started by joining a “Culturally Relevant Curriculum” program that Tucson created to replace Mexican-American studies.
But in the wake of the nearly decade-long battle over the unique Tucson program, ethnic studies courses have spread across the United States, largely as a response to the controversy in Arizona. Several districts in California implemented elective ethnic studies classes ― including the state’s largest ones in Los Angeles and San Francisco ― and the California legislature voted to create a model course so all schools can have access. Individual schools in Texas are adopting Mexican-American studies courses inspired by the Tucson curriculum, with the blessing (but not funding) of the State Board of Education. Indiana passed a state law in May requiring public schools to offer elective ethnic studies classes once a year.
The Tucson school board dismissed Arce in 2012 after shuttering the program he directed. He now works in Azusa, California, where he teaches classes similar to the ones Arizona banned. Officials in California have sought Arce’s input for its model ethnic studies course. Other educators routinely ask him to share the material from the defunct Tucson courses so they can replicate it.
“That’s probably the most lasting thing from this whole legal struggle ― people have become aware of this issue. We’ve formed all these relationships. People see real promise,” Arce told HuffPost after the trial. “It happened as a direct result of what transpired in Arizona.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON — Contrary to President Donald Trump and his team’s repeated claims, government scientists agree that climate change is already having a dramatic effect in the U.S.
In a nearly 700-page draft report, scientists from 13 federal agencies conclude that the planet has rapidly warmed over the last 150 years, triggering “many other changes to Earth’s climate,” and find it “extremely likely that human influence has been the dominant cause of the observed warming since the mid-20th century.”
“Evidence for a changing climate abounds, from the top of the atmosphere to the depths of the oceans,” states the fifth and final draft of the report, still under review and posted this week by The New York Times. 
“Thousands of studies conducted by tens of thousands of scientists around the world have documented changes in surface, atmospheric, and oceanic temperatures; melting glaciers; disappearing snow cover; shrinking sea ice; rising sea level; and an increase in atmospheric water vapor. Rainfall patterns and storms are changing and the occurrence of droughts is shifting,” the report reads. “Many lines of evidence demonstrate that human activities, especially emissions of greenhouse gases, are primarily responsible for the observed climate changes in the industrial era, especially over the last six decades.”
The draft, completed this year and part of the National Climate Assessment, has already been approved by the National Academy of Sciences, according to the Times. Its official release hinges on the Trump administration’s approval. 
On Monday, the Times published a story about a previous third draft, which it said had not been made public. One scientist who worked on the report told the Times that he and others feared the president would withhold it. On Wednesday, however, the Times issued a correction noting that, while “not widely publicized, the report was uploaded by the nonprofit Internet Archive in January.”
Indeed, the third draft of the report — which the Times based its article on — has been available for months and was even open for public comment, as co-authors pointed out on Twitter. It also continues to be available by request from the National Academy of Sciences. 
The Times' leaked draft has been on the Internet Archive since January, during the public comment period https://t.co/B8XLQ6omb2
It's not clear what the news is in this story; posted draft is public review draft from Dec, and WH review hasn't yet missed Aug 18 deadline https://t.co/0sZxCCvoMn
The Times subsequently published the fifth and final draft. 
Katharine Hayhoe, a co-author of the report and professor of political science at Texas Tech University, told HuffPost in an email Wednesday that the fifth draft is undergoing its final interagency review, which ends Aug. 18. The final draft, she said, differs from the third in that it includes revisions made in response to the National Academy of Sciences review.
“While the substantive messages did not change between the 3rd and 5th drafts, responses to NAS comments included adding new figures and references, expanding some sections of the text, and condensing others,” she wrote.  
According to the latest draft, scientists predict the average annual temperature will continue to rise throughout the century. Over the next two decades alone, global temperatures could increase between 0.5 and 1.3 degrees Fahrenheit.
With “very high confidence,” the scientists concluded that the “magnitude of climate change beyond the next few decades will depend primarily on the amount of greenhouse (heat-trapping) gases emitted globally and on the remaining uncertainty in the sensitivity of Earth’s climate to those emissions.”
Since 1880, global sea levels have risen 8 to 9 inches, according to the draft report. 
In a post to Twitter, Gavin Schmidt, a climate scientist and director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, said that nothing in the report is surprising for people working in the field but that it may be “shocking to those that think [climate change] is just a future problem.” 
There's nothing in it surprising to anyone working in the field tho possibly shocking to those that think clm chg is just a future problem.
The report delivers a strikingly different message than the one being pushed by Trump and his Cabinet members, who continue to downplay the urgency of the threat as they work toward “energy dominance.” Since taking office, Trump — who famously called climate change “bullshit” and a Chinese “hoax” — has moved quickly to derail America’s actions to combat climate change, including rolling back President Barack Obama’s Clean Power Plan, a policy limiting greenhouse gas emissions from power plants. Trump has pegged himself as a savior of America’s dying coal industry and has vowed to increase oil and gas production, opening now-protected areas of the Arctic and Atlantic oceans to drilling.
In June he announced plans to pull the U.S. out of the historic Paris Agreement on climate change ― the international accord in which nearly 200 countries committed to slashing carbon emissions in an effort to prevent global temperatures from increasing 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels, the line scientists say the world must stay below to stave off the very worst effects of climate change.
Meanwhile, his Cabinet members have refused to say whether Trump believes climate change is real and continue to question how much the scientific community understands about the threat and the role humans play in observed changes. 
In March, Environmental Protection Agency head Scott Pruitt told CNBC, “No, I would not agree that [carbon dioxide is] a primary contributor to the global warming that we see.” And in June, Energy Secretary Rick Perry echoed Pruitt’s comments, saying “no” when asked by CNBC whether he believes carbon dioxide “is the primary control knob for the temperature of the Earth and for climate.”
“Most likely the primary control knob is the ocean waters and this environment that we live in,” Perry said. “I mean, the fact is, this shouldn’t be a debate about, ‘Is the climate changing? Is man having an effect on it?’ Yeah, we are. The question should be, you know, just how much, and what are the policy changes that we need to make to affect that?”
Perry went on to defend his and others’ denial of near-universally accepted climate science, suggesting that those who question the scientific community’s findings are more intelligent.
Also in June, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said glaciers in Montana’s Glacier National Park started melting “right after the end of the Ice Age” and that it has “been a consistent melt.” He also dismissed the notion that government scientists can predict with certainty how much warming will occur by 2100 under a business-as-usual scenario. 
How the Trump administration decides to handle the report remains to be seen. The EPA and 12 other agencies have until Aug. 18 to approve the report.
During George W. Bush’s presidency, federal scientists were discouraged from talking about climate change and even had climate change research altered.
This article has been updated throughout to reflect the New York Times’ correction about the draft version of the climate change report.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Days after an explosion rocked a Minnesota mosque, President Donald Trump has yet to publicly offer his support to the community.
Dar Al-Farooq Islamic Center, in Bloomington, was attacked early Saturday morning with what the FBI has called an “improvised explosive device.” No one was hurt, although people were in the building at the time. The explosion shattered windows, damaged the imam’s office and sent smoke throughout the center.
Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton (D) called the attack “an act of terrorism.”
Trump has tweeted about a number of things since Saturday. He’s found time to brag about his strategy on North Korea, criticize The New York Times and other media outlets, and bully a Democratic senator. But he hasn’t addressed the explosion in Minnesota.
New York Times correspondent Glenn Thrush reported that he received this email from the White House on the Minnesota attack: “The President has been and is continuing to be updated and we are monitoring [the] situation for now.” (HuffPost requested comment from the White House press office, but has not heard back.)
The president’s silence this week isn’t surprising. Dozens of U.S. mosques have been targeted with threats, vandalism or arson since the beginning of the year, and Trump has yet to offer a word of condolence or comfort to American Muslims, who are concerned about their place in society and the safety of their places of worship.
American Muslims were quick to note Trump’s silence on Twitter.
If a (predominantly white) church or other house of worship were firebombed over the weekend, Trump would've commented by now.
Let's say someone yelled Allahu Akbar while throwing an IED bomb into a populated church in Minnesotta. How would President Trump respond?
“President Trump has to date not expressed any significant opposition to Americans turning on Americans of the Islamic faith,” said Corey Saylor, who monitors Islamophobia for the Council on American-Islamic Relations. “Through his Muslims ban and comments from the campaign trail, he has instead painted the entire American Muslim community as suspect.”
CAIR has tracked more than 50 publicly reported incidents of anti-mosque activity within the first six months of 2017. That number increases to around 85 when reports from people who ask to remain anonymous are factored in, Saylor told HuffPost. 
These incidents include violent attacks, vandalism, acts of intimidation, and opposition to mosque expansion or construction due to religious bias. Burned Qurans have been left on mosque property and bacon draped on door handles. The buildings have been set on fire. In June, a congregant was reportedly shot in the foot by a pellet gun outside a New York mosque.
Since 2016, CAIR has been tracking a dramatic spike in anti-Muslim hate crimes overall.
Gov. Dayton calls blast at Islamic center "act of terrorism," @IvoryHecker gets a look at the damagehttps://t.co/ICA7iWLhkq pic.twitter.com/ZJqqlGasiV
Madihha Ahussain, a staff attorney at the legal group Muslim Advocates, said attacks like the one that happened in Minnesota are sending waves of fear through Muslim communities across the country.
“As these incidents continue to increase, the American Muslim community lives in greater fear for its safety,” Ahussain said. “Every American has the right to go with their family to services of their chosen faith, but the current climate makes many religious groups, including Muslims and Sikhs, fearful of doing that.” 
An act of terrorism took place this wknd. Haven't heard of it? #SelectiveSilence from Trump administration is why. https://t.co/slFi7gUWpy pic.twitter.com/rsj4JyGplQ
American Muslims have been responding to the mosque attacks by working with law enforcement to add extra layers of security around their houses of worship. Mosques are also joining locally with interfaith partners to promote messages of peace and understanding. 
Rabiah Ahmed, media director for the Muslim Public Affairs Council, said it’s “critical” that Trump become more vocal in condemning hate crimes ― and that such support extend beyond a single tweet.
“This has to be reflected in his policies around hate crimes and American Muslims,” she told HuffPost. 
But other American Muslim activists aren’t holding their breath for a statement from Trump. Saylor pointed out that President George W. Bush visited a mosque days after the Sept. 11 attacks to urge Americans not to turn on one another. Trump, however, has made comments like “I think Islam hates us.”
“What for him is a tool for scoring political points has real-life consequences for people who choose to pray in mosques,” Saylor said.
“I think President Trump’s moment to be seen as a unifier has passed,” he added.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
WASHINGTON ― American taxpayers know they are spending tens of millions of dollars to ferry President Donald Trump to his golf courses, to send along dozens of Secret Service agents to watch over him and to inconvenience nearby residents by shutting down airspace and waterways.
What they are not allowed to know: whether and with whom he’s actually golfing once he’s there.
“Least transparent administration in history,” said John Weaver, who ran Ohio Gov. John Kasich’s campaign for the Republican presidential nomination last year. “They hide things for no good reason. I don’t understand that.”
The White House press office did not respond to HuffPost queries on why the president will not acknowledge that he plays golf when he visits his golf resorts, as he is doing all this week. Monday, in fact, is his 44th day at one of his golf courses ― meaning Trump has spent nearly one of every four days of his presidency thus far at his clubs in Florida, Virginia and New Jersey.
Whatever the rationale for the secrecy, it has left his press staff to repeatedly refuse to confirm that Trump is partaking in a golf-related activity even as the paying members of his clubs post photos online of Trump doing exactly that.
On Saturday, for example, as he began a two-and-a-half-week stay at his Bedminster, New Jersey, golf club, Trump tweeted, “This is not a vacation - meetings and calls!”
But that same day, a visitor to the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster took a video showing the president wearing golf clothes in front of some golf carts.
“I suspect it’s because the staff doesn’t know,” said Ari Fleischer, a press secretary to then-President George W. Bush, of the Trump press office’s golf quandary. “I bet Trump doesn’t tell them.”
The Trump White House also refuses to disclose his golf partners, something that staffers for presidents Bush and Barack Obama typically did. So if a golf partner has hours with Trump to lobby for or against a particular regulation or policy proposal, the public won’t know.
“Obviously it would be far more transparent if they said who he’s playing golf with,” said Mack Mackowiak, a GOP consultant from Texas.
Trump may be attempting to keep his golfing secret because of how often and savagely he attacked Obama for hitting the links, Mackowiak noted. On Aug. 11, 2015, for example, Trump tweeted, “@BarackObama played golf yesterday. Now he heads to a 10 day vacation in Martha’s Vineyard. Nice work ethic.”
While campaigning, Trump promised voters he would be too busy for vacations or golf. “I’m going to be working for you. I’m not going to have time to go play golf,” he said on Aug. 8, 2016, in Virginia.
“The more they admit that he’s doing it [golfing], the more they play into that line of attack,” Mackowiak said.
As it happens, Trump is on track to spend far more time at golf courses than his predecessor did. It took Obama until August 2010 ― a year and a half into his presidency ― before he had reached 44 golf course visits, the mark Trump hit Monday. At this point in Obama’s first term, he had a total of 11 golf course visits.
What’s more, Obama’s weekend golf was typically played at the course at Joint Base Andrews a few miles outside Washington, D.C. The location on a military installation made security easier, and it was only a short motorcade ride from the White House.
Trump’s golf habit has been dramatically more expensive for Americans because he has often traveled to his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida ― which is close to two Trump golf clubs ― and, in the late spring and summer, to his course in Bedminster. Both trips involve flights aboard Air Force One. In the case of Palm Beach, the plane used is a modified Boeing 747 that costs taxpayers $228,000 per flight hour.
Those costs notwithstanding, Kasich aide Weaver suggested there is an underappreciated upside to Trump’s golfing: It subtracts from time he would otherwise be making poor decisions.
“I actually think it would help the country if he played golf every day,” Weaver said. “I think the republic would be better off. So we should encourage that.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Recently, MSNBC host Joy Reid came under fire from Bernie Sanders supporters for her tweets comparing them to bad college roommates. Despite the Berniebros objections, Joy’s tweets were spot on. Bernie used the resources of the DNC to get a following he never had in his decades in Congress. Reaching people that he was never able to reach as a congressman from Vermont. And now that he’s built his following, he doesn’t care one bit about the Democrats who allowed him in their party. And his supporters keep threatening to leave the party they haven’t joined if the Democrats don’t give them everything they want and only nominate candidates that pass their purity tests.
Bernie and his followers are like that college friend who stays at your place for weeks, pays $0, eats your food & trashes your aesthetic.
Parties are like apartments. You chip in or you're a visitor. Feel free to bring wine when you drop by but don't tell me how to decorate.
Even as we are in the beginning of the Trump administration with Republican majorities in congress, Bernie and his supporters want to bash the Democrat party which may be the last wall stopping republican policies. Republicans want to cut over 600 billion (that’s billion) from Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program. This cut alone will affect millions. They propose additional cuts to food stamps, energy assistance, and social security disability. They even proposed cuts to Meals on Wheels. They propose cuts to almost every federal agency, which means cuts to middle class federal employees and government contractors. It’s scary times for the poor and middle class in this county.
But instead of uniting, we get the woulda/coulda/shouldas from Bernie and his supporters, and the threats ― again ― of DemExit from a party they repeatedly claimed they weren’t part of. If the Democrats wanted Bernie, they would have voted for him. But he lost African Americans voters 77 percent  to 23 percent. He also ran poorly among Hispanic voters. The only demographic that Bernie won was the under-25 vote, and millennials don’t turn out in the numbers needed to win elections.
The DNC even tried a unity tour with Bernie Sanders. But it was obvious from day one that Sanders wasn’t trying to unite. Most of these events could be tea party rallies, not “unity” tours. Videos of Hillary Clinton were booed; Tom Perez was booed. Bernie gave his usual spiel about economic justice while avoiding social justice. He talked about not accepting money (Bernie became a millionaire after this latest presidential run), and how Democratic policies are failing voters (Democrats are the ones fighting to keep Medicaid, Medicare and Social Security). All those events did was create an even bigger divide between the democrats and the Sanders supporters. The only thing it made abundantly clear was that Bernie loves the spotlight as much as Trump.
Bernie and his supporters are now pushing for more caucuses instead of primaries. After all, that’s their claim: that the primaries were all rigged where Hillary won, while the caucuses where Bernie won reflected the wishes of the electorate. But caucuses are dominated by the loudest voices and the people who have the time to attend these all-day events. They leave out people who cannot take off from their jobs, people who cannot afford sitters, the elderly, and people with disabilities. Switching to caucuses is not the way to be more inclusive; it is a way to make the smaller, louder factions have more power.
Right now, African American women have the highest voting turnout in the Democrat party. We vote; we organize; we donate; we volunteer; we are in the middle of it all. We have leaders like Maxine Waters and Kamala Harris who are out there calling Trump on his nonsense, day in and day out. Kamala Harris is an early front runner for 2020, so it’s no surprise that Bernie supporters are already claiming they can’t support her.
I get that Bernie supporters take his loss personally, but blaming Democrats for voting for a Democrat is getting tiresome. And following Sanders and his supporters down the rabbit hole in search of the ever illusive white “working class” voter at the expense of the people who are the backbone of the DNC is offensive.
Rural voters are never going to support the Democrats. That shipped has sailed and it’s not coming back. It’s Lucy and Charlie Brown all over again. Poor whites are holding the voting football and promising if you just don’t talk about their racism, confederate monuments, Islamophobia, and homophobia they will vote for the Democrats. If Sanders, who loudly claims he isn’t a Democrat, wants to line up to kick the ball, the DNC needs to let him do it as an independent.
And if Bernie Sanders, Nina Turner, and the rest of the Berniebros are going to do a DemExit, they should do it already. Then Democrats can get back to working on the midterms. And the DNC can focus on voter turnout, voter suppression laws, and their loyal base of African American voters.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
President Donald Trump revived his attacks against Sen. Richard Blumenthal over the Connecticut Democrat’s misleading claims about having fought in the Vietnam War.
While on vacation Monday, Trump fired off several tweets about Blumenthal, calling him a “phony Vietnam con artist” for claiming he “served in Vietnam” when he did not.
Interesting to watch Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut talking about hoax Russian collusion when he was a  phony Vietnam con artist!
Never in U.S.history has anyone lied or defrauded voters like Senator Richard Blumenthal. He told stories about his Vietnam battles and....
...conquests, how brave he was, and it was all a lie. He cried like a baby and begged for forgiveness like a child. Now he judges collusion?
Trump’s history with Vietnam is similar to Blumenthal’s. The senator obtained at least five deferments from military service between 1965 and 1970, according to The New York Times. Trump also deferred the draft five times ― four times for education and once after he was diagnosed as having bone spurs in his heels.
Blumenthal was eventually placed in the Marine Corps Reserve, where he served for six years in the U.S. Despite never going overseas, he made claims to the contrary, talking on multiple occasions about serving during Vietnam and making references to the time “when we returned” from the war.
“We have learned something important since the days that I served in Vietnam,” Blumenthal said to a group in 2008, according to The New York Times.
Trump’s latest attack on Blumenthal came after the senator appeared on CNN Monday morning, arguing that the investigation into Russian efforts to influence the 2016 presidential election “must be pursued” and that special counsel Robert Mueller must be protected throughout the process.
Blumenthal responded to Trump’s “bullying” with tweets of his own, telling the president that “this issue isn’t about me.”
Mr. President: Your bullying hasn't worked before and it won't work now. No one is above the law.
This issue isn't about me - it's about the Special Counsel's independence and integrity.
Trump has attacked Blumenthal several times in the past. He tweeted against the senator in February after Blumenthal said then-Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch found Trump’s attacks on judges “disheartening” and “demoralizing.”
In May, Blumenthal argued a special prosecutor was needed to investigate the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia after the president fired FBI Director James Comey. Trump, tweeting again, called Blumenthal “one of the greatest military frauds in U.S. history.”
The Monday morning posts were part of a larger tweetstorm that also included a rant against “fake news.”
Trump tweeted about Blumenthal again Monday afternoon.
I think Senator Blumenthal should take a nice long vacation in Vietnam, where he lied about his service, so he can at least say he was there
Blumenthal, in another CNN appearance after the latest Trump tweet, declined to directly respond to the president’s comments. He repeatedly told CNN anchor Wolf Blitzer that he would rather focus on protecting “the independence and integrity” of Mueller’s investigation.
“It is not about me,” Blumenthal said. “I have no idea what is in [Trump’s] mind. What I do know is I will not be distracted by this bullying. These bullying tweets reinforce for me the need for a piece of legislation ... to prevent the firing of the special counsel, Robert Mueller, whom he has also sought to intimidate.” 
This article has been updated with Blumenthal’s response to the latest Trump tweet attacking him.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Amy McGrath knew when she was 12 years old that she wanted to fly fighter jets. She also knew that she wasn’t allowed to.
So McGrath launched an aggressive letter-writing campaign to lawmakers in her home state of Kentucky. She wrote to her congressman, who told her “women ought to be protected and not allowed to serve.” She then targeted Republican Sen. Mitch McConnell, who never replied. Finally, she wrote to every member of the Armed Services committees in both houses of Congress. Most of them ignored her, so she tried writing letters to the editor for her local newspapers instead.
In 1994, when McGrath was a senior at Notre Dame Academy in Park Hills, Kentucky, the Pentagon lifted its policy banning women from certain combat roles. McGrath enrolled in the U.S. Naval Academy the next year, joined the Marines after graduating in 1997, and, while serving three tours in Afghanistan and Iraq, became the first female Marine to fly a combat mission in an F/A-18 fighter jet.
McGrath, 42, is now hoping a campaign of a different sort will find similar success. On Tuesday, McGrath announced her candidacy to become the first woman to ever represent Kentucky’s 6th Congressional District. Her announcement came in a two-minute online video that rooted her candidacy in her two decades of military experience ― and her fight to be allowed to serve. 
“At a very young age I had to learn about how government works, and I had to learn about democracy, and I had to learn about advocacy,” McGrath, who is running as a Democrat, told HuffPost. “It’s one of the reasons I consider myself more progressive, because it was progressive leaders in government that pushed for change. At a very young age, I knew that if it weren’t for them, I would not have had my job for the last 20 years.”
A year ago, however, Congress was the furthest thing from her mind. McGrath, who had risen to the rank of lieutenant colonel, was teaching political science at the U.S. Naval Academy. Happily married with three children, she had already begun fantasizing about her approaching retirement and a move back to Kentucky.
Then, Donald Trump won the presidency. Congressional Republicans launched a seemingly endless campaign to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the health care reform legislation that had helped millions of Americans ― including nearly 500,000 Kentuckians ― access health care. And Rep. Andy Barr, the Republican who holds the seat McGrath is pursuing, supported those repeal efforts, and FiveThirtyEight’s vote tracker indicates he has voted with Trump 97 percent of the time.
As McGrath sees it, she was left with little choice.
“A year ago if you were to tell me I was going to be running for Congress, I would have said, ‘You’re full of it,’” McGrath said. “But what started it for me was the 2016 election. I felt like we needed better leaders for the country.”
McGrath is one of more than 11,000 women who have chosen to pursue public office in the wake of the 2016 election, according to EMILY’s List. McGrath sees herself as part of the fight to elect more women nationwide. But she also noted that she shares common ground with two other former Marine fighter pilots who have launched congressional campaigns as Democrats: Col. Dan Ward and Capt. Chuck Enderlin, her friends who are pursuing seats in Virginia and Georgia, respectively.
Barr, a lawyer, has represented Kentucky’s 6th District since 2012, when he won a rematch against incumbent Rep. Ben Chandler (D) after a narrow loss two years prior.
The district ― which includes Lexington, the state’s second largest city ― was a reliable Democratic stronghold for decades before transforming into a swing seat in the late 1970s. The district now leans Republican, according to the Cook Political Report, and Barr cruised to victories against low-profile opponents in both 2014 and 2016.
McGrath said friends repeatedly asked her why she would consider running in Kentucky rather than choosing a state more friendly to Democrats. But even after 20 years away, McGrath felt a calling to come home to the Bluegrass State. 
McGrath grew up in Covington ― a Cincinnati suburb in northern Kentucky ― but she and her husband chose to settle in Georgetown, a smaller city that sits in the heart of the 6th District. The recent move could pose challenging as she pursues the seat, especially in a Democratic primary that includes Reggie Thomas, who has represented Lexington in the Kentucky state Senate since 2014.
But McGrath has roots in central Kentucky: Her mother was among the first women to graduate from the University of Kentucky’s medical school, and her sister attended UK, too. And she points to her military service when addressing potential criticism about spending so much time out of the state. 
“Those of us in the military, we move around every two to three years, and we live all over the world. I lived a year of my life in a tent somewhere in the Middle East,” she said. “This is where I’m from. This is my home. Kentucky is my home.”
McGrath, like many Democrats across the country, launched her campaign against Barr by focusing on her Republican representative’s support for repealing the Affordable Care Act.
Barr is “Mitch McConnell’s hand-picked congressman who said he would vote ‘enthusiastically’ to take health care away from over a quarter million Kentuckians,” McGrath says in the ad, which was hailed nationally and earned her multiple appearances on cable news shows last week. (The video, incidentally, is the product of Mark Putnam, who produced “the best campaign ad of 2016” ― in which Jason Kander, a U.S. Senate candidate in Missouri and also a veteran, assembled an AR-15 while blindfolded.)
That could be a strong selling point for a Democrat in this district, where Barr has faced protests at town halls and constituent meetings over his support for health care repeal efforts. Obamacare delivered substantial benefits to the district, and the repeal legislation he voted for would have stripped health care from nearly 50,000 of its residents, according to an analysis of Congressional Budget Office data from the liberal Center for American Progress.
There is also a tinge of Democratic populism in McGrath’s early campaign, which she says will focus on appealing to both progressive, urban Lexington and the more rural areas around it, where people, she said, “feel like they’ve been left behind.”
McGrath said she wants to hear from more residents before building out a concrete platform. But she has criticized Barr’s support for the Financial CHOICE Act, a bill that would have repealed major pieces of the Dodd-Frank financial reform act that passed in the wake of the Great Recession. That legislation, McGrath said, would be a boon to Wall Street, especially payday lenders ― an issue she cares about after her time in the Marines.
“For 20 years I was a Marine Corps officer who had to have young Marines under me who were hurt by these payday lenders, who were preyed on,” McGrath said. “I’ve got to take Congressman Barr on this issue, because I know what it’s like to have people under me that have been hurt by them.”
To McGrath, Barr’s support for repealing both Obamacare and Dodd-Frank, as well as his early stance on tax reform efforts she sees as an attempt to cut taxes for the rich, are proof that the congressman isn’t serving the interests of his constituents.
“We need to have a leader,” she said. “Someone who represents the interests of the people, and doesn’t represent the monied interests.”
Barr has so far avoided responding to McGrath’s criticism.
“Congressman Barr is not focused on the Democrats’ intra-party fight, especially a year before the 2018 primary election,” his spokesman, Rick VanMeter, told the Lexington Herald-Leader. “Instead, he is focused on fighting for the values and interests of the people of the Sixth District in Congress, keeping his promises and doing the job he was elected to do. There will be a time in the future for politics, but now is the time to do the work of the American people.”
Trump won Barr’s district with 52 percent of the vote last November, and Kentucky is among the few states where a majority of residents approve of the job he is doing as president. Still, McGrath doesn’t seem afraid to take on some of his most contentious policies ― especially when she can tie her stances to her military experience.
She is critical, for instance, of Trump’s recent decision to ban transgender people from the military.
“These people are patriotic Americans who stepped up to the plate,” she said. “Do you have my back when I’m getting shot at, are you competent, are you someone of integrity? That’s what we really care about.”
And Trump’s attempt to ban immigrants and refugees from seven Muslim-majority countries, she said, “is a terrible policy” that amounts to “a strategic win” for the enemies she spent years fighting.
“They want to pit America and Americans against their religion, and he just handed them the Powerball lottery,” McGrath said. “This is not a war that can be won by more bombs being dropped on people. It’s a war that’s going to be won ... in people’s minds. When you hand the enemy exactly what they want in order to make more propaganda, you’re creating more fighters. This ban does not get to the root of the problem, and it does not protect Americans.”
Kentucky Democrats could use a victory. They hold just one of the state’s six congressional seats, and lost their grip on the governor’s mansion in 2015. In November, they lost total control of the state legislature for the first time in nearly a century.
McGrath, however, said she believes she can be part of the comeback for the party both in the state and nationally. Democrats need to pick up 24 seats to regain control of Congress.
“I’ve been in tough battles before,” McGrath said. “I want that challenge.”
 
CORRECTION: An earlier version of this article said Capt. Chuck Enderlin is running for Congress in Florida; he is running in Georgia.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Jeffrey Kessler just had to pee.
It was the fall of 1975, and the Columbia law student was interviewing for an internship at Weil, Gotshal & Manges, a prominent New York firm known for its prowess in antitrust litigation, the area of law he’d decided was his future. 
As he walked into the men’s room after his interview, he noticed a group of extremely tall men shuffle in behind him. One of them stepped up to the urinal next to him. It was Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, the 7-foot-tall Los Angeles Lakers superstar. Kessler was stunned, even a little confused. 
Antitrust law and the world of professional sports had begun to overlap in the decade prior, when St. Louis Cardinals outfielder Curt Flood sued Major League Baseball to overturn the league’s reserve clause, which bound players to their teams ― and restricted their salaries ― unless they were traded. But until the moment Abdul-Jabbar sidled up next to him at the urinal, Kessler hadn’t realized that his firm was at the center of another major sports case: a lawsuit brought by Milwaukee Bucks guard Oscar Robertson, the head of the NBA’s players union, that aimed to end the NBA’s version of the reserve clause, which limited free agency rights and gave teams near-complete control over their players.
Kessler was a sports fan, and had long harbored an urge to work in public service. Growing up in the Sea Gate neighborhood in the outer reaches of Brooklyn, he was hardly a hippie, but he found it impossible to ignore the civil rights, feminist and anti-war movements erupting around him. An accomplished student, Kessler felt called to use his abilities to do some good in the world, and he saw the law ― and antitrust law, specifically ― as a way to do that. But at a time when the U.S. government had found a renewed zeal for using antitrust law to take on giant corporate monopolies, he’d never considered a future in sports law. Now he was surrounded by NBA players who’d come to Manhattan to take part in Robertson’s case.
“I remember going home to my wife and saying, ‘You’re not going to believe who I saw in the men’s room today,’” Kessler said.
Kessler never actually worked on that Robertson case. But soon after it settled, he joined the firm full-time, and over the next four decades, he would establish a reputation as one of the nation’s pre-eminent sports lawyers ― a bulldog attorney willing to take up the cause of virtually any athlete who felt he (or she) had been wronged by the league above them. He began representing NBA players in the 1970s and NFL players in the ’80s. He represented Freeman McNeil, the running back who sued the NFL in 1990, and won the 1992 decision that established free agency rights for professional football players. He’s worked on behalf of all four major men’s professional sports unions and the United States women’s national soccer team. He has counted Michael Jordan, Patrick Ewing, Tom Brady and Bill Belichick among his clients.
All of that has led to perhaps the biggest case of his career: Jenkins v. the NCAA. The case, which Kessler filed on behalf of three college athletes in 2014, could upend major college sports as we know them.
Although there have been other major lawsuits against the NCAA in recent years, none have targeted the entire system of college athletics quite like this one. Kessler and his plaintiffs aren’t seeking monetary damages. Instead, they want federal courts to rule that the existing model of major college sports ― specifically, men’s basketball and football ― violates federal antitrust law. If they win, they could reshape the current collegiate sports structure, forcing schools and major conferences to finally pay athletes in their two biggest sports. 
But the case, like many of his previous battles in sports, isn’t just about money: To Kessler, it’s fundamentally a fight for college athletes’ rights.
“If we win,” Kessler told HuffPost, “it could make a big difference.”
The nature of Kessler’s suit is a threat to the NCAA, but the real danger it poses stems directly from his involvement in it. The structure of professional sports gives athletes considerably less power than team owners and league executives. Over the last 40 years, though, Kessler has become athletes’ David to the leagues’ Goliath. Driven by a relentless belief that his clients are being wronged, he has used antitrust law to win ever-expanding rights for the players he represents. 
That instinct to do battle with the powerful was forged even before he stumbled into sports law. In 1976, Kessler and his fellow first-year law students at Columbia put on a musical. Kessler wrote a song to the tune of the Frank Sinatra number from the opening scene of “Guys and Dolls,” said his classmate Allan Van Fleet. The modified lyrics, Van Fleet recalled, took direct aim at IBM, the computing giant that was then at the center of one of the country’s largest-ever antitrust lawsuits.
“The course is antitrust,
For me it is a must,
Watching IBM go bust …” Kessler sang.
“For Jeff it was a must,” said Van Fleet, who also went into antitrust law. “Some of us fell into it later.”
Kessler was “kind of a young idiot savant in the antitrust world” when he joined Weil, Gotshal & Manges full-time in 1977, said Jim Quinn, who worked on the Robertson case for the firm. Together, Quinn and Kessler built out the firm’s sports law and antitrust practice, taking up more NBA cases and a lawsuit filed by the North American Soccer League against the NFL. Eventually, they represented NFL and NHL players in labor disputes and court cases as well.
Then, in 1990, Kessler and Quinn picked up their biggest case yet: a lawsuit filed by New York Jets running back Freeman McNeil, who alleged that the league’s restrictive free agency system artificially held down player salaries and violated federal antitrust laws.
The NFL’s case rested on the testimony of University of Iowa economics professor George Daly, who told the jury that his studies showed that free agency would “spell economic ruin for the NFL,” according to a Sports Illustrated account of the trial. But on Sept. 7, 1992, in a courtroom in Minneapolis, Kessler launched into a devastating examination of Daly’s claims that destroyed the NFL’s case.
Kessler repeatedly forced Daly to admit that he had not studied several aspects of the NFL’s economic system, including how much money owners diverted out of revenues and into their own salaries, or how free agency might impact NFL revenues and salaries. Kessler pointed to Daly’s projections that free agency would have harmful effects on Major League Baseball, even though it hadn’t then (it still hasn’t now). And he forced Daly to admit that he hadn’t even reviewed football’s financial statements or summaries.
“You are not an expert on statistics or on football, are you?″ Kessler asked near the end of his time with the witness, according to UPI reports from the time.
“No, I am not an expert on football,” Daly said.
“Then why do you say changing the [free agency] system in football would hurt the competitive balance of the game?” Kessler asked.
“I would defer to the football people on why they think that is important,” Daly said.
It was a devastating encounter for the NFL. Four days later, the jury ruled that the league had violated antitrust laws, a decision that led to the creation of its modern free agency system.
“He’s very difficult to outdo,” Quinn said of Kessler. “He’s quick on his feet, he comes up with very persuasive and sometimes novel theories and arguments, and they have a tendency to stick.”
One reason Kessler has emerged as perhaps the most successful labor-side lawyer in sports is his belief in the righteousness of the cause athletes are fighting, said DeMaurice Smith, the executive director of the NFL Players Association, for which Kessler serves as outside counsel.
“You can find a lot of lawyers who certainly possess the expertise to fight the cause,” Smith said. “But you either have the passion for the morality of the cause, or you don’t.”
In 2008, Kessler helped Oscar Pistorius, the South African sprinter born without the bottom halves of his legs, win the right to compete against able-bodied athletes at the Olympics, a case he considers “a big win for disability rights.” Kessler is also currently representing members of the U.S. women’s national soccer team, who shortly after winning the 2015 World Cup filed a lawsuit against their governing body in an effort to win equal pay to their male counterparts. That case, Kessler says, “has a lot of meaning for the equal pay movement generally, way beyond sports, and even internationally.” (Indeed: U.S. senators and other equal pay advocates have continually highlighted the case as an example for the broader push for equal pay legislation.)
Representing players in fights over money and, as he terms it, greater economic rights in their sports, is another front in that battle ― “my way of fulfilling my initial goals to do cases that I think are protecting a group of people who are often mistreated,” he says.
The suit against the NCAA ― like those against the NFL and NBA before it ― is not a discrimination case. But it’s impossible to ignore its racial implications. A majority of the athletes in Division I men’s college basketball and football, Kessler notes, are African American, while the people who reap the financial rewards of the current system ― college administrators, athletic directors, television executives and coaches ― are primarily white men.
“A lot of the athletes in both of those sports are African American,” he says. “That is the reality. And a lot of these players, both white and black, come from fairly impoverished backgrounds. So the fact that they’re exploited this way ... is a social justice issue.”
At times, the passion that feeds Kessler’s often-acerbic tongue has earned the ire of his opponents at the bargaining table, and even those in the sports media. In 2011, during a bitter labor dispute between the NBA and its players union, Kessler and NBA Commissioner David Stern’s relationship boiled over after Kessler accused NBA owners of treating their players “like plantation workers.” Stern, who through an NBA spokesperson declined requests to comment for this article, told The Washington Post then that Kessler was “the single most divisive force” in the negotiating process, and that his conduct was “routinely despicable.”
Anonymous sources from the players union even distanced themselves from the remarks, NBA legend Magic Johnson called them “ridiculous,” and the sports media went to town, publishing stories about how Kessler’s absence from negotiations improved the prospects of the two sides reaching a new labor deal. (Kessler, it should be noted, wasn’t alone: HBO commentator Bryant Gumbel also compared Stern to a plantation master during the 2011 NBA lockout.)
Kessler began exploring ways to take on the NCAA late in 2013, when his firm, Winston & Strawn, created a division solely focused on legal issues within college sports. “There are good (legal) arguments that Division I football is basically a business, and that students are exploited as workers,” he told me in an interview that year. “And therefore schools should be free to compensate athletes in any manner that they want to, without NCAA restrictions.”
At a press conference ahead of Super Bowl XLVIII in February 2014, Kessler met Ramogi Huma, a former linebacker at UCLA who by then had become one of the country’s biggest advocates for expanding the rights of college athletes. Huma was helping football players at Northwestern University in their attempt to form the first players union for college athletes, but he was also dreaming bigger. He wanted to strike at the heart of the NCAA’s amateurism model, to destroy the pillar of the system the NCAA has used to defend itself in court.
After chatting at the press conference, the pair agreed to meet for lunch near Kessler’s office later in the week. Huma was immediately sold. “I’ve talked to a lot of lawyers who wanted to bring cases,” Huma says of Kessler now, “and none of them talked like that.”
Together, Huma and Kessler worked to find a college athlete who could serve as a plaintiff on the suit. Huma had one in mind. He called Martin Jenkins, a defensive back at Clemson University. Jenkins had sensed something wrong with the collegiate model when, not long after he arrived at Clemson, the Tigers’ compliance staff rattled off the long list of rules about what athletes are and aren’t allowed to do if they want to maintain their eligibility to play. “Red flags started going off in my mind,” Jenkins told HuffPost. “This wasn’t fair to the players, it wasn’t fair to the people on the field who were doing the work.”
Huma asked Jenkins if he’d meet with Kessler, and Jenkins agreed.
“He seemed more excited and energized than I was, and I was really excited to be involved in it,” Jenkins said.
In March 2014, a month after Kessler and Huma’s meeting in New York, Kessler sued the NCAA.
It has now been more than three years since Kessler sued the NCAA on Jenkins’ behalf. In the interim, the case has picked up two other named plaintiffs ― former Middle Tennessee State football player Anfornee Stewart and ex-Wisconsin basketball player Nigel Hayes, who became an outspoken advocate for the rights of college athletes during a career that included two appearances in the Final Four.
The big business of college sports, meanwhile, has only continued to explode. Today, the men’s NCAA Tournament alone provides the organization with nearly $900 million annually in television revenue, while individual conferences have television contracts worth billions of dollars over their lifespans, and schools pay coaches and athletic directors multimillion-dollar salaries. Collectively, the men’s basketball programs that make up Division I and the football programs in the Football Bowl Subdivision generate more than $7 billion in annual revenues. Big-time college sports look more like their professional counterparts than they ever have, with one major exception: The NCAA has restrictive rules in place that prevent schools from compensating athletes beyond the full cost of attending.
“The economics here are that basketball and football have become gigantic businesses,” Kessler said. “The total revenue for basketball and football in Division I is greater than the total revenue of the NBA. It’s greater than the total revenue of the NHL. … It’s the third biggest sport by revenue in this country. The idea that these are not businesses, it makes no sense. And you should allow those who are producing this revenue to be treated in a fairer way.”
But even though Kessler believes college athletes should be better-compensated, he and his clients aren’t seeking financial damages. The point of the case isn’t to remedy past wrongs, but to completely alter the relationship between players and the system and prevent those wrongs from continuing. That’s what makes the Kessler case different from other antitrust cases filed against the NCAA, including that of former UCLA basketball star Ed O’Bannon, who won a partial victory for college athletes that allowed them to receive cost-of-attendance stipends beyond the value of a scholarship. 
During the O’Bannon suit, NCAA president Mark Emmert suggested that even the largest athletic programs would “move toward a Division III model” of college athletics if they had to pay their athletes (D-III schools don’t offer athletic scholarships). Conference and university administrators have suggested that they can’t afford to pay athletes, or that doing so would violate the spirit of amateurism in college sports.
Kessler has read the headlines and heard these arguments. He knows some believe that his case could “suck the magic out of college sports” and turn them into glorified minor leagues that fans simply wouldn’t watch. But even if he wins, he argues, the outcome won’t be nearly as dire or drastic as the skeptics predict. 
Kessler’s primary argument is not against the NCAA itself, but its amateurism rules specifically. What violates antitrust law, he argues, is that the schools and major conferences band together under those rules to artificially cap the compensation an athlete can receive for his services to a school. In Kessler’s world, conferences could set their own rules regarding compensation, then compete against each other: The Big Ten might stick to the current rules, for instance, while the Southeastern Conference might elect to pay athletes above and beyond the value of a scholarship. Another might follow the Ivy League model and refuse to grant athletic scholarships at all. The result would be something of a free market for men’s basketball and football players.
Alternatively, the NCAA, its schools and their conferences could follow in the path of major pro leagues, and negotiate a new system with athletes or a body that represents them.
 “I know what they’re going to argue in court,” Kessler said, sitting up in his chair and clapping his hands together, his voice nearly cracking from excitement ― and frustration. “They’ll argue what they’ve always argued: that amateurism is this holy grail. The new version of it is that if you pay one penny more than the full cost of attendance ... the world will come to an end.” 
There are obvious parallels to his previous cases, where the NBA, Major League Baseball and the NFL all contended that more rights, and more money, for players would spell doom for their products. Free agency, of course, has had none of the dramatic and devastating effects the owners once predicted: Salaries have risen tremendously, sure, but so have revenues. Leagues, owners and players are all vastly richer today than they once were. 
“It’s utter and complete nonsense,” Kessler said. “Allowing baseball, football, basketball and hockey players greater economic freedom and compensation did not destroy the NFL or NBA. It did not destroy the NHL or Major League Baseball. It made those sports fairer and better. It did not decrease popularity or interest in the Olympics.”
“It’ll be interesting to see how it plays out,” Quinn, Kessler’s former partner, said. “I think the NCAA has some problems on its hands.”
Last fall, U.S. District Judge Claudia Wilken ― who also oversaw the O’Bannon suit, and ruled that the NCAA was in partial violation of antitrust law ― rejected the NCAA’s motion to dismiss the Jenkins case. The two sides have conducted expert depositions and discovery over the last six months, a process that will conclude this month. They’ll return to court for hearings in August, and the case likely will head to trial sometime in 2018. It seems almost impossible that the two sides will reach a settlement before then, given the NCAA’s steadfast refusal to bend unless forced.
It is likely to take years for the case to reach a final resolution. Kessler is prepared to fight it all the way to the Supreme Court if he has to. But Kessler is confident, and his excitement that a potential trial is drawing nearer is obvious as soon as he begins talking about it. Among those on his side, there’s a sense of optimism that Kessler is leading the fight.
“There’s no question that this is the best possible case that could be brought,” Huma said. “And a big part of that is because Jeff Kessler is heading it up.”
CORRECTION: A previous version of this article misstated the year that Kessler encountered Abdul-Jabbar in the men’s room; it was 1975, not 1976.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Three hours after Fox News announced it had suspended host Eric Bolling following allegations that he had sexually harassed female colleagues, a former Fox News guest leveled new accusations against him. Caroline Heldman, who appeared on the network frequently between 2008 and 2011, said Saturday that Bolling was one of three Fox News/Fox Business employees to subject her to sexual harassment.
Fox News announced Bolling’s suspension less than 24 hours after an exclusive HuffPost report revealed that the host had sent lewd text messages to female colleagues.
“Eric Bolling has been suspended pending the results of an investigation, which is currently underway,” a Fox News spokesperson said in a statement to HuffPost. The network did not immediately return request for comment on the new allegations against Bolling.
Bolling’s lawyer, Michael J. Bowe, did not immediately return a request for comment on Heldman’s accusations. But in response to HuffPost’s report about Bolling’s current and former colleagues accusing him of sending lewd photos, he said, “Mr. Bolling recalls no such inappropriate communications, does not believe he sent any such communications, and will vigorously pursue his legal remedies for any false and defamatory accusations that are made.”
Heldman referred to Bolling’s suspension in a post on her Facebook page, which HuffPost has confirmed belongs to her. ”My only surprise is that it took this long for people to come forward about Bolling’s behavior, which has been wildly inappropriate for years,” she said.
Heldman said she had also been subjected to sexual harassment by former Fox News host Bill O’Reilly and former Fox News consultant Woody Fraser. Mother Jones was first to report this week that Heldman, under the penalty of perjury, signed a declaration stating that Fraser offered her a paid Fox News contributor gig in exchange for sex.  
“I did hundreds of appearances on Fox and Fox Business from 2008 - 2011, and had multiple experiences with Bolling that caused grave concern to my friends and family. Bolling referred to me as ‘Dr. McHottie’ on air on four different occasions, and called me ‘smart, beautiful, and wrong’ on air twice,” Heldman wrote in her Facebook post.
“Bolling would also contact me via phone and text after shows, sometimes to apologize for his behavior (and then do it again), and sometimes just to talk. He said he wanted to fly me out to New York for in-studio hits and to have ‘fun.’ He asked me to have meals with him on several occasions, but I found excuses not to go. Once, he took me up to his office in New York, showed me his baseball jerseys, and in the brief time I was there, let me know that his office was his favorite place to have sex,” she added. “I know other women have had similar experiences with Bolling, which means that lots of folks at Fox knew about his behavior well before 2017.”
A Fox News source noted that Bolling’s office is entirely made up of glass and the view into it is unobstructed.
Heldman also suggested in her Facebook post that the lawyers investigating the sexual harassment claims leveled against Bolling should speak to the makeup artists at Fox News.
“Make-up artists at Fox are contract workers, so many are fearful of speaking up because they simply won’t be hired again,” Heldman said. “If any Fox executives are reading this, please include make-up artists in your assessment of the environment. They see and hear a lot, and are sometimes the target of harassment from hosts and guests.”
In response to the new accusations against Bolling, a Fox News spokeswoman told HuffPost that, “We are investigating this matter and all claims will be taken into account.” 
Bolling is a co-host of “The Specialists,” a panel program that airs every weekday at 5 p.m. Eastern time. A source familiar with the matter told HuffPost that a rotating group of hosts will fill in for Bolling.
Bolling also hosts “Cashin’ In,” a weekly business show that airs on Saturdays. The show normally tapes on Friday. According to a Fox News source, Bolling had taped this week’s episode before HuffPost approached the network with the accusations against him. The network pulled the episode and replaced it with half an hour of live news coverage.
Follow Yashar — or send him a tip — on Twitter: @yashar
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Donald Trump loves fast food. The 45th president has no problem wolfing down a Quarter Pounder or digging his way through a bucket of KFC. ”Great stuff,” he once called the cheap, greasy fare.
Six months into Trump’s presidency, the fast-food industry has plenty of reason to love him back.
The oil and gas sector, coal producers and for-profit colleges are all clear winners in the Trump team’s mission to deconstruct the administrative state. But so far, fast food, retail and other lower-wage industries have benefited as much as anyone from the administration’s great regulatory rollback.
Lobbyists for restaurants, hotels and other franchised businesses spent the last several years fighting the Obama administration on one regulation after another. But the new White House occupant has heard their grievances, making industry-friendly changes to employment laws and how they’re enforced. That’s included abandoning Obama’s overtime reforms, shying away from a minimum wage raise, and limiting who’s considered an “employer” under the law ― all of which have a disproportionate effect on lower-wage, labor-intensive fields like fast food.
All told, the new administration has given McDonald’s and its friends plenty to cheer about.
“The early signs are that it can be more like night and day in terms of approach,” said Matt Haller, senior vice president at the International Franchise Association, an industry group representing franchisers, including McDonald’s. “We just want regulations that are fair and reasonable and very clear.” 
The previous White House viewed regulation as a means to lift up workers at the bottom of the economic ladder, particularly folks doing low-paid service work like fast food and hospitality. Hence their push for a higher mandated wage floor, expanded overtime protections and aggressive enforcement of wage and hour laws. Like Obama, Trump speaks often of forgotten workers whose pay has stagnated, but so far his prescription for improving their lot mainly involves unfettering their employers.
That shouldn’t come as a surprise for a president who made his fortune in hotels and went on to nominate a burger chain executive to be the country’s top workplace watchdog. (Andrew Puzder, the former CEO of Hardee’s and Carl’s Jr., ended up withdrawing his controversial nomination.) Still, the degree to which the administration is taking the reins off employers has distressed past officials who took a more aggressive tack.
“It’s the combination of these policies that’s deeply troubling,” said David Weil, who led the Labor Department’s Wage and Hour Division under Obama. “I see very little evidence that they are doing anything to address the needs of working people who have been left behind for a long time.”
While he was in office, Weil tried to steer the agency’s investigations toward the industries where he saw the most vulnerable workers ― fast food, sit-down restaurants, hotels and motels, janitorial companies and so forth. A Labor Department spokesman said the agency under Trump still carries out what it calls “targeted enforcement” programs. But pressed on whether they were targeting the same low-wage fields as before, the spokesman declined to say.
Some of the changes under Trump have little practical impact, but speak volumes about the administration’s peculiar form of populism.
Employers in food and hospitality were apoplectic over the Obama administration’s view on “joint employment”: the idea that more than one entity might be responsible when a worker gets injured or shorted on pay. The Obama administration put companies on notice that they, too, could be responsible for abuses against workers who are technically employed by temp firms and contractors. Fast-food brands like McDonald’s recoiled at the idea they might be as liable for workplace violations as the franchisees who operate McDonald’s restaurants.
After Trump’s second pick for labor secretary, Alexander Acosta, assumed office in April, one of the first steps the agency took was to rescind the guidance on joint employment issued under Obama. Speaking to a retail lobby last month, Vice President Mike Pence proudly noted the change, drawing applause.
In another early move, the Labor Department brought back what are known as “opinion letters.” When employers are sued for allegedly not paying overtime or the minimum wage, they can ask the Labor Department to pen one of these letters in their defense, to be used in court. Weil likens them to a “get-out-of-jail-free card” for employers, and the Obama administration did not issue them. Trump’s Labor Department, however, has trumpeted their return. 
Trump also rescinded an executive order from Obama that would have made it harder for firms to secure federal contracts if they have a documented history of wage theft. Obama’s order was the result of a campaign by fast-food workers who had been shorted on their pay while working on federal properties. (Two other orders from Obama ― one raising the minimum wage for federal contractors and another mandating sick leave for them ― have so far survived this administration.)
Other changes on the employment front are far more significant. The Obama administration tried to reform the nation’s overtime rules and guarantee more workers time and a half pay when they work more than 40 hours in a week. The share of salaried employees who are protected by overtime law has dropped off a cliff since the 1970s. The changes the Obama administration made would have extended overtime rights to 4 million additional workers, according to the previous White House.
After business groups sued to stop Obama’s plan, the Trump White House declined to defend it. The new administration seems to share the view of business groups that Obama’s proposal covered too many workers and was too costly for employers. If Trump takes his own crack at overtime reform, it’s likely he’ll make far fewer workers eligible for time and a half pay.
Many of the people Obama’s reforms aimed to help work in food and retail jobs, earning relatively low salaries while clocking long days. A group of Chipotle workers recently sued the burrito chain for backpay, arguing Obama’s overtime changes should still apply even though the rule is now in legal limbo. The case hasn’t yet been decided.
As with the overtime expansion, this White House has abandoned the push for a higher minimum wage made by Obama. The idea of hiking the minimum wage tends to poll well across party lines; although he flip-flopped on the issue as a candidate, Trump once said he would like to raise it to “at least $10.” But so far as president, he seems intent to leave such matters to the market. The federal minimum wage, which prevails in any state without a higher one, is currently $7.25 per hour and hasn’t been raised in eight years.
Beyond the major policy shifts, Trump’s effect on low-wage work will be felt in less obvious ways. He recently made two nominations to the five-member National Labor Relations Board, which interprets collective bargaining law and referees disputes between employers and unions. His conservative choices ― one is a management-side attorney, the other a former GOP staffer who served on the House labor committee ― would end the current liberal majority and push the board to the right. (One of them has already been confirmed.)
If history is any indication, the Republican board would likely reverse some union-friendly rulings and draw tighter boundaries around who’s eligible to unionize. Celine McNicholas, a labor policy expert at the left-leaning Economic Policy Institute, said the board is one way Trump could chip away at what she considered modest gains made for lower-income workers during the Obama years.
“These potential setbacks are going to prove to be incredibly damaging, particularly for folks who are low-wage workers,” McNicholas said. “They are certainly losers under the Trump administration.”
One potential beneficiary of the new board is McDonald’s. The fast-food giant recently went to trial before an administrative law judge at the labor board to determine whether it counts as a joint employer alongside its franchisees; McDonald’s could be held jointly responsible for violating workers’ rights. In general, a conservative labor board would be more likely to side with employers in such contentious cases.
The board’s general counsel, Richard Griffin, who functions as a quasi-prosecutor, brought the case against McDonald’s on behalf of workers who claimed they’d been illegally retaliated against for their activism in the Fight for $15 protests. A former union lawyer, Griffin assumed the post in 2013 and has been a thorn in the side of not just McDonald’s but also Walmart and other employers he’s taken to trial. His aggressive tenure has so infuriated business groups that some Republicans have demanded that he step down.
But at this point, that would no longer be necessary. Griffin’s four-year term expires in November. It will be up to Trump to choose his replacement.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
WASHINGTON — Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke and his wife settled with a Washington, D.C., church that sued them for backing out of a lease on a $1.9 million Embassy Row home they claimed was “uninhabitable,” court documents show.
The terms of the settlement, reached in mid-June, remain confidential. “The church maintains that the house was in good condition,” a lawyer for the landlord, Saint Sophia Greek Orthodox Cathedral, told HuffPost.
“If you see it, it’s a beautiful house. It’s in a great neighborhood. We’re just pleased that the parties were able to come to an amicable resolution,” said attorney Valerie J. Edwards.
Stephen M. Ryan, a lawyer for Zinke and his wife, declined to comment on Wednesday. The Interior Department did not immediately respond to HuffPost’s request for comment.
Zinke has a history of trying to discourage lawsuits. In June 2015, when he was a congressman from Montana, he introduced a bill to limit what he described as “predatory lawsuits funded by out-of-state special-interest groups” against timber projects on U.S. Forest Service land. The bill would have required a plaintiff to post cash bonds to cover the Forest Service’s defense costs, with the plaintiff getting the money back only if it proved victorious.
In September 2015, Zinke supported legislation that would have forced federal courts to impose sanctions on parties that file so-called frivolous civil suits. 
About a year after that vote, Zinke found himself the target of a civil lawsuit over the Embassy Row house ― and filed a countersuit himself.
In November 2014, the congressman-elect and his wife were seeking a home in Washington. Lolita Zinke met with a landlord’s representative to tour a seven-bedroom, four-bathroom house in the upscale Embassy Row neighborhood, according to court documents. The house, built in 1923, is owned by Saint Sophia Cathedral, which is located just two doors down. Real estate website Trulia estimates its value at nearly $2 million.
On Dec. 1, 2014, the Zinkes signed a one-year, $5,800-per-month lease. As a copy of the lease filed in the lawsuit shows, they were approved to move in on Jan. 16, 2015, a little over a week after Zinke was sworn in as Montana’s lone congressman.
The couple’s residency didn’t last long. In a complaint filed in October 2016 with the D.C. Superior Court, the church accused Zinke and his wife of breaching their contract in April 2015, just three months after moving in.
The church rejected the couple’s attempt to break the lease and demanded continued payment of rent, the complaint said, but the Zinkes “wrongfully abandoned” the property and ceased paying rent.
The church claimed the Zinkes owed more than $66,000 in unpaid rent and late fees.
The Zinkes responded with a countersuit in mid-November 2016, accusing the church of negligence and seeking damages for physical injuries and emotional distress.
The couple said they realized shortly after moving in that the property was “uninhabitable for a number of reasons,” including “uneven and severely bowed floors,” dangerous staircases, and a slippery front porch and rear entryway, according to court filings.
The Zinkes claimed that they notified the landlord of unsafe conditions starting in January 2015, the month they moved in, but that the church did little to make repairs ― with the exception of placing rubber mats on the front porch, which the Zinkes said did nothing to improve safety.
Ultimately, the Zinkes’ suit said, they decided the property was “too dangerous” for themselves and Lolita’s mother, who lived with the couple. They claimed they all fell “multiple” times, suffering physical injuries and emotional distress. They said the situation contributed to their decision to place Lolita’s mother in a nursing home, at a cost of $7,000 per month. The older woman died in October 2016.
According to their countersuit, the Zinkes returned the house keys and vacated the property in late April 2015, following an inspection of the house with the landlord’s representative. At that time, the unnamed representative “did not give any indication” that the landlord would expect rent beyond April, the Zinkes claimed. Such a demand did not come, they said, until June 2016.
In a subsequent filing in December 2016, the church denied nearly all of the Zinkes’ allegations, argued that it was not liable for any of the claimed injuries, and asked the court to dismiss the countersuit. The judge declined to do so, and both parties subsequently submitted a list of witnesses and expert opinion they intended to offer regarding the structural integrity of the home. 
According to court filings, an expert brought in by the church concluded that the Zinkes’ claims were “unfounded” and that “the floors, threshold, and stairs do not pose any threats to safety.” An inspector hired by the Zinkes, however, found “multiple serious defects that pose substantial safety concerns,” including “grossly uneven floors and various severe structural defects in the home,” “twisted, buckled, unstable, and fire-damaged” floor joists, and a “defective” roof drainage system and basement stairs.
In June, both parties agreed to dismiss the case, with each bearing its own costs and fees. A mediation session had been scheduled for Aug. 10.
The lawsuit has received little attention. Zinke disclosed the dispute in a questionnaire leading up to his Jan. 17 confirmation hearing to become interior secretary. But Democrats didn’t press him about it — or about allegations that he had committed fraud related to travel expenses in the late 1990s while a member of Navy SEAL Team 6. (His senior officers chose not to pursue formal punishment, according to The Intercept.)
The Senate confirmed Zinke as the 52nd interior secretary by a 68-31 vote on March 1.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
ALBUQUERQUE ― Politicians tend to be peppy creatures, but Rep. Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.) is an exceptionally upbeat dude, even by the serotonin-rich standards of professional politics.
Luján, 45, oozes a corny, all-American wholesomeness, with boyish features set beneath a shiny woosh of a haircut ― it’s as if a “morning zoo” radio host ran for Congress. Luján’s “Hey, how ya doin’?” is dished out with exuberant regularity. He likes making “And how about ... ” call-outs praising his hard-working staff. His eyes have a tendency to bulge with excitement while he speaks, like a child beholding a ferocious animal at the zoo.Luján’s childlike enthusiasm serves him well as he enters his second two-year term as chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC), tasked with recruiting and supporting Democratic House candidates.
“I know I’m not the smartest guy in the room,” Luján said with characteristic golly-gee-whiz earnestness during an interview with HuffPost late last month, “but I’ll listen, and I’ll learn and will execute.”
Ben Ray Luján is a nice guy. The thing is, you might come to hate him very soon.
Thanks to Donald Trump’s dysfunctional presidency, Democrats are in the strongest position to regain control of the lower chamber since 2006, when disgust over President George W. Bush’s mismanagement of Hurricane Katrina relief and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan sent the Republican House majority packing.
However, the passions of the present moment make the 2006 election look like a sleepy race for town comptroller. In this stressful Trumpian period, the United States often feels like a nation of 320 million political strategists, with practically everyone proffering an opinion on how to refine the party’s message and direction: Go progressive. Go moderate. Shut up and let Trump sabotage himself.
One thing is certain: For many in and around the party, a blue wave won’t do. Unless 2018 unleashes a political tsunami, a significant portion of the Democratic Party will likely be displeased with Luján’s leadership come Wednesday, Nov. 7, 2018.
At the very least, Luján recognizes that it’s a hard job.
“We have a big job to do across the country,” said Luján. “We have to go back and earn the trust of the American people where it was lost and in all parts of the country.”
The DCCC clearly gets that it’s an opportunity. Its list of “flippable” Republican districts ― inclusion on which can make or break a House campaign’s fundraising efforts ― sports a whopping 80 districts, enough to flip the House three times over. It’s an aggressive list ― one, as Slate’s Jim Newell noted, has an average Cook Partisan Voting Index of just over R+7, which means an unnamed Republican candidate would enjoy a 7-point advantage over an unnamed Democrat in the district.
The assessment that so many seats are up for grabs alone represents a massive attitude shift from the 2016 cycle, when Luján wasn’t even predicting a Democratic takeover of the House.
“We have a unique opportunity to flip control of the House of Representatives in 2018,” Luján wrote in a June memo distributed to party officials and the press. “This is about much more than one race: The national environment, unprecedented grassroots energy and impressive Democratic candidates stepping up to run deep into the battlefield leave no doubt that Democrats can take back the House next fall.”
While a changing of the guard a year from November is far from certain, Luján and the Democrats are certainly working with a robust class of candidates. Every DCCC chair has their own platonic ideal of a House candidate ― mayors, veterans, district attorneys, small-business owners and so forth. This cycle, Luján and the DCCC have settled, per Politico, on female veterans, ideally ones who run ― or have run ― a small business.
At first blush, such a combination feels indulgent ― as backgrounds go, “veteran” plus anything is like the cronut of American politics. Such things are highly sought after and don’t necessarily grow on trees. While there are certainly untold numbers of Americans with very appealing stories ― like female veterans with small business experience ― candidates that check so many boxes don’t always choose to run in a meaningful number of districts.
Yet female veteran candidates with notable non-military experience are already materializing ― a tribute to a motivated base and the efforts of grassroots organizations like Run for Something and VoteVets. There’s former Air Force engineer Chrissy Houlahan in Pennsylvania’s 6th Congressional District (she helped start a nonprofit), former Navy helicopter pilot Mikie Sherrill in New Jersey’s 11th District (a former federal prosecutor) and former Marine fighter pilot Amy McGrath in Kentucky’s 6th District (she graduated from the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction’s Program for Emerging Leaders at the National Defense University, which is just a terrifyingly impressive sequence of words).
“This year we’re fortunate that we have candidates of all backgrounds,” said Luján, drawing particular attention to the fact that here are “a lot of veterans, people who have served our country in different capacities.”
Luján added that the DCCC was particularly interested in whether candidates had deep roots in their districts. “If they don’t trust you, they’re not ever going to put their faith in you,” he said.
But not everything about the DCCC’s recruitment is going smoothly, to put it mildly.
Just this week, The Hill published an interview with Luján in which he insisted that the candidates it supports aren’t subject to a “litmus test,” which includes their stance on hot-button issues like abortion rights. While those remarks jibed with the longstanding policy of both the DCCC and its Senate counterpart, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, it was the first time Luján was on the record saying as much.
The remarks have prompted a skirmish in progressive circles. Many liberal activists, particularly ones focused on reproductive justice, viewed the continuation of the policy as a disappointment and a missed opportunity to capitalize on the groundswell of progressivism in the Trump era.
“Throwing weight behind anti-choice candidates is bad politics that will lead to worse policy,” said Mitchell Stille, national campaigns director for the abortion rights advocacy organization NARAL Pro-Choice America, in a statement provided to HuffPost and other news outlets. “The idea that jettisoning this issue wins elections for Democrats is folly contradicted by all available data.”
On Wednesday, NARAL President Ilyse Hogue and a coalition of progressive advocacy organizations, including Planned Parenthood Action Fund and EMILY’s List, published a “statement of principles” largely in response to the renewed debate over how ideological the DCCC should be. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), a strong supporter of reproductive rights, tweeted, “We do not have to make compromises on protecting women’s health to win back the House or Senate.”
Democratic Party officials, who asked to speak anonymously so they could discuss private conversations, expressed frustration and surprise that the DCCC and DSCC were on the defensive over a long-standing policy. Exacerbating these feelings, the officials said, was the involvement of multiple activists whom the officials claimed had previously signaled their willingness to tolerate, if not endorse, anti-abortion Democrats.
In conversations and in statements, DCCC officials have said that, while their organization plays a large role in candidate recruitment, their priority is to support whichever Democrat the primary voters choose.
“This is not about impacting the roster of candidates as much as understanding what our mission and ultimate role and goal is,” said DCCC Communications Director Meredith Kelly. “As always, primary voters and local groups will ask candidates where they stand on the issues and select their own nominees. Our job is to get as many of those nominees elected to Congress as possible.”
Officials anticipate that anti-abortion candidates will make up a negligible part of the Democrats’ crop of 2018 House candidates and that the organization’s approach isn’t about abandoning the Democratic principles as it’s adjusting to the political situation in certain districts.
Dan Sena, the DCCC’s executive director, reiterated in an interview with HuffPost that there “absolutely is no litmus test” of a candidate’s agenda but insisted that policy aberrations are the exception, not the norm.
“In Central Valley, California, where you are on water is more important than where you are on guns. In [California’s] Orange County, where you are on fiscal issues is going to matter more than social issues,” said Sena. “In Tucson, where you on on immigration and health care is probably more important than where you are on the environment. It’s really a balance of where we have certain types of profiles.” 
Regardless of where the Democratic House candidates end up on the ideological spectrum, the Republican Party is hoping to make the midterms a referendum on progressive policies, an argument it plans to take to districts where Trump outperformed expectations in the 2016 election.
“Democrats have their heads buried in the sand, hoping to ignore the bitter primaries that are destined to tear their party apart in 2018,” said the National Republican Congressional Committee’s spokesman Jesse Hunt. “It’s going to be a race to the left, with single-payer health care as the ultimate litmus test.”
Luján’s own remarks fit with a broader push by the party to focus on less politically charged economic issues, such as job creation, combating corporate malfeasance and retirement security. That approach, he said, can unite moderate and progressive Democrats.
“I think what’s most important this cycle ― and every cycle after this ― is that Democratic elected leaders and our party leadership don’t ever forget the importance of standing up and fighting for hard-working families across the country, especially when it comes to economic issues,” Luján said. “It turns out that whether you live in the smallest community in rural America or if you live in one of the biggest cities in the United States, we all understand the importance of a job [and] the dignity of the paycheck.”
Another issue causing consternation among Democratic activists is the DCCC’s digital fundraising program. DCCC officials take pride in their fundraising efforts, saying a majority of their 2017 fundraising to date comes from small-dollar donors. The DCCC out-raised its Republican counterpart for the second quarter of 2017 by $5 million ($29.1 million compared with $24.1 million).   
However, many observers both within the party and without have criticized the way that those dollars are solicited. There’s a good chance that more people can describe the DCCC by the content of its fundraising appeals than by the organization’s actual function in the Democratic Party. You may have seen some of their emails in your inbox: 
From: Nancy Pelosi
Subject: I’m losing hope
― 
From: FINAL-NOTICE@dccc.org
Subject: AUTO-CONFIRM: [Member Status (07/31/2017)]
 ―
From: James Carville
Subject:  ELECTION OVER. WE LOST.
Such alarmist clickbait is a great way to increase email open rates ― if House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi is depressed and wants to chat, who are you to ignore her? ―  but many Democrats worry that such hair-on-fire tactics will degrade the Democrats’ brand and create a cry-wolf effect. The FINAL-NOTICE email contained decidedly scammy language and formatting about the recipient risking losing their party membership if they didn’t act. The blast from political strategist James Carville, despite its subject, was actually sent a week and a half before the 2016 election.
Though manipulative fundraising tactics may pale in significance compared with the policy debates underway, the emotions they solicit from party and liberal activists are no less raw. The DCCC, one former Democratic official warned, should seriously weigh the “short-term gains of more $3 donations from scared white ladies who see subject lines like ‘doomed’” against long-term party building.
Luján and DCCC officials say they understand criticism of the email campaigns, but to crudely summarize their views on the matter: the emails are too damn profitable to stop.
Luján says that there’s been “a shift in tone already this cycle,” something he attributes to listening to activists across the country. However, he maintains that such behavior is necessary in a dog-eat-dog, post-Citizens United fundraising environment.
“Half of what we’ve raised thus far to date has come from that program,” Luján observed.  
“I recognize the reputations thing,” echoed Sena, who said such criticisms “do not fall on deaf ears,” but pointed to the digital program’s financial success. “People are responding to it and joining the fight. They’re doing that by giving.”
One area where the DCCC is changing course is its geographical focus, a correction that party officials admit was long overdue. It has relocated a number of D.C. staff positions to permanent posts in the districts and recruited a number of local organizers whose job, says Sena, is to “arm the rebels.”
“I think all too often there was always an emphasis on training as many people as you could in Washington, D.C., and then you’d fly them into different races across America, and after that election cycle they’d all pack up and go back to Washington, D.C.,” Luján recalled.
“It’s a matter of being present, of going and having conversations with people,” he elaborated. “I think what we’ve seen in the past is people have made mistakes with a tendency to speak down to people.”
The DCCC is also hosting a number of “DCCC University” sessions, in which its staffers and local political activists train up-and-coming campaign officials in behind-the-scenes skills, such as press engagement, coalition building and get-out-the-vote initiatives.
It was at one of these  events in Albuquerque last month that Luján sat down with HuffPost.
“Everyone’s here for a fun-filled information gathering!” a typically revved-up Luján told the crowd before the training.
The congressman’s blandly hip outfit that day ― jeans and a blazer over a T-shirt stamped with the New Mexico flag ― served to strengthen his nice guy vibes. In an alternate life, you could see him as a youth pastor who regularly sits backward on chairs to “rap” with kids about abstinence.
For Luján, such organizationally minded events are an increasingly central component of the DCCC’s work, as its financial reach, though still large, is diluted by all the independent expenditures now in play in a post-Citizens United world.
“What we’re seeing after Citizens United are Republicans having endless amounts of money to attack and attack and attack, so you have to be in a position to defend that,” Luján said. “I think it’s fair to say that, with the candidates that I’ve been working with, I have put an emphasis on making sure that you’re building a strong campaign and program.”
Yet the interview came on the heels of stinging Democratic losses in special elections for House seats in Georgia, Montana, South Carolina and Kansas. The DCCC has absorbed considerable criticism over the loss in Georgia’s 6th Congressional District, where many saw Democratic nominee Jon Ossoff as overly cautious when it came to criticizing Trump and thought he ran a campaign that was “overly focus-grouped,” as Jeff Hauser, a House campaign veteran and executive director of the Revolving Door Project at the Center for Economic and Policy Research, described it.
“There definitely needs to be a message about what a Democratic Congress would do but also how Trump is making Washington worse,” Hauser said.
Luján says he is proud of the campaign Ossoff ran, and, though he resisted providing a postmortem, he did say that the various scandals enveloping the Trump administration should be a part of Democrats’ messaging going forward.
“Could we have made better decisions about leaning in [to the special elections] earlier or later?” asked Luján rhetorically. “I think those are all fair questions, and we are getting to the bottom of that.
“I see incredible momentum coming out of these special elections. That the National Republican Campaign Committee and the Congressional Leadership Fund had to spend the dollars that they did should worry them.”
But Luján said he doesn’t want Democrats to get “distracted” by Trump: “We have to keep our focus on the American people and focus on what we can do to make things better.”
The DCCC often serves as a stepping stone to party leadership, and a big win on Nov. 6, 2018, could be Luján’s ticket to replacing Pelosi or one of her top deputies, all of whom are in their late 70s. It’s talk that DCCC officials notably don’t dissuade, and with a number of Luján’s potential rivals for those top jobs seeking opportunities elsewhere, there’s a good chance that America will become much more familiar with Luján in the years to come.
The renewed debate over how policy-focused the DCCC should be is just a taste of what Luján could expect should he rise to higher ranks. Pelosi has had to address similar questions since Trump’s election, and one suspects that Luján’s current battles will arise again should he decide to seek a promotion.
Right now, however, Luján can only hope to get back to being the earnest, aw-shucks guy who can talk up the strengths and prospects of this cycle’s class of Democratic House candidates.
“All across America, those middle-class, hard-working families need our help, and that’s what I’m asking for your help with,” Luján told the assembled campaign staffers and activists during his opening remarks. “You willing to get on board with that?”
A handful of audience members cheered in acknowledgment.
“Oh, c’mon!” Luján, exclaimed, dialing his “Leave It to Beaver” earnestness up to 11. “You willing to get on board with that?”
“Yeahhhh!!!” The crowd exclaimed.
It was clear that the Democrats’ chief congressional cheerleader was in his happy place.
Politics hurt too much? Sign up for HuffPost Hill, a humorous evening roundup featuring scoops from HuffPost’s reporting team and juicy miscellanea from around the web.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Tech billionaire Peter Thiel, a supporter of President Donald Trump who has helped advise the former real estate mogul on technology policy, is privately worried about the success of the Trump administration, according to BuzzFeed.
Reporter Ryan Mac spoke with several associates of Thiel who said he has made disparaging comments about Trump’s presidency in private while continuing to support Trump publicly.
“There is a 50% chance this whole thing ends in disaster,” two people claim Thiel said at an event with friends in January. The report also claims Thiel described the Trump administration as “incompetent” at an event in May.
In an interview with The New York Times also in January, Thiel reaffirmed his support for Trump, confronting criticisms he faced about Trump’s platform, including his approach to LGBTQ issues (“I think Trump is very good on gay rights”) and Trump’s penchant for discussing foreign policy on social media (“A Twitter war is not a real war”).
In that interview, Thiel alluded to WWE wrestler Hulk Hogan’s infamous case against Gawker Media, which Thiel funded. (Hogan sued Gawker for publishing a sex tape without his permission and won, prompting Gawker Media to file for bankruptcy.)
“People thought the whole Trump thing was fake, that it wasn’t going to go anywhere, that it was the most ridiculous thing imaginable, and then somehow he won, like Hogan did,” Thiel told the Times.
Thiel was praised for his remarks at the Republican National Convention in July 2016, where he made history as the first openly gay speaker to talk about his sexual orientation at the event.
Thiel’s name had been floated for several major roles during Trump’s tenure, including, at one point, Supreme Court justice nominee. He said in January he did not plan to take any job with Trump’s administration.
Read more on Thiel at BuzzFeed.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
In the public feud between Anthony Scaramucci and Reince Priebus, what hasn’t been fully explained is why Scaramucci so dislikes the president’s now-former chief of staff — a man he alternates between calling “Reince Penis” and “Rancid Penis,” according to an adviser to the White House.
The acrimony first surfaced during the presidential transition. The two men had been cordial before then. They met six years ago, when Scaramucci was a fundraiser for presidential candidate Mitt Romney and Priebus was chair of the Republican National Committee. They interacted peaceably during Donald Trump’s campaign as Scaramucci made the rounds on television and at donor events.
After Trump’s victory, Priebus was named chief of staff, and Scaramucci, according to someone close to the transition, was assured that he was also in line for a big position within the administration. (Sources for this story requested anonymity to discuss the details of sensitive conversations.)
While preparing for his move into government, Scaramucci struck a deal — which is still under regulatory scrutiny — to sell his stake in his hedge fund, SkyBridge Capital, to Chinese conglomerate HNA Group and another company. He assumed that he’d be put in charge of the public liaison office, a job that Valerie Jarrett held in the Obama administration. He had it all mapped out, according to the White House adviser. He identified 2,500 influential business leaders across the United States and had come up with a clever name for them: Trump Team 2,500. He believed these people would help pressure Congress into supporting the president’s agenda.
But Scaramucci’s plans were foiled in early January. That’s when Priebus, according to a confidant of both Scaramucci and the president, told Trump, “He played you.”
“How’s that?” Trump asked Priebus, according to the same source, who has spoken to several people within the White House about the conversation.
Priebus then told Trump that he felt Scaramucci had been offered too much for SkyBridge by HNA Group. The deal, he implied, smelled bad — as if the Chinese might expect favors from within the administration for that inflated price. The source also said that Priebus mentioned there was email traffic between Scaramucci and the Chinese proving this.
The White House rejected this version of events and declined to make Priebus available for comment.
Ultimately, Scaramucci was not offered the job.
But he didn’t give up. He asked Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner to get him in the door. According to two people familiar with the conversation, Kushner assured him that he didn’t think Scaramucci was “shady,” adding, “But it’s not what I think that matters.” Priebus had already planted the seed of doubt in Trump’s mind.
Scaramucci then tried presidential adviser Steve Bannon, who, according to those same two people, explained that he was too busy attempting to save the job of another adviser, Stephen Miller, to spend time or capital trying to help Scaramucci.
A friend of Scaramucci’s said he complained that some in the White House assumed his finances were suspect because he’s of Italian descent. Scaramucci also took Priebus’ behavior as a sign that Priebus was feeling insecure about his own job. “I will try things the Washington way first,” Trump had told his inner circle when he first named Priebus chief of staff, according to the confidant of Scaramucci and Trump. The implication was clear: If the Washington way did not work, then the New York real estate way would take over.
Finally, Scaramucci went to Keith Schiller, the president’s longtime bodyguard. He asked Schiller to put him on the phone with Trump so that he could lodge his complaints directly. The president listened, according to their mutual friend, and said he would find a position for Scaramucci as soon as he could.
In June, Scaramucci was appointed to be senior vice president and chief strategy officer of the Export-Import Bank. But the Priebus incident lingered in his mind.
So, on July 11, when Donald Trump Jr. found himself in trouble for holding a meeting with several people close to the Russian government the previous summer, Scaramucci sensed an opportunity. According to the mutual friend, Scaramucci told everyone he spoke to that day, including the president, that he was sure the person who divulged details of the meeting was Priebus. Scaramucci made the case — not necessarily backed by evidence — that with all the leaks targeting the administration, it was odd that only a few had hit Priebus directly.
Ten days later, Scaramucci was named the new White House communications director. The announcement noted that he would be reporting directly to the president — an unusual move that leapfrogged over the chief of staff.
Priebus balked, insisting that Scaramucci report to him. But Trump overrode his chief of staff. Not only was the hedge fund manager who had known Trump for 21 years officially in charge of the press shop, but he was also set to oversee the reorganization of the White House. Scaramucci seemed to have his revenge.
At least until Thursday evening. In an interview with The New Yorker, Scaramucci called Priebus “a fucking paranoid schizophrenic” and explained how he, unlike Bannon, is “not trying to suck my own cock.” Now, Scaramucci’s future at the White House is less clear, even if Trump reportedly “loved” the outburst.
Two sources close to the president said the very traits that have so endeared Scaramucci to Trump — tenacity, frankness, limitless swagger — could end up endangering his new job if he continues to steal news cycles from the president. But those same sources said he’s safe for now.
“Mark my words: Anthony will ultimately be an exceptionally good communications director,” said Sam Nunberg, a former Trump aide who still talks to the president. “His career proves he’s a master communicator. I hope he keeps his perfect chin up.”
On Friday, the news broke that Priebus had been ousted as chief of staff.
The story has been updated to remove a reference to a lawyer whom Scaramucci and Kushner share, as Scaramucci hired that attorney before he was first turned down for a job in the administration.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Seven years of Republican promises to repeal the Affordable Care Act withered away to almost nothing on the Senate floor early Friday morning.
The Republican majority in Congress has voted dozens of times since 2011 to repeal all or part of the Affordable Care Act, and a central element of the GOP’s pitch to voters during last year’s election was that giving Donald Trump the keys to the White House and leaving Congress in the Republican Party’s hands was all that was needed to bring an end to Obamacare.
But when presented with their first genuine opportunity to do so ― and to have to answer for the consequences ― enough Republican senators flinched that the effort failed, despite pressure from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and President Trump. Voting to dramatically increase the number of uninsured Americans is easier when you know it can’t happen than when you know it will.
The final vote for the Health Care Freedom Act, designed to eliminate core components of the Affordable Care Act, went down on a 49-51 vote, with Republican Sens. Susan Collins of Maine, John McCain of Arizona and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska joining with all 46 of the chamber’s Democrats and both of its independents to defeat the measure.
Just before the vote, it became apparent that Republicans did not have the support they needed, as McCain came to the floor and told GOP leaders he planned to vote no. Collins and Murkowski had looked apt to vote no all week after opposing the motion to proceed to the initial legislation.
For nearly an hour, Republicans ― including Vice President Mike Pence, who was on-hand to break a tie ― tried to persuade McCain and Murkowski to no avail. They had made up their minds.
McCain, who was diagnosed with brain cancer last week, was only on hand because of a dramatic return Tuesday to open debate on the bill. After voting for the motion to proceed to the bill, McCain delivered an impassioned speech in which he indicated he didn’t support the health care plan. But many thought that, with the scaled-down version of the bill up for consideration, McCain would vote to advance the legislation so that the Senate could conference the bill with the House.
House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) offered some assurances that he would establish a conference committee, but they apparently weren’t enough for McCain. Or, at least, McCain thought it was time Republicans try a new approach.
The entire health care process has been marked by an incredible breach of the normal congressional procedures.
Even the vote itself came in the wee hours of the morning Friday, capping off an extraordinarily rushed, chaotic and secretive legislative process.
Senators had about three hours to weigh the consequences of legislation McConnell hastily assembled Thursday and made public after 10 p.m. EDT. McConnell pulled the bill and returned it to the Senate calendar, which enables him to bring it back up at a later date if he chooses.
Republican congressional leaders have pledged since the Affordable Care Act became law that they would repeal it, and Trump made that a main tenet of his 2016 presidential campaign. In its place, they promised to establish a new and better health care system with lower costs and more choice.
As Congress has considered repeal this year, the promise to kill the law has been the primary, if not solitary, rationale for hurrying ahead with legislation that could add millions of people to the ranks of the uninsured and cause turmoil in the health insurance market.
In the end, this motivation proved inadequate for three Republican senators.
And with that, the Obamacare repeal campaign is as close to dead as it has ever been. The law has now survived the Republican takeover of Congress, President Barack Obama’s 2012 reelection campaign, two Supreme Court rulings and Trump’s victory last year.
The bill that died in the Senate on Friday would not have fully repealed the Affordable Care Act.
The Health Care Freedom Act was limited to striking a handful of the law’s core elements. The legislation would have eliminated the fines associated with the law’s mandate that most Americans obtain health coverage or face tax penalties and canceled enforcement of its requirement that large companies offer health insurance to full-time workers until 2025.
Left in place would have been Obamacare’s health insurance exchanges and subsidies for low- and middle-income families, its provisions guaranteeing coverage to people with pre-existing conditions and a standard set of benefits, its Medicaid expansion, and its myriad rules and regulations on the health insurance industry.
The Senate bill wouldn’t even have repealed all of the Affordable Care Act’s taxes, such as those on wealthy people, but it would have extended a current moratorium on a tax on medical device sales until 2021.
The legislation also would’ve halted federal payments to Planned Parenthood for one year.
Under this legislation, health insurance premiums would have risen by 20 percent and 16 million fewer people would have health coverage ― 15 million of them next year alone, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office projected in a report released Thursday night.
In spite of the Senate vote, repeal remains the stated goal of the Republican Party, and polls indicate its core voters still want it. And Trump, who’s been clear he would sign any health care bill that could clear Congress, won’t like being denied a political win this early in his tumultuous presidency.
House Republicans also won’t be satisfied.
In May, the lower chamber passed its own bill to repeal and “replace” the Affordable Care Act. Lawmakers who supported that legislation will be displeased that the Senate’s failure made their risky vote meaningless.
The House’s American Health Care Act would increase the number of uninsured Americans by 23 million, according to the CBO, and disadvantage older, poorer and sicker people in the health insurance market. The legislation passed the House by a narrow margin with some lawmakers voting yes ― ironically, in hindsight ― with the expectation that the Senate would come up with a better bill. It did not.
As for the Senate, the collapse of repeal on Friday strongly suggests that there isn’t a deal that can be made and that Republican senators may be eager to move on to other business.
Theoretically, the House bill could serve as a vehicle to revive the repeal effort. But senators immediately rejected it when it passed. And on Tuesday, the Senate failed to achieve a majority on a broadly similar bill, the Better Care Reconciliation Act. That Senate bill would’ve added 22 million people to the ranks of the uninsured, according to the CBO.
Moreover, the principal problem confronting congressional Republicans isn’t the fine details of the policies contained in the various bills lawmakers have considered this year, nor is it arcane procedural rules that complicated their legislating.
At its heart, the dilemma is that the Republican Party does not have, and has never had, a clear vision of what kind of health care system it wants.
Republicans have become skilled at pointing out the Affordable Care Act’s failings and imperfections ― the real ones, the exaggerated ones and the fabricated ones. But they have never agreed on how to fix those problems or how to reform the health care system in ways that deliver on their promises of lower costs and more choice.
Nearly 2,700 days have passed since Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law. Yet on the one day the Senate had its best chance to repeal it, Republicans still didn’t have a plan. The prospects of them doing so now appear dubious.
Politics hurt too much? Sign up for HuffPost Hill, a humorous evening roundup featuring scoops
         from HuffPost’s reporting team and juicy miscellanea from around the web.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
WASHINGTON ― Ironworker Randy Bryce recently got to talking politics with a man he met at his job site.
They were working together on building a two-story parking lot for a Veterans Affairs hospital in Milwaukee, and it sounded like the guy had voted for President Donald Trump in the 2016 election.
Bryce, then-politics coordinator for his union, Iron Workers Local 8, is a committed progressive Democrat. And the man with whom he was conversing surprised him.
Rather than express enthusiasm for Trump, the fellow threw up his hands in frustration, wondering why there weren’t more ordinary workers in politics.
“He was like, ‘You know what? I’m sick of voting for all these people. Why don’t we have one of us? You know, one of us should run,’” Bryce told HuffPost at a Washington fundraiser in July, a Wisconsin accent audible in his vowels.
Bryce, a 52-year-old Army veteran, had good news. “I just started laughing. I said, ‘Where do you live?’” When he heard the answer, he said, “I’ll have one of my signs up in your front yard.”
It was May then. A month later, Bryce announced his 2018 candidacy for Wisconsin’s 1st Congressional District ― a seat in the state’s southeastern corner that House Speaker Paul Ryan, 47, first won in 1998.
Although it is a long shot, Bryce’s bid has already attracted national attention. His campaign is an opportunity for Democrats to both regain working-class trust in the Rust Belt and land an unlikely knockout blow against the country’s second-most powerful Republican.
Bryce kicked off his campaign on June 18 with a two-and-a-half minute online video that instantly went viral. It opens with clips of Trump and Ryan discussing efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act ― Obamacare ― before introducing the older woman with multiple sclerosis who is Bryce’s mother. Bryce shares how his mom’s pain and his experience as an ironworker inspired him to fight for affordable health care and workers’ rights.
“If somebody falls behind, we’re that much stronger if we carry them with us,” Bryce says in a voiceover as images of him on the job and with his mother and 10-year-old son appear on screen. “That’s the way I was raised ― we look out for each other.”
He also directly challenges the man he hopes to topple, saying: “Let’s trade places. Paul Ryan, you can come work the iron, and I’ll go to D.C.”
Following the splashy debut, Bryce’s campaign exploded. Within 24 hours he had raised $100,000. He now has over $750,000 from more than 22,000 individual donors.
Bryce quickly picked up the endorsements of leading national progressive organizations, including the Congressional Progressive Caucus, the Working Families Party, Democracy for America, VoteVets, NARAL Pro-Choice America and the Transport Workers Union.
He also enjoys the backing of liberal Hollywood celebrities like Patton Oswalt and Nick Offerman. Both of them touted Bryce on Twitter, where the mustachioed ironworker ― @IronStache ― has become a progressive celebrity of his own. He began the campaign with some 6,000 followers, but now has over 133,000 ― a sizable audience to whom he regularly dispenses his homespun jabs at Trump and Ryan.
Visited @wisgop booth at @wistatefair to learn @realDonaldTrump shirts are Made in Dominican Republic!#DominicanRepublicans #maga? pic.twitter.com/XIMHbPrZPO
It's great @SpeakerRyan has a good looking family that has access to best health care in the worldDon't the rest of us deserve same access?
It is not hard to see why Democrats are excited about Bryce. After all, Ryan’s crusade to dramatically reducing the social safety net has earned him the ire of liberals. That the Beltway chattering class has dubbed him the GOP’s most reasonable “policy wonk” only heightens the contempt for Ryan among rank-and-file Democrats.
Bryce, by contrast, is a staunch backer of a single-payer health care system, in which the government provides insurance to everybody. Progressive activists have accelerated a push to get Democrats to run on single payer, or “Medicare for all,” in the wake of the collapse of Republican Obamacare repeal efforts.
“It’s actually going to cost less money in taxes” than the current system costs through other forms of payment, Bryce said. “It’s gonna be helpful for employers [in creating jobs] if they don’t have to worry about providing health care.
(Medicare, a form of single-payer insurance for seniors and people with disabilities, indeed has a lower rate of cost growth than private insurers.)
What’s more, Bryce is an almost too on-the-nose personification of the populist, union hard-hat worker who once made Wisconsin and other industrial Great Lakes’ states Democratic strongholds. A burly man of 6-feet-2-inches, he was sporting a blue button-down shirt with the sleeves rolled up to the middle of his forearms at the recent fundraiser in Washington. He was one of the few men in the room not wearing a jacket.
Born in Milwaukee, Bryce lives in Caledonia, a suburb south of the city. Divorced, he shares custody of his son with his ex-wife. He enjoys taking the boy fishing on weekends.
For Democrats scrambling to win back at least some of the predominantly white, blue-collar workers who fled the party for Trump, “IronStache” Bryce is not a bad guy to have on your side.
A lot of Bryce’s peers “weren’t inspired” by Democrat Hillary Clinton’s message in the 2016 presidential race, he said. “They saw her as part of an establishment. Then they look at Donald Trump and he had a decent, working person’s message.”
“So when I see ’em now, I say, ‘Can you tell me one promise that he’s kept you, one thing he’s promised during his campaign that he’s kept and that’s the reason you’re voting for him?’” he said. “And they’ll tell me, ‘Honestly, I can’t.’ It’s a buyer’s remorse. People are waking up.”
At the same time, Bryce is not just progressive on economic issues. He supports the movement for black lives, abortion rights and universal gun background checks. Those stances allow him to circumvent the sticky intra-party debates over how much ideological deviance progressives should tolerate from red- and purple-state candidates on so-called cultural issues.
In fact, Bryce’s greatest strength may be his ability to articulate the progressive position on issues like immigration reform in a way that does not alienate skeptical working-class voters.
When speaking to friends who are angry about what they perceive as the unfairness of illegal immigration, Bryce appeals to their class solidarity.
“If there weren’t employers that would readily take advantage of workers that don’t have documentation in this country, there wouldn’t be jobs to come to,” Bryce said.
He supports comprehensive immigration reform that provides a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. “In the big picture, it’s about the whole thing being unbalanced in employers’ favor,” he said.
In some ways, Bryce’s candidacy is a bet that union-fueled populism remains alive and well in Wisconsin, despite the devastating losses that both the labor movement and the closely related Democratic Party have endured there in recent years.
Bryce is just as eager to tie Ryan to two-term Republican Gov. Scott Walker as he is to Trump. Walker famously stripped Wisconsin’s public-sector workers of their collective bargaining rights in 2011 following weeks of protests in the state capitol of Madison.
After withstanding a contentious 2012 recall effort and prevailing in his 2014 re-election bid, Walker turned his attention to neutering private-sector unions. In 2015, he made Wisconsin a right-to-work state, depriving all unions of the ability to require workers under contracts they negotiate to pay dues to the labor groups.
Some Wisconsinites believe the massive decline in union strength and membership in the state contributed to Clinton’s loss there last November.
Anti-Walker fervor has become a part of Bryce’s identity. His cellphone ringtone is “Worker’s Song” by the Dropkick Murphys. The Massachusetts-based Celtic punk band’s dedication of the song “Take ’Em Down” to public-sector unions fighting Walker in 2011, and subsequent refusal to let a GOP congressional candidate use its music at his rallies, won Bryce’s heart.
“Aside from Bruce Springsteen, they are my favorite band ever since,” he said.
In the past, Ryan has backed the Davis-Bacon Act, requiring federal construction projects to honor the “prevailing” union wages in an area. It’s a provision critical for construction unions like the one to which Bryce belongs.
A spokesman for Ryan’s re-election campaign did not respond to a request to confirm the speaker’s position on Davis-Bacon or to address a host of criticisms leveled against him by Bryce.
For his part, Bryce stresses Ryan’s ties to Walker, the country’s most famous union-buster. Ryan called the peaceful 2011 protests against Walker “riots,” and compared it to the sometimes violent Arab Spring demonstrations in Egypt. (Politifact rated Ryan’s characterization “pants on fire.”)
Ryan is “right in line with the Scott Walker-extreme Republicans. They’re, you know, buddy-buddy,” Bryce said.
By any measure, the ironworker faces an uphill battle. Ryan, a deeply rooted native of Janesville (his great-grandfather started a construction business that’s still in the family), was re-elected in the district by 35 percentage points in 2016. Trump, meanwhile, won the district by 10 percentage points. 
Ryan currently has $11.1 million in campaign cash on hand, and as speaker, he can undoubtedly raise much more.
The district, which includes Kenosha and Racine, is not firmly in the Republican column, however. A majority of voters in the district opted for then-presidential candidate Barack Obama in 2008. 
Bryce maintains that Ryan simply has not faced a formidable enough opponent yet.
Of course, Bryce has yet to achieve success in electoral politics. He has lost three bids for lower office, including, most recently, a 2014 run for state senate.
But Bryce has never had a foil quite like Ryan. He plans to use Ryan’s role in the Obamacare repeal debacle as evidence of both the speaker’s cruelty and his incompetence.
“He would like you to think he’s this fantastic policy wonk,” Bryce said. “He’s speaker of the House. He’s got a Republican president, a Republican Senate, a conservative Supreme Court ― and what has he done? He’s done nothing.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Democrat Ralph Northam highlights his deep roots in Virginia and commitment to expanding access to affordable health care in the state in the first general election television advertisement for his gubernatorial campaign.
The 30-second spot, “My Life,” features Virginians from different corners of the state mentioning some of Northam’s most flattering biographical details, including his work as a pediatric neurologist, his upbringing on the rural Eastern Shore, his graduation from the Virginia Military Institute and service as an Army doctor during the first Gulf War.
But it is the final bit of information about Northam, the state’s lieutenant governor, that spotlights a likely dominant theme in the November election: his support for expanding Medicaid in the state using funds from the Affordable Care Act.
“I’m Ralph Northam, and we need to provide access to health care for all Virginians, not take it away,” he says at the end of the ad.
The line suggests that Democrats view protecting and expanding heath care access as a winning political issue following the defeat of the Republican efforts in Congress to repeal the ACA, commonly known as Obamacare. Uproar from voters and Republican governors helped persuade three GOP senators to vote against the final repeal bill: Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and John McCain of Arizona.
The Northam campaign has bought $100,000 worth of time for the ad to air in the Norfolk, Charlottesville, Richmond and Roanoke markets, according to the campaign.
Democrats, who have failed to score a win in this year’s special congressional elections, are hoping victories in November’s two gubernatorial races ― the other is in New Jersey ― will break their dry spell.
In New Jersey, Democrat Phil Murphy has big lead in polling over Republican Kim Guadagno, the state’s lieutenant governor. Murphy, a former U.S. ambassador, appears to be benefiting from the high disapproval ratings for New Jersey’s outgoing GOP governor, Chris Christie.
Virginia also would seem to be fertile ground for the Democrats. Hillary Clinton carried it by 5 percentage points over Donald Trump in last year’s presidential campaign. And a mere 36 percent of Virginia voters approve of the job Trump is doing as president, according to a Quinnipiac University poll released Wednesday.
Still, the Quinnipiac poll showed Northam, 57, with a narrower lead over Republican Ed Gillespie, 56, than some observers expected. Northam was backed by 44 percent of Virginia’s registered voters, compared with 38 percent for Gillespie and 4 percent for Libertarian candidate Cliff Hyra. Northam held an an 8-percentage-point over Gillespie in a Quinnipiac survey released in late June.
The race “leans toward” Northam, “but not overly so,” said Peter A. Brown, the poll’s assistant director. The new survey has an error margin of plus-or-minus 3.8 percentage points.
Northam is apparently betting that his emphasis on expanding health care access will help his cause.
Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe, a Democrat prevented by term limits from seeking re-election, has pushed for Medicaid expansion in the state. But Republican control of the Virginia legislature has prevented him from tapping into federal funds available under Obamacare funds to do so.
Gillespie, a former Republican National Committee chairman, has said he opposes Medicaid expansion. But in Wednesday remarks to the ARC of Virginia, a disability rights organization, he described Medicaid as a “critically important program for protecting the most vulnerable.”
The Gillespie campaign, asked Thursday whether he stands by his opposition to Medicaid expansion, did not immediately respond to HuffPost.
Notably, Northam’s opening general election ad does not explicitly mention Trump, who he memorably dubbed a “narcissistic maniac” during the Democratic gubernatorial primary.
But Northam tied Gillespie to Trump in a fundraising e-mail sent out for him by the Democratic National Committee. In it, he termed Gillespie “Trump’s ally in Virginia.”
He also said Gillespie ”is crisscrossing the Commonwealth promising to be Donald Trump’s man in Richmond. And there’s a real chance they could win.” 
Northam can count on further help from his party. The Democratic National Committee announced in July that it would spend $1.7 million on his behalf. DNC chairman Tom Perez is going to Richmond on Thursday to speak to party organizers and kick off a phone bank operation to aid Northam and other Democrats on the November ballot in the state.
Gillespie, who in a 2014 Senate run came close to upsetting Democratic incumbent Mark Warner, began his general election ad campaign in July with three spots. They included a one-minute ad titled “The American Dream is About Opportunity” that focused on his upbringing as the son of an Irish immigrant who achieved success in Republican politics.
“Opposing Medicaid expansion does not mean opposing Medicaid, and as governor, Ed would make sure we maximize our Medicaid dollars in Virginia to help those most in need,” Gillespie campaign spokesman David Abrams told HuffPost in a statement. “Ed is running for governor and is laser focused on making health care more affordable and more accessible for all Virginians.”
This article has been updated with comment from David Abrams. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump is preparing to declare a national emergency on the opioid crisis, following a recommendation made by a White House commission last month.
“The opioid crisis is an emergency and I’m saying officially right now it is an emergency. It’s a national emergency,” he told reporters Thursday at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, following a lunch with Vice President Mike Pence.
“We’re going to spend a lot of time, a lot of effort and a lot of money on the opioid crisis,” he continued, adding that he was “drawing documents now” to make the official declaration.
Trump’s comments mark a reversal from earlier this week, when he was briefed on the matter in a meeting with Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price and other White House officials.
According to Price, Trump did not think the situation required an official emergency declaration, an action which would allow him to allocate additional government resources to fighting the epidemic.
“We believe that at this point that the resources that we need or the focus that we need to bring to bear to the opioid crisis at this point can be addressed without the declaration of an emergency,” Price said Tuesday, following the meeting.
Last month, a White House commission led by New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R), released a report recommending that Trump take “urgent” action to address the crisis.
“With approximately 142 Americans dying every day, America is enduring a death toll equal to September 11th every three weeks,” the report said. “Your declaration would empower your cabinet to take bold steps and would force Congress to focus on funding and empowering the executive branch even further to deal with this loss of life.” 
Experts have said it is unclear how a national emergency designation would work in this case, since it is a long-term public health issue. The act of declaring a national emergency is typically applied to short-term epidemics and natural disasters.
Declaring a national emergency would at least allow the immediate allocation of more federal resources to address the crisis and put more pressure on Congress to take legislative action.
A bill passed last year, the 21st Century Cures Act, included $1 billion to help states fight the opioid crisis.
But Republican efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act would have eliminated a mandate that requires Medicaid to cover addiction services. Later versions of the failed Senate bill last month included some funding to address the opioid crisis.
Trump on Thursday did not specify what he plans to do or whether he will implement some of the commission’s other recommendations, which include expanding treatment options and improving medical education on addiction.
“It is a serious problem, the likes of which we have never had,” he said. “You know, when I was growing up they had the LSD, and they had certain generations of drugs. There’s never been anything like what’s happened to this country over the last four or five years,” he said, reiterating that “this is a national emergency.”
The White House released a statement Thursday evening saying Trump instructed his administration “to use all appropriate emergency and other authorities to respond to the crisis caused by the opioid epidemic.”
This article has been updated with more background on the opioid crisis and efforts to fight it, as well as with the White House’s statement from later on Thursday. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
The great Italian revolutionary, Antonio Gramsci, when struggling to understand the rise to power of Benito Mussolini, once wrote this of Italy’s interwar crisis: that it “consists precisely in the fact that the old order is dying and the new cannot be born; in this interregnum, a great variety of morbid symptoms appear.” For Gramsci, the bombastic and narcissistic Mussolini was one such morbid symptom; and it is tempting – given the obvious parallels that could be drawn – to understand Donald J. Trump as his modern-day equivalent. Indeed, that parallel has been drawn, and drawing it can be a source of both comfort and enlightenment. But if full comfort and enlightenment are what we really seek, there is much to be gained by focusing instead on the first half of that quotation rather than on the second.
For if Gramsci was right, you get a Mussolini, or a Donald J. Trump, or for that matter the UK’s Nigel Farage, only in the gaps between broad periods of economic stability and social order; and the fact that we now have a president like Donald J. Trump is yet more evidence that – around him and us – an old order is dying and a new one cannot yet be born. If Gramsci was right, understanding the present in this manner, as an interregnum, is in that sense potentially both enlightening and comforting. It is enlightening, in that it underscores the impossibility of finding a new order by relenting pursing the old, in the manner of the Republican Party here and the Conservatives in London; and it is comforting, in that creating that new order gives an overwhelming purpose to the politics of those most opposed to those conservatives – namely the Democrats and the British Labour Party.
I
The “old order” – the one that “is dying” – is the neoliberal one called into existence in the United States by Ronald Reagan and in the United Kingdom by Margaret Thatcher. It was an “order” based on the deregulation of business, the curtailment of welfare spending, and the generation of economic growth through the weakening of labor movements and the easing of taxation on the rich. In that “order,” the steady pursuit of trickle-down economics left wages stagnant for the mass and generality of workers for an entire generation, obliging working families to maintain or increase their standard of life only by extending the length of the working day, by sending every available member of the family out to paid work, and by taking on higher and higher levels of personal debt. It was that debt-based order that came crashing down in spectacular fashion in September 2008; and which conservative forces on both sides of the Atlantic have been trying to revive ever since by pressing for yet more of the same – more austerity, more tax cuts for the rich, and more deregulation. The Trump budget, and the looming fight over the debt ceiling here in the United States, indicate very clearly that the old order, though dying, is not yet dead. That Trump budget also indicates that the adverse social consequences of now nearly four decades of neoliberalism are poised to become even worse.
That “old order,” of course, was itself once “new” – a reaction in the 1980s to the failure of the New Deal, Keynesian-based order that Democrats in the US, and the Labour Party in the UK, had created in the 1940s: a social compact built on linking wages to productivity that had generated rises in both for a quarter century before running into the buffer of stagflation in the 1970s. Like the 2010s, the 1970s as a decade were full of “morbid symptoms;” but unlike the 2010s, the 1970s were a decade of crisis not for conservatives – they had never bought into the New Deal – but for progressives in both the US and the UK who most definitely had. The Center-Left “owned” the New Deal settlement, just as now the Center-Right “owns” the neoliberal one. The 1970s collapse of the New Deal settlement gave the Center-Right its chance to build a new order, more empathetic to its values and interests. The collapse of their neo-liberal order gives contemporary progressives their chance to do the same. The question therefore becomes: will that chance be taken?
II
It could be. I hope it will be; but it will be only if several things occur.
· The first is that key players – in the Democratic Party here, and their equivalents in the British Labour Party – recognize this as the agenda that is now before them. The temptation – in both parties – to play safe and negative is huge, but will need to be avoided. It will not be enough to place the political focus on the morbid symptoms themselves. That vital critique will have to be supplemented by the clear articulation of a bigger thing: a coherent and more progressive way of organizing both the economy and its social rewards. What is at stake here – and the Center-Left must both realize it, and educate its supporters in that realization – is the creation of a new period of stability based on progressive values and sustained by progressive policies. Since those policies, as well as those values, will be vehemently opposed by conservative forces and their privileged backers, it is all the more vital that the Center-Left spends creative time now mapping out in detail what those policies should be, and what kind of economic and social order they will generate.
· The second is that, in the process of that mapping, both leaders and activists in the Democratic Party and the Labour Party must make a sharp break with their parties’ own recent accommodation to neoliberalism. There can be no going back to Clinton-style triangulation, or to Blairite enthusiasms for lightly-regulated financial institutions and weakened trade unionism. The biggest struggle the Center-Left currently faces is this internal one: the resistance, within its own leadership ranks, to this rupture with the past and this move towards a new progressive settlement. For too many leading figures in both parties right now, making that move involves admitting their own past errors of judgment; but that admission is vital, if center-left parties are ever going to speak with one voice as they educate their own supporters in the scale of change needed to bring the interregnum to a rapid and a progressive end.
There is no escaping the fact, however, that if these are the changes that are required in the politics of the Democratic Left, then meeting them will be enormously difficult. The problem of agency here is a huge one, and the major barrier to success that the Left faces on both sides of the Atlantic is ultimately itself! But there are small hopeful signs of progress on this front, not least away from these shores, in the growing strength and sophistication of the leadership of the Labour Party by Jeremy Corbyn and his allies. There is even some movement in the desired direction back here in the United States: with a slightly more radical set of policy proposals beginning to emerge at last from the Democratic Party leadership in the Senate, and with a raft of more progressive proposals now emerging from individual members of Congress (some well-known, some just starting out) and from well-established progressive legislative groups within the Democratic Party as a whole. But the creation of an all- embracing progressive consensus on both next steps and long-term goals is, as yet, far from complete and long overdue in both countries. For until and unless that creation happens, the danger is very real that one Donald. J. Trump presidency will be followed – not by the dawn of a new progressive era – but by a second Trump presidency, or by something worse! Donald J. Trump may not be the only morbid symptom we have yet to endure. But let us hope that he is – and let us call the Democratic Left to its epoch-making task!
First posted, with full citations, at www.davidcoates.net.
The arguments developed here are explored further in David Coates (editor), Reflections on the Future of the Left, to be published in September in the UK by Agenda Publishing and in the US in November by Columbia University Press.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Interesting to compare Trump's past comments on the LGBTQ community with today's transgender service ban. pic.twitter.com/dVsyZqO50d
Donald Trump, unlike that “Crooked Hillary,” is a total friend to the LGBT community. After all, he said so, on many different occasions. He’ll even let Caitlyn Jenner use any bathroom she wants in Trump Tower. How brave!
^Trump being brave AF and ending intolerance.
So I guess in our celebrity obsessed culture, this was enough to definitively claim that Trump is LGBT friendly - Or BLT friendly, Or BBQ friendly - to be perfectly honest - I don’t think Trump knows what the letters stand for - maybe he thinks the T in LGBT stands for “Trump”
Because while mentioning time and time again that he “ will do everything in [his] power to protect our LGBTQ citizens”  he did the exact opposite of that for one of the most discriminated parts of the said community with an astonishingly bigoted move of barring Trans citizens from military service on the same day that President Truman desegregated the armed forces 79 years ago.
Truman’s decision highlights the American tradition of segregation in our military. An unfortunate reality, that we still need to face apparently.
After consultation with my Generals and military experts, please be advised that the United States Government will not accept or allow......
....Transgender individuals to  serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military. Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming.....
....victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail. Thank you
But at least for some, this could be the definitive moment that clearly highlights how little care Trump has for the LGBT community & the military... After all, nothing says “Thank you for your service” like a discharge letter issued to 9000 active military service members and 6000 reservists because of something they can’t change about themselves.
imagine firing 15000 ppl overnight for something they can't change abt themselves just so ppl can focus on tht instead of ur healthcare bill
For Trump, trans military servicemen and women were nothing more than political cannon fodder - because in the throes of Senate deliberations on the least popular legislation in US history - Trump performed his singular competent political function, distraction.
But look, you might be thinking, Donald is simply a fiscal conservative who had to take these measures because of the economic concerns raised by his generals.
Let’s break down why that reasoning is intellectually dishonest:
Trans servicepeople’s medical costs are around two to eight million dollars a year, and that is a minuscule fraction of our insanely inflated military budget.
The US military reportedly wasted $28 million dollars recently on forest camouflage for Afghan troops - who are fighting an urban war in a country that’s only 2.1 percent forest. But to be fair, the forest camouflage is pretty tight when you’re trying to fight Ocelot in Snake Eater so that could be one reason.
And if we want to desperately trim the fat from our military - which is something I am absolutely on board with - we can maybe start off with some of these wasteful expenses before moving on to straight up discrimination:
WE SPENT $6 MILLION AIRLIFTING GOATS
But no, go on ― tell me how big a burden trans people in the military are.
Or we can cut the sh*t and stop spending trillions of dollars on senseless wars all around the world. But what do I know - I’m not a well equipped military expert like Donald Trump who dodged the Vietnam War to play intramural baseball.
Look, there is no other reason than bigotry for this decision ― plain and simple. The “distraction” argument, just like the “economic factor,” are both red herring reasons ― supplying the intolerant base with a talking point for Facebook statuses so they can feel better about their transphobia.
Trump is secretly erasing the existing rights that the LGBTQ community has, he refused to recognize pride month, he’s removed hundreds of references from government websites, and now he’s banned trans people from contributing to our national defense.
And much like most of the talking points conservatives advance to mask their shitty opinions, Trump’s are not exactly clever and they are absolutely recycled. These are the same reasons they’ve advanced in support of discrimination towards black people, and discrimination towards women.
But lest we forget, consider why we’re talking about trans rights in the military while there’s a catastrophic bill being debated on the senate floor today.
This new policy was released as a means of distracting attention away from what’s going on in the Senate, because the Obamacare repeal and replacement will have far more wide-reaching negative consequences on trans Americans - as well as millions of others.
Keep calling your senators and make sure their phones melt. And also, on this day, let’s honor Ivanka Trump’s service.
I am proud to support my LGBTQ friends and the LGBTQ Americans who have made immense contributions to our society and economy.
For more of my “straight talk express” BS - follow me on instagram and twitter. Also for my videos check out my FB page.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
This week during a press briefing on the Trump administration’s latest immigration bill, CNN’s Jim Acosta had an interesting exchange with White House Senior Policy Advisor Stephen Miller. It was an eye opening look into the mindset of this administration and those pulling the strings. The public reaction to it was another example of how divided we are as a country and exactly how misguided many have become.
When Acosta compared the verbiage in the new bill to “The New Colossus,” the poem written on the base of the Statue of Liberty, Miller attempted to rewrite history by stating the words were added later. In doing so, he was insinuating that the poem and its meaning had no bearing on American history or policy.
I grew up in the ’80s, and I remember “Liberty Weekend.” That was the celebration and rededication of the Statue on its 100th anniversary. I remember that poem being read more times than I could count, I also recall having to memorize it in the 5th grade. Ronald Reagan, during that event, said that America was made up of “a special kind of people from every corner of the world, who had a special love for freedom.” He understood the fabric and DNA of this country.
He understood what made us.
Make no mistake, America is in distress. We are on the verge of forgetting our past and forfeiting our future to the ideology of white nationalism. We live in a nation founded, built, and loved by immigrants, yet today its part of our history many wish to deny. By attacking and demonizing the immigrants of today, we till up the roots of those who came before that made us who we are.
Miller’s disregard for the words is shared by many in the administration. His disdain for the poem is also being celebrated by many who support this president. We have slipped so far in the last 24 months that not even the Statue of Liberty is sacred to many amongst us anymore. A statement that would have gotten you punched in the face by the average Tea-Party “patriot” a few years ago is now a rallying cry to keep out brown people.
Had an advisor to President Obama said something similar about the words “In God, We Trust” on our nation’s currency, the outrage on the right would have been swift and vitriolic. There would have been thousands of people in American flag shirts with crosses in one hand and Obama effigies in the other marching on the Mall of Washington.
Bigotry against immigrants isn’t itself a new phenomenon in America. It’s the overt disdain for immigration that permeates this administration and its supporters that are so shocking. For the justification for this brand of nationalism to be coming from the oval office is not only disheartening it’s disturbing.
The ease at which thousands can disregard generations worth of precedence and American tradition only proves how many steps we have taken backward as a nation. Not only does “Give me your tired, your poor,” no longer remind us of who and what we were, but the prevailing sentiment among many is also that those words never had any meaning to the fabric of America, which is patently and reprehensibly false!
Saying that the new views on immigration are about safety and security is one thing, but to discredit over two-hundred and forty years of American history is another. Justifying bigotry by rewriting history will not and should not stand.
―-
Photo: flickr/Ana Paula Hirama
This post originally appeared at: The Good Men Project
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
By Susan Blumenthal, M.D. and Emily Kaplan
Drug overdoses continued to increase significantly in the first nine months of 2016 despite increasing public awareness. In the third quarter of last year, 19.9/100,000 people died from an overdose, representing a significant increase from the 16.7/100,000 rate in the same period of 2015. Of these fatalities, about 6 in 10 are linked to opioids. 91 Americans die every day from an opioid overdose in America, due to both prescription painkillers and illicit drugs. Drug overdose is the leading cause of death from unintentional injuries in the United States killing more people than gun homicides and car crashes combined, with opioid overdoses accounting for the loss of 33,091 American lives in 2015 alone.
In the United States, the overall rate of opioid overdoses in that year reached an all-time high of 10.3/100,000 people, but the epidemic has hit some areas of the country far harder than others. In 2015, West Virginia had an opioid-related mortality rate of 41.5 per 100,000 people, while that of Nebraska was 6.9/100,000. Other states with very high overdose rates include Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Ohio. In 2015, 2.0 million people in the United States ages 12 or older had an opioid use disorder and 600,000 suffered from heroin addiction.
A study published earlier this week in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine reports that the number of drug overdoses between 2008-2014 involving opioids was likely underestimated by 24% and heroin overdoses were likely underestimated by 22%. The economic cost of opioid use in America is an estimated $78.5 billion annually. In communities hit hard by the opioid epidemic, each day brings more babies born addicted to this substance because their mothers used the drug during pregnancy, sends more children with addicted parents into the foster care system, and sentences more drug offenders to overflowing jails. A multitude of health complications affecting multiple organ systems – such as hepatitis, HIV and cardiovascular problems – can occur as a result of opioid use.
Over the past two years, health professionals, policymakers, and the public have acknowledged the seriousness and scope of the opioid epidemic in America, and have sought to discover its causes. The current epidemic has been linked, in part, to aggressive drug marketing by pharmaceutical companies in the late 1990s and early 2000s that promoted prescription opioids as the panacea for pain. But despite an increasing recognition of the problem in recent years, one in three Americans still received an opioid prescription last year.
Prescribing rates increased from 72.4 to 81.2 prescriptions per 100 persons between 2006-2010, were constant between 2010-2012, and later declined to 70.6 per 100 from 2012-2015, amounting to a 13% reduction. Nonetheless, the amount of opioids prescribed in 2015 remains more than three times higher than it was in 1999 and four times higher than prescribing rates in Europe during that same year. There is also significant variability across counties in the U.S., with prescribers in some areas of America writing 6 times more opioid prescriptions per person than the lowest prescribing counties. These findings suggest inconsistent prescribing patterns that are not being guided by evidence based practice guidelines.
Communities experiencing economic hardship, where decent paying jobs and benefits, especially for people without a college degree, are limited, have been most affected by the opioid epidemic. From ages 25-29 to ages 55-59, white non-Hispanic men and women with a high school education or less experienced rising mortality rates from 1998-2015, a tragedy largely linked to the opioid crisis. In contrast, people in these birth cohorts with some college education or a more advanced degree experienced decreasing mortality rates, with larger declines at higher ages. This significant education differential in midlife mortality parallels reported measures of midlife physical health, mental health, and engagement in the labor force.
However, suggesting that the opioid epidemic affects solely low-income white Americans living in communities experiencing the phenomenon of being left behind by globalization and the 21st century technological revolution would be a mistake. Opioid addiction is a disease that affects people of both sexes, and all racial/ethnic groups and socioeconomic backgrounds. It is present in tiny towns, suburbs, small cities, and bustling urban centers alike.
In fact, new research has shown that opioid use disorder and addiction are now as prevalent in urban areas and suburbs as they are in rural areas; but, the epidemic has disproportionately ravaged economically distressed areas in the country such as the Rust Belt. In these regions, the rate of opioid addiction and opioid-related deaths have increased concurrently with a decrease in the availability of good manufacturing jobs, declining marriage rates, and weakening social networks. It is in these pockets of America that opioid addiction has become a disease of despair and a tragic manifestation of loss of meaning in the interconnected worlds of work and family life.
Recently, increased public and policymaker attention has focused on the opioid crisis in communities across America. Legislation has been passed, a Presidential Commission has been established, and several organizations including the National Academy of Sciences, have released recommendations to address the epidemic some of which are included below. To reverse the devastating impact of the opioid epidemic, multi-faceted strategies mobilizing all sectors of society must be implemented, including:
1. The president should declare that the opioid epidemic is a national emergency under either the Public Health Service Act or the Stafford Act.
With a presidential declaration that the opioid epidemic is a national emergency, agencies of the executive branch as well as the Congress would be further empowered to fund and implement programs to effectively prevent and combat the devastation of opioid addiction in America. Furthermore, it would help heighten the American people’s awareness of the severity of the opioid epidemic, and of its potential to negatively impact family, friends, and loved ones. Innovative partnerships are needed across all sectors of society to respond with effective community, healthcare, and public safety strategies.
2. Educate physicians, other health professionals, and the public about the appropriate uses and dangers of opioids. Amend the Controlled Substance Act to require Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) registrants who apply to prescribe opioids to take a course in proper treatment of pain.
Opioid addiction is a medical issue resulting from powerful biochemical responses to specific addictive substances. The current epidemic has been fueled in part by inappropriate prescribing of these medications by clinicians. The scientific evidence does not support opioids as the first treatment for chronic pain, yet one out of three Americans (92 million people) received an opioid prescription in 2015. These medications are still widely prescribed and used by patients. Therefore, doctors, dentists, and other health professionals must be educated – during medical school, residency training, and the continuing medical education necessary for license renewal – about the appropriate uses of opioids in their clinical practices, and encouraged to limit opioid prescriptions to situations of pain that is life-threatening and terminal, and where no other effective treatment is available.
A team approach should be employed for pain management in which primary-care doctors, pain specialists, physical therapists, chiropractors, acupuncturists, massage therapists, mental health providers and addiction specialists work together to provide the most effective interventions for a patient. Currently, American physicians receive minimal training during medical school on evidence-based pain medication prescribing, substance use disorders, medication-assisted therapy, and pain management in general, and only five states require doctors to participate in continuing medical education on these topics. The Controlled Substance Act should be amended to require that all Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) registrants who want to prescribe the class of drugs containing opioids take a course in proper treatment of pain.
A promising tool facilitating safe opioid prescribing is Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMP). PDMPs permit the analysis of information from pharmacies and prescribers to determine if patients have received multiple opioid prescriptions or have been prescribed other medications that increase the risk of poly drug use. PDMPs have been proven to be effective: a study published in Health Affairs found that these programs resulted in a 30% reduction in opioid prescribing by physicians. Additionally, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) should facilitate breaking the linkage between Medicaid reimbursement to hospitals and patients’ scores on pain management questions in the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems.
Even if pain management is not the most significant factor influencing insurance reimbursement, this reform would help mitigate the perception of financial pressure to overprescribe opioids. Finally, public education from kindergarten through college (and beyond) about the dangers of drugs – including opioids – and the negative impact of addiction on people’s lives is critical. The stigma associated with seeking help and treatment for addiction must be shattered. Addiction is a disease, not a crime or character flaw. Stigma acts as an added level of burden that inhibits prevention, care, and treatment. Reducing addiction-related stigma will require public education and the implementation of community-based stigma prevention campaigns.
 3. Reduce the supply of legal and illicit opioids available in the United States
The U.S. government must reduce the supply of illicit opioids available on the streets by stopping Mexican drug cartels and Chinese traffickers, the two largest suppliers of heroin and fentanyl, respectively, from moving their drugs across American borders. All illegal opioid sellers should face serious legal penalties. Additionally, given the scope of the opioid crisis and the risk posed by synthetic drugs like fentanyl, the FDA must strengthen efforts to detect these drugs when they illegally enter the U.S. from other nations through the mail. Proposed Congressional legislation would require foreign postal services to provide electronic security data on all packages mailed to the U.S.; other legislation being proposed would provide customs officials with high tech chemical screening tools to detect illicit opioids. 
The U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) should also reduce its opioid production quota. In 2015, 640 morphine milligram equivalents (MME) were prescribed per person in the U.S., enough for every American to be medicated around the clock for 3 weeks. Recently, the DEA announced its intention to reduce the production quota for almost every opioid by 25% in 2017. However, much of this reduction will result from the agency’s decision to eliminate a 25% “buffer” of excess production that had been permitted in past years to offset potential shortages of these drugs. Thus, further reduction in the production of these pills is warranted. Public-private partnerships should also be established to implement drug take back programs so that consumers can return medications to pharmacies on any day, ensuring that unused opioids are not available for misuse by others in the home.
4. Increase access to comprehensive treatment for substance use and other co-occurring illnesses.
Comprehensive treatment is needed for people with substance use disorders, underscoring the need for adequate insurance for both addiction interventions and for treatment of other diseases that co-occur in these patients. Nineteen percent of Americans with anxiety and depression, the two most common mental illnesses in the U.S., receive at least two prescriptions for opioids annually, and over 50% of all opioid prescriptions are for people with these two illnesses.  In 2015, only 26% of people with opioid use disorders received any treatment, let alone comprehensive interventions, in part due to a lack of funds to pay for behavioral health and substance abuse disorder treatment, as well as a shortage of trained providers.
And yet, according to the recently released FY18 budget, the Trump Administration proposes to reduce the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) funding by 5%, cut mental health spending in a way that would dramatically reduce access to addiction treatment, and reduce Medicaid funding by between $610 billion and $1.4 trillion. As the largest source of coverage for addiction treatment in the United States, Medicaid covers 35 to 50 percent of all medication-assisted therapy for opioid addiction, proven by research to be among the most effective methods of keeping addicted individuals in treatment and reducing the opioid overdose death rate. A study by Harvard University and New York University showed that Medicaid expansion provides substance use or mental health services for almost 1.3 million people. Overall, the Medicaid expansion associated with the Affordable Care Act of 2010 (ACA) has led to an 18.3% reduction in the unmet need for substance use disorder treatment services among low-income adults. To meet the need for treatment, Medicaid should be expanded in those states that have not yet participated under this provision of the ACA. Additionally, the parity provisions within the ACA have provided increased access to substance use and mental health services. The various pieces of Congressional legislation to repeal and replace the ACA that were introduced over the past several months, if passed, would have significantly threatened the availability of these lifesaving treatment services for millions of Americans.
Importantly, on July 22, 2016, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (CARA) was signed into law to expand education, treatment, and prevention of opioid abuse with $8.5 billion in funding over 5 years. Some of the important provisions of this bill include establishing a community-based competitive grant program to address and treat the challenges associated with opioid and heroin addiction, as well creation and expansion of existing medically assisted treatments, and allowing pregnant women, veterans, and children to receive specialized treatment interventions through community based initiatives. In addition, CARA will expand prescription drug monitoring programs, launch a medication assisted treatment (MAT) and intervention demonstration program, and expand resources to identify and treat incarcerated individuals suffering from opioid use disorders by providing them with evidence-based treatment. Expanding the availability of MAT is important as it has been proven to reduce overdose deaths, help keep people in treatment, decrease use of heroin, reduce relapse, and prevent spread of infectious disease.
5. Provide grant waiver approvals for all 50 states to quickly eliminate barriers to treatment resulting from the federal Institutes for Mental Diseases (IMD) exclusion within the Medicaid program.
“This component of the Social Security Act prohibits federal Medicaid funds from reimbursing services provided in an inpatient facility treating “mental diseases” (including substance use disorders) that have more than 16 beds.” A legislative change to this requirement would provide thousands more Americans in all 50 states with increased access to treatment for opioid use disorders.
6. Increase research on alternative pain management interventions and prevention strategies, as well as enlist the FDA to conduct a systematic review of approved opioids currently on the market.
Increased research investments at the NIH and CDC are necessary to better understand the etiology of the current opioid epidemic to facilitate testing and development of new medically assisted treatments (MAT) and non-addictive interventions for treatment of acute and chronic pain. Research could also potentially lead to a vaccine to block addiction in the future, as well as other effective preventative interventions.
Additionally, the FDA should undertake a comprehensive review of the safety and effectiveness of all opioid-based prescription painkillers currently on the market, including an evaluation of appropriate dosage requirements and side effects for children, women, and men. Many of these medications were FDA approved at a time when there was minimal awareness of their strong addictive properties.
7. Provide model legislation for states to allow naloxone dispensing via standing orders. Equip law enforcement officers and other first responders in the United States with naloxone to help save more lives.
Already, 47 states have expanded access to naloxone in some form, but access to this medication to reverse the effects of an overdose must be further increased. Federal and state governments should ensure that law enforcement officers and other first responders carry and are trained to administer naloxone. Furthermore, the government must “update and educate about ‘Good Samaritan’ laws to ensure that bystanders and those experiencing an overdose are not deterred from seeking immediate help.
8. Identify, publish, and disseminate evidence-based best practices for prevention and treatment.
To help standardize the quality and effectiveness of care provided at opioid treatment centers, evidence-based best practices for combatting opioid addiction should be established, published, and made widely available. The creation of an online hub that could serve as a “one-stop shop” for evidence-based guidelines for prevention and treatment of opioid addiction – including statistics, cutting-edge research, information about current laws in each state and at the federal level, and best practices – would be extremely helpful for the public and health care providers. amfAR has established an online portal for information on opioid use and services in the United States. The site is a “window into the opioid epidemic unfolding in every American’s backyard—it provides local and national statistics using reliable data sources on new HIV and hepatitis C infections, opioid use and overdose death rates, and the availability of services like drug treatment programs and syringe exchange services in communities across the country.” Additionally, users of the website can examine data at the state or at the county levels to view the differential impact of the opioid epidemic in across regions of the U.S.
9. Explore the development of reimbursement models based on best practices.
Public and private sector payers, including insurance companies, should develop models for reimbursement of substance use treatment based on what is known about best practices for comprehensive, effective pain management that include a broad range of evidenced based treatments and alternative pain management interventions.
10. Improve socioeconomic opportunities in struggling communities.
Federal, state, and local governments, working with the private sector, must address the important socioeconomic drivers of the opioid epidemic and develop a strategic plan for the creation of stable and well-paying jobs, social supports, educational opportunities, technical training programs, and increased access to health services for people living in distressed communities where residents may be experiencing declining social mobility. Apprenticeships and certificate programs at community colleges could provide people with new skill sets and tools for employment. Online training and degree programs could also make an important difference in helping to reverse declining socioeconomic opportunities in distressed communities.
Addiction is a multifaceted public health problem that cannot be attributed to a single cause and reversing its impact does not have a simple solution. An expert panel predicted that if dangerous synthetic opioids keep spreading rapidly across communities at the current rate and the waiting time for treatment remains so prolonged, opioid overdose deaths could exceed 250 every day. This means that over the next decade, more than 650,000 Americans could die from opioid overdoses. At this rate, over the course of the next decade, annual opioid-related mortality in the United States would surpass the worst year of gun deaths on record, and perhaps even the peak year for AIDS-related deaths in 1995, when nearly 50,000 Americans lost their lives to this disease.
Opioid addiction is preventable, and there is much that the government, health providers, private sector organizations, and the public can do to reduce the toll of this public health problem in our country today. But we must act now: without a comprehensive approach and the funding needed to address this national emergency, 91 more Americans lose their lives every day. Failure to take action is not an option.
Rear Admiral Susan Blumenthal, M.D., M.P.A. (ret.) is the Public Health Editor of the Huffington Post. She is the Senior Policy and Medical Advisor at amfAR, the Foundation for AIDS Research, a Senior Fellow in Health Policy at New America, and a Clinical Professor at Georgetown University School of Medicine. Dr. Blumenthal served for more than 20 years in senior health leadership positions in the Federal government in the Administrations of four U.S. Presidents including as Assistant Surgeon General of the United States, the first Deputy Assistant Secretary of Women’s Health, and as Senior Global Health Advisor in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. She also served as a White House Advisor on health. Prior to these positions, Dr. Blumenthal served as Chief of the Behavioral Medicine and Basic Prevention Research Branch and Chair of the Health and Behavior Coordinating Committee at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). She has chaired numerous national and global commissions and conferences and is the author of many scientific publications. Admiral Blumenthal has received numerous awards including honorary doctorates and has been decorated with the highest medals of the U.S. Public Health Service for her pioneering leadership and significant contributions to advancing health in the United States and worldwide. Named by the New York Times, the National Library of Medicine and the Medical Herald as one of the most influential women in medicine, Dr. Blumenthal was named the Health Leader of the Year by the Commissioned Officers Association and as a Rock Star of Science by the Geoffrey Been Foundation. She is a recipient of the Rosalind Franklin Centennial Life in Discovery Award.
Emily Kaplan, a rising junior at Yale University, is a premed student pursuing a major in Global Affairs. She is currently a Health Policy intern at New America in Washington D.C.
References:
[1] Brooks, David. “Let’s Go for a Win on Opioids.” The New York Times, 4 April 2017. Web. 5 June 2017.
[2] Hari, Johann. “What’s Really Causing the Prescription Drug Crisis?” Los Angeles Times, 12 January 2017. Web. 5 June 2017.
[3] CDC. “Opioid Basics: Understanding the Epidemic.” Web. 2 June 2017.
[4] Rubin, Jennifer. “Trump’s Hypocrisy on the Opioid Epidemic Sees Bipartisan Outrage – and Rightfully So.” The Washington Post. 5 May 2017. Web. 1 June 2017.
[5] Diamond, Dan. “White House Dials Back Cuts to Drug Control Office.” Politico. 23 May 2017. Web. 19 July 2017.
[6] Kaiser Family Foundation. “Prescription Opioid Overdose Deaths and Death Rate per 100,000 Population (Age-Adjusted).” Web. 1 June 2017.
[7] NPR. “The Forces Driving Middle-Aged White People’s ‘Deaths of Despair.’” 23 March 2017. Web. 6 June 2017.
[8] Case, Anne and Deaton, Angus. Mortality and Morbidity in the 21st Century. The Brookings Institute. BPEA Conference Drafts, 23-24 March 2017. Web. 6 June 2017.
[9] Frieden, Thomas. “A Framework for Public Health: The Health Impact Pyramid.” American Journal of Public Health. 2010 April; 100(4): 590–595. Web. 5 June 2017.
[10] CDC. “Opioid Data: Drug Overdose Death Data.” Web. 2 June 2017.
[11] Gounder, Celine. “Who is Responsible for the Pain Pill Epidemic?” The New Yorker. 8 November 2013. Web. 12 June 2017.
[12] Carr, D., and Davis, Corey S. “Physician Continuing Education to Reduce Opioid Misuse, Abuse, and Overdose: Many Opportunities, Few Requirements.” Drug & Alcohol Dependence, Volume 163, 100 – 107.
[13] Clark, Kelly M.D. “Short Term Grants Are No Replacement for Medicaid to Fight Opioid Epidemic.” The Hill.
[14] PT in Motion. “DEA Reduces 2017 Opioid Production Quotas – Mostly by Eliminating Buffer.” 11 October 2016. Web. 21 June 2017.
[15] Blau, Max. “Death Toll from Opioids Will Only Get Worse, Experts Say.” STAT. Web. 28 June 2017.
[16] Bonnie RJ, Kesselheim AS, and Clark DJ. Both Urgency and Balance Needed in Addressing Opioid Epidemic. Report from the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. JAMA. Print.
[17] Laslo, Matt. “Trump’s Budget Could Accelerate the Opioid Crisis.” Rolling Stone. 25 May 2017. Web. 19 July 2017.
[18] Bernstein, Lenny. “Greater Opioid Use and Mental Health Disorders Are Linked in a New Study.” The Washington Post. 26 June 2017. Web. 19 July 2017.
[19] Welch, Ashley. “Opioid Prescriptions Drop, But Some U.S. Counties Prescribe Far More Than Others.” CBS News. 6 July 2017. Web. 27 July 2017.
[20] Baig, Jalal. “Despite All His Promises, Trump Has Done Nothing About the Devastating Opioid Epidemic.” Salon. 30 July 2017. Web. 31 July 2017.
[21] White House Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis. Interim Opioid Report. 31 July 2017. Web. 1 August 2017.
[22] Han, Beth et al. “Prescription Opioid Use, Misuse, and Use Disorders in U.S. Adults: 2015 National Survey on Drug Use and Health.” Annals of Internal Medicine. 1 August 2017. Web. 1 August 2017.
[23] Humphreys, Keith. “Opioid Abuse Started as a Rural Epidemic. It’s Now a National One.” 31 July 2017. Web. 1 August 2017.
[24] Florence CS, Zhou C, Luo F, Xu L. The economic burden of prescription opioid overdose, abuse and dependence in the United States, 2013. Med Care. 2016:54 (10):901-906.
[25] Schuchat, A, Houry, D, Guy, GP, New Data on Opioid Use and Prescribing in the United States, 2017, JAMA, 318 (5) 425-426.
[26] National Academy of Sciences. Pain Management and the Opioid Epidemic: Balancing Societal and Individual Benefits and Risks of Opioid Use. 2017.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON ― Google engineer James Damore was fired Monday after he penned an explosive memo arguing that biological differences explain why women are underrepresented in Silicon Valley. Damore claims the tech giant broke the law by dismissing him, and says he plans on ”pursuing legal action” against the company.
Damore may want to brush up his resume and send it over to his sympathizers at Breitbart. His odds of legally winning back his job at Google look pretty slim, according to labor lawyers.
In a note to Google employees, CEO Sundar Pichai said that Damore’s memo ― a missive against diversity and the company’s liberal “ideological echo chamber” ― ran afoul of Google’s code of conduct and advanced “harmful gender stereotypes in our workplace.” Damore countered to The New York Times that he has “a legal right to express my concerns about the terms and conditions of my working environment” without being punished.
Damore appears to be referring to protections afforded by the National Labor Relations Act, the Great Depression-era law covering collective bargaining in the private sector. Reuters reported that Damore had filed a complaint against Google under the act even before he was fired, claiming the company had tried to silence him.
The act gives all workers ― not just those in unions ― the right to take part in “protected concerted activity” to improve their working conditions. But that doesn’t mean it will protect Damore and his memo.
Protected concerted activity must be carried out, well, in concert ― that is, as an effort to band together as employees. The National Labor Relations Board, which referees such disputes, sometimes takes a broad view of what constitutes such activity. For his case to succeed, Damore’s memo would have to come off as more than just a personal grievance.
“The NLRA doesn’t protect ‘mere griping,’” Charlotte Garden, a professor specializing in labor law at the Seattle University School of Law, said in an email. “Usually, ‘mere griping’ looks like standing around the water cooler and complaining about an employer policy, without attempting to move towards some sort of group action. The memo strikes me as a more expansive version of that.”
“It would be another story if the memo called on like-minded employees to do something ― even if nobody heeded the call,” she said.
In his memo, Damore said he wanted to foster an “open and honest discussion.” If that isn’t enough, he could also argue that a call for concerted activity was inherent in the document, said Wilma Liebman, a former chairwoman of the labor relations board.
“I suppose if he wanted to make a case, he could argue, ‘Why would I go to all the trouble expressing these views if I wasn’t looking for people to join me or engage me in a dialogue on this?’” Liebman said. This argument is “certainly not a slam dunk,” she added, since a judge and board members could still read Damore’s memo as little more than a monologue.
Damore implied, in his comments to Reuters, that Google fired him because of the unfair labor practice charge he filed with the labor board. That would be illegal retaliation by the company, if it were the case.
But given Pichai’s note to employees, the company’s officials presumably would respond that Damore he was fired because of his memo ― not because he ran to the labor board during the dustup. And the burden would be on Damore to prove otherwise.
Officials for Google, based in Mountain View, California, did not immediately respond to a HuffPost request for comment.
Damore also lamented in his memo that Google’s workplace is biased toward conservatives, “a minority that feel like they need to stay in the closet to avoid open hostility.”
California does have a state law protecting workers from political discrimination in the workplace. But again, the Google executives presumably would say they fired Damore because his memo ― among other things, he said women were prone to more “neuroticism” ― and not because of his political views. 
Damore could try to bring a claim of sex discrimination under Title 7 of the Civil Rights Act, which prohibits workplace discrimination based on race, color, religion, gender and national origin. The law protects men just as well as women.
But Paul Secunda, a professor of labor law at the Marquette University Law School in Wisconsin, said this argument probably wouldn’t fly, since Google could point to a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason for firing Damore ― like wanting to rid its workplace of toxic stereotyping for legal as well as ethical resaons.
“I think the company had to do what it did,” Secunda said. “In terms of weighing the costs and benefits, it would cost way more to do nothing.”
In seeking recourse through the National Labor Relations Board, Damore may have given his critics on the left reason to revel in some irony. Silicon Valley doesn’t care much for unionism, and Damore, who in a memo footnote says he “strongly value[s] individualism,” is now seeking relief from a collective bargaining law typically relied upon by union organizers.
It also may not help Damore that the board will soon have a conservative majority nominated by President Donald Trump. Employers ― and conservative media ― have blasted the board for taking what they saw as an overly expansive view of worker rights under former President Barack Obama.
“I don’t think that charge was justified, but in any event, the Trump board is likely to take a more narrow view,” said Garden, the Seattle University law professor. “So I think the engineer would have an uphill climb even before the Obama board, but his chances are even worse now.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Kellyanne Conway has earned a reputation as being an adept dodger of any question that could cast President Donald Trump in a negative light. So her admission on Sunday that Trump’s approval rating needed improvement was an unusual deviation for the president’s counselor.
Conway told ABC’s “This Week” that Trump’s “approval rating among Republicans, conservatives and Trump voters is down slightly. It needs to go up.”
She added that voters were urging Trump to focus on fulfilling his campaign promises rather than worrying about a squabbling Congress.
“They are telling him just enact your program,” Conway said. “Don’t worry about a Congress that isn’t supporting legislation to get big-ticket items done. And don’t worry about all the distractions, diversions and discouragement that others who are still trying to throw logs in your path are throwing your way. Focus on the agenda and he’s doing that. Nobody can deny these economic numbers.”
According to a HuffPost Pollster aggregate of publicly available surveys, Trump’s average approval rating plummeted to a new low of less than 38 percent last week despite a positive economic outlook for the country. More than 58 percent said they disapproved of the way Trump was doing his job.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
In a sign that the Democratic Party is embracing more progressive health care ideas, eight Democratic senators announced Thursday that they were co-sponsoring legislation that would allow people 55 and older to buy in to Medicare.
Sen. Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.) introduced the Medicare at 55 Act with the immediate support of Democratic Sens. Tammy Baldwin (Wis.), Sheldon Whitehouse (R.I.), Sherrod Brown (Ohio), Jeff Merkley (Ore.), Patrick Leahy (Vt.), Jack Reed (R.I.) and Al Franken (Minn.).
The bill, which would allow Americans aged 55 to 64 to purchase Medicare coverage, reflects the growing influence of progressive activists who are pushing for a single-payer health care system they dub “Medicare for all.”
Although the bill stops short of making Medicare universal, its embrace of expanded public health insurance, rather than the private model at the heart of the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare, marks a distinct leftward shift for the party.
“People between the ages of 55 and 64 often have more health problems and face higher health care costs but aren’t yet eligible for Medicare,” Stabenow said in a statement. “If you live in Michigan, are 58 years old, and are having a hard time finding coverage that works for you, this bill will let you buy into Medicare before you turn 65.”
“Our legislation is one way we can work together on a bipartisan basis to lower health care and prescription drug costs,” she added.
Stabenow’s office suggests the new bill would likely generate cost savings for those between the ages of 55 and 64, since private insurers are permitted to charge that cohort three times the rates of their younger peers due to the generally higher cost of providing them coverage. Americans aged 55 to 64, on average, pay more than $1,200 a year in out-of-pocket medical costs that Medicare would alleviate, according to the Health Care Cost Institute.
The bill would likely also relieve financial strain on Obamacare’s individual insurance exchanges by enabling the departure of some of its most expensive customers. The exchanges are facing mounting problems as insurers withdraw from some areas and increase premiums in others to offset the cost of covering more sick people than they had before Obamacare’s passage.
Stabenow’s bill echoes a similar effort underway in the House of Representatives. In July, Democratic Reps. Jon Larson (Conn.), Brian Higgins (N.Y.) and Joe Courtney (Conn.) announced that they would be introducing the Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act. The bill would permit Americans aged 50 or older to buy in to Medicare for as little as $8,212 a year ― a significant savings for a 60-year-old currently purchasing a high-ranking “gold” plan on the exchange for an estimated $13,308, according to the congressmen’s offices.
The legislation, which they plan to formally introduce in September, would also allot funding and take other measures to stabilize the exchanges. Including Larson, Higgins and Courtney, the bill currently has 15 co-sponsors. 
Proponents of a “Medicare for all” system have long argued that the for-profit insurance model has failed, noting that Medicare provides coverage at a significantly lower cost per person. Medicare enjoys widespread popularity, thanks to the coverage it has provided seniors since 1966 (it later expanded to include disability coverage).
Since the collapse of the latest Republican efforts to repeal Obamacare, progressive groups have stepped up pressure on lawmakers and candidates to get behind “Medicare for all.” Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) plans to introduce single-payer health care legislation in the Senate in the coming months, and a bill introduced by Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.) in the House has the support of a majority of the House Democratic Caucus.
But Murshed Zaheed, political director of online progressive organization Credo Mobile, told HuffPost last week that activists welcomed interim steps on the road to single payer.
“We’re not going to pooh-pooh them and say, ‘No, no, we want Medicare for all.’ We will say it is a great starting point,” he said.
Of the Medicare at 55 Act’s co-sponsors, Sens. Stabenow, Baldwin, Brown and Whitehouse are up for re-election in 2018. Stabenow, Baldwin and Brown are running in states that President Donald Trump won in the 2016 election.
The decision by politically vulnerable Democrats to embrace expanded public health insurance speaks to just how much the mainstream Democratic consensus on health care has shifted in the past few years.
As recently as December 2009, talk of lowering the Medicare eligibility age to 55 was enough to endanger the support of then-Sen. Joe Lieberman (I-Conn.) for the Affordable Care Act. And in December 2012, then-President Barack Obama considered raising the Medicare eligibility age in talks with congressional Republicans over a so-called “grand bargain” on the budget.
This story has been updated to include information about a similar bill soon to be introduced in the House of Representatives.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Reading the headlines about white supremacists rallying at the University of Virginia makes me wonder: Shouldn’t it be easy to condemn these people and their racist viewpoints? Shouldn’t we be able to, unequivocally and without hesitation, say that their actions are wrong? I am curious especially because the president of the United States seemed to be unable to do these things at his press conference today.
Watching Donald Trump speak, I was, like many others, waiting for him to utter the words “white supremacists.” But he did not call the protesters what they are. He didn’t even acknowledge that they were any more in the wrong than the counter-protesters (some of whom, by the way, were hit with a car in what many are calling an act of domestic terrorism).
“We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry and violence on many sides,” Trump said. His words have prompted many to ask: “What sides?” The torch-carrying, Nazi-saluting white supremacists started this protest last night. The “other side” would be, I guess, the people counter-protesting. There are not “many sides” contributing to the hatred and bigotry. There is only one.
That Trump didn’t outright condemn the protesters speaks volumes. His campaign rhetoric emboldened people because it made it seem like it was OK to act upon stereotypes and to discriminate against people. And his policy and legislation as president—from his Muslim ban to his recent immigration policy, which would reduce the number of legal immigrants to the U.S. and give preference to those who speak English—only further invigorate white nationalist sentiments.
After the election, David Duke, former leader of the KKK, said that Trump winning was “one of the most exciting nights of (his) life.” Today, Duke said, “We are determined to take our country back. We are going to fulfill the promises of Donald Trump. That’s what we believed in. That’s why we voted for Donald Trump.” Trump has rebuked Duke in the past, but today he failed to openly decry the values of the white supremacists.
More and more, our societies are becoming more diverse. Many of us believe wholeheartedly in the undeniable truth that people of all races and ethnic backgrounds are, and deserved to be treated as, equal. So people like the white supremacists in Virginia feel threatened. In a Twitter thread, user @JuliusGoat made an excellent point about the protesters. “They are chanting ‘we will not be replaced.’ Replaced as… what? I’ll tell you. Replaced as the only voice in public discussions. Replaced as the only bodies in the public arena. Replaced as the only life that matters,” he said.
The actions of the protesters, as well as Trump’s response so far, are disturbing for a myriad of reasons. Had the protesters not been white, it’s likely that Trump would have issued a much stronger condemnation of their actions and words. Furthermore, that white supremacists are marching at all—in a progressive America in 2017, no less—is a chilling indication that we, as a society, have not come as far as we may like to think.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
President Donald Trump seems determined to divide the U.S. ― and it’s not helping to “make America great again,” according to Rep. Joe Kennedy III (D-Mass.).
Appearing on the “Daily Show,” Wednesday, Kennedy criticized Trump and his administration for pushing policies that divide the country in a way that he says is “dispiriting” and “dangerous.”
“The president and his administration have decided that somehow, for some reason, our country today is us-against-them ― whether it’s a budget, whether it’s a healthcare bill, whether it’s deciding who gets into college,” Kennedy told host Trevor Noah.
“Almost every single policy proposal you have seen from this a lot of this administration from day one pits American against American,” he added.
Kennedy took issue with the meaning behind Trump’s campaign slogan, “Make America Great Again,” which continues to be a prominent catchphrase during his presidency.
“The part that is most dispiriting and dangerous for all of us is that that is in somebody’s definition of making America great,” the congressman said.
“That somehow we are at our best when we are divided, when we are fighting with each other, when we are trying to compete against somebody else to get to some zero sum game. And by you succeeding means you’re putting some other American down.”
Kennedy said that he didn’t believe that the “us versus them” philosophy was right for the country and called for unity among all Americans.
“You win when you get 320 million Americans pulling for each other and fighting for each other ― and knowing that we’re not going to leave you behind,” he told Noah.
Kennedy has been known to give impassioned speeches pushing back on policies he fundamentally disagrees with, that are backed by Trump and the GOP.
When Trump tweeted last month that transgender people were no longer allowed to serve in the U.S. military, Kennedy criticized the president for questioning service members’ patriotism and courage while speaking on the House floor.
The congressman gave a similar speech that went viral in March when he told House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) that the GOP’s efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act showed more malice than mercy.
Kennedy also spoke about the issues of health care, transgender people in the military, immigration and unity in the White House in his interview with Noah.
Watch Kennedy’s full interview in the video above.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
In June 2012, Florida inmate Darren Rainey died at Dade Correctional Institution inside of a makeshift shower that inmates allege had been modified by guards to punish those who were uncooperative. Rainey was locked in the shower for about two hours under what has been alleged to be scalding water. Rainey’s body looked like “a boiled lobster” when it was removed from the shower, inmates claimed.
But in March, Miami-Dade State Attorney Katherine Fernandez Rundle issued a report that cleared guards of any wrongdoing in Rainey’s death. Rundle called Rainey’s death an accident resulting from a combination of his schizophrenia, heart disease and being confined in the shower room.
The report, which cited the findings of Miami-Dade medical examiner Dr. Emma Lew’s official autopsy on Rainey, also said there was no evidence that the shower was too hot, and that burns had not been found on Rainey’s body. 
Official documents reviewed by HuffPost earlier this year indicate that some information from police, the prison and emergency services was not included in the prosecutor’s final report, raising questions about the circumstances surrounding Rainey’s death as well as the veracity of Rundle’s report.
HuffPost has since obtained copies of 20 photographs that county officials took just hours after Rainey died. They were provided to HuffPost by a source close to the investigation who asked not to be identified out of fear of repercussions. Some of the autopsy photos also have been published and referenced in stories by The Miami Herald’s Julie Brown, who has followed the case for years.
The disturbing images show severe wounds on numerous sections of Rainey’s body. Entire swaths of skin ― and, in places, what appear to be multiple layers of skin ― are shown missing, bunched up at the edges of wounds or hanging loosely at the edges of wounds.
HuffPost shared the full set of photos with Dr. Michael Baden, a forensic pathologist known for his contributions to HBO’s “Autopsy” series and his work on many high-profile deaths, including the private autopsy conducted on Michael Brown. After reviewing Rainey’s autopsy and the photos, Baden said it didn’t make sense to rule the death “accidental” or say the wounds on Rainey’s skin were the product of natural decomposition processes.
Photos depict extensive damage to Rainey’s skin.
The autopsy photos were taken hours after Rainey was found dead on the shower floor. He had collapsed face up in a pool of water as hot water continued to flow into the room.
Three photos, which have been cropped slightly and published below, show the extent of the injuries to Rainey’s chest, back, arms and legs. Other photographs in the set show similar injuries to all four limbs, his buttocks and face. Some wounds are a deep red, with blood vessels clearly visible; others expose underlying tissue.
Rainey’s chest and back appear the most severely injured in the photographs. His chest wound exposes a dark red layer of tissue from his neck to mid-abdomen. White tissue is exposed on his entire upper and mid-back with some red splotches throughout the large exposed area.
Skin on Rainey’s left arm appears severely wounded, with deep red and white tissue exposed, as well as sections of blood vessels. Rainey had a tattoo on his upper left arm, but it is nearly indecipherable in the photos because several layers of skin appear to be missing. Rainey’s legs show injuries to his thighs, shins and calves.
Multiple skin wounds are visible on Rainey’s forehead, cheeks, ears, neck and nose. The deepest wound appears to be on the bridge of his nose, where white and red tissue is exposed.
Lew, the Miami-Dade medical examiner, described Rainey’s injuries as “skin slippage” in her autopsy report. She wrote that they were the result of normal post-mortem decomposition, “exposure to a warm, moist environment” and friction or pressure placed on his body during attempts to revive him or move his body. 
Baden told HuffPost the photos don’t line up with the official findings.
“The photos show hot water burns, scald burns, and not decomposition,” he said. “One doesn’t decompose like that in 24 hours under any circumstances.”
A rectal thermometer in another photo shows a reading, believed to have been taken about 12 hours after Rainey died, of about 94 degrees. That reading, Baden said, could indicate a higher than normal body temperature at the time of death.
“The fact that 12 hours later it’s 94 degrees would indicate that it was quite high at the time of the incident. It’s entirely consistent with his being in that hot water for a while,” Baden said.
Depending on the temperature of the environment the body is kept in ― a body cools more quickly in a colder environment and more slowly in a warmer one ― body temperature drops an average of 1 degree to 2 degrees every hour after a person dies, according to Baden. So if a person died in a 70-degree room, pathologists would expect the body temperature to drop about 15 degrees in 10 hours.
Baden said refrigeration units at medical examiner offices are generally kept around 38 degrees. It’s not clear if Rainey’s body was put into refrigeration in the medical examiner’s office before these photos were taken, but that would be a standard procedure. Refrigeration would have caused Rainey’s body temperature to “fall much more than that and much lower than 94 degrees,” Baden said.
“Those photographs are typical of hot water thermal injury to the skin and consistent with the circumstances in that shower room,” he said. “And they are not consistent with decomposition happening in a 24-hour period of time.”
Lew noted in the autopsy report that Rainey’s rectal temperature was at 94 degrees 12 hours after death. The report also says a nurse found he had a 102-degree temperature soon after he was found dead, which Lew wrote indicated that Rainey “had an elevated body temperature at the time of death.” But she didn’t conclude that the shower water caused Rainey’s higher body temperature because his temperature at the time he first entered the shower room is unknown.
Lew writes that a “psychotic episode which prompted him to smear feces on his body” cannot be ruled out as a possible cause for Rainey’s high temperature. (Prison guards say they took Rainey to the shower room because they discovered he had defecated in his cell and smeared feces on himself, his cell and bedsheets.)
In an earlier interview with HuffPost, Baden questioned the stated cause of death in the autopsy report, saying it “raises problems.”
“Number one, schizophrenia is a disease; it isn’t a cause of death. Schizophrenia is not a cause of sudden death,” Baden said. Secondly, Baden said the autopsy report indicates Rainey’s heart disease was “minimal” and that his “heart is not remarkable for a 50-year-old person.” Lastly, Baden said, the indication that confinement in the shower also contributed to his death “does not make sense.”
“What is being described is a natural death,” Baden said. “Even if it were schizophrenia and it was heart disease, why then is it an accident? Because of the confined space? No. The cause of death as indicated does not appear to me to be consistent with the autopsy findings.”
When asked about Baden’s criticisms of her findings, Lew didn’t disagree with his points.
“Dr. Baden is a well-known expert in forensic pathology,” Lew said. “Experts are frequently asked to provide their opinion and he has done so.”
A guard escorted Rainey to the shower room after finding the feces in his cell so that he could wash himself while his cell was being cleaned, according to prison guards. 
But the room where Rainey was ultimately found was not like the prison’s other showers. It didn’t have taps accessible to the bather; rather, the water taps were in an adjacent janitorial closet, from which a pipe carried hot and cold water. And the water discharged from a hole in the wall instead of spraying from a shower head. 
An inmate in that stall had no control over the pressure, temperature or duration of the water. State officials said the shower was rigged this way so guards could force inmates to wash when they refused to bathe normally. 
But multiple inmates at the Dade Correctional Institution had a very different view of the makeshift shower. They claimed that it had been used for some time to punish uncooperative inmates, according to an internal investigation report by the Miami-Dade state attorney. There are also accounts from inmates and former prison staff saying the water temperature in the makeshift shower got excessively high.
Jerry Cummings, who was a Dade prison warden at the time, ordered Capt. Darlene Dixon, the environmental health and safety officer at the prison, to check the shower’s water temperature two days after Rainey’s death. (Cummings was fired two years later, and after another inmate died.)
In an interview with Miami-Dade Police Detective Wilbert Sanchez, the lead investigator on the case, Dixon recalled the first time she attempted to test the water temperature in the shower room: She said the water hit the wall and splashed “on her hand, and was hurting her because it was too hot” and that steam “appeared in the shower within a few minutes of turning on the hot water.”
Dixon also said she used a meat thermometer from the prison’s food services department to test the water temperature at the tap in the janitorial closet. Dixon reported that the water registered as 160 degrees ― 40 degrees higher than the maximum permitted temperature setting for hot water in the prison, the prosecutor’s report says.
Lew’s autopsy report concluded that claims that temperatures inside the shower room were “excessively high” were unsubstantiated. She dismissed reports that the water temperature was 160 degrees and said there was no evidence Rainey had actually suffered any burns to his body. Lew said people with schizophrenia can have an “impaired ability to compensate for heat stress” ― when coupled with a medication Rainey was taking to help with his mental illness, Lew said that could have contributed to him suffering from hyperthermia in the shower and been related to a “pre-disposition to sudden cardiac arrest.”
Most adults will suffer third-degree burns if exposed to water hotter than 150 degrees for even a few seconds. First-degree burns cause redness, second-degree burns create swelling and blistering and third-degree burns go through the skin to deeper tissues. Rainey was locked in the shower for about two hours.
A reference to the hot water in the janitorial closet also appears in a May 2016 New Yorker article about the experiences of Harriet Krzykowski, a former counselor at Dade Correctional Institution who says she faced retaliation from prison staff when she raised concerns about alleged inmate abuse in the facility. Krzykowski told the magazine that water from the faucet was so hot that she sometimes used it to cook ramen noodles. 
Some inmates said they could hear Rainey screaming in the shower for several minutes on the night he died. Harold Hempstead, who worked as an orderly in the mental ward, said he heard Rainey cry out from the shower ― yelling “I’m sorry,” “I won’t do it anymore” and “I can’t take it no more” ― until he “heard a fall,” according to the state attorney’s report.
Other inmates said that, as guards carried his body out of the shower, Rainey’s skin appeared red in some sections and to be peeling off his body. One inmate claimed Rainey looked like a “boiled lobster.”
State prosecutors ultimately decided the inmates’ allegations were not credible. They said Hempstead’s timeline of events did not match that of prison surveillance video from that night and that he couldn’t have seen some of the things he claimed to have seen. Prosecutors also suggested that other inmates’ allegations may have been influenced by conversations with Hempstead.
The prosecutors concluded that there was no evidence that the shower had ever been used as punishment and said it was neither “dangerous nor unsafe.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
In her 40 years working in environmental protection, Elizabeth “Betsy” Southerland has confronted all manner of environmental threats.
But even she has her limits. Faced with the stark new environmental policies ushered in by President Donald Trump and Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt, Southerland resigned from the agency Monday, where’d she’d been working as the director of science and technology in the Office of Water.  
Southerland explained her decision in a farewell letter published Tuesday by Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility (PEER), a non-profit group for federal resource professionals. 
“Today the environmental field is suffering from the temporary triumph of myth over truth,” she wrote. “The truth is there is NO war on coal, there is NO economic crisis caused by environmental protection, and climate change IS caused by man’s activities.” 
Southerland joins several other dissenting federal environmental officials who have publicly chastised the Trump administration’s environmental approach, which has been defined thus far largely by reducing federal oversight and overturning landmark Obama-era EPA rulings.
Southerland questioned Pruitt’s belief that the EPA and federal environmental standards were guilty of “running roughshod over states’ rights.”
Under the new administration’s proposals, she noted, states will be forced to take on roles historically performed by the EPA, and they’ll have to shoulder that burden just as Trump’s proposed budget would cut state funding. Instead of liberating state budgets, Trump is doing the opposite and restricting how they can spend their tax dollars, she said.
“The President’s FY18 budget proposes cuts to state and tribal funding as draconian as the cuts to EPA,” Southerland wrote, “while at the same time reassigning a number of EPA responsibilities to the states and tribes.”
“If they want to maintain their current level of monitoring, permitting, inspections, and enforcement, states will have to increase taxes and establish new user fees.” 
Rather than simply rail against Pruitt’s leadership, however, Southerland’s letter describes what she believes are the major shortcomings in the Trump administration’s logic.
For instance, speaking of the Trump “regulation trading” policy requiring that two regulations be repealed for every new one enacted, Southerland said it’s more likely to paralyze government than make it more efficient, as Trump believes.
In addition to prompting costly litigation brought by citizen groups angered that the EPA is ignoring laws, Southerland said “regulation trading” also unnecessarily creates impossible “Sophie’s choice” scenarios, where the best choice is often no choice at all.
“Should EPA repeal two existing rules protecting infants from neurotoxins in order to promulgate a new rule protecting adults from a newly discovered liver toxin?” she asked.
“Faced with such painful choices, the best possible outcome for the American people would be regulatory paralysis where no new rules are released so that existing protections remain in place.”
Despite her discouragement, Southerland said she still has hope for the future and ultimately still trusts in the system:
It may take a few years and even an environmental disaster, but I am confident that Congress and the courts will eventually restore all the environmental protections repealed by this administration because the majority of the American people recognize that this protection of public health and safety is right and it is just.
Read Southerland’s entire letter, here.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
President Donald Trump argued Thursday his “fire and fury” comments directed at North Korea may not have been tough enough.
“Frankly, the people who were questioning that statement, was it too tough? Maybe it wasn’t tough enough,” he said at his resort in Bedminster, New Jersey, according to a White House pool report. “They’ve been doing this to our country for a long time, for many years, and it’s about time that somebody stuck up for the people of this country and for the people of other countries.
Trump would not comment on what’s tougher than “fire and fury.” He argued the U.S. has the support of others when it comes to responding to threats from North Korea.
“We’re backed 100 percent by our military, we’re backed by everybody and we’re backed by many other leaders,” he said.
Trump now: "North Korea better get their act together or they are going to be in trouble like few nations have ever been in trouble" pic.twitter.com/3QTGiZCxpL
Trump claimed he “noticed that many senators and others came out today very much in favor of what I said.” In fact, more than 60 members of Congress signed a letter rejecting Trump’s comments.
🚨 BREAKING 🚨 MORE THAN 60 MEMBERS OF CONGRESS REJECT @REALDONALDTRUMP'S STATEMENTS ON #NORTHKOREA 1/2 pic.twitter.com/1I2W12n9vY
Trump wouldn’t answer when asked about the possibility of a pre-emptive strike.
“We don’t talk about that,” he said, according to the pool report. “I never do.”
Trump criticized two of his Democratic predecessors while speaking on North Korea, saying former President Bill Clinton was “weak and ineffective” and former President Barack Obama “didn’t even want to talk about it.”
Trump also spoke about comments made Wednesday by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson that there isn’t “any imminent threat” from North Korea. Despite the contrast in Tillerson’s remarks and Trump’s “fire and fury” threat, Trump said Thursday “there were no mixed messages” on the issue.
Trump doubled down on his comments later Thursday afternoon, promising retaliation if North Korea “does something in Guam.”
“It’s not a dare,” he said. “It’s a statement of fact.”
This was a developing story and has been updated throughout.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
The home of Paul Manafort, President Donald Trump’s former campaign chairman, was raided by FBI agents in July, The Washington Post reports.
A Manafort spokesman confirmed the raid to ABC News.
“FBI agents executed a search warrant at one of Mr. Manafort’s residences,” he said in a statement. “Mr. Manafort has consistently cooperated with law enforcement and other serious inquiries and did so on this occasion as well.”
Manafort had no advance warning about the raid, which took place July 26. According to the Post, “documents and other materials” were seized.
Manafort is a key figure in the investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia.
One day before the raid, Manafort met with Senate Intelligence Committee investigators to discuss a meeting of a Russian lawyer and members of Trump’s campaign team that took place during the 2016 presidential election. Manafort spokesman Jason Maloni said the former campaign chairman “answered their questions fully.”
On June 27, Manafort retroactively registered as a foreign agent thanks to $17.1 million his firm was paid from 2012 to 2014 for lobbying work he did on behalf of a pro-Russian political party in Ukraine.
Manafort ran Trump’s campaign in 2016 from March to August, when he resigned after questions were raised about that work.
Special counsel Robert Mueller has enlisted a grand jury in Washington, D.C., to advance his Russia investigation. Grand juries can be used as legal tools in cases where there is the possibility of criminal conduct, but their use doesn’t necessarily signify criminal charges will be brought.
Trump has maintained that the Russia investigation is a “witch hunt,” despite several officials ― including Christopher Wray, his pick to replace James Comey as FBI director, and Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) ― saying otherwise.
Trump commented on the raid Thursday afternoon, calling it “a very, very strong signal, or whatever” and saying he was “very, very surprised” to hear of the raid.
“I’ve always found Paul Manafort to be a very decent man. He’s like a lot of other people, probably makes consultant fees from all over the place, who knows, I don’t know, but I thought it was pretty tough stuff to wake him up, perhaps his family was there,” Trump told reporters at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey. “I think that’s pretty tough stuff.”
This story has been updated with more background on Manafort and the investigation, as well as with Trump’s comments from Thursday.
CORRECTION: An earlier version of this article said Manafort registered as a foreign agent on July 27. It was June 27.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
An Atlanta gym owner who prohibits police officers and active military members from joining says he’s received death threats and a barrage of hate mail ― but his rule still stands.
Jim Chambers, who owns EAV Barbell Club in East Atlanta Village, ignited nationwide anger this week after word got out about his handwritten sign proclaiming: “no f***ing cops.”
“It’s not a new policy; this has been our policy since we opened, about a year and a half ago,” Chambers told HuffPost on Wednesday, saying he was fielding three to four angry phone calls per minute.
Chambers explained that his rule, which does not target veterans, is nothing personal and not an endorsement of violence. He and many of his members, who he said use his facility to hold activist meetings, are anti-military and pro “cop abolition,” he said. Some of them are also LGBTQ and of various racial backgrounds, and they don’t necessarily like the police.
“We are indicting systems. We are not indicting individuals,” he said.
A post shared by EAV Barbell Club (@eavbarbell) on Jul 28, 2017 at 5:04am PDT
His decision to post this particular sign, which Atlanta station WXIA-TV drew attention to on Wednesday, followed last month’s fatal police shooting of a Mississippi man named Ismael Lopez, Chambers said.
Officers shot Lopez at his home after they went to his address by mistake during their pursuit of someone else, authorities told HuffPost at the time.
Lopez’s shooting death “left me really angry,” Chambers said.
Following that same theme, a post on EAV Barbell Club’s Facebook page on Wednesday noted the three-year anniversary of the police shooting death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri.
Hundreds of comments responding to the post appeared to criticize both Brown and the gym’s rules. As of Wednesday evening, the gym’s Facebook page had a 1.4-star rating, with most reviews appearing to target the ban.
Chambers said those reviews don’t bother him, as “we’re not profit-seeking.”
“I actually subsidize the place and we don’t charge people who can’t afford to pay. Most of our members are bartering time by manning the desk for a little bit,” he said.
A post on the gym’s Facebook wall last year reads: “Full Communism. Pay what you can/want. Pitch in a bit.”
Of course, not all of Chambers’ members are politically active, he noted.
“We have members who are only interested in weight-lifting and they don’t care about politics,” he said.
Some members are also military veterans, he said, but he draws the line at those who are active.
“If we’re helping them [train] then we’re essentially helping the military grow stronger, and we don’t want to do that,” he said. “I make no exceptions. Once you become part of the system, we are not interested in serving you.”
The Atlanta Police Department declined to comment to WXIA-TV on Chambers’ controversial rule. A spokesperson did tell the news outlet: “Were we to respond to an emergency there, this sign would not stop us from lawfully doing our job.”
Lawyers also told the station that it would be up to a court to decide if EAV Barbell Club’s policy is violating any anti-discrimination law, as law enforcement officers are not a protected class.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Dozens of members of Congress sent a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson on Thursday, urging “utmost caution and restraint” in further dealings with North Korea and condemning President Donald Trump for promising “fire and fury” in response to reports that the Asian nation is escalating its nuclear program.
“These statements are irresponsible and dangerous, and also senselessly provide a boon to domestic North Korean propaganda which has long sought to portray the United States as a threat to their people,” reads the letter from 64 House Democrats, led by Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.). 
“We respectfully but firmly urge you to do everything in your power to ensure that President Trump and other Administration officials understand the importance of speaking and acting with the utmost caution and restraint on this delicate issue,” the letter continues. “Congress and the American public will hold President Trump responsible if a careless or ill-advised miscalculation results in conflict that endangers our servicemembers and regional allies.” 
Read the full letter here.
Trump’s initial remarks came Monday, following a report that North Korea has the capability to make a miniaturized nuclear warhead that could be delivered via an intercontinental ballistic missile. 
“North Korea best not make anymore threats to the United States. They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen,” the president said in a short statement to reporters.
Later that day, North Korea’s official news agency ran statements from military spokesmen, including a claim that the country is “carefully examining” plans to fire missiles at Guam, a U.S. territory. 
Tillerson has since sought to de-escalate Trump’s rhetoric, saying he believes “Americans should sleep well at night” and that the president was speaking to the capabilities, not plans, of the U.S.
“I think what the president was doing was sending a strong message with language that [North Korean leader] Kim Jong-Un would understand, because he doesn’t seem to understand diplomatic language,” Tillerson said Wednesday. 
Experts have also pushed back on the warning, describing it as reckless and the “exactly wrong” approach.
“That is about the stupidest and most dangerous statement I have ever heard an American president make,” John Mecklin, editor-in-chief of Bulletin of the Atomic Scientist, told HuffPost earlier this week. 
Nevertheless, Trump hasn’t given up on his rhetoric, suggesting Thursday that perhaps his earlier remarks did not go far enough.
“It’s about time someone stood up for the people of our country,” he said, according to a White House pool report. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A former U.S. Justice Department official has become the latest lawyer to join special counsel Robert Mueller’s team investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election, a spokesman for the team confirmed.
Greg Andres started on Tuesday, becoming the 16th lawyer on the team, said Josh Stueve, a spokesman for the special counsel.
Most recently a white-collar criminal defense lawyer with New York law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell, Andres, 50, served at the Justice Department from 2010 to 2012. He was deputy assistant attorney general in the criminal division, where he oversaw the fraud unit and managed the program that targeted illegal foreign bribery.
Mueller, who was appointed special counsel in May, is looking into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia during the election, among other matters. Congressional committees are also investigating the matter.
That Mueller continues to expand his team means the probe is not going to end anytime soon, said Robert Ray, who succeeded Kenneth Starr as independent counsel for the Whitewater investigation during the Clinton administration.
“It’s an indication that the investigation is going to extend well into 2018,” said Ray. “Whether it extends beyond 2018 is an open question.”
The special counsel last month asked the White House to preserve all of its communications about a June 2016 meeting that included the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., his son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner, and Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya.
Russian officials have denied meddling in the U.S. election, and Trump denies any collusion by his campaign.
Among the cases Andres oversaw at the Justice Department was the prosecution of Texas financier Robert Allen Stanford, who was convicted in 2012 for operating an $8 billion Ponzi scheme.
Before that, Andres was a federal prosecutor in Brooklyn for over a decade, eventually serving as chief of the criminal division in the U.S. attorney’s office there. He prosecuted several members of the Bonanno organized crime family, one of whom was accused of plotting to have Andres killed.
A graduate of Notre Dame and University of Chicago Law School, Andres was a Peace Corps volunteer in Benin from 1989 to 1992.
He is married to Ronnie Abrams, a U.S. district judge in Manhattan nominated to the bench in 2011 by Democratic President Barack Obama.
Others on the special counsel team include Andrew Weissmann, chief of the Justice Department’s fraud section; Andrew Goldstein, former head of the public corruption unit at the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Manhattan; and James Quarles, who was an assistant special prosecutor in the Watergate investigation that helped bring down President Richard Nixon.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON ― When Timothy Frink’s daughter and son-in-law returned from tours of duty in Iraq, he was relieved they were back in the comparative safety of America. Seven months later the family got a harsh reminder of how dangerous home could be: The couple’s 3-year-old daughter, Brianna, was accidentally strangled by a window blind cord in their den.
“It’s a terrible irony and a shame that Brianna had to be killed in her own home, which should be a safe haven,” said Frink. He thinks her life could have been saved by stronger regulations.
Five years after his granddaughter’s death, Frink was one of six Americans who came to Washington to warn against the risks of inadequate regulatory protections. At a press conference Thursday, they called on Congress to reject the proposed Regulatory Accountability Act, which they say would make it more difficult to impose needed rules.
The GOP-backed bill, which comes amid the Trump administration’s ongoing effort to roll back regulations, passed the House in January and was introduced in the Senate in April by Sens. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.).
Advocates for the legislation argue that it would increase accountability and transparency in the rulemaking process through more cost-benefit analysis and greater public review. 
But the Coalition for Sensible Safeguards, an advocacy group that hosted Thursday’s panel, sees multiple problems. It criticizes the bill’s mandate that federal agencies adopt the most cost-effective option for “major” or “high-impact” rules, rather than seeking to maximize net benefits.
The legislation would add 53 new procedural requirements, according to the coalition, that would lead to more delays in an already slow-moving process.
The bill would also require agencies to hold so-called adversarial hearings in public for substantial regulations. The coalition described this process as “chaotic” and “discredited” and warned that it would mean corporate lobbyists “will have even more opportunities to undermine public protections.”
The six panelists had their own stories to tell. Octavia “Penny” Dryden, a two-time cancer survivor from Rosegate, Delaware, spoke of the increased health risks in her community due to pollution, which could have been mitigated through better environmental regulation. Dr. Paul Brooks of Parkersburg, West Virginia, explained that if it weren’t for updated regulations, residents of his community would still be drinking water contaminated with harmful levels of the man-made chemical C8. Chrissy Christoferson, whose son Beck contracted salmonella at only 10 months old, advocated for stronger food safety standards. Amber Adamastos shared how she was repeatedly harassed by a major bank to repay her student loans, even though they had been discharged in court. Congressional lawmakers are seeking to erase a new federal rule, she said, that could help people like her fight back against the bank.
Christoferson was part of a group that lobbied for the Food Safety Modernization Act of 2011. She thought her fight for food safety was over when that law passed, she told HuffPost, and she was surprised to learn that the Regulatory Accountability Act could undercut how those rules were implemented. So Christoferson is back in Washington, this time with 11-year-old Beck and his brother Thomas in tow, to continue the battle.
“We should be able to go to the grocery store and buy anything we want and know that it’s not going to make our child sick,” she said. “We shouldn’t wonder about if we’re going to get salmonella from something that’s in a package.”
"Obviously self-regulation doesn't work" -Dr. Paul Brooks speaking @EconomicPolicy with @RegsRock #hurtbydegregulation #GoAwayRAA
President Donald Trump, meanwhile, has been rolling back many Obama-era rules, including a ban on new coal leasing on federal land and a directive protecting the rights of transgender students. He has leaned heavily on the Congressional Review Act, which allows a new administration to quickly wipe out regulations that were enacted late in the previous administration. Trump also signed an executive order in January directing that for every new regulation issued during his presidency, at least two regulations must be identified for elimination.
In February, White House chief strategist Steve Bannon said the administration would work for the “deconstruction of the administrative state.”
Frink himself had been wary of the interfering power of the administrative state, but he’s beginning to change his mind.
“In general, I’ve always thought that I was in favor of limited government regulation of our personal lives and our businesses,” he said. “But after hearing these panelists, I’m drastically reconsidering my position.”
The last of the panelists to speak was Miles Harrison, whose 21-month-old son Chase died in 2008 after Harrison accidentally left him in the car instead of dropping him off at daycare. A tearful Harrison explained how an alarm reminding him of Chase’s presence in the back seat could have saved the toddler’s life.
Chase is not the first or last child to die in these tragic circumstances. But under the proposed law, Harrison said, it would “virtually be impossible” to pass a regulation requiring such life-saving technology in cars.
“Why does this keep happening when there is technology available to prevent it?” Harrison asked. “Every loving, caring parent must realize that this disaster could happen to them.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
President Donald Trump said Thursday that he did U.S. military leaders a big favor by banning transgender troops from serving their country ― even though he never consulted the Pentagon on his plans and has left thousands of transgender service members in limbo.
“It’s been a very complicated issue for the military, it’s been a very confusing issue for the military, and I think I’m doing the military a great favor,” Trump told reporters at his golf club in New Jersey, where he’s vacationing this month.
But the president didn’t tell military leaders he was planning to make such a major policy change. The Pentagon was blindsided by Trump’s announcement last month, which he made on Twitter, and has since been referring questions to the White House. If anything, this was precisely what military leaders did not want to do, since they lifted the ban last year after an exhaustive review of military readiness policies.
“Our mission is to defend this country, and we don’t want barriers unrelated to a person’s qualification to serve preventing us from recruiting or retaining the soldier, sailor, airman or Marine who can best accomplish the mission,” then-Defense Secretary Ashton Carter said. “We have to have access to 100 percent of America’s population for our all-volunteer force to be able to recruit from among them the most highly qualified — and to retain them.”
Trump’s snap decision to change the policy made more sense in light of a Politico report that he did so to appease conservatives in the House so they would pass a spending bill that included money to build his border wall.
Trump went way further than what they wanted: House Republicans wanted him to announce that he opposed federal money going toward gender reassignment surgery for transgender troops, but the president instead said they would be prohibited from serving at all. Oops.
Fifty-six retired generals and admirals have since warned Trump that banning transgender troops would degrade military readiness.
It would cost about $960 million to discharge the transgender troops currently serving, according to the Palm Center, an independent research institute. There are between 1,320 and 6,630 transgender people in active military service, a Rand Corp. study estimates.
On Thursday, the president went on to say that he has “great respect” for the LGBTQ community, and that he’s had “great support” from them, too.
“I got a lot of votes,” he said.
Seventy-eight percent of LGBT people voted for Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton in November. Trump only got 14 percent of their vote.
There were like four lesbians who voted for him.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
WASHINGTON ― On Sunday, Russian President Vladimir Putin responded to new sanctions from Washington by ordering the U.S. to cut its diplomatic staff in his country by more than half by Sept. 1. That would bring the U.S. diplomatic mission down to 455 ― roughly the same number of people that Russia employs in the U.S.
It is not yet clear how Washington plans to comply with the directive, although Moscow’s move will likely exacerbate already plummeting relations between the two countries. Veteran diplomats say these latest events remind them of a Cold War quarrel when the U.S. and the Soviet Union engaged in a series of tit-for-tat diplomatic expulsions.
After several rounds of expulsions in 1986, the Soviet Union banned approximately 200 locally hired Soviet nationals from working for the U.S. diplomatic mission. The move was meant to “bring the [U.S.] embassy to its knees,” said Steven Pifer, a retired foreign service officer who worked at the embassy in Moscow at the time. Local hires handled mundane tasks like cleaning toilets and picking up milk shipments. Because they were familiar with the language, culture and Soviet bureaucracy, they also tended to act as fixers for American diplomats.
Determined not to let the Soviet Union shutter their operations, American diplomats created a rotating schedule in which they periodically set aside their regular duties to do the work previously done by the local hires. “Every two weeks instead of writing cables, I came to work dressed in dungarees,” recalled retired diplomat John Herbst, who was also employed at the Moscow embassy. Pifer and Herbst remembered driving to the border to pick up shipments, unloading trucks and cleaning bathrooms. Even the spouses of embassy staffers pitched in.
“It became a source of humor and amusement” among the American foreign service officers, Herbst said. “We were going to be damned if we were going to let the Soviets get one on us.”
Washington eventually sent contractors to help the U.S. diplomats in Moscow, and the embassy went back to hiring Russian nationals after the Soviet Union fell. Today, the U.S. mission in Russia relies heavily on local hires. In 2013, the mission employed 1,279 staffers, 934 of which were local hires. (The State Department declined to share more current figures, but staffing levels at the embassy tend to remain constant.)
Maria Olson, spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, referred all questions about reducing the diplomatic staff to the State Department. A State Department spokeswoman said in an email that the agency is assessing the impact of reducing its staff in Russia to 455 people and how it will respond to Putin’s demand.
American officials expected Moscow to retaliate last year after President Barack Obama expelled 35 Russian diplomats in response to Russian interference in the U.S. election. Moscow initially held off after private conversations with Trump transition officials about the sanctions. But once Congress passed additional sanctions against Russia last week, Putin moved to slash American embassy staffing.
Jeffrey Edmonds, the former director for Russia at the White House National Security Council, said he was taken aback by the magnitude of Putin’s response. Edmonds was part of the team that came up with a list of options in response to Russia’s election meddling at the end of the Obama administration.
“It’s significant that it’s such a big number,” he said. “We expected them to respond with 35. It’s almost always symmetric.”
Putin’s dramatic demand indicates that Moscow has given up hope the Trump ​administration will reverse ​the trajectory of U.S.-Russia relations, Edmonds said. “There was this initial euphoria over Trump getting elected, but that has slowly dwindled ― and now they’re just resigned to the fact that, from their perspective, Washington is just anti-Russian,” he said.
While a massive reduction in embassy staffing will once again create a burden for American diplomats, it also puts the hundreds of Russian nationals employed by the U.S. in danger of losing their jobs. That could be the goal, said Evelyn Farkas, the former deputy assistant secretary of defense for Russia. Putin “is going to want to try to make us look bad and make us look like we are mean to the Russian people ― he’s probably hoping that we cut Russian local personnel,” she said.
Embassy staffing cuts could also translate into longer wait times for Russian tourists and businesspeople applying for visas to the U.S. “It’s another example of the Russian government cutting off its nose to spite the Russian people’s face,” Farkas said. They “are lashing out and basically denying services to their people that our embassy provides.”
Cold War-era diplomats said they expect that current foreign service officers will find creative ways to keep embassy operations running even with less than half as many staffers.
“Unless our diplomats are wusses, it will all be fine,” Herbst said. “And I don’t think they are wusses.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
President Donald Trump has decided not to officially declare a state of emergency for the opioid crisis, his health and human services secretary said Tuesday, a week after a White House task force recommended the president take “urgent” action to stem overdose deaths.
Speaking at a press briefing at Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, New Jersey, HHS Secretary Tom Price said Trump is treating the opioid epidemic “as an emergency,” but without an official emergency declaration, which could provide additional government resources.
“We believe that at this point that the resources that we need or the focus that we need to bring to bear to the opioid crisis at this point can be addressed without the declaration of an emergency,” Price said.
Price added that “all things are on the table.” The opioid crisis, he added, differs from national emergencies that typically follow infectious disease outbreaks or natural disasters for a set period of time.
Last month, Trump’s opioid commission, headed by New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R), released a preliminary report that recommended the president declare a state of emergency.
“With approximately 142 Americans dying every day, America is enduring a death toll equal to September 11th every three weeks,” the report said. “Your declaration would empower your cabinet to take bold steps and would force Congress to focus on funding and empowering the executive branch even further to deal with this loss of life.”
The task force largely encouraged a public health approach to the epidemic. The report urged Trump to broaden treatment availability by supporting the elimination of a Medicaid provision that prohibits federal money from going to residential mental health and substance-use facilities with more than 16 beds. It also called for all treatment facilities to offer medication-assisted treatments like buprenorphine, which have been proved effective, but have faced institutional resistance.
The White House opioid commission is slated to release a final plan to Trump on Oct. 1.
Price said he and other officials met with Trump earlier on Tuesday in what the president had teased as a “major” briefing on the opioid crisis. Some reporters predicted Trump would announce a significant policy shift after the event.
Price said the briefing included discussion of policies outlined in the commission’s report, including expanding resources for treatment and recovery, increasing access to the overdose-reversal drug naloxone, and improving data collection and sharing efforts.
But he announced no real shift in policy.
“The president and first lady are absolutely, fully engaged on a tragedy that is crossing the country,” said Price.
Trump, speaking to reporters before Price’s remarks, did offer one potential solution. 
Trump says to prevent opioid overdoses, tell  youths "no good, really bad for you." "If they don't start it'll never be a problem."
The president also decried the downturn in federal drug prosecutions and the trend of shorter prison sentences for drug crimes.
“We’re going to be bringing them up, and bringing them up rapidly,” said Trump.
The opioid commission’s preliminary report didn’t mention law enforcement in its recommendations, though Attorney General Jeff Sessions has regularly argued that aggressive action from police and prosecutors will help curb problems of drug abuse and addiction.
Recent studies have detailed the devastating extent of the opioid epidemic. More than one-third of U.S. adults were prescribed opioid medications in 2015, while about 5 percent were misusing the prescriptions, and 1 percent had an opioid-use disorder, according to the National Institute on Drug Abuse.
This week, the National Center for Health Statistics published preliminary drug overdose estimates for the first nine months of 2016, finding that fatalities hit a record high.
Drug policy experts had expressed concerns about the possibility of Trump declaring a state of emergency. Although the declaration could provide additional federal resources, it could also be used to ramp up a punitive response, they said. 
“It could give the administration leverage to push for new sentencing legislation, or legislation that enhances drug penalties or a law enforcement response,” said Grant Smith, deputy director of national affairs for the Drug Policy Alliance, a nonprofit that advocates for a public health-focused approach to drug laws.
Emergency declaration or not, it appears that Trump continues weighing enforcement-focused initiatives, including those advocated by Sessions. 
“So far, Attorney General Sessions’ escalation of the war on drugs and President Trump’s attempts to take away health care and treatment from millions of people is extremely worrisome,” said Smith. “To date, the Trump administration’s response to the opioid crisis is an epic fail.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Angry constituents lashed out at a Republican congressman’s support of repealing Obamacare during a tense town hall event earlier this week.
Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-Calif.) was speaking to a large crowd of constituents in Chico, California, on Monday when audience members began to boo and heckle him over his support of House Republicans’ health care bill. According to the Congressional Budget Office, around 23 million people would lose coverage under the American Health Care Act.
“I think that your vote to throw 22 million people off of health care is reprehensible and in the service of the rich, I think it’s venal,” one audience member said. “My sincerest wish... I hope you suffer the same painful fate as those millions that you have voted to remove health care from. May you die in pain.”
According to the Los Angeles Times, the constituent was a holding sign that read, “Lackey for the Rich!” The exchange was one of several heated confrontations during the meeting, one of several that LaMalfa has held this year. Republicans lawmakers have largely avoided town-hall style events following outrage over their health care plans.
Another participant at Monday’s event said that her teenaged son died in 2016 of an opioid addiction. She explained that losing health care would be devastating for those suffering from drug addiction.
“The health care bill that you voted for, the AHCA, would discontinue health insurance from millions of people,” she said. “I want you to know that these are life and death decisions that you are making. I don’t have a son anymore.”
LaMalfa defended his efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, telling KRCR that he wants “to help middle income Californians, middle income Americans be able to afford health insurance.”
But as one audience member put it, “you keep going on about middle-income families but almost a quarter of the population in your district is living below the poverty line, so what does that do for them?”
Watch more of the contentious event below, courtesy of North State Public Radio.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump tweeted Wednesday that transgender people will no longer be allowed to serve in the U.S. military “in any capacity” ― a stunning reversal of an Obama-era policy that affects thousands of service members. 
After consultation with my Generals and military experts, please be advised that the United States Government will not accept or allow......
....Transgender individuals to  serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military. Our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming.....
....victory and cannot be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail. Thank you
The move, which ironically comes in the middle of the White House’s American Heroes Week, was wholly unexpected. It’s not clear why Trump decided to announce such a significant policy change via Twitter or when it would take effect. His timing in relation to other political events is also odd: He shared the news in the midst of Senate Republicans’ high-stakes fight to repeal Obamacare this week.
Trump claims he made the move after consulting with military experts, despite the Pentagon lifting the ban on transgender service members in 2016 after an exhaustive review of its military readiness policies.
“Our mission is to defend this country, and we don’t want barriers unrelated to a person’s qualification to serve preventing us from recruiting or retaining the soldier, sailor, airman or Marine who can best accomplish the mission,” then-Defense Secretary Ashton Carter said. “We have to have access to 100% of America’s population for our all-volunteer force to be able to recruit from among them the most highly qualified — and to retain them.”
The biggest question is what the news means for the thousands of transgender men and women currently serving in the military. There are between 1,320 and 6,630 transgender people in active military service, a Rand Corp. study estimates. Another group, the Palm Center, put the number as high as 15,500 a few years ago.
White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders couldn’t give any details later Wednesday when she was asked what will happen to the transgender troops currently serving overseas or when the ban will take effect. During her daily press briefing, she repeatedly said the White House and the Defense Department will work out those specifics. 
Asked about Trump’s pledge as a candidate to fight for the LGBTQ community, Sanders said his decision to ban transgender troops was about “military readiness” and that the president “has been very clear he’s committed to fighting for all Americans.” As more questions poured in, Sanders said she would end the briefing if reporters didn’t ask about other topics.
“If those are the only questions we have, we’re going to call it a day,” she said.
The Pentagon has been referring all questions about the change to the White House.
NEW: Pentagon statement on Pres Trump's transgender servicemember tweets -refers all Qs to the White House (h/t @ABC's @Elizabeth_McLau) pic.twitter.com/avibiD4Te3
One thing that is clear is that conservatives have been gunning for this change. The right-wing Family Research Council was among the first out with a statement praising Trump for taking the step.
“I applaud President Trump for keeping his promise to return to military priorities ― and not continue the social experimentation of the Obama era that has crippled our nation’s military,” said the group’s president, Tony Perkins. “The military can now focus its efforts on preparing to fight and win wars rather than being used to advance the Obama social agenda.”
Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-Mo.), who unsuccessfully tried to deny hormone therapy and gender transition-related care to transgender troops during debate on a defense spending bill this month, also hailed Trump for being concerned about the cost of providing care to transgender service members.
Pleased to hear that @realDonaldTrump shares my readiness and cost concerns, & will be changing this costly and damaging policy #readiness
But those costs are incredibly low: Rand Corp. estimates 30 to 140 people would seek new hormone treatments per year, and 25 to 130 would seek gender transition-related surgeries. That amounts to a 0.04 to 0.13 percent increase in the Defense Department’s total health care spending, per Rand.
The American Medical Association has emphasized the medical necessity of mental health care, hormone therapy and gender-transition surgery as forms of therapeutic treatment for people diagnosed with gender dysphoria, a “serious medical condition” that stems from the distress a person feels when his or her gender identity does not correspond with his or her birth sex. Not all transgender people are diagnosed with gender dysphoria; some don’t experience that distress.
LGBTQ rights groups slammed Trump for making the change solely to appease his conservative base.
“This has been studied extensively, and the consensus is clear: There are no cost or military readiness drawbacks associated with allowing trans people to fight for their country,” said Joshua Block, senior staff attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union’s LGBT & HIV Project. “The president is trying to score cheap political points on the backs of military personnel who have put their lives on the line for their country.”
Gregory Angelo, the president of Log Cabin Republicans, a group that represents LGBTQ conservatives, said Trump’s move “smacks of politics, pure and simple.”
“The United States military already includes transgender individuals who protect our freedom day in and day out,” Angelo said. “Excommunicating transgender soldiers only weakens our readiness; it doesn’t strengthen it.”
The president’s action completely contradicts his 2016 campaign claims about being better for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Americans than his Democratic opponent, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
Trump dodged the draft a total of five times, once arguing he couldn’t serve in the U.S. military because of bone spurs in his heels.
This article has been updated with comments from Sarah Sanders’ press briefing and more reactions to the announcement.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
To most Americans, “conservative” is interchangeable with “Republican Party.” After all, the GOP has usually been the more conservative side of a two-party system for a century. We also tend to understand who a conservative is based on the root of the word: someone who is cautious and respects the status quo, or, put more strongly, someone who is resistant to change.
But the term has philosophical roots, too, separate from the party. Political parties are fundraising organizations attached to a policy platform. Over time, platforms change. The Republican Party has been around more than 160 years and has changed directions many times, as has the Democratic Party. At its founding, the GOP was abolitionist (a radical position at the time), pro-Union (that is, for “big” government over states’ rights) and for the expansion of individual rights. The GOP became firmly conservative only in the 20th century.
From a European perspective, however, both U.S. parties have been conservative since World War II (that is, both are on the right end of the spectrum of most modern parliamentary democracies), and at the same time, both parties have always been liberal, as inheritors of Enlightenment notions of citizens’ rights, individual liberty and representative government.
But gradual shifts in the GOP over the last two or three decades that culminated in Donald Trump’s election in 2016 have changed all that. The GOP is no longer a conservative party in any meaningful way. It is instead something else, and it needs a more accurate description.
Why should we care what European political philosophy has to say about U.S. politics? Because our politics arose out of that philosophy, and going back to those roots brings clarity.
Most knowledgeable philosophical conservatives today will tell you how unhappy they are with how far the Republican Party has drifted. Some prominent conservatives leaned toward Democrats in the 2000s, such as Catholic conservative commentator Andrew Sullivan, and more have become never-Trumpers, including former Republican strategist Ana Navarro. This is because the GOP of Trump, House leader Paul Ryan and Senate leader Mitch McConnell has become a radical right. That may sound like a contradiction, since “radical” is usually shorthand for the far left, but the seeming contradiction demonstrates how restrictive our notion of the right-left political spectrum really is, and that’s perhaps the most important thing we can learn from looking to our European roots.
The best way to understand these roots is a historical survey of the “long 19th century” (from the French Revolution to World War I) and the “short 20th century” (encompassing both world wars and the Cold War), descriptions coined by historian Eric Hobsbawm. When I teach this period, I frame it somewhat facetiously as an “epic battle between reason and unreason.” In other words, the Enlightenment posed a question to Europe: What happens if we use reason (over tradition or religion) to govern ourselves? Of course, the debate was rarely that stark. Few rationalists were purely so, while proponents of the old ways pointed out how much rationality there was in tradition. Rather, I try to show students how modern European history has been a struggle between these impulses within movements as well as in opposition to each other.
The French Revolution can be seen as a rousing crescendo in the symphony of support for the rationalization of government and society in Europe. It established the notion of rights, individual liberties and the primacy of the secular state. From there we can draw a line to today’s liberal democracies. Both major U.S. parties and most of postwar Western politics have been in this tradition until very recently. But the two centuries following the French Revolution were filled with jockeying over people’s reactions to the cataclysmic event, from “reactionaries” who wanted to turn back the clock to centrists who wanted to keep things as defined in the revolution’s early stage to Jacobins, the leftist radicals who wanted to push rights still further by any means necessary.
This is where our right-left spectrum comes from: three broad categories of responses to the French Revolution. Most of modern Western politics is descended from the center-left responses that accepted rights as “natural” and argued only about who was included, the best ways to translate political rights into liberties and to what degree. On this spectrum, any “conservatism” within a democracy is already a centrist position because it accepts rights and representation, though in a more limited way. 
The far-right position in the 19th century was known as “Reaction.” Reactionary religious philosophers like Joseph de Maistre prioritized God’s law over man’s, arguably leaning toward theocracy. Reactionary statesmen like Klemens von Metternich primarily wanted to save or return to traditional power structures and were in this sense “conservative,” though their violent attempts to put down any perceived threat could be described as more paranoid than cautious. Konstantin Pobedonostsev — a statesman and tutor of the future Alexander III, Russia’s most reactionary tsar — made strong rational criticisms of democracy. He warned that representative government diluted power and that the press — not the people or their representatives, who have little say in what writers and editors do — had the power to make or break a democratic society. (Some members of America’s alt-right profess allegiance toward Reaction, though it can be hard to tell when they are sincere and when they are praising autocracy for the shock value.) 
As monarchies increasingly failed to stem the tide of Enlightenment secularism, Irish statesman Edmund Burke took de Maistre’s place as a figurehead for mainstream conservative philosophy. Coming from the British tradition, he accepted rights and representation but wanted them limited to a (wealthy white male) few. This was an easier position to accept in a monarchy that was already limited and had inherited the liberal philosophy of John Locke. Burke was appalled by the “vulgarity” of the French Revolution and yet supported American independence. Though Burke’s name is most strongly associated with conservatism to this day, he was a contradictory figure who does not best exemplify the post-Revolution conservatism that dominated propertied classes in Europe and North America in the 19th century. 
Most mainstream conservatives were ordinary people who enjoyed some wealth and social position, and didn’t question the systems they were born into. Their priority was to protect what they had. 
Take the example of Russian provincial nobleman Andrei Chikhachev, who inherited serfs but recognized it as a system that couldn’t last. He worshiped knowledge, working to expand education for serfs, and he welcomed technological advances so long as they were introduced cautiously. Rather than fearing revolution like a reactionary, he pitied decadent, urbanized Westerners from a place of complacency with his own more orderly (and unequal) rural idyll. If Chikhachev had been born in Boston instead of rural Russia, he probably would have accepted representative government as unquestioningly as he did monarchy, because it was there. He could have been just as pious, just as cautious, just as uncritically patriotic in either system, as indeed most propertied white men were then, whether they lived in a rising democracy or a failing autocracy. 
The right wing, in other words, is not one thing. As it has changed over time, it has also varied greatly in degree and emphasis, and in context. There are multiple philosophical sources that inform different streams of thought, many of which end up in surprising places. There is a clear continuity from even the most liberal conservatives to extreme reactionaries (as American political theorist Corey Robin stresses), but there is also a meaningful difference between acceptance of representative government and social change (even if regretfully, cynically or pragmatically) and violent, organized opposition to either. 
What can it mean to be both “right” (resistant to change) and “radical” (pursuing extreme change)? 
One answer has to do with nationalism.
“Civic nationalism” is a liberal compromise that ties voting and citizenship to the nation and state order, as in the modern U.S. or Britain. “Ethnic nationalism,” in contrast, offers as natural and timeless something that was constructed in the middle of the 19th century. To build a tribal identity around ethnicity, language, history and religion — and use that identity to justify a state (as opposed to a monarchy justified by God) — was new.
Germany is a tragic example of ethnic nationalism run amok. As foreign minister of Prussia in the mid-19th century, Otto von Bismarck added the element of nationalism to the drive for power he inherited from Metternich. Bismarck asserted that German speakers, then spread across principalities and empires, should be united into one German state. He achieved the unification of what we know as Germany in 1871, then acquired overseas colonies and helped perpetuate an arms race with Britain, leading to World War I. The militarization of Germany’s government in this period, along with colonial atrocities, such as the Herero genocide, chillingly presaged the Holocaust before ever Adolf Hitler was rejected from art college. 
Nationalism took its strong and ugly grip on Europe during a period of industrialization, expansion of middle classes and the entrenchment of large, bureaucratic governments that consolidated the principles of the French Revolution despite reactionary challenges (the “long 19th century”). Property-owning men increasingly wielded power and accumulated wealth through professions, business and government more than inheritance. But working classes and minorities saw their conditions deteriorate with few gains in political representation. Socialism, developing in response to industrialization, recognized that the liberal focus on rights and the free market was liberating only for some. This led to the idea that only economic equality could bring real liberty ― an idea that terrified the haves and intrigued the have-nots. 
Nationalism emerged as a story that could unite whole populations regardless of vast disparities in wealth. And by defining “us,” nationalism also defines who is the “other,” providing someone to blame who is coincidentally not the people enjoying power and wealth. A system that was threatened by the poor and minorities told the poor to hate minorities, leaving minorities to fear the poor.
Nationalism called to our irrational impulses to assuage wrongs brought by (rational) technology and economics. By the 20th century, technocratic, largely secular nationalists used both pseudo-science and appeals to tradition to promote a genocidal agenda to aggrandize their own tribe (Nazism was one variant of fascism). Other fascists in Romania, Croatia, Portugal and elsewhere were explicitly religious and allied themselves wholly with the counter-Enlightenment, harnessing fears of change and difference to unite their nations. These “political religions” are another subtle variation on theocracy.
Where liberal democracy focuses on equal rights and opportunities for individuals to do what they want, short of imposing on others’ rights, socialism focuses on harnessing the productivity of all for the benefit of all, a collectivist perspective. Nationalism is also inherently collectivist because the nation is held above its component parts: the people. The core idea all fascists had in common was the supremacy of the nation over the lives or liberty of its citizens, as well as their nation’s superiority over others. The Nazi use of “socialist” in the full form of its party name, National Socialists, implied this collectivism but, by adding “national,” rejected everything else about socialism that made it socialism: its aim of economic equality without regard to divisions by ethnicity or religion. This appealed to voters who might have been tempted by the economic promise of socialism but recoiled from its rejection of their identity and traditional values. 
So, was fascism conservative? It had its roots in right-wing movements and appealed to counter-Enlightenment, reactionary values, albeit with a veneer of scientific-sounding rhetoric. It violently opposed both liberal democracy and socialism and strongly favored social hierarchy (inequality defined by race). But fascism was also radical because it embraced a strong bureaucratic government rather than inheritance as the basis for power and embraced technological progress (for its military and economic advantages). Therefore, it was not reactionary, unless we use that term so loosely it no longer defines the people it was coined to describe. But fascism also cannot be called “conservative” without losing that term’s original meaning, since it sought drastic changes by means so “vulgar” as to be unimaginable to conservatives like Burke. So fascism was both right-wing and radical. 
In other words, the “left versus right” terms we use to describe our politics (and the political compass variation on it) fail to take into account one of the most important political debates of the 20th century: individualism versus collectivism, with nationalism as the key concept within that debate. Those of us born to the Anglo-American tradition often miss this because our experience is of the seemingly easy compromise position of civic nationalism.
But 2016 has forced Americans to pay attention to virulent nationalism and everything that goes with it. America has always had a resentful, white-supremacist nationalism based on hating the “other” and rejecting liberalism. What changed in 2016 is that a major party embraced this fringe, handed it power and is now refusing to check that power with anything more than a furrowed brow. Whether motivated by cynicism, greed, fear, delusion, helplessness or true belief, by its inaction the Republican Party has abandoned the last vestiges of a conservatism that is skeptical of change, values individual liberty and accepts the premise of representative government. This Republican Party is a radical right containing elements of theocracy (Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and the evangelical base) and fascism (the extreme alt-right, who remain unrenounced by the president and who are represented in the White House by Chief Strategist Steve Bannon).
Clearly the old schemas ― always imperfect ― cannot capture the tectonic shift in American politics institutionalized by Trump’s election. They are products of the Industrial Age, and so one way to begin mapping our new landscape is to consider how the current information revolution should be central to our understanding of today’s politics.
We could start by appropriating the name “Know-Nothings” for the modern Republican Party, since it’s characterized by its denial of reality (the original Know-Nothings, who took their name from their secrecy, were anti-immigrant nativists). This term highlights a peculiarly postmodern twist this radical right has put on the “big lie” propaganda that Hitler famously recommended. “Alternative facts” don’t just offer an unsubstantiated, and often absurd, narrative; they destabilize the idea that truth exists or matters. Political lying is nothing new, and even lying on this scale has precedents (though only in the worst regimes). Today’s right goes a step further to undermine the value of any knowledge, education or evidence, for a receptive audience that cares only whether the script plays to their team’s advantage or serves as a strike against the other team. 
Liberals and conservatives, in the proper sense of those words, are now both uncomfortably covered by the shade of the never-Trump tent. Both accept the premise of rights and representative government, and watch in horror as norms are flouted daily. A party that used to represent limited government encroachment on individual lives moved ― through a religiously motivated drive to control women’s bodies ― into a new present, where the president, Cabinet and Congress explicitly oppose the government they run in every respect but their personal domination of it. Their voting base ― largely white and evangelical ― cheer the undermining of democracy through voting restrictions and boo defenses of traditional American values, such as freedom of the press, separation of church and state, the right to protest, and checks and balances. These elected officials and their base voters are not conservatives in any sense that doesn’t warp the term beyond recognition. 
They are a radical right that recalls earlier radical right movements such as reactionaries, fascists and theocrats. But they are also a new phenomenon. They were elevated to power through hacking, bots, gerrymandering, voter suppression and PACs. The information revolution made it possible for the least knowledgeable and yet most extreme to push themselves to power to dismantle government from within, despite losing the popular vote and continuing strong popular opposition. 
We will need new words to describe this, as it continues to develop in unpredictable ways. But one thing is sure: The familiar days of the “right” as cautious men in suits and the “left” as hairy hippies are over. The Cold War, with its comforting clichés about authoritarianism happening to other people, is over.
We’re living something else now.
――
Katherine Pickering Antonova is an associate professor of history at Queens College, City University of New York, and author of An Ordinary Marriage: The World of a Gentry Family in Provincial Russia and A Consumer’s Guide to Information: How to Avoid Losing Your Mind on the Internet.
 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Like what you read below? Sign up for HUFFPOST HILL and get a cheeky dose of political news every evening!
Audio was leaked of Jared Kushner addressing White House interns and we don’t blame you if you have a hard time figuring out who is and isn’t an intern. If we can’t have Kid Rock for Senate, at least let us have Martin Shkreli for White House communications director. And Donald Trump needs to find a new communications director. Given his staffing choices to date, we can only assume the two top finalists are someone convicted of phishing for passwords on America Online in the 1990s and a metal chair being scraped across an empty auditorium floor.  This is HUFFPOST HILL for Tuesday, August 1st, 2017:
REALLY NICE DAD ENTANGLES CHILD IN CONSPIRACY - WaPo: “President Trump’s advisers discussed how to respond to a new revelation that Trump’s oldest son had met with a Russian lawyer during the 2016 campaign — a disclosure the advisers knew carried political and potentially legal peril. The strategy, the advisers agreed, should be for Donald Trump Jr. to release a statement to get ahead of the story. They wanted to be truthful, so their account couldn’t be repudiated later if the full details emerged. But within hours, at the president’s direction, the plan changed. Flying home from Germany on July 8 aboard Air Force One, Trump personally dictated a statement in which Trump Jr. said that he and the Russian lawyer had ‘primarily discussed a program about the adoption of Russian children’ when they met in June 2016, according to multiple people with knowledge of the deliberations. The statement, issued to the New York Times as it prepared an article, emphasized that the subject of the meeting was ‘not a campaign issue at the time.’” [WaPo]
REPUBLICANS EYE NOVEL, ‘DON’T-MAKE-THINGS-WORSE’ STRATEGY ON HEALTH CARE - Susan Cornwell: “The chairman of the U.S. Senate health committee on Tuesday urged U.S. President Donald Trump to drop his threat to cut government subsidy payments to insurers that make Obamacare plans affordable and allow the payments through September. Republican Senator Lamar Alexander said his committee would begin bipartisan hearings on stabilizing the individual health insurance market the week of Sept. 4 and urged fellow lawmakers to fund the cost-sharing subsidies for one year.” [Reuters]
If they mean it, here’s a good place to start. “Congressional Republicans created the circumstances giving Trump the unilateral authority to upend the health insurance system, and inaction by those same lawmakers allows him to continue making ― and possibly, any day now, executing ― his cynical plan. Crucially, Trump’s threat to the insurance market would be completely defused if Congress explicitly ordered the federal government to pay what it owes and authorized the spending.” [HuffPost’s Jeffrey Young]
SENATE CONFIRMS NEW FBI DIRECTOR FOR TRUMP TO FIRE - Hope you enjoy intimate, menacing dinners alone with the president, Christopher Wray. Julia Edwards Ainsley: “The U.S. Senate on Tuesday confirmed former Justice Department lawyer Christopher Wray as FBI chief, nearly three months after the agency’s previous director, James Comey, was fired by President Donald Trump. Wray, who was confirmed by vote of 92-5, will take charge of the country’s top domestic law enforcement agency during a federal probe into allegations of collusion between the Trump presidential campaign and Russia.″ [Reuters]
EVERYTHING ABOUT THIS IS GROSS - David Folkenflik: “The Fox News Channel and a wealthy supporter of President Trump worked in concert under the watchful eye of the White House to concoct a story about the death of a young Democratic National Committee aide, according to a lawsuit filed Tuesday…. The first page of the lawsuit quotes a voicemail and text from Butowsky boasting that Trump himself had reviewed drafts of the Fox News story just before it went to air and was published.″ [NPR]
HuffPost Hiccup: Yesterday we accidentally called Mooch the former White House chief of staff when he’s actually the former communications director. Maybe an extra week at the job and we would’ve gotten it down pat.
Like HuffPost Hill? Then order Eliot’s book, The Beltway Bible: A Totally Serious A-Z Guide To Our No-Good, Corrupt, Incompetent, Terrible, Depressing, and Sometimes Hilarious Government
Does somebody keep forwarding you this newsletter? Get your own copy. It’s free! Sign up here. Send tips/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to eliot@huffpost.com. Follow us on Twitter - @HuffPostHill
PLEASE DON’T PROMOTE EXTRAJUDICIAL VIOLENCE, NOT-INSANE PERSON WARNS - Ryan J. Reilly: “The acting head of the Drug Enforcement Administration has joined law enforcement leaders in condemning President Donald Trump’s endorsement of police brutality in a speech to police officers last week. Chuck Rosenberg, the DEA’s acting chief, sent an email to his entire workforce on Saturday expressing concern that Trump, his boss, had ‘condoned police misconduct regarding the treatment of individuals placed under arrest by law enforcement.’ ‘In writing to you, I seek to advance no political, partisan, or personal agenda. Nor do I believe that a Special Agent or Task Force Officer of the DEA would mistreat a defendant. I know that you would not,’ Rosenberg wrote.” [HuffPost]
MITCH MCCONNELL: UNWAVERING INSTITUTIONALIST - Right back to his regular habits following his health care defeat. Elana Schor: ”Senate Republicans are sticking to their plans to pass a tax bill with 50 Republican votes, despite Democratic pleas not to be sidelined as they were on health care. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell on Tuesday reaffirmed the GOP’s long-standing intention to shield any tax overhaul from a likely Democratic filibuster by using the procedural protections of budget reconciliation. In explaining his decision to reporters, the Kentucky Republican cited a Tuesday letter from 45 Democratic senators urging Republicans not to use reconciliation and vowing to oppose a tax plan that adds to the deficit or cuts the annual bill of the richest 1 percent of taxpayers. ‘We will need to use reconciliation’ for taxes in the wake of Democrats’ statement that they are ‘not interested in addressing’ Republican priorities, McConnell said.” [Politico]
TRUMP INTERVIEW WITH WSJ PUBLISHED - Even money says the Boy Scouts chief never said that. Josh Dawsey and Hadas Gold: “President Donald Trump called his son-in-law a “good boy” while thanking Wall Street Journal editor-in-chief Gerard Baker for a positive editorial about Kushner and said the leader of the Boy Scouts told him his jamboree speech was ‘the greatest speech ever made to them.’ The comments, made to the Wall Street Journal and obtained in a transcript by POLITICO, show Trump holding forth at length with Baker and engaging in a familiar back-and-forth. Baker, according to the transcript, asked many of the questions and took the lead byline on the main piece about the interview as well, an unusual step for the editor in chief of a paper with a large White House reporting staff.” [Politico]
Trump upset the president’s house isn’t gold-plated. ”Chatting with some members before a recent round of golf, he explained his frequent appearances: ‘That White House is a real dump.’” [Golf’s Alan Shipnuck]
WEED! - This is really going to make Richard Shelby’s screenings of “Wizard of Oz” set to “Dark Side of the Moon” so much better. Taryn Finley: “Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ.) has introduced a bill to legalize marijuana in the U.S. and combat the racial injustices surrounding it. The senator announced his plans for the Marijuana Justice Act on Tuesday. The bill would remove weed, which is currently a Schedule 1 drug ― from the list of controlled substances. It also would cut federal funding for states where people of color and low-income individuals are disproportionately arrested or incarcerated in order to motivate those states to change their laws.” [HuffPost]
JARED KUSHNER REALLY DOES HAVE A VOICE - Ashley Feinberg: “While the recording doesn’t catch the entirety of the question, it appears to have centered on how Kushner plans to negotiate peace between Israelis and Palestinians, as well as why he believes he’ll be successful where every other administration has failed. He doesn’t directly answer either question, but he does reveal that, in his extensive research, he’s learned that ‘not a whole lot has been accomplished over the last 40 or 50 years.’ He also notes that he’s spoken to ‘a lot of people,’ which has taught him that ‘this is a very emotionally charged situation.’” [Wired]
‘THE FAKE TRUMP TOWER’ - Dan Alexander: “The fake Trump Tower will sit on the same 15-acre site and use the same Trump-approved design. Timothy Barton, a Texas developer who worked on Trump projects for years, sits with [Developer George] Ramishvili, seemingly ready to dive in. The interior will reflect the same decor Ivanka Trump had envisioned. The Georgian government might name the road near the place after Donald J. Trump – the partners have already discussed the building project with the country’s prime minister. And on this night, in this club, itself a replica of what fake Trump Tower will look like, Ramishvili, Barton and the Georgian’s New York-based business partner, Giorgi Rtskhiladze, focus on coming up with a name that says Trump–without quite saying Trump.” [Forbes]
MOOCH UPDATE - Can’t wait for his job applications where he vows to fire all of his would-be employer’s employees. Judy Kurtz: “One day after being ousted as White House communications director, Anthony Scaramucci told TMZ that the next move for him is ‘working on being the best person I can be.’ ‘I want chief of staff Kelly to have an unbelievable opportunity inside the White House,’ Scaramucci told TMZ on Tuesday, after losing his administration job in just 10 days. His departure came on the same day that former Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly assumed his new role as President Trump’s chief of staff. White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a Monday statement that Scaramucci ‘felt it was best to give chief of staff John Kelly a clean slate and the ability to build his own team.’” [The Hill]
BUILD THE WALL, SLOPPILY - Knowing Trump, he’ll probably specifically demand that part of the wall is constructed atop an Indian burial ground, too. Elliot Spagat: “The Trump administration said Tuesday that it will waive environmental reviews and other laws to replace a stretch of border wall in San Diego, moving to make good on one of the president’s signature campaign pledges…. The Department of Homeland Security said in a statement it will publish in ‘the coming days’ in the Federal Register a notice exempting the government from the National Environmental Protection Act, which calls for extensive reviews of environmental impacts, and a host of other laws on 15 miles of border extending east from the Pacific Ocean. It will mark the sixth time that the department has exercised that authority since 2005 and the first time since 2008.” [AP]
BECAUSE YOU’VE READ THIS FAR - Here’s the Night King from “Game of Thrones” partying down to Drake.
YES - Tom Porter :“Disgraced former pharmaceuticals executive ‘Pharma Bro’ Martin Shkreli has put himself forward as an unlikely candidate for the recently vacated White House communications director job. Shkreli, who is currently on trial for securities fraud in New York, wrote on his Facebook page amid the fallout from Scaramucci’s firing, ‘In for comms director.’ Shkreli is currently awaiting the verdict of his trial, in which he stands accused of using funds from a pharmaceuticals firm he ran to pay off investors in his failing hedge fund.” [Newsweek]
COMFORT FOOD
- Jay-Z called Coldplay’s Chris Martin a modern Shakespeare. Don’t shoot the messenger.
- Jaden Smith quotes overlaid onto emo Brandon Stark are perfect.
- An accidentally NSFW water main burst.
TWITTERAMA
The first rule of the Trump presidency is "there's always a tweet." The second rule is "there's always an Arrested Development plot line" pic.twitter.com/tOGHlGlZXy
Next WH Comms Director: Calculator turned upside down to spell dirty words
RYAN: This is a really original joke!NARRATOR: It wasn't.RYAN: I'm sure no one else will make it! NARRATOR: They did.
Got something to add? Sen  tips/quotes/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to Eliot Nelson (eliot@huffpost.com)
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
The White House is in chaos and the U.S.’s global status has been in a freefall since Trump’s election. Senator Jeff Flake (R-AZ) is getting a lot of attention for speaking out against Trump and his own party’s contributions to the degradation of our institutions and politics. And kudos to him for speaking truth to power. But Flake has been a senator since 2012. He got elected with an assist from the GOP’s anti-Obama fervor that he now questions. Where was Flake in 2016, before the election?
Flake is a Mormon (a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints). Mormons have largely voted Republican since the 1970s. Typically, they vote for the Republican presidential candidate at a rate of roughly 75 percent — and that rate spiked to 85 percent when Mitt Romney ran for president in 2012. (Romney’s a Mormon too.)
But Mormons didn’t like Trump in 2016. Romney spoke out forcefully against Trump’s candidacy in March. Evan McMullin (also Mormon) launched an anti-Trump third-party bid for the presidency. The New Yorker credited Mormons for saving the Never Trump movement. And some polls showed Trump might lose Utah (the most Mormon-heavy state) — which hasn’t been purple since 1968.
Where was Flake in 2016? Like Romney, Flake was critical of Trump early on. In May he suggested he might not be able to support Trump’s candidacy. He had a “testy” exchange with Trump in July. In September he criticized Trump’s nasty rhetoric, and warned that Republicans could lose Arizona (another Mormon-heavy state) if Trump didn’t change his tone. And in the last week before the election, Flake suggested he still might vote for McMullin instead of Trump.
Maybe Flake did vote for McMullin. Or maybe he ended up voting for Trump after all. Who knows? He never made it clear who he would actually vote for. But he did make it clear that he would not vote for Clinton. And therein lies the rub.
Trump won Flake’s state of Arizona by only about 85,000 votes, where there are over 400,000 Mormons. Trump won Michigan by only about 11,000 votes, where there are nearly 45,000 Mormons. And Trump won Florida by about 120,000 votes, where there are nearly 155,000 Mormons.
What if prominent Mormon Republicans like Flake and Romney had gotten serious about their opposition to Trump? What if they had provided more political and social cover for Mormon-Republican voters to stop Trump by voting for Clinton? You know: for the good of the country. That sort of thing. Mormons alone could’ve swung the results in Arizona and Michigan — easily. It’s possible they could’ve swung the results in Florida. According to math, if McMullin’s voters had voted for Clinton, Clinton would’ve won Utah. And, of course, Romney and Flake could’ve persuaded many non-Mormon Republicans to stop Trump by voting for Clinton, too.
But they didn’t. Instead, Romney grew silent as the election approached. Then he tried to ingratiate himself with Trump over dinner, thinking he might get a cabinet position. And, while Flake remained critical of Trump’s rhetoric right up to the election, he never fully committed to voting for McMullin. (And he’s voted in-line with Trump 96 percent of the time, since January.) So most Mormon Republicans did what most non-Mormon Republicans did, in November: they held their noses and voted for Trump. Et voila. Here we are.
So kudos to Flake for speaking truth to power. We need more Republicans to stand up and oppose what’s happening. But it’s too bad Flake and others didn’t do more to stop Trump before he got elected. And hopefully it isn’t already too late to stop him now.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
With Trump as president, it is easy to forget how utterly hopeless many Congressional Democrats are, including many who look like progressives.
The best indicator of Democratic corruption is its slavishness toward the lobby that is to them what the National Rifle Association is to the GOP: the Israel lobby (the American Israel Public Affairs Committee and its satellite organizations).
The latest evidence of that slavishness comes in the form of growing support among Democrats in both Houses for legislation sponsored by Sen. Benjamin Cardin (D-MD) and co-sponsored by Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer that would make it a felony for Americans to support the international boycott against Israel, commonly known as BDS. Anyone guilty of violating the prohibitions will face a minimum civil penalty of $250,000 and a maximum criminal penalty of $1 million and 20 years in prison.
According to the ACLU, the Cardin legislation would “bar U.S. persons from supporting boycotts against Israel, including its settlements in the Palestinian Occupied Territories (emphasis mine) conducted by international governmental organizations, such as the United Nations and the European Union. It would also... include penalties for simply requesting information about such boycotts. Violations would be subject to a minimum civil penalty of $250,000 and a maximum criminal penalty of $1 million and 20 years in prison....This bill would impose civil and criminal punishment on individuals solely because of their political beliefs about Israel and its policies.”
Pretty amazing. Why would anyone support such a law? Yes, lots of people (including me) oppose boycotting Israel (although I certainly support boycotting the settlements) but how is it even possible to criminalize simply supporting a boycott to protest the occupation? After all, we boycott states and municipalities here at home to protest discrimination based on race, sexual identity or anything else. Most recently, the state of North Carolina was faced with a boycott to protest its policy against allowing transgender people to use public bathrooms. How can it be legal to refuse to do business with North Carolina but illegal to refuse to do business with Israeli settlements?
The answer is simple: AIPAC, which is the lobby few Democrats (let alone Republicans) are willing to cross. Here  is its “Call to Action” sent to every member of the House and Senate telling them, in no uncertain terms, that the Cardin bill is a top priority of the lobby. As for Cardin, it is no surprise that he is the lead sponsor of the bill (1) because he never, if ever, deviates from doing what the Israeli government wants and (2) he is one of the top recipients of campaign contributions from AIPAC officers and associated donors. The same can be said of Schumer who has always carried water for the lobby. (Both senators opposed President Obama’s bill to end sanctions on Iran in exchange for its terminating its nuclear weapons program.)
Am I being unfair to ascribe such venal motives to those Democrats who support this bill? (I don’t mention Republicans because their support for it comports completely with their worldviews which is not the case with the Democrats). I don’t think so because every single Democrat supporting this anti-free speech bill consistently opposes limits on free speech. Their support for this bill represents the only time they promoted legislation to curtail free speech. I cannot imagine any reason for this egregious offense against the First Amendment except to please AIPAC and their AIPAC associated donors.
Fortunately, this legislation can still be stopped. Here are lists of the Senate and House Democrats who are co-sponsoring this abominable bill. Let them know of your opposition. Just as important, if your legislator is not yet a co-sponsor, let him or her know that he or she better not become one.
Many years ago, the #2 man at AIPAC, Steve Rosen (later indicted under the Espionage Act of 1917 wrote me the following about AIPAC’s activities: “A lobby is a night flower. It thrives in the dark and dies in the sun.”
The same applies to those in Congress who, disregarding their constituents, take their marching orders from AIPAC. It’s time to shine some sunlight on them.
The First Amendment does not include an exception stating “does not apply to speech about Israel or its settlements.” We can’t allow a lobby and its Congressional cutouts to insert one. But, believe me, that is their goal and going after BDS supporters is just the beginning.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Anthony Scaramucci has resigned from his role as White House communications director.
Scaramucci was named communications director on July 21, a mere 10 days ago. Axios reports he resigned at the request of Gen. John Kelly, the new White House chief of staff.
“Mr. Scaramucci felt it was best to give Chief of Staff John Kelly a clean slate and the ability to build his own team,” a statement from the White House press secretary said Monday. “We wish him all the best.”
According to CBS and CNN, Scaramucci was escorted from White House grounds Monday.
The resignation comes after a controversy-laden week for Scaramucci that included a profanity-laced tirade against other members of President Donald Trump’s White House staff. 
His rant, published in The New Yorker, was mostly aimed at then-White House chief of staff Reince Priebus. (Priebus resigned from his post last week and was replaced Monday morning by Kelly.) Scaramucci referred to Priebus as “a fucking paranoid schizophrenic, a paranoiac.”
Scaramucci also gave one of the more memorable quotes so far of the Trump administration during that interview, while arguing that he doesn’t care for media attention.
“I’m not Steve Bannon, I’m not trying to suck my own cock,” he said.
But that rant wasn’t the only eyebrow-raising moment during his 10 days in the White House. Scaramucci brought on criticism after directing comments about hair and makeup at White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders. He also reportedly received divorce papers from his wife, who gave birth to the couple’s son while Scaramucci was with Trump last week.
Michael Short, an aide in the White House press office, resigned last week because of pressure from Scaramucci, who had threatened to “fire everybody” in order to stop leaks.
Even his hire was laden with controversy. Former White House press secretary Sean Spicer reportedly submitted his resignation after learning Trump was giving Scaramucci a prominent role on the White House communications team.
Scaramucci’s short tenure followed that of Mike Dubke, who resigned in May after just three months as White House communications director.
Just this morning, Trump assured his Twitter followers there is “No WH chaos!”
Highest Stock Market EVER, best economic numbers in years, unemployment lowest in 17 years, wages raising, border secure, S.C.: No WH chaos!
When asked about Scaramucci’s departure during a White House press briefing Monday afternoon, Sanders confirmed that Scaramucci “does not have a role at this time in the Trump administration,” saying Scaramucci and Kelly came to “a mutual agreement” about Scaramucci’s departure. She would not say if Scaramucci resigned or was fired.
Of Kelly, Sanders said, “all staff will report to him.”
Sanders also commented on Scaramucci’s interview with The New Yorker, saying Trump found the remarks “inappropriate.”
This was a breaking story that has been updated throughout.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
WASHINGTON – Having publicly scolded his attorney general for a week now, President Donald Trump made it clear Tuesday he’s prepared to scold him some more rather than fire him.
Both at a White House news conference and in a Wall Street Journal interview, Trump said he was “disappointed” in Jeff Sessions ― apparently for failing to protect the president from the ongoing investigation into his campaign’s ties to the foreign government that helped Trump win the presidency.
“He should not have recused himself…. And if he was going to recuse himself, he should have told me prior to taking office and I would have quite simply picked somebody else,” Trump said of Sessions in the Rose Garden in a joint appearance with Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri.
Trump would not, however, say what he planned to do about Sessions. “We will see what happens. Time will tell. Time will tell,” Trump said.
In the Journal interview, the president was more explicit about the reason behind his disappointment, specifically citing the Russia investigation: “If Jeff Sessions didn’t recuse himself, we wouldn’t even be talking about this subject.”
The remarks help keep Russia front and center six months into Trump’s presidency, despite his attempts to dismiss the issue as “fake news” dreamed up by Democrats as an excuse for Hillary Clinton’s election loss to Trump in November.
The U.S. intelligence community – which included the FBI ― released a report in January concluding that Russia actively tried to help Trump win by stealing private emails from Democrats and releasing embarrassing ones in the final months before the election.
Sessions in March recused himself from the ongoing investigation into the Russian interference after his own undisclosed meetings with Russian officials came to light, which left the probe under the charge of Sessions’ deputy, Rod Rosenstein.
Two months later, Trump fired then-FBI Director James Comey. In sworn testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee last month, Comey said he believed the president fired him for refusing to a drop a related investigation into the Russian contacts of Trump’s first national security adviser, Michael Flynn.
The day after firing Comey, Trump told the Russian foreign minister and ambassador that he had done so to relieve the “pressure” from the former FBI director’s Russia probe.
After the firing, Rosenstein appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special counsel in the investigation, which has become a focus of Trump’s anger ever since.
That ire appeared to boil over after recent reports that Mueller may be seeking Trump’s tax returns in connection with the investigation. Trump refused to release his returns during the campaign, a break from decades of protocol for presidential candidates.
“Frankly, I think is very unfair to the president. How do you take a job and then recuse yourself?” he told the New York Times in an interview last week, and then complained that Sessions had not given him any warning.
In the days since, Trump became increasingly aggressive about Sessions in his statements on Twitter.
In a Monday morning tweet, Trump called Sessions “beleaguered” – but failed to point out that it was Trump’s own criticism that was beleaguring him.
And in his Tuesday morning tweet session, Trump dropped even that ambiguity. “Attorney General Jeff Sessions has taken a VERY weak position on Hillary Clinton crimes (where are E-mails & DNC server) & Intel leakers!” Trump wrote, before going on to attack the FBI, too. “Problem is that the acting head of the FBI & the person in charge of the Hillary investigation, Andrew McCabe, got $700,000 from H for wife!”
It is unclear how Trump would proceed if he does manage to rid himself of Sessions, who was the first sitting senator to endorse him last year.
It’s difficult to imagine any replacement candidate winning Senate confirmation as attorney general who does not promise to leave Mueller and his Russia investigation alone.
In the meantime, Mueller’s probe will continue, unless Trump is able to appoint an acting attorney general willing to fire Mueller – a move certain to unleash political backlash even from Republicans.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
The wife of newly named White House communications director Anthony Scaramucci reportedly wants a divorce, just days after giving birth to the couple’s son.
The Page Six gossip column of The New York Post on Friday reported that Deidre Ball, 38, had filed for divorce from Scaramucci. Ball began dating the 53-year-old Scaramucci in 2011 and they are believed to have gotten married in 2014, according to the Post. They have two children together, one of whom was born prematurely this past Monday.
Ball’s lawyer, Jill Stone, on Saturday confirmed the divorce story to The New York Daily News, but shot down rumors that Scaramucci’s “naked ambition” and desire to be a fixture in President Donald Trump’s administration drove a wedge between the couple.
“Whoever decided to state that that was the cause, that has nothing to do with her filing for divorce,” Stone told the paper, declining to get into specifics.
“It’s a private matter,” Stone said. “She’s focusing on the children. She really doesn’t have a comment at this time. She’s not going to turn this into a circus.” 
Ball filed for divorce on July 6 in New York’s Nassau County Supreme Court, according to a Post Page Six story on Saturday. 
On Monday, Ball gave birth to James Scaramucci two weeks before the child’s due date. Weighing 5 pounds, 13 ounces at birth, the boy is currently in a neonatal intensive unit, according to the paper.
HuffPost reached out for comment to Ball via Facebook, to Scaramucci via Twitter and to White House press office via email. No responses have yet been received.
Scaramucci, who had a previous marriage end in divorce, posted two recent tweets that seemed to refer to the reports of domestic discord with Ball. The first came a short time after the Post’s story.
Leave civilians out of this. I can take the hits, but I would ask that you would put my family in your thoughts and prayers & nothing more.
The second came Saturday morning.
Family does not need to be drawn into this. Soon we will learn who in the media has class and who doesn't. No further comments on this.
The Post said that Scaramucci had shed his wedding ring recently or was wearing it on his right hand.
“Deidre is not a fan of Trump, and she hasn’t exactly been on board and supportive of Anthony and his push to get” a White House job, an anonymous source reported as close to Scaramucci told the paper.
Leonard Sperber, the lawyer hired for Scaramucci’s first divorce, told the Daily News he had “no authority to comment on anything,” including whether or not he had been retained a second time.
Ball’s LinkedIn profile lists her as vice president of investor relations for SkyBridge Capital, an asset management business formerly run by her husband.
He sold his interest in the business this year in preparation for a job in the Trump White House. After initially serving in a post at the Export-Import Bank, he was appointed to his communications job on July 21, sparking the resignation of press secretary Sean Spicer.
On Thursday, the New Yorker magazine published a profanity-laced interview with Scaramucci in which he attacked in vulgar terms then-White House chief of staff Reince Priebus and Steve Bannon, Trump’s chief strategist. Priebus resigned from his job Thursday night and on Friday Trump named as his replacement John Kelly, who had been secretary of the Homeland Security Department.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON ― Last month’s epic failure to deliver on their 7-year-old promise to repeal the Affordable Care Act is causing angst among GOP candidates up and down the ticket ahead of next year’s congressional midterm election.
While moderate Republicans like Sens. Lisa Murkowski (Alaska) and Susan Collins (Maine) are receiving warm adulation from constituents for opposing a bill that would have repealed Obamacare, other GOP lawmakers are facing attacks from their right flank over their handling of the health care debate.
Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.) drew a primary challenge this week from businessman Danny Tarkanian, a staunch supporter of President Donald Trump, who blasted the senator for failing to support Trump during last year’s presidential campaign and for “obstructing” his agenda in Washington, D.C.
“That grandstand press conference he had derailed any momentum to get the health care bill repealed,” Tarkanian said Tuesday, referring to a dramatic press conference Heller held alongside Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval (R) in which both men voiced their opposition to the initial Senate bill to repeal and replace Obamacare.
Tarkanian, the son of the late college basketball coach Jerry Tarkanian, has mounted several failed political campaigns in Nevada. Rep. Jacky Rosen (D-Nev.), who is also running for Heller’s seat, defeated Tarkanian last year.
Heller has drawn the ire of both liberals and conservatives over his shifting stance on health care. In June, after a Trump-aligned super-PAC released ads slamming the senator, Heller reversed course and voted in favor of a “skinny” version of the bill that would have dismantled key parts of Obamacare. 
A poll that a Democratic firm conducted last week found only 22 percent of Nevada voters approved of Heller’s job performance.
The inability to repeal Obamacare has also roiled the race for an Alabama Senate seat made vacant by Trump’s appointment of Jeff Sessions as Attorney General earlier this year.
Ousted Alabama Supreme Court Chief Justice Roy Moore, who is running in the Republican primary, released a television ad on Tuesday defending himself against attacks made by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and his allies in Washington, D.C.
“They lied about repealing Obamacare. Now Mitch McConnell’s D.C slime machine is spending millions spreading lies about Roy Moore,” the narrator in the ad said.
Moore has led in recent polls of the race. The social conservative provocateur is hoping to knock out Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.), another candidate in the race, and qualify for a run-off between himself and of Sen. Luther Strange (R-Ala.), who was appointed by former Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley (R) to temporarily fill the seat. 
Republican lawmakers in the House are facing similar heat over their votes on the repeal of Obamacare. Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), viewed as one of the most vulnerable GOP lawmakers in the House, drew a primary challenge this week from former U.S. Air Force combat pilot Shak Hill.
In announcing his bid, Hill claimed that Comstock “lied” to her constituents about repealing Obamacare when she voted against House legislation that would have repealed the law. 
“I agree with the president on his conservative initiatives, and Barbara has been a major obstacle,” Hill said. “It’s time to repeal and replace Barbara.”
Democrats, who view Comstock as one of their top targets on the path to retaking the majority in 2018, lampooned their predicament.
“The cliché ‘stuck between a rock and a hard place’ has never been more appropriate as House Republicans struggle to hang onto their majority,” said Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee spokesman Tyler Law. 
The White House has also expressed qualms about the Obamacare debacle, despite intentions about moving on to tax reform. After McConnell criticized Trump for having “excessive expectations” about the legislative process, White House social media director Dan Scavino returned fire on Twitter.
More excuses. @SenateMajLdr must have needed another 4 years - in addition to the 7 years -- to repeal and replace Obamacare..... https://t.co/6FOVBm6BQU
Trump also attacked McConnell in a tweet Wednesday for saying the president had set his sights too high.
Senator Mitch McConnell said I had "excessive expectations," but I don't think so. After 7 years of hearing Repeal & Replace, why not done?
Fox News host Sean Hannity, who often offers a robust defense of the president on his show, upped the ante by calling on McConnell to retire.
. @SenateMajLdr No Senator, YOU are a WEAK, SPINELESS leader who does not keep his word and you need to Retire!  https://t.co/BL4uf7WLM1…
This article has been updated with Trump’s tweet about McConnell. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
BERLIN, N.Y. ― You can’t keep Tony Gale out of the woods.
Six years ago, he was sitting on the hood of a skidder ― a heavy-duty tractor loggers use to move felled trees ― when a coworker started the machine. Before Gale could move, the blade rose and crushed every bone in both his feet and ankles. The pain was blinding. Doctors told him he’d never work in the woods again. But sure enough, the lumberman was back on the job two years later, chainsawing towering pines and oaks in the forests of upstate New York, where he’s lived his whole life.
Gale usually works solo now, but he’s still unstoppable. Four months ago, his grapple skidder, a beast of a truck built to pick up logs in big pincers, was incinerated in a fire started by an electrical spark; he suspects mice were the culprits, gnawing through the wires. The skimpy insurance check didn’t replace the machine outright, but the woods were calling, and Gale needed to work. So he bought a smaller cable skidder. He recently arrived at a work site to find baby pacifiers fixed to the machine’s grill, a jab from one his woodcutter buddies working nearby.
Gale has tried to work as a welder. He’s a good carpenter, too. But he can’t quit logging.
“Us guys, we bust our butts. It’s dangerous work doing what we do,” Gale, 47, told HuffPost, leaning against the bed of his silver Toyota Tacoma pickup on a muggy July morning. “But I love it out here. There’s nothing like it.”
But the terrain for logging is fast disappearing, and with it the jobs. The number of loggers has shrunk dramatically over the past 20 years, making Gale one of fewer than a dozen working in the area of the Rensselaer Plateau now, he said. The milling companies that once owned huge swaths of forest across the Northeast are gone, leaving the wooded tracts largely in the hands of investor groups and private-equity funds. The local economy embraced tourism, and well-heeled visitors from the city ― attracted to the bucolic charm ― wanted what Gale called “their own little slice of heaven.” Eager to turn a profit, the investors have been divvying up the land and selling it to developers building massive summer homes in the middle of what was once dense forest.
The transformation may seem invisible from the farm-lined state roads that slither out from Albany. But you can see it from above. Clearings pockmark the lush, green canopy, making way for McMansions. On a helicopter flight last month, HuffPost counted nearly a dozen new houses under construction.
“Now, you go by what used to be a beautiful piece of property and there are houses all over the place,” Gale said.
One nonprofit is trying to halt the process by preserving forests that form the backbone of rural economies and play a critical role in combatting climate change. On Tuesday, the Conservation Fund, a national environmental and economic development advocate based in northern Virginia, closed a roughly $25 million deal to buy 23,053 acres of forest straddling the borders of New York, Massachusetts and Vermont.
The Conservation Fund has preserved nearly 500,000 acres of privately owned forested land over the last 20 years, through a process known as conservation easement. The fund agrees to buy the land from investors, then adds restrictions to the deeds excluding development. The new terms allow activities like recreation and sustainable logging, where foresters select specific trees to fell and lumbermen like Gale carefully cut them and drag them out. The Conservation Fund then sells the land to new owners, who agree to maintain the easement’s terms of use, and uses proceeds of the sales to create easements in other parts of the country.
The Conservation Fund’s latest acquisition, known as the Cowee forest, once produced most of the the small forked stakes used to hold notecards in flower arrangements for the world. For nearly a century, the Cowee family bought up tracts of the forest, which supplied a steady stock of lumber for their mill in Berlin, New York, a tiny town known now as a bedroom community for Albany. Facing competition from cheap, plastic alternatives, the mill began a painful contraction, pink-slipping one-third of its employees in 2001. At the time, the mill’s general manager described the tumult: “We’re a neighborhood hardware store, and China is the Home Depot of the world.”  
Eventually, the cost of operating the mill became too high. The family sold the land to a North Carolina-based timber investment fund called Forestland Group in 2009. Forestland Group began talks to sell the land to the Conservation Fund last year.
The loss of mill jobs took a toll on the local economy. It hurt the culture, too. The newcomers who purchased huge swaths of land bristled at hunters like Gale asking for permission to track deer on their property. And as developers clear whole mountainsides and build roads through them, there’s less work for loggers.
“When properties get fragmented, they lose the economic integrity as timberland,” Larry Selzer, chief executive of the Conservation Fund, told HuffPost. “Once they lose the economic value, then it’s an inevitable march toward conversion and development.”
It’s a formula familiar to working-class folks in cities like New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles. Industry moves out. Posh, monied professionals, taken with the allure of post-industrial areas, swoop in and buy up real estate. They start building new luxury homes. And before long, there goes the neighborhood.
But cities naturally expand over time and zoning policies can, in theory, be changed to accommodate housing that is more affordable. In rural, wooded areas, the gentrification process can be economically devastating. That’s why privately owned forests like the ones the Conservation Fund buys welcome sustainable forestry, which helps clear out dead wood and make the forests less dense. Forestry-related industries currently provide 2.7 million American jobs and contribute $112 billion to the U.S. economy each year, according to the Land Trust Alliance, a conservation group.
Those jobs are an economic engine for rural areas that industry has abandoned. Conservation easements help not only to preserve the land, but to put it in the hands of the people who depend on it.
Historically, a working forest in a place like West Virginia might have been owned by a wealthy mill operator in Pittsburgh, Philadelphia or New York. But with a conservation easement in place, the land becomes more affordable for local buyers. Those people can then set up forestry operations, ski lodges or hiking trails.  
“This is actually restoring some of the future economic upside back to rural communities,” Selzer said. “That is critical for the future of this country. We have to figure out how to help rural economies not just survive, but thrive.”
The Conservation Fund’s latest push comes at a pivotal moment. Since the late 1990s, the shift to a knowledge economy has concentrated wealth and prosperity in cities. Rural communities, by contrast, have endured shrinking populations and higher rates of teen pregnancy, divorce, addiction and disease, according to a Wall Street Journal report from May that declared rural America “the new inner city.”
“What we’re doing is preserving the rural character, meaning lands stay as forested lands, preserving the forest-based economy of logging, trucking, value-added manufacturing, like flooring, furniture and molding,” Selzer said.
This approach to conservation is market-based. The price of timberland actually climbed during the Great Recession as investors looked for safe, hard-valued assets, and has hummed along since, according to sales data from F&W, a forest management consulting firm. Demand for solid-wood products, usually determined by the health of the construction sector, remains high as new-home sales bounce back. Commodity prices for wood pulp surged during the years after the financial crisis and stabilized, remaining basically flat for the last three years.    
“Demand for forest products is not going down,” Selzer said. “We’re confident that the market will be there.”
Leaving forests mostly intact for sustainable logging also has environmental benefits. Forests act as a filter for planet-warming emissions from burning fossil fuels and industrial farming, sucking up and storing carbon. When they’re cut down, that carbon is released into the atmosphere, contributing to climate change. In the U.S. alone, 4,000 acres of forest are lost to development every day.
Some of the forest tracts the Conservation Fund has purchased abut state or national forests and parks. Protecting that land helps stave off encroaching homes that often get destroyed in wildfires that are becoming increasingly intense as the planet warms and droughts persist, particularly out West. Working forests, moreover, help to keep wildfires from spreading because they are managed, Selzer said. Environmental groups typically protest forestry on public lands, leaving in place timber that becomes easy tinder for a conflagration.
Of the nearly 50 million acres of privately held forest land remaining in the U.S., Selzer said roughly 10 percent is of “high conservation value,” meaning it provides habitats to endangered species or offers special geological features. The Conservation Fund is focused on preserving those 5 million acres.
The land is typically identified by state environmental and forestry agencies. In Cowee’s case, New York state forestry officials picked the area for the unique geology of the Rensselaer Plateau. The tableland, part of the Taconic Mountains, was formed from ocean trenches and volcanic islands during a continental shift 440 million years ago, and its deep layers of greywacke, a resistant redstone, are rich with nutrients, according to the Rensselaer Plateau Alliance.
In this case, the stars aligned ― the money was in place and the owner was ready to sell the land at the right time.
Funding remains a major obstacle to scaling the Conservation Fund’s model. The nonprofit now operates a $200 million Working Forest Fund, used to buy the properties outright at auction prices. The money comes from private philanthropists ― for the Cowee deal, the Pittsburgh-based Richard King Mellon Foundation ― and state and federal grants. The fund boasts that, unlike other conservationists, it is able to “move at the speed of business,” meaning it’s an attractive buyer for landowners who may not have the interest or luxury of selling to a customer with charitable ambitions.
To reach the goal of converting 5 million acres, Selzer said he wants to increase the fund’s capital to $1 billion.
One easy way to make more money available would be to increase federal budget for conserving working woodlands. The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Forest Legacy Program provides funding to groups like the Conservation Fund, but it’s limited. The agency received $100 million in funding last year.
“We’re facing a huge challenge there as public dollars for conservation recede, and have been receding for a number of years,” Erin Heskett, director of national and regional services at the Land Trust Alliance, told HuffPost. “With this new administration, the level of funding for protecting our working forests, our farmland, our wildlife habitats, our drinking water sources and providing spaces for people to recreate ― parks, and trails ― is in question.” 
The budget put forth by the White House this year proposed eliminating funding for the program altogether. But Selzer said the funding should be increased at least fivefold to help finance the number of projects that organizations like his could take on to help rural voters who propelled President Donald Trump’s victory.
Selzer said the Conservation Fund is currently looking at forests in Minnesota, Pennsylvania and Washington state for easements.
“About $1 billion of timberland changes hands every year,” he said. “We’re tracking all of that.”  
It’s a race against time. But where it works, it can make a tremendous difference. Gale said he’s one of just six or so independent loggers left in a 40-mile radius of the Rensselaer Plateau. And in 30 years, he’s banking on these woods still being here ― that the area won’t become just another sprawling suburb of Albany.
“I want it to be the same way, no houses,” he said. “I’m hoping there’s going to be big tracts of land like that so they can keep hunting, and their kids can hunt, too. We’re losing all our hunting grounds to city people.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
The long, halting slog toward Obamacare repeal is set to reach a significant milestone Tuesday, when the Senate is scheduled to vote on ... something.
No, not ”something terrific,” as President Donald Trump promised on the campaign trail. Just ... something. The American public will find out what that something is at about the same time as the Republican senators who Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) wants to amble down to the well of the Senate, raise their index fingers and say, “Yea.”
Tuesday morning, the Senate is scheduled to begin floor debate on whatever that something is. McConnell is asking GOP senators to approve a procedural motion on a House-passed health care bill, which will then allow him to bring up something else, after which senators will debate and vote on amendments to the something.
No one knows what they’ll be voting to debate. Seriously.
In their zeal to repeal the Affordable Care Act, Senate Republicans have neglected to actually figure out what they want to enact in its stead. More than 40 of them have shown no signs they have any problem with this, and the handful who have wrung their hands in public about it have failed to take the crucial next step of actually coming out against it. Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) is the lone exception.
The lives of tens of millions of people and the health care system itself are in the hands of senators who are practically flying blind. And all of this is in the service of legislation that violates Trump’s promises of lower premiums, smaller deductibles, and coverage for everyone. What’s more, polling consistently shows that very few Americans actually want Congress to do any of this.
Just days ago, enough Republican senators had declared they wouldn’t vote on this “motion to proceed” that the effort to repeal the central components of the Affordable Care Act and “replace” them with more meager reforms looked like it might be dead. McConnell pulled the hastily assembled Better Care Reconciliation Act.
But the process showed new signs of life because of pressure from Trump and conservative activists and donors. Another key factor is the lack of conviction among those “moderate” senators who had expressed alarm at the legislation’s massive cuts to federal health care programs, especially Medicaid, but don’t want to be known as the Republicans who killed Obamacare repeal.
Nevertheless, it’s not clear whether McConnell has the 50 votes he needs to move forward, especially with Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz) likely unavailable after being diagnosed with brain cancer.
So, what will happen in the Senate this week?
McConnell could bring up a version of the Better Care Reconciliation Act, his favored Obamacare “replacement.”
This bill would slash federal Medicaid funding by more than one-quarter, severely weaken the Affordable Care Act’s protections for people with pre-existing conditions; shrink financial assistance for people who buy private health insurance and make it available to fewer people; permit health insurance companies to go back to selling skimpy, junk policies that cover fewer things; and increase costs for older, sicker people in order to allow younger, healthier people to buy insurance with even bigger deductibles than found on the Obamacare exchanges.
This bill would increase the number of Americans without health coverage by 22 million, bringing the total to 50 million in 2026, compared to 28 million if the Affordable Care Act were left in place, the Congressional Budget Office reported Thursday.
Or McConnell could opt to bring up the Obamacare Repeal Reconciliation Act. Unlike the other bill, this one is all repeal and no replace. Congress passed a version of this bill in 2015, and President Barack Obama vetoed it.
The legislation would take away funding for the Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid expansion and the subsidies low- and middle-income families receive for private insurance, and do away with other key aspects of the law. But it wouldn’t attempt to replace them with anything. And it would cause chaos in the health insurance market by leaving in place Affordable Care Act regulations requiring insurers to cover everyone regardless of pre-existing conditions ― but without a mandate that people buy the insurance or help to make it more affordable.
The legislation would increase the number of uninsured by 32 million over 10 years, including 17 million next year alone, and the total would reach 59 million by 2026.
And then there’s the House-passed American Health Care Act (which would leave 23 million more uninsured by 2026). Technically, the legislation must serve as the vehicle for whatever the “something” turns out to be because the Constitution requires bills with tax provisions to originate in the House. In these cases, the Senate typically strips these House bills of all their language and substitutes its own bill. Nevertheless, this measure still fits the definition of “something,” and the Senate could do whatever it wants.
What McConnell actually appears to be doing is teeing up a vote for all these bills, should he get 50 Republicans on the initial motion to proceed. In fact, he seems to be using the promise of a vote as the carrot to gain the support of reluctant senators. In essence, he’s saying, “Help me open debate, and you can vote for whichever bill you prefer!”
Somehow, this tactic seems to be working. Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) opposes the Better Care Reconciliation Act, for instance, but may vote to start debate on the Obamacare Repeal Reconciliation Act, as may Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah), who has been reluctant to back McConnell’s bill. And moderates, afraid of blocking their party from even debating repeal, may follow suit.
But wait ― it gets more complicated.
McConnell revised the Better Care Reconciliation Act with new provisions added to win the support of Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) that would create a two-tiered health insurance system in which insurers could sell two sets of policies. One would have to adhere to Affordable Care Act rules about pre-existing conditions and guaranteed benefits, while the other could exclude people based on their health status or medical histories.
Health insurers have warned that this won’t work, because healthy people would rush to buy the cheaper, skimpier plans, leaving sicker people behind in the other market, where their big medical bills would cause premiums to rise so much, they wouldn’t be able to afford insurance. And the healthy people would have policies so meager, they wouldn’t be adequately protected when the day comes that they stop being so healthy.
That Congressional Budget Office score of the Better Care Reconciliation Act doesn’t even factor in the effects of the Cruz amendment because the agency hasn’t had enough time to analyze it, so the Senate is set to begin debate on something no senators actually understand.
And if things go according to McConnell’s schedule and this all wraps up by week’s end, senators likely will be casting their final votes on something before the Congressional Budget Office can complete its work.
And there’s even further complication.
The congressional GOP opted to use a special procedure called budget reconciliation to advance Affordable Care Act repeal because it can’t be filibustered in the Senate and thus can pass with just 51 votes ― including a possible tiebreaker by Vice President Mike Pence in his constitutional role as president of the Senate.
But this comes with a catch: Bills considered under budget reconciliation are supposed to be limited to matters directly affecting the budget, and provisions the parliamentarian deems don’t meet that standard traditionally must be removed.
On Friday, the parliamentarian announced that key parts of the Better Care Reconciliation Act weren’t kosher. They include funding cuts to Planned Parenthood and provisions limiting abortion, the absence of which would be a deal-breaker for conservatives, as well as insurance regulations seen as key to the new system the bill would create. And, like the Congressional Budget Office, the parliamentarian also hasn’t had time to review the Cruz amendment.
This, to be absolutely clear, is highly abnormal. Congress gives more care and consideration to bills renaming post offices than it has to legislation with staggering consequences for the health care system.
So, to recap: Senate Republicans are moving forward with legislation that would gut Medicaid, vastly increase the number of Americans without health coverage, jumble the health insurance market in ways that could cause it to collapse, make it harder for people with pre-existing conditions to get and keep health coverage, and expose poor people to unlimited medical costs.
Only they don’t know what the legislation is or what, exactly, it would do. Now that’s really something.
Matt Fuller contributed reporting.
Politics hurt too much? Sign up for HuffPost Hill, a humorous evening roundup featuring scoops
         from HuffPost’s reporting team and juicy miscellanea from around the web.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner (R) has signed a law designating Aug. 4 as “Barack Obama Day” in the state, the governor’s office confirmed Friday. 
The honorary holiday commemorates the former president’s birthday. It’s not a legal holiday — schools and state offices remained open Friday — but is intended to celebrate Obama’s career and recognize his political roots in the state.
“August 4th of each year is designated as Barack Obama Day, to be observed throughout the State as a day set apart to honor the 44th President of the United States of America who began his career serving the People of Illinois in both the Illinois State Senate and the United States Senate, and dedicated his life to protecting the rights of Americans and building bridges across communities,” reads the text of the bill.
The bill passed without any opposition in both chambers of the state’s legislature. 
An earlier version of the bill, which would have designated Aug. 4 as legal holiday, failed in March due to its nearly $20 million price tag.
Rauner voiced support for the honorary holiday in February.
“It’s incredibly proud for Illinois that the president came from Illinois. I think it’s awesome, and I think we should celebrate it,” Rauner said to a reporter. “I don’t think it should be a formal holiday with paid, forced time off, but I think it should be a day of acknowledgment and celebration.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
President Donald Trump gave a doozy of an interview to The Wall Street Journal last week, the full transcript of which Politico published on Tuesday night.
During his conversation with Wall Street Journal editor-in-chief Gerard Baker and other staffers, Trump lied about the reaction to his Boy Scouts speech, referred to his 36-year-old son-in-law and adviser, Jared Kushner, as a “good boy,” and answered a question about infrastructure by railing against Hillary Clinton.
Here are all the moments in the interview that made us reflect deeply about who we are and how we got here:
He fabricated claims about the reaction to his Boy Scouts speech.
Trump gave a strange, meandering speech to the Boy Scouts of America last month that was criticized for being too political. The group later apologized, saying that the speech’s “political rhetoric” was “never our intent.”
When the Journal editors said that the speech got “mixed” reactions from former scouts, Trump shot back that, “They loved it... it was no mix.” The president then claimed that the head of the Boy Scouts personally called him to tell him that, “it was the greatest speech that was ever made to them, and they were very thankful.” The group reportedly denied that such an exchange ever took place.
Trump responded to a question about infrastructure by bragging about winning Ohio.
Asked about how he planned to work with Democrats in Congress to achieve his infrastructure goals, Trump brought up his former Democratic presidential rival Clinton.
“She spent hundreds of millions of dollars on negative ads,” the president said. “She didn’t do a positive ad, virtually. And she lost easily.”
And then, as if unaware his presidential campaign ended after the election, Trump said that “we’re substantially up” in “swing states” like Ohio.
“You know, I won the state by 9 or 10 or something, by 9 or 10 points, without any governor support, OK?” he said. “So you have the governor of Ohio not supporting you and you win by almost 10 points, which is pretty good because Ohio’s not — if you remember, you guys were always saying you have to win Ohio, right?
He falsely claimed that he has passed more bills during his first six months in office than any other president.
“I honestly believe for six months I have done more than just about any president when you look at all of the bills that were passed, 42, 43,” he said.
This is a claim he’s made before. But according to The New York Times, Jimmy Carter signed 70 bills during the same time period as president, while Bill Clinton signed 50. Franklin Delano Roosevelt topped them all by signing 76 bills in his first 100 days.
Trump said there would be “no other staff changes” within the White House in the immediate future. 
Since the interview, both Trump’s chief-of-staff and his communications director have been forced out.
He said New Yorkers should just move across the country if they can’t find work.
“I’m going to start explaining to people when you have an area that just isn’t working – like upper New York state, where people are getting very badly hurt – and then you’ll have another area 500 miles away where you can’t – you can’t get people, I’m going to explain you can leave, it’s OK, don’t worry about your house,” he said. “You know, a lot of them don’t leave because of their house. Because they say, gee, my house, I thought it was worth $70,000 and now it’s worth nothing. It’s OK. Go, cut your losses, right?”
Trump hinted that he might fire the man leading the investigation into his campaign’s connections to Russia.
After firing FBI director James Comey, the Justice Department appointed Robert Mueller as special counsel in charge of the probe. But as the investigation widens, speculation has grown that Trump could fire Mueller too.
Asked by the Journal editors if Mueller’s job was safe, Trump said, “No.”
“No, we’re going to see,” he said. “I mean, I have no comment yet, because it’s too early. But we’ll see. We’re going to see.” 
Trump’s latest frustrations with the probe include reports that Mueller would be looking into the president’s personal finances, as well as revelations about a meeting his eldest child, Donald Trump Jr., had with a Kremlin-linked Russian lawyer.
Several members of Congress have warned Trump against firing Mueller. 
“Any effort to go after Mueller could be the beginning of the end of the Trump presidency, unless Mueller did something wrong,” Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) said.
Speaking of Russia, Trump also lied and said no one on his team ever spoke with Russian officials.
“I was never involved with Russia,” the president told the Journal. “There was nobody in the campaign. I’ve got 200 people that will say that they’ve never seen anybody on the campaign.... there’s nobody on the campaign that saw anybody from Russia. We had nothing to do with Russia.”
Multiple members of his inner circle met with Russian officials during the campaign, according to a seemingly endless series of reports. Even his elder son, Donald Trump Jr., has admitted that he knew in advance that his meeting with lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya was related to the Kremlin’s support of his father.
CORRECTION: An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Trump appointed Mueller as special counsel.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump received applause on Friday when he endorsed police brutality while delivering a speech to law enforcement officers on Long Island, New York.
The president suggested that officers should hit suspects’ heads on the doors of their police cars.
“When you see these towns and when you see these thugs being thrown into the back of a paddy wagon, you just see them thrown in, rough, and I said, ‘Please don’t be too nice,’” Trump said.
“Like when you guys put somebody in the car and you’re protecting their head, you know, the way you put their hand over, like, don’t hit their head and they’ve just killed somebody, don’t hit their head, I said, ‘You can take the hand away, OK?’” he added.
His remarks received significant applause.
Trump also made the dubious claim that laws were “horrendously stacked” against police officers and said he wants to change those laws. 
“For years and years, [laws have] been made to protect the criminal,” Trump said. “Totally protect the criminal, not the officers. You do something wrong, you’re in more jeopardy than they are. These laws are stacked against you. We’re changing those laws.”
In his speech, Trump also said that police officers in many parts of the country couldn’t do their jobs because they had a “pathetic mayor” or a mayor “who doesn’t know what’s going on.” Those comments also received a lengthy applause.
“It’s sad, it’s sad. You look at what’s happening, and it’s sad,” Trump said. “We’re going to support you like you’ve never been supported before.”
Trump also spoke about violence in Chicago, which was a consistent theme of his speeches throughout the campaign and is a topic he has continued to reference during his presidency. Trump recalled speaking to an “impressive” and “rough cookie” police officer from Chicago, and said the officer had told him he could straighten out the city’s violence problem in a “couple of days” if he was given the authority.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Trump may not be getting along these days, but the two are on the same page when it comes to policing. Sessions has had the Justice Department pull back from “pattern or practice” investigations that look into widespread constitutional abuses in police departments.
Zeke Johnson, senior director of programs at Amnesty International USA, said Trump’s “inflammatory and hateful speech will only escalate tensions between police and communities,” putting both officers and civilians at risk.
“Police cannot treat every community like an invading army, and encouraging violence by police is irresponsible and reprehensible,” he said.
Vanita Gupta, who headed the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division under former President Barack Obama, said Trump’s remarks were “unconscionable” and undermined the positive efforts of local law enforcement to build up community trust.
“The president of the United States, standing before an audience of law enforcement officials, actively encouraged police violence,” Gupta said. “We call on the president to immediately and unequivocally condemn police brutality. We can all respect our law enforcement officers without sanctioning unjust and illegal behavior.”
Robert Driscoll, a former Justice Department Civil Rights Division official under the President George W. Bush administration, was also critical. 
He's hit and miss, and this is a huge miss. https://t.co/ShzqQtbUvd
No beef with the Sanctuary City funding threats.  Funds come with policy strings.  But the Prez can't be saying what he said in a speech.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
At the heels of a diplomatic victory earlier this month spearheaded by U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley at the UN Security Council, came the war of words between North Korea’s Supreme Leader Kim Jong-Un and President Trump that escalated tensions in the Korean peninsula to historic levels. Both sides have heightened the rhetoric to a fever pitch while the world has watched on, transfixed in apprehension that the slightest miscalculation (or perhaps, a tweet) could set off a chain of events with catastrophic consequences for all.
Adding to this volatile mix is the Pentagon’s confirmation of preemptive strike plans, North Korea’s impending plan to launch missiles towards Guam, and the biannual joint military exercises with South Korea scheduled to start next week.
There is nothing good that can come from this current path of escalation. If the threats are taken to their literal extreme, any military solution (whether preventive or defensive) holds devastating outcomes. On the other hand, if the threats are empty red lines, then U.S. diplomacy ― regarded historically for its restraint and discipline ― loses credibility.
Military solutions have been war-gamed for decades, with no positive outcomes. If the U.S. were to carry out its preemptive strike plan to take out launch capabilities, North Korea would retaliate with 21,000 heavy artillery pieces trained on Seoul, just 35 miles out from the DMZ. Over 25 million people would be caught in the crosshairs of the capital, including over 200,000 Americans who live in South Korea.
The U.S. would need anywhere from 90,000-200,000 soldiers and many weeks to secure North Korean nuclear sites, while fighting off an army that is one million strong, with six million in reserves. That the U.S. and its regional allies would defeat North Korea is a forgone conclusion, but the potential casualties would be astronomical: hundreds of thousands of civilians would perish within the first few hours of conflict, estimates of tens of thousands (if not hundreds of thousands) of U.S. soldiers would be killed or injured, and millions would die on both sides of the peninsula when all is said and done. Despite the common refrain that “all options are on the table,” a preemptive strike is simply not a viable one.
While fighting words rally the domestic base against a belligerent dictator, given the potential outcome of war, are they worth the escalation? There is hope, however, and it’s found within the very threats that have been dominating the headlines over the past week. First, consider this statement from North Korean Foreign Ministry, “Should the U.S. dare to show even the slightest sign of attempt to remove our supreme leadership, we will strike a merciless blow at the heart of the U.S. with our powerful nuclear hammer.”
Next, observe U.S. Secretary of Defense Mattis’ response, “The DPRK should cease any consideration of actions that would lead to the end of its regime and the destruction of its people.” These statements (including President Trump’s now infamous “fire and fury” threat) are, no doubt, aggressive. They do, however, indicate a defensive posture on both sides. Despite the media over-hype that focuses primarily on the most incendiary parts of the exchanges, a more complete reading suggests that neither side has the intention to strike first.
What each side is (very poorly) communicating to the other is: IF you attack me first, THEN I will respond with devastating force. The operative word is “if.” With this comes a window of opportunity to consider a radical proposition to de escalate rising tensions, and bring about an end to the official state of war since 1950.
Towards De-escalation and Sustainable Peace
U.S. presidents over the course of three decades have taken both hard and soft approaches towards North Korea, and yet its posture has remained the same: defiance when it comes to its nuclear ambitions. President Trump’s tough-guy approach will not make a difference in their nuclear policy. If anything, it will accelerate the North’s nuclear weaponization, which it deems necessary for its survival.
Disconcerting as it may sound, North Korea’s pursuit of nuclear weapons is a rational one. It’s leveraged as a form of life insurance: so long as they have the bomb, they feel secure against an attack. Mr. Kim’s reality is that that 28,000 U.S. soldiers are fortified on his border. These troops are backed by South Korea’s military numbering over 500,000, manning sophisticated land and air weaponry that far outmatch his obsolete Soviet-era military hardware. Given the active state of war that the peninsula finds itself in and the frequency with which Washington has carried out regime change with troublesome dictators around the world, Mr. Kim has every reason to feel terrified about his precarious position.
Mr. Kim’s belligerent rhetoric and actions, though masked as bravado, are manifestations of this fear. In this context we can understand why, for example, following the U.S. and South Korean joint military exercises earlier this year, he fired off an ICBM missile as a show of force. Or when CIA Director, Mike Pompeo recently hinted at North Korean regime change, it set off the current episode of nuclear threats with the North’s vow to strike at the “heart of the U.S.” if such a move transpired.
The path of tough talk and sanctions has never worked with North Korea. Perhaps it’s time to try a different approach. Unlike his isolationist father, Kim Jong Il (who largely stayed out of the public eye), the Swiss-educated Supreme Leader, Kim Jong Un channels (in appearance, speech, and mannerisms) the legacy and ambitions of his grandfather, Kim il-Sung, the founder of North Korea. In this spirit, Mr. Kim has pursued two main state objectives since his ruthless consolidation of power in 2011: 1) Modernize its military and nuclear weapons capabilities; and 2) Develop North Korea’s economic prosperity through controlled market oriented reforms.
Mr. Kim knows that the survival of his regime, and the future that he envisions for North Korea are both directly tied to a deal with Washington. He hopes to leverage the bomb to negotiate concessions out of the U.S.: whether it is through aid, to bring about an official end to the Korean War, or to obtain U.S. recognition of North Korea as a sovereign state.
Since so much of what Mr. Kim is after is dependent on improved relations with the U.S., there is leverage to negotiate a meaningful peace with North Korea. In this context, the following four steps offer a path to help alleviate the current tensions, and set a trajectory for an eventual reconciliation in the peninsula:
1. Reduce Threat Perceptions
The nuclear age is not the time to engage in armed brinksmanship. Each provocation brings with it the very real possibility of miscalculation. The graveyard of history is replete full with wars that began under such faulty premises. In the current scenario, North Korea is like a caged beast that feels provoked (warranted or not) to the point that it has lashed out in increasingly alarming ways. Threats and repeated demonstrations of force have not worked for over half a century with this regime.
To reduce the current threat perception, it becomes necessary to demonstrate restraint through control of rhetoric and actions that can be perceived as a threat to the regime. These include public statements made by U.S. officials and perhaps even a reconsideration of this month’s joint military exercises between the US and South Korea (that are said to have included decapitation strike drills in the past), at least until the ongoing tensions are reduced.
2. Open Bilateral Talks
When Vice President Mike Pence visited South Korea earlier this year and warned the North that the “era of strategic patience is over,” it missed the point that strategic patience combined with bilateral dialogue has, in fact, helped the U.S. secure peaceful outcomes with nuclear rivals in the past. When Stalin’s Soviet Union and Chairman Mao’s China pursued a path of nuclear confrontation with the U.S., the US adopted a policy of restraint and engaged in high-level, bilateral talks until mutual agreements were reached.
The U.S. secured a big win at the UN Security Council this month, which demonstrates its continued ability to lead the global community on the issue. If this is coupled with a joint U.S.-China approach towards Pyongyang, it would send a strong message that its physical security and economic potential are directly tied to its commitment to regional peace. Strategic patience combined with skillful diplomacy has worked for the U.S. in the past and can be leveraged in this current situation just as effectively.
3. Demilitarization for Denuclearization
It’s worth asking the question: To what extent are U.S. interests served with the continuation of its military presence along the DMZ for the past 64 years? Is it worth the possibility of a nuclear war? To complicate matters, the current situation is reminiscent of the chicken and egg scenario: North Korea will not let up its nuclear weapons program so long as it feels threatened by the U.S., while the US refuses to budge until North Korea gives up its nuclear program. This diplomatic conundrum has the potential to be resolved with a mutually assured drawdown. In this scenario, Washington would commit to a phased reduction in troops along the DMZ, following North Korea’s commitment to phase out its nuclear weapons program. This phased and scheduled draw-down would continue until both sides are mutually assured in one another’s fulfillment of pledges.
Any draw-down would occur with reassurances to U.S. allies in the region that its security commitment to the region remains unchanged. Additionally, North Korea must feel secure that its territorial integrity will remain in tact from any potential (however unlikely) South Korean bid to unify the peninsula with it’s vastly superior military.
This effort should not be read as appeasement, nor an abandonment of its interests in the region. To the contrary, today’s capabilities are very different than what they were in 1950s: if North Korea violates the agreement (which it has often done in the past), or worse, takes action against the South, the U.S. can, and should be in a position to intervene locally with swift precision. Secretary of Defense Mattis’ recent statement warning against any action that would threaten the U.S. or its allies is the appropriate tone to convey in this regard.
4. Re-conceptualize and Reconcile:
Perhaps it’s time to take a step back and reconsider the U.S.’ broader role in the region. Currently the U.S. is caught between an ally and a bad place. To add complexity, there is some sentiment among the Southern ally that U.S. military presence along the DMZ comprises prospects for an inter-Korea reconciliation process. The recent election of President Moon Jae-in demonstrated a willingness on the part of South Koreans to depart previous hawkish stances towards the North, in favor of direct bilateral talks. This is backed by polls that show strong support (80 percent in favor) towards the resumption of talks for denuclearization and eventual reconciliation.
In an acknowledgement of these realities, the U.S. can begin to shift its role from one of protector to mediator. It can remain the guarantor of security and stability for its allies, but from a reasonable distance. This move would phase the U.S. out of the direct line of conflict, and into the role of mediator at the peace table. There are three goals that can be accomplished through this shift in policy: 1) Reduce U.S. tensions with the North, 2) Support opportunities for mediated reconciliation between the North and South, and 3) Remove the U.S. from the line of fire both along the DMZ, and the homeland.
Considered together, these policies aim to achieve an immediate reduction of tension and a long-term possibility of peace. Fortunately, despite the concerning rhetoric of the past week, there are no visible indications that a war is imminent. There would be two tell-tale signs of this: 1) the mass evacuation of American citizens and dependents along the DMZ; and 2) a build up of U.S. military presence in the region. That said, the first step towards peace is to step away from the inflammatory rhetoric. The U.S. has the opportunity demonstrate responsible leadership once again by being the example of restraint, stability, and calm it hopes to achieve in the peninsula.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
After six months of the Donald Trump presidency, we know what to expect going forward.  We’ve learned six lessons.
1.Trump lies all the time:  Going into the election we knew that Trump lies at an astounding rate ― typically more than one lie per day ― but after January 20th some of us nurtured the hope that Donald would begin acting more presidential No way.
Trump may go incommunicado for a day or two , but then he will unleash a barrage of misstatements, distortions, and outright falsehoods ― usually via Twitter.  On July 26, the “Washington Post” posted a headline,“26 hours, 29 Trumpian False or Misleading Claims.”
Writing in Mother Jones, Denise Clifton mused that while Trump’s “chronic duplicity” may be the consequence of a severe psychological disorder, “the 45th president’s stream of lies echoes a contemporary form of Russian propaganda known as the ‘Firehose of Falsehood’.”  Clifton wrote:
Whether Trump lies because he’s adopted a Russian tactic or because he’s mentally ill, his chronic duplicity is having serious consequences for American political discourse. Many voters don’t know who to believe; they can’t discern “fake news.” As a result there’s unparalleled polarization: Voters who trust Trump and the majority who don’t.
Trump’s conduct riles up legitimate news outlets, such as “Mother Jones” and the “Washington Post,” and they report negatively on Trump, which feeds his paranoia, causing him to lash out.
2. The Trump Administration leaks: Viewed from the “Left Coast,” the Washington culture thrives on gossip and insider information.  Nonetheless, the Trump era has seen an unusual number of leaks.
Trump supporters blame this on the dark state ― the national security state ― and the liberal media ― such as “Mother Jones” and the “Washington Post” ― whom they believe are out to get Trump.  There’s some truth to this suspicion because once Trump entered office, he blasted both groups.
But there’s another explanation: Trump has an unusually abrasive personality and a lot of Washington insiders don’t like him.  He lashes out and they respond by leaking.
Whatever the cause, the leaks are likely to continue, which will contribute to Trump’s paranoia.
3. Trump only cares about Trump.  After the election, there was a brief interval where some Americans thought, “I didn’t vote for Trump, but whether I like it or not, he’s the president and I’m going to give him the benefit of the doubt.”  That period is over.  The nation is divided between those who support the president (roughly one-third of the electorate) and those who do not (two-thirds of the electorate).
Since January 20th, Trump has made no attempt to reach out to those who either did not vote for him or did so reluctantly.  He only talks to his base.
And he’s used his office to benefit his business interests.
4. Trump hasn’t gotten the job done.  In an August 7th tweet, Trump said his base supports him because of the “record Stock Market, border security, military strength, jobs, Supreme Court pick, economic enthusiasm, deregulation and so much more.”
Trump tries to take credit for the booming stock market and the generally positive financial news, but a case can be made that these are carryovers from the Obama Administration.  On the tweeted list, the only event that Trump was directly involved in was the selection of Supreme Court Justice Neil Gorsuch.
Trump’s base expected him to keep his campaign promises, such as “repeal and replace Obamacare,” “build a border wall,” and “lock up Hillary Clinton.”  None of these have been accomplished.  Furthermore, Trump’s recent failure to push through Obamacare repeal suggests that he does not have the wherewithal to move his legislative agenda through the (Republican-controlled) congress.
5. Trump’s strongest card continues to be racism.  Writing in the “New York Times,” Emory University professor Carol Anderson observed:
On August 2nd, Trump endorsed a Republican initiative ― led by Senators Cotton and Perdue ― that would dramatically change immigration policy and reduce immigration levels by 50 percent.  That same day, presidential aide Stephen Miller appeared at a White House press conference to laud the immigration initiative and claim that current policy has produced a slew of economic problems such as income inequality and a dearth of good-paying jobs.  There’s no compelling evidence for this assertion but it plays well with Trump’s (white) base.
6. The Mueller inquiry isn’t going away.  Since May, former FBI director Robert Mueller has been the special counsel responsible for the investigation into possible ties between Russia and Trump’s election campaign.  Trump calls the Mueller inquiry “a witch hunt.”  The good news is that the Trump-Russia investigation will grind on, mostly out of sight of the media, and eventually produce results.  The bad news is that it will take many months ― we’ll be fortunate to see definitive results in a year.
Meanwhile the Mueller inquiry will feed Trump’s paranoia. An already unstable president will become even more erratic.  Hold on tight!
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
The extravagant Washington, D.C., hotel bearing the name of President Donald Trump took home nearly $2 million in profits this year, according to financial reports from its management company seen by multiple media outlets.
The Trump Organization, which rents the building from the federal government, had previously projected that the Trump International Hotel would lose $2.1 million in the first quarter of the year, according to The Washington Post, which first reported the documents. 
But the hotel’s $660.28 average nightly rate― far higher than the rate of comparable hotels in the area ― made it a lucrative property. And as The Wall Street Journal points out, the hotel also received a higher-than-normal portion of its revenue from food and beverages. 
The General Services Administration, the property’s landlord, posted detailed information about the hotel’s finances online on Thursday. 
“The documents were posted inadvertently and have been removed from the website,” a spokesperson for the GSA told HuffPost in a statement.
The new records bolster concerns about the hotel and the Trump Organization. Because Trump did not fully divest from his businesses, he still benefits financially from the hotel, which ethics groups have suggested leaves him open to major conflicts of interest, including bribery. 
In June, lobbying records revealed that the hotel received nearly $270,000 from Saudi Arabia, which had been pushing the U.S. to abandon legislation allowing U.S. citizens to sue foreign governments over terrorism. Trump eventually said he would donate the Saudi payments to the Treasury.
The watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington alleged in January that Trump was violating the hotel’s lease by not divesting from his company.
“The potential conflicts of interest with regard to President Trump’s company’s lease of the Old Post Office Building are serious and real,” CREW Executive Director Noah Bookbinder said. “President Trump now both owns the lessee, Old Post Office LLC, and controls the lessor, GSA, whose administrator is appointed by and serves at the pleasure of the president.”
It’s not the only Trump property that has benefited financially from its namesake’s presidency. Many of Trump’s other properties, including the Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida and the Turnberry golf club in Scotland, have also increased their membership fees since the election. 
Daniel Marans contributed reporting.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON ― The GOP health care bill is not dead ― at least not officially.
Just hours before a promised Tuesday vote on a motion to proceed, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) was still working behind the scenes to win the support he needs to begin debating a Republican health care bill.
“Republican health care bill” is all we know. After years of complaints about the process Democrats used to pass Obamacare, Republican senators intend to open debate without a single hearing, without a single markup, and without clear knowledge of what they’ll be voting on.
Republicans spent time Monday night defending that process. GOP leadership member John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) said it was “absolutely” appropriate for Republicans to proceed, even without knowing the effects of a key part of their bill and whether it will take 60 votes to pass. When HuffPost asked Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) if the process was really better than that used by Democrats to pass Obamacare, Corker said: “We’ll see.” And Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), answering the same question, said he would just like to see a bill passed.
The plan was for Republicans to vote Tuesday afternoon on a motion to proceed to the House-passed legislation. If that motion passes, Republicans could then put up amendments to replace that measure entirely. A repeal-only bill, a revised replacement bill, and legislation to give states the power to decide Obamacare all were expected to get a vote.
It wasn’t clear, however, what the text of those bills would look like, whether the provisions would survive the Senate’s Byrd rule, and ― the biggest question of all ― whether McConnell has the votes for passage.
Amazingly, the GOP plan just might work at winning Republican support ― an accomplishment for McConnell at this point.
The biggest news Monday night was that Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) would return to the Capitol on Tuesday for the motion to proceed. It’s hard to imagine GOP leadership bringing McCain back after last week’s surgery if they didn’t think his vote would be decisive, though McConnell may be trying to rally Republicans by using McCain’s presence. (Who wants to be the GOP senator who made McCain risk his health to fly across the country to cast an irrelevant vote?)
If McConnell can pull off this feat of beginning debate, no one should count out the Senate leader in getting a bill back to the House. But even if he gets 50 votes for the motion to proceed, McConnell will still face trouble passing a bill. Every previous version has had strong opposition from at least three GOP senators ― enough to sink the bill.
McConnell still has roughly $200 billion to dole out to win over reluctant Republicans. And if the Senate begins an amendment process, it wouldn’t be far-fetched to see lawmakers negotiating until they craft something that could get 50 votes (with Vice President Mike Pence breaking the tie).
For weeks now, Republicans have been working on a Medicaid “wraparound” amendment, which would give some states additional money to soften the blow of Medicaid cuts in the Better Care Reconciliation Act. That amendment could be key to getting undecided moderates on-board, like Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), even Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska).
Murkowski has looked like one of the toughest Republican holdouts. She has outright said she would not support a motion to proceed for the repeal-only bill, saying it would be devastating for her Alaska constituents, and she has raised concerns about the Better Care Reconciliation Act.
But as of Monday night, Murkowski said she was undecided on the motion to proceed to the House legislation. Asked if she knew what Republicans would be voting on after the motion to proceed, Murkowski said she didn’t.
“I’m told we’re going to be finding that out, which will be very important,” she said.
McCain’s presence could put additional pressure on Murkowski, in addition to Heller, Portman, and Capito.
One aspect to this gambit is the order of the legislation on which Republicans will vote. Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), who plans to vote against the Better Care Reconciliation Act, but would vote for the repeal-only bill, has suggested he might oppose the motion to proceed if the repeal measure is not the first amendment after debate is opened.
“I can vote for a motion to proceed if we’ll proceed to a clean repeal,” Paul said. “Let’s see how we do on that one. If it doesn’t pass, they can put up their monstrosity insurance bailout bill.”
“I’m not for them saying, ‘Oh, we’re not sure what we’re going to,’” Paul added.
But asked point-blank if his vote for the motion to proceed was contingent on the repeal bill getting the first vote, Paul evaded a straight answer, saying Republicans promised people they would repeal Obamacare and he thinks they “ought to do it upfront.”
One vote GOP leaders seem to be counting out is Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine). Collins said she would be a no on the repeal bill, a no on the Republican replacement bill, and a no on the House bill. But Collins said she couldn’t say where she would be on a new bill, and would vote yes on a motion to proceed to a resolution instructing committees to come up with a bill.
Collins said Monday that leadership had not contacted her in days ― a sign that even McConnell may have given up on her vote.
Senators may go along with opening debate, however, just to soften attacks against them for not repealing and replacing Obamacare, especially if they can park a vote on one of the alternative proposals ― all of which look destined to fail.
For Paul, and Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah), who have said they won’t support the Better Care Reconciliation Act because it preserves too much of Obamacare, voting for the repeal-only bill is a good way to show their priorities and shift the blame onto moderates. For moderates, voting for the Better Care Reconciliation Act, but not the repeal bill, may be a way of blaming conservatives, as long as the legislation never comes back to life.
Collins, Murkowski, and Capito have said they will oppose the repeal-only bill, meaning it stands little chance of passing. And Collins, Paul, Lee, and Jerry Moran (R-Kan.) have all said they will oppose the Better Care Reconciliation Act, with a handful of moderates remaining cagey about where they stand.
If all the bills are going down, it isn’t exactly clear why McConnell would want to go through the exercise of opening debate, unless he actually thinks he can get the bill over the finish line. If senators like Heller, who said he would vote against the motion to proceed for an earlier version, are just going to vote against the repeal-only bill and the Better Care Reconciliation Act, it might look odd if he supports the motion to proceed, though Republicans could always say they thought it was appropriate for the Senate to begin debate.
But GOP leadership and President Donald Trump seem to be treating the motion to proceed as if it were support of the legislation itself. Maybe there’s something else we don’t know.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
While American healthcare reform continues to be held hostage by pure partisan politics, elsewhere leaders are forging real progress on one of the most important issues of our time, with a huge impact on healthy aging. In great ironic clarity, this contrast played out nearly perfectly this week on the two sides of the American continent. In Washington, Congress showed how entrenched it has become, while far across the land in San Francisco, one event showcased how aging is unlocking transformative innovation in healthcare: the once-every-four-year World Congress of the International Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics (IAGG).
So, Charles Krauthammer’s, “Nobody has any idea what to do about healthcare” might be true if you’re inside the Beltway, but not quite true if you know where to look.
To wit: IAGG convened over 6,000 experts in geriatrics, gerontology, medicine, healthcare, and economics. But this year also featured Fortune 100 Companies from industries as diverse as technology, home care, financial services, and pharmaceuticals. Each of these private-sector leaders came to IAGG because they realize the competitive need to engage on the theme of global aging. In the process, they are showing how their marketplace innovations will become the drivers of healthier aging in our 21st century, even as the politics of healthcare fails us.
These are some of the highlights from the Silver Economy – today judged to be at about $15 trillion – which serves the one billion of us over 55 on the planet:
Technology Creates Standard of Care
Care is increasingly moving from the 20th century healthcare facility to where the need is – including our homes and other, what in the last century would be considered, remote locations. What we saw in San Francisco was the market-driven technology innovation of Remote Patient Monitoring (RPM) that not only improve our quality of lives – often through earlier detection and diagnosis leading to prevention and wellness only dreamed about on Capitol Hill – but also offering a vital, cost-efficient solution. RPM is rapidly becoming the Standard of Care in our 21st century because of its value to improved health outcomes while delivering the savings the politicians in DC, London, Tokyo or Beijing want. For example, at IAGG we learned that this application of innovative new technologies can contribute as much as a 40% drop in hospital admissions and up to a 75% decrease in readmissions – both huge drivers of health spending. Undoubtedly, these savings come in the form of huge improvements in quality of life – reduced falls, better control of diabetes, or better management of NCDs, including targeted ones like congestive heart failure.
Financial Institutions Learn Healthcare
Banks were also in evidence at IAGG, one in particular – Bank of America Merrill Lynch – which, in partnership with Ken Dychtwald’s Age Wave, himself a gerontologist leader for over four decades, reported some of the most groundbreaking survey research in aging today, including people’s concerns and goals for their retirement. The research found that retirees’ and pre-retirees’ top priority is health, while their top fear is the great scourge of the 21st century: Alzheimer’s. And therefore, in light of this critical insight, health is becoming one of the critical factors of Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s training: thousands of financial advisors are learning how to engage with older consumers and to recognize warning signs like difficulty managing finances and evidence of financial abuse. This partnership is a key competitive advantage for Bank of America, and an example of the kind of non-traditional collaboration that we desperately need to address the burden of Alzheimer’s and other diseases of aging, where markets are driving innovation that politics miss.
Home Care as a 21st Century Preferred Care Model
For over 20 years, Omaha-based Home Instead Senior Care has been leading the revolution transforming elder care and enabling the critical aging-in-place trend. Quality home care helps seniors achieve one of their chief goals, while also generating enormous economic value: $13.4 billion in total savings to the health care system and one of the fastest growing job sectors in the entire US economy, yielding tangible benefits that ultimately accrue to businesses and employees.
At IAGG, we also learned of home care’s vital function in decreasing the burden on family caregivers, most notably, adult daughters, which represents a silent social crisis and employee productivity drain. The numbers here should be a wakeup call: The average U.S. caregiver is a 49-year old woman. As many as 91% have seen a negative impact on their work life, such as showing up late or leaving early, being more distracted at work, passing up deserved promotions, or leaving the full-time workforce altogether. Professional home care is helping to address this disproportionate impact, re-shaping the care model globally.
Pharma Innovation in Wellness and Prevention
Abundantly evident at IAGG, one also saw that adult vaccines are another area of huge potential for our health and savings across the healthcare system. Every year, more than 40,000 U.S. adults are hospitalized due to vaccine-preventable diseases, and treatment of these diseases costs the US alone over $26 billion each year, which doesn’t even include the additional costs that cascade from lost productivity. Innovators like Pfizer shed important light on how we need to step up to a global effort behind adult vaccinations, much like we did in the mid-20th century for childhood vaccinations. Not only would adult vaccines reduce costs, they would also help older adults to maintain their functional ability – staying healthy, active, and independent for longer. Why would we not embark on a global public health adult immunization campaign for our 21st century, when there are more of us over 60 than under 14?
Instead of doubling down on a never-ending healthcare debate, Congress and the White House might take note of such healthcare fixes already in the marketplace and spend some time designing public policy reforms that create hospitable conditions for even more innovation. A wake-up call, indeed!
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Reality TV star Duane “Dog the Bounty Hunter” Chapman on Monday joined a federal lawsuit against New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R), alleging that the state’s bail reform initiative, enacted earlier this year, led to the violation of the constitutional rights of a man who was shot to death in April.
Chapman announced his support for the suit at a press conference in front of the U.S. District Court building in Trenton, where he appeared alongside June Rodgers, the lead plaintiff in the case.
In a statement before the press conference, Chapman blasted what he called the state’s “dangerous, fake reform.” He blamed the reforms for the wrongful death of Rodgers’ son, Christian, 26, who was fatally shot in Vineland in April.
“Christie should be ashamed of himself,” Chapman said. “The governor needs to know that the eyes of every American who loves their family and wants to preserve law and order are on him right now.”
Jules Black, 30, has been charged with murder in Christian Rodgers’ slaying. Black had been arrested on felony gun charges days before the shooting, but was released from jail under New Jersey’s bail reform law, which essentially eliminated the use of cash bail at the beginning of the year. Judges now use a risk assessment system to release most defendants without requiring them to pay.
The lawsuit claims June Rodgers is entitled to punitive damages because Christie, state Attorney General Christopher Porrino, and the Laura and John Arnold Foundation, the organization that developed the risk-assessment tool now used in New Jersey, allegedly “acted with a willful and conscience [sic] indifference to the laws that protect” the constitutional rights of the Rodgers family. The suit is also seeking injunctive relief to halt New Jersey’s bail reform law.
“Make no mistake that the state of New Jersey, that Attorney General Porrino, that Governor Christie, that the Laura and John Arnold Foundation are Christian’s killers as well,” said Mike Donovan, president and CEO of Nexus Services, Inc., at the press conference. Nexus is a controversial for-profit bail services group that is funding Rodgers’ lawsuit through Nexus Caridades, Inc., a law firm that the company sponsors.
The New Jersey attorney general’s office did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Rodgers’ lawsuit is the latest challenge to New Jersey’s bail reform law, which voters initially approved in November 2014. Under the new system, judges rely on a comprehensive, evidence-based risk assessment, which weighs a suspect’s criminal history and other factors to determine conditions for release before trial. A judge can order a defendant held without bail if they are found to be a substantial risk to community safety, but most defendants are now released without financial conditions, with some required to report to a pretrial services agency ahead of their trial date.
“The risk assessment is validated on hundreds of thousands of records to be predictive of whether or not someone will commit a new offense, whether or not they’ll commit a violent offense and whether they’ll return to court,” said Roseanne Scotti, director of the New Jersey chapter of the Drug Policy Alliance, a nonprofit that advocated for the state’s bail reform law.
“Under the old system, a court could not even consider dangerousness ― it was against the law,” added Scotti. “The only thing they could consider was whether or not they thought the person would show back up for court.”
Although Black was among the defendants released under the state’s bail reform law, Scotti said he also would have been able to get out under the previous system, which allowed suspects to simply pay for their freedom. Under the money bail scheme, those who can’t afford their full bail amount may secure release with the help of a for-profit bail bonds service, which charges a non-refundable premium ― typically 10 percent of the total. Commercial bail bondsmen exist in only two countries, the U.S. and the Philippines.
Porrino announced tweaks to the law shortly after Rodgers’ death, urging prosecutors to more aggressively seek bail denials for defendants accused of serious gun crimes, as well as for sex offenders or people on parole or on pre-trial release for other crimes. It’s unclear if this guidance would have changed the results of Black’s pretrial assessment, leading to him being held without bail.
Civil rights groups have advocated for similar changes to bail systems in various states and jurisdictions, and the issue has attracted support from lawmakers on both sides of the aisle.
Critics of money bail argue that it has led to an unconstitutional, two-tiered system of pretrial justice, allowing wealthy people to buy their freedom while poorer, often low-level defendants are left to languish behind bars before any determination of guilt.
Money bail can also heap costs onto poorer defendants and their families, since using a commercial bail bondsman can leave them paying fees even if charges are eventually dropped, or if they are found not guilty at trial.
Beyond the constitutional concerns, proponents of bail reform claim that the system fills jails at a great cost to taxpayers. On any given day, nearly 450,000 people are awaiting trial in jails across the U.S. Many face low-level charges, and are only locked up because they can’t afford to pay bail. It costs $14 billion annually ― approximately $38 million every day ― to house these individuals.
New Jersey’s reform has already had a notable effect on the number of people being held in jails. Data released this month shows that the pre-trial jail population has dropped by 20 percent from the same time last year, with nearly 1,500 fewer people awaiting trial behind bars. Although there have been a handful of high-profile instances of defendants re-offending after being released under the new guidelines, there has been no significant increase in violent crime rates, and the measure has largely been hailed as a success.
To bail bonds workers like Chapman and his wife, Beth, who now serves as president of the Professional Bail Agents of the United States lobbying group, the picture is far more dire.
“Two hundred years the bail bonds system has been in effect in America, and for 200 years it has worked,” Chapman said at Monday’s press conference. “All the sudden one state has changed it, and now they’re in chaos.”
Beth Chapman likened the reform to a “hug-a-thug campaign,” and pushed back on the claim that defendants end up getting stuck behind bars just because they can’t afford to bail out.
“The fact is, is that people are not in jail because they’re poor,” she said. “They’re in jail because they broke the law, or they hurt someone.”
To Scotti, the Chapmans’ involvement in the lawsuit indicates the bail bonds industry is willing to throw anything at the wall to see what sticks.
“Even if this is a frivolous lawsuit, even if it has no merit, they got a chance to have a big press conference and get some media attention and say things that are simply not true about the system,” she said. “If they continue to fan the flames of saying bail reform is a failure, that, to them, is a success.”
Read the lawsuit below:
June Rodgers v Chris Christie Et al. by Nick Wing on Scribd
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
President Donald Trump on Thursday thanked Russian President Vladimir Putin for expelling American diplomats in retaliation for new economic sanctions, saying the staff moves will “save a lot of money” for the U.S.  
“I want to thank him because we’re trying to cut down our payroll, and as far as I’m concerned, I’m very thankful that he let go of a large number of people because now we have a smaller payroll,” Trump told reporters at his golf club in New Jersey, according to a White House pool report. “There’s no real reason for them to go back. I greatly appreciate the fact that we’ve been able to cut our payroll of the United States. We’re going to save a lot of money.”
It’s unclear whether that’s the case. More than two-thirds of U.S. government employees in Russia were foreign nationals ― not American citizens, according to a 2013 State Department report unearthed by The Washington Post. Though the U.S. may have to remove hundreds from its payroll, it’s unlikely anyone would be expelled from the country.
Putin announced last month he would require U.S. diplomatic missions to cut 755 workers, leaving 455 American employees at embassies and consulates in Russia. The State Department report said 333 U.S. citizens were working for the U.S. government in Russia in 2013.
The expulsions quickly followed passage of a bill in Congress imposing new sanctions on Russia as a response to intelligence agencies concluding Russian officials meddled in the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Trump reluctantly signed the law last week. It also sanctions Iran and North Korea.
“While I favor tough measures to punish and deter aggressive and destabilizing behavior by Iran, North Korea, and Russia, this legislation is significantly flawed,” Trump said after signing the bill.
American officials had long expected Moscow to retaliate after former President Barack Obama expelled 35 Russian diplomats last year in response to Russia’s interference in the 2016 U.S. election, but the high number of diplomats Putin ordered out of the country came as a surprise.
As HuffPost’s Jessica Schulberg reported, diplomats say this round of expulsions from Russia is reminiscent of when the Soviet Union kicked hundreds of U.S. diplomatic staff from Moscow, creating a burden for the remaining diplomats in keeping the embassies running. 
A White House official attempted to walk back Trump’s comments on Friday, saying the president was “being sarcastic” in his thanks to Putin, according to CBS News’ Margaret Brennan.
This article has been updated with a White House comment from Friday. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration will overhaul an Obama-era protection plan for the greater sage grouse in a way that will also allow for increased economic development, in particular oil and gas production, in Western states, a move criticized by conservationists as “careless.” 
In a memo published Monday, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke directed his agency to implement nine management recommendations from an internal review team that include providing greater flexibility for management decisions and modifying or issuing “new policy on fluid mineral leasing and development.” Zinke wrote he is “particularly interested in assisting the states in setting sage-grouse population objectives to improve management of the species.”
Sage grouse, ground-dwelling game birds with an elaborate mating ritual, used to number in the millions. Loss of sagebrush habitat from development and invasive plant species has decimated the population, now estimated between 200,000 and 500,000. Their current range spans about 257,000 square miles across 11 Western states, less than half of the species’ historic range.
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service determined in 2015 that, as a result of collaborative efforts among federal, state and local entities, the greater sage grouse did not warrant protections under the Endangered Species Act, a decision that drew criticism from both environmentalists and oil, gas and mining interests. Then-Interior Secretary Sally Jewell called it a “milestone for conservation in America.”
In June, Zinke signed a secretarial order to review the Obama-era plan. The goal, he told reporters at the time, was to improve collaboration between federal agencies and 11 Western states to ensure continued protections of the imperiled bird while providing states with “greater flexibility” to pursue opportunities for energy development and job growth.
“There have been some complaints by several of the governors that their ability to use federal lands — whether it’s for oil and gas, recreation, timber, across the board — that some of the heavy-handedness on habitats don’t allow for some of those uses, and they’ve come up with what they believe are innovative plans and workarounds,” Zinke said in June. “And we certainly want to work with states if that’s their desire to do that.”
Conservation groups were quick to criticize Interior’s plan, which they said disregarded science and threatened years of collaborative work. 
In a statement, Nada Culver, senior director of policy and planning at The Wilderness Society, called the recommendations “a sideways attempt to abandon habitat protection for unfettered oil and gas development and in favor of discredited, narrow tools like captive breeding and population targets.”
Chris Saeger, executive director of the Western Values Project, called the plan “careless” and said it “will no doubt fast-track the greater sage-grouse’s listing as an endangered species.”
“When you hear the same message from Western governors, ranchers, your own wildlife biologists and land managers — and you still ignore it, that’s a problem,” said Kate Kelly, public lands director at the Center for American Progress. “These recommendations confirm that Zinke is on a path to derail years of collaborative work, putting an entire landscape — and the economy that relies on it — at risk.”
The American Petroleum Institute, a trade association for America’s oil and natural gas industry, said energy development and sage grouse populations can coexist. 
“Removing administrative barriers to conservation is critical to protecting the greater sage grouse without hindering responsible energy development and local economic opportunities,” API Upstream Director Erik Milito said in a statement.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
Sen. John McCain surprised his colleagues early Friday morning when he cast his vote opposing the Health Care Freedom Act, joining Republican Sens. Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and all of the chamber’s Democrats and independents to defeat the bill. 
Video of the vote, tweeted by entrepreneur and activist Michael Skolnik, shows McCain walking to the front of the Senate floor after his name is called, stretching out his hand, pausing and saying “No” loudly enough for all to hear. His colleagues gasp, and some applaud as he makes his way back to his chair.
The moment John McCain voted 👎 pic.twitter.com/ehivwkJVd4
The Republicans’ Obamacare replacement lost in the Senate, 49 to 51. Watch the dramatic moment in the video above.
CLARIFICATION: Language has been updated to reflect McCain walked to the front of the Senate floor after his name was called.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) says President Donald Trump is ready for war with North Korea if the rogue nation doesn’t cease its development of a nuclear missile capable of reaching the United States.
“He has told me that. I believe him,” Graham said on NBC’s “Today” on Tuesday. “If I were China, I would believe him, too, and do something about it.”
Host Matt Lauer said military experts believe there is no good military option for handling North Korea. Graham insisted those experts were wrong. 
“There is a military option: to destroy North Korea’s program and North Korea itself,” Graham said, adding that he prefers a diplomatic solution. 
The White House did not respond to Graham’s comments about North Korea; however, Vice President Mike Pence said on Tuesday that “all options are on the table.”
On Sunday, South Korea said that Pyongyang may be gearing up for either another missile launch or a nuclear test. The warning came just days after North Korea fired an intercontinental ballistic missile, which landed in the Sea of Japan. 
Graham urged North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un to back off while he still can, as continuing to develop these weapons would make a war “inevitable.” 
“You’re making our president pick between regional stability and homeland security. He’s having to make a choice that no president wants to make. They’ve kicked the can down the road for 20 years, there’s no place else to kick it. There will be a war with North Korea over their missile program if they continue to try to hit America with an ICBM.”
Graham also tried to sound an odd note of reassurance, claiming that such a war wouldn’t kill Americans at home.
“If there’s going to be a war to stop (Kim), it will be over there,” he said. “If thousands die, they’re going to die over there. They’re not going to die here, and [Trump’s] told me that to my face.” 
Graham insisted that Trump doesn’t want a war, but is willing to engage in one to stop Pyongyang’s missile development.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) suggested that Graham might not have the best information on the topic.
“Lindsey Graham should get a classified briefing, like the ones I have had, and sit down with Secretary (James) Mattis, which I have done,” Feinstein told MSNBC on Tuesday. “It is all classified. But we know much more about these weapons and where they are and what the difficulties are, and that’s all I can say.”
She also responded via Twitter: 
I’ve been briefed by Secretary Mattis and I read the intelligence. We need a diplomatic solution in North Korea—not a military one.
At least one expert panned Graham’s comments. 
“This is madness,” wrote Kingston Reif of the Arms Control Association. “Unhinged madness.”
Among those Graham offers up "to die over there": Tens of thousands of US troops stationed in ROK, Japan. Tens of thousands of US citizens.
On Tuesday, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson also called on North Korea to engage in more diplomacy. 
“We are not your enemy, but you are presenting an unacceptable threat to us, and we have to respond,” Tillerson said, per Reuters. “And we hope that at some point they will begin to understand that and we would like to sit and have a dialogue with them.”
He added that a precondition of such dialogue was North Korea surrendering its nuclear ambitions.  
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
With Cliff Young, President Ipsos
Don’t believe the hype. Popular narrative right now has the Democrats “zero for four” when it comes to elections, with much accompanying angst about the state of affairs in the party. But as always, we encourage armchair pundits to remain grounded in the numbers and the bigger picture, and remember that individual isolated elections are not leading indicators of, well, anything!
A data-driven approach to election prediction takes into account the structural context of an election scenario, and the primary explanatory factors for the 2018 midterm elections are purely structural in nature. Our analysis allows us to look towards 2018 with clearer eyes.
If the 2018 midterm elections were held today, the Republicans would lose control of the House by about seven seats. But they shouldn’t necessarily blame Trump: the reasons are almost entirely out of his hands. There is a ‘rhythm’ to politics and control of the House of Representatives; this is something we can explore using a 5-variable regression model to forecast House seats. This model was tested with data from all midterm congressional elections from 1946 to 2006, a total of 17 data points. The specific model inputs include:
1. Presidential approval ratings, taken from Gallup [LINK] from 1946 to 1990 and from multiple poll averages thereafter
2. The number of Republican seats in the previous congress, a lagged variable
3. The difference in poll data on the “Generic Congressional Ballot” question (Republican share minus Democrat share) [LINK]
4. The party of the sitting president
5. The difference in House seats (Republican minus Democrat) as the dependent variable
Our House model, which has a high predictive value, suggests an estimated 27-seat gain by Democrats, translating into a net 7-seat Democrat advantage.
Our model shows that the two strongest drivers are the Generic Congressional Ballot polling and the party of the president. The fact that the president is a Republican speaks to the “structural” nature of the rhythm of House control. The party newly in control of the White House is in some ways automatically disadvantaged at the next midterm election. Any Republican ― not just President Trump ― would notably increase the Republicans’ chances of losing the House. We would add that the debate over healthcare is also hurting Republicans right now. Healthcare is an issue on which Democrats are typically seen as stronger, and the political chaos around ACA / AHCA will naturally hurt Republicans more than Democrats.
There are some notable caveats that may apply here. First, Democratic advantage may be underestimated due to gerrymandering, which has traditionally helped Republicans. Second, this estimate is based on the present moment, including Trump’s current approval ratings [LINK] and data on today’s Generic Congressional Ballot [LINK].
That said, the highly predictive value of this model paired with the immutability of key variables (number of seats and President’s party) suggest that this prediction is a solid one. It is certainly not outside the realm of possibility that Trump’s ratings will remain as low as they currently are. Indeed, they have not improved significantly from the earliest ratings [LINK] taken of him prior to his election as President. Despite Trump’s lack of support, this model does not factor in the President as an individual, so even a change in the President himself (due to impeachment or any other cause) would not change some of the key model inputs.
Just as we predicted Trump would be the Republican nominee before others, we are now predicting the Democrats will win the House in 2018. Of course, we reserve the right to adjust and update this prediction as new data comes to light. But, at this point, it would likely take a significant change in public opinion to shift these numbers back in Republican favor.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
I received a call Monday night from Roger Stone, the infamous political prankster and Donald Trump confidant. He wanted to talk about Anthony Scaramucci, whose 10-day tenure as White House communications director had just ended in ignominy.
Stone said that Scaramucci reminded him of “a suicide bomber,” then switched centuries for his next metaphor. “The administration is like the French Revolution,” Stone said. “You never know who will be beheaded next.”
But Stone didn’t believe that Scaramucci would stay far from the president for long. “As you know, none of us are ever really gone. He still has the president’s cellphone, the president’s private number. Just because he’s not in the White House, no one should think his influence has gone.”
When I spoke to Scaramucci on Tuesday afternoon, the financier was more interested in justifying his recent past.
From the beginning of his time in the Trump White House, way back on July 20, critics said that Scaramucci was too similar to Trump, too eager to be on TV, to last. Scaramucci was keenly aware of that particular liability. It explains why his opening news conference was so filled with compliments for the president. He knew there was only one person watching whose opinion of him mattered. 
“The president thought I killed it,” Scaramucci told me the following day, still clearly hyped up by his experience in the White House briefing room.
“If you were 7 inches taller, I’d be worried,” Trump told Scaramucci, according to someone familiar with the conversation who asked not to be named quoting the president.
The euphoria wouldn’t last long. A Politico reporter alerted Scaramucci that Ryan Lizza of The New Yorker tweeted Wednesday night that Scaramucci was at dinner with the president, first lady Melania Trump, Fox News host Sean Hannity and former Fox News co-president Bill Shine.
 
Scoop: Trump is dining tonight w/Sean Hannnity, Bill Shine (former Fox News executive), & Anthony Scaramucci, per to 2 knowledgeable sources
Senior White House official tells me that Melania was also at the dinner tonight with Trump, Hannity, Shine, and Scaramucci.
Scaramucci was livid about the information being passed on to a reporter. For one thing, he said the guest list was incomplete. The tweets didn’t mention the presence of Ainsley Earhardt and Brian Kilmeade, co-hosts of “Fox & Friends,” as well as White House counselor Kellyanne Conway and Vice President Mike Pence, who, he said, left before the sit-down dinner. For another, he knew that the full guest list also included Kimberly Guilfoyle, co-host of “The Five” on Fox News. Early the next morning, Olivia Nuzzi of New York Magazine confirmed that Guilfoyle was there.
A source close to Scaramucci tells me that additionally, Kimberly Guilfoyle, the Fox News host, was there. https://t.co/vMz3lVNP5K
Scaramucci realized that the inclusion of Guilfoyle would raise suspicion. He said he was aware that some associates and members of the media were gossiping about his friendship with the Fox host and feared this particular connection would only make matters worse. He said he took it as “an attack.”
Scaramucci strongly denies having a sexual relationship with Guilfoyle. Stone, a friend of Guilfoyle’s, explained that Scaramucci and Guilfoyle “are very close friends but nothing more.” He added, “He is way too short for Kimberly.” 
Through a Fox News spokesperson, Guilfoyle said she’s known Scaramucci for years through her work at Fox News and the two are “good friends.”
As soon as Scaramucci returned from Wednesday night’s dinner, he called Lizza and gave his now-infamous interview, published Thursday, in which he suggested that former White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus was a “paranoid schizophrenic” and that White House chief strategist Steve Bannon practiced auto-fellatio.
Scaramucci said he felt burned by the interview. “The Lizzas and Scaramuccis have been friends for over 50 years. My dad knew his dad from construction, and we were building a personal relationship. Most of what I said was humorous and joking. Legally, it may have been on the record, but the spirit of it was off. And he knew that.”
Still, Scaramucci told me, he has plans to take Lizza out for a beer. 
When I asked Lizza for his response, he wrote back: “I’ve only known Anthony in his capacity as a Trump surrogate and then White House communications director. We are not and have never been ‘old family friends,’ though I think our fathers knew each other, so maybe that’s what he’s talking about. (The Long Island Italian world in that generation is relatively small.) But again, that would not be a reason to suppress an explosive on-the-record interview.”
According to several sources close to the White House, the president was initially amused by the Lizza exchange but changed his opinion when he saw how much negative attention it was bringing. Scaramucci said he offered to resign before the weekend. The president told him that wouldn’t be necessary, but he instructed Scaramucci to “watch it” in the future, according to someone familiar with the conversation.
I spoke with Scaramucci on Saturday morning, and he sounded defeated. “I think I have strep,” he said. On top of everything else, the night before, The New York Post had broken the news of his impending divorce from his second wife, Deidre Ball.
That Scaramucci’s marriage was in trouble was hardly a secret. Long before Ball filed for divorce on July 6, Scaramucci was open with friends and associates about what he believed to be the sorry state of their union and how they were struggling through regular counseling sessions.
He just hated that his relationship was being discussed in public. A follow-up report from the Post said that Scaramucci didn’t attend the birth of their son last week. Instead, he sent Ball a short congratulatory text.
Scaramucci said this is an unfair characterization of events. He told me that Ball’s due date was Aug. 9, so when he boarded Air Force One to West Virginia last Monday to attend the president’s address at the National Scout Jamboree, he didn’t think he’d be in danger of missing the birth. As soon as she texted him that she was going into labor, he said, he looked into chartering a plane from West Virginia but discovered that there was a wide no fly-zone around Air Force One. He explained that he decided to wait to fly back to Washington with the president, then travel to New York from there.
As of Tuesday afternoon, he still hadn’t met his son. Scaramucci claimed that right after the birth Ball texted him her request for some space. When I asked about this text, Ball’s lawyer, Jill Stone, responded: “Any texts of that nature had nothing to do with the baby or seeing the baby.” (Jill Stone said she couldn’t comment on the rest of Scaramucci’s version of events.)
When I spoke to Scaramucci on Saturday, he didn’t have much to say about the collapse of his marriage. “It’s fine. I mean, what am I going to do?” He perked up when he started talking about the fantastic team he was going to bring into the White House’s communications shop and the big plans he was going to enact after a tumultuous first week.
But on Monday morning, Scaramucci knew he was cooked. Retired Marine Gen. John Kelly, the new chief of staff, who insisted that all White House staff report to him, asked for his resignation. “It was a very polite conversation,” Scaramucci says.
Scaramucci then went to see Trump, who was unavailable. He ended up speaking with the president, his daughter Ivanka Trump and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, separately later in the day by telephone. All were gracious, he said. “The president told me he knows I have his back, but he has to try to tighten the ship.”
So what are you going to do next, I asked him.
“I am now going to go dark,” he said.
And then?
“Then I will reemerge.” He paused. “As me.”
CLARIFICATION: The section about Ryan Lizza’s and Olivia Nuzzi’s tweets was changed to more accurately reflect the night’s sequence of events.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
I am not anti-war. I have served my country in places like the Middle East and Africa and do not regret any portion of my service. However, being in environments such as these has allowed me the unique opportunity to see first-hand how the U.S. became involved in these conflicts as well as the unique ability to interact with those that directly made U.S. foreign policy. If the U.S. becomes involved in in conflicts in North Korea and Venezuela, removes their leaders and does not have a clear plan to rebuild, the U.S. will have single-handedly created a platform for groups like ISIS to expand.
This isn’t a party issue. A cursory glance of our recent history of involvement in conflicts clearly indicates that the U.S. doesn’t properly finish what it starts, leaving a string of failed states in our wake. America’s involvement in Afghanistan, particularly our support of the Taliban led to the creation of a “homeland” for Al Qai’da. Our involvement in the Bosnian war led directly to the displacement of the Bosnian mujahedeen to areas such as Chechnya and Dagestan (home to the Boston marathon bomber). The second U.S. invasion of Iraq led directly to the formation of Al Qa’ida in Iraq which became ISIS. Our involvement in Libya has directly led to the increase in power of ISIS in Libya and throughout the Islamic Maghreb.
Perhaps our policy of invade, depose, and figure it all out later is simply part of our culture’s quest for instant gratification.
Dictators such as Saddam Hussein, Muammar Qaddafi, and Slobodan Milosevic were not people who should have retained power. However, in removing them, the U.S. created a power vacuum that they never properly filled. Groups like Al Qai’da, ISIS, etc. feed off of the political and economic turmoil left in the wake of their removal. Certainly these individuals should not have remained in power, however the U.S. has a very clear history of not planning properly for what can/will happen when these dictators are deposed.
Trump simply lacks the planning, forethought, and diplomacy to plan for the vacuum that will be left in countries such as Venezuela and North Korea should Trump utilize his “military option” and ultimately depose their leaders. I’m not convinced that China would declare war on the US should we intervene in North Korea, what I am convinced of is that the unknown arsenal of weapons, and potentially nuclear weapons, could end up in the hands of terrorists. Should the U.S. directly intervene in North Korea and depose Kim Jong Un, it would mark the first time that we will have created a power vacuum in a country that may have nuclear weapons. I’m also convinced that China will not allow South Korea (and by extension the U.S.) to control the entirety of the peninsula. This would then spiral them into a civil war which would look eerily similar to Iraq.
Venezuela is essentially a failed state brimming with narco-traffickers and potential terrorists. Let’s remember that just a few years ago it was uncovered that Venezuelan diplomats in Middle Eastern countries such as Iraq, Iran, and Syria were known members of Hezbollah who were issuing Venezuelan passports to known terrorists as a way of facilitating terrorism in Latin America.
Trump’s statements via Twitter do not indicate that he understands the ramifications of what being “locked and loaded” really means. This is not nuke first ask questions later. We live in the age of globalization in which every action has a reaction.
Trump has some of the best military strategists and foreign policy experts at his disposal, but based on his extensive use of the executive order and his propensity to make policy over Twitter, I do not have faith that he will consider the ramifications of military action without political follow through in these two countries. His supporters are hungry for an invasion. Sure, it feels good to invade and take out an abusive and oppressive dictator, but in the words the words of President T. Roosevelt, perhaps it’s better to “speak softly and carry a big (but well thought out) stick” or else we are giving ISIS the potential for larger expansion to Asia and Latin America as well as potential access to nuclear weapons.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Like what you read below? Sign up for HUFFPOST HILL and get a cheeky dose of political news every evening!
President Trump urged Mitch McConnell to “get to work,” which is a remarkable statement coming from a guy who has spent more of the last eight months in country clubs than the situation room. “Nazi salutes are indefensible,” someone said ― something that will only have to repeated another 15 times this year, if we’re lucky. And Roger Wicker compared ongoing attempts to repeal Obamacare with the evacuation of Dunkirk, though wasn’t the point of Dunkirk that hundreds of thousands of people *didn’t* die? This is HUFFPOST HILL For Thursday, August 10th, 2017:
TRUMP CONTINUES ATTACKS ON MCCONNELL - Igor Bobic: ”President Donald Trump suggested Thursday that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) may be in trouble if he doesn’t deliver on such top administration items such as tax reform, repeal of the Affordable Care Act, and an overhaul of the nation’s crumbling infrastructure. Asked by reporters at his Bedminster, New Jersey, golf club whether McConnell should step aside from his leadership post, Trump said, ‘You can ask me that question’ if McConnell fails to make sufficient progress on the president’s agenda. ‘Mitch, let’s get to work and let’s get it done,’ Trump said. ‘They lost by one vote,’ he added, referring to last month’s failed Senate effort to repeal Obamacare. ‘For a thing like that to happen is a disgrace.’” [HuffPost]
TRUMP DECLARES NATIONAL EMERGENCY OVER OPIOID CRISIS - Again, you can’t just say, it’s a national emergency. There are forms and things. Marina Fang: “President Donald Trump is preparing to declare a national emergency on the opioid crisis, following a recommendation made by a White House commission last month. ‘The opioid crisis is an emergency and I’m saying officially right now it is an emergency. It’s a national emergency,’ he told reporters Thursday at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, following a lunch with Vice President Mike Pence. ‘We’re going to spend a lot of time, a lot of effort and a lot of money on the opioid crisis,’ he continued, adding that he was ‘drawing documents now’ to make the official declaration. Trump’s comments mark a reversal from earlier this week, when he was briefed on the matter in a meeting with Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price and other White House officials. According to Price, Trump did not think the situation required an official emergency declaration, an action which would allow him to allocate additional government resources to fighting the epidemic.” [HuffPost]
DONALD TRUMP IS A VERY TOUGH MAN...VERY TOUGH - Can something that happens in real life be ratio’d? Paige Lavender: ”President Donald Trump argued Thursday his ‘fire and fury’ comments directed at North Korea may not have been tough enough. ‘Frankly, the people who were questioning that statement, was it too tough? Maybe it wasn’t tough enough,’ he said at his resort in Bedminster, New Jersey, according to a White House pool report. “They’ve been doing this to our country for a long time, for many years, and it’s about time that somebody stuck up for the people of this country and for the people of other countries. Trump would not comment on what’s tougher than ‘fire and fury.’ He argued the U.S. has the support of others when it comes to responding to threats from North Korea. ‘We’re backed 100 percent by our military, we’re backed by everybody and we’re backed by many other leaders,’ he said.” [HuffPost]
Like HuffPost Hill? Then order Eliot’s book, The Beltway Bible: A Totally Serious A-Z Guide To Our No-Good, Corrupt, Incompetent, Terrible, Depressing, and Sometimes Hilarious Government
Does somebody keep forwarding you this newsletter? Get your own copy. It’s free! Sign up here. Send tips/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to eliot@huffpost.com. Follow us on Twitter - @HuffPostHill
If our inbox is any indication, Maxine Waters has made it: “TMZ EXCLUSIVE: Congresswoman Maxine Waters Says Avoid War with North Korea at All Costs” [TMZ]
PUTIN IS LAUGHING AT US - You see, normally what would happen in these cases is *curls up into fetal position* Peter Baker: “President Trump offered gratitude rather than outrage on Thursday for Russia’s decision to force the United States Embassy in Moscow to slash its personnel by 755 people, despite earlier bipartisan condemnation from other American leaders who had protested the Cold War-style move. Mr. Trump’s comment was in keeping with his practice of not criticizing President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, no matter how tense relations between the two countries have grown…. ‘I want to thank him, because we’re trying to cut down on payroll and as far as I’m concerned I’m very thankful that he let go of a large number of people because now we have a smaller payroll,’ Mr. Trump told reporters at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J.” [NYT]
TALENTLESS FRAUD FINDS HOME IN TRUMP ADMINISTRATION - Bob Dreyfuss: “Yet so far – likely thanks to support from Bannon – both [Seb Gorka and his wife, Katharine Cornell Gorka, an adviser in the Department of Homeland Security] have defiantly stayed in place. According to one insider, Gorka’s dubious qualifications may have saved him. ‘The White House tried to find him a job at another agency,’ says the source. But no luck: ‘Nobody wanted him.’ … ‘Gorka’s thesis is about as legitimate as if he had been awarded it by Trump University,’ says Andrew Reynolds, a professor at the University of North Carolina who looked into Gorka’s background. He says that of the three people who served as endorsers of Gorka’s Ph.D., two didn’t have any academic credentials whatsoever, and a third was György Schöpflin, a right-wing Hungarian politician who, Reynolds adds, was a Gorka family friend and once suggested studding a Hungarian border fence with pig heads to send a message to Muslim refugees.” [Rolling Stone]
Ralph Northam is up with his first VA-Gov general election ad, highlighting his support for Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion.
SHAKE-UP AT THE U.N. - It’s never too early to get your people working on that 2024 (2020?) bid. Kambiz Foroohar: “U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley has lost two of her top aides, key departures that come at a time of growing international tensions between the U.S. and North Korea. Haley’s Chief of Staff Steven Groves resigned, as did her communications director Jonathan Wachtel. Haley said on Twitter Wednesday it was because of ‘family concerns.’ The departures also come ahead of Haley’s trip to Vienna to review Iran’s nuclear activities with the UN’s International Atomic Energy Agency. Groves, an adviser who had arrived from the conservative think tank Heritage Foundation had argued for the U.S. to ‘sever relations’ with UN’s Human Rights Council for criticizing Israel and to pull out of the Paris climate change agreement.” [Bloomberg]
Wouldn’t you know it, CNN has standards about its on-air contributors. “CNN ended its relationship with political commentator Jeffrey Lord after he tweeted ‘Sieg Heil’ on Thursday.  ‘Nazi salutes are indefensible,’ a CNN spokesperson said in a statement. ‘Jeffrey Lord is no longer with the network.’ Lord has been one of President Donald Trump’s biggest backers on the network.” [HuffPost’s Sam Levine]
ERRRRRR, MAYBE NOT - “U.S. Senator Roger Wicker said Republican efforts to repeal and replace the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, known most commonly as Obamacare, will continue despite failed efforts in both the House and Senate…. In addressing the women’s group, Wicker used a couple of World War II references to describe Republicans’ efforts to pass new health care legislation. He compared the Republicans efforts on health care to Dunkirk, the subject of a popular film recently released that dramatizes the evacuation of British forces from a French beach as France fell to the Nazis in 1940. ‘The French and British faced a “setback” in fighting the Germans,’ he said. ‘And that is what the Senate has faced with health care.’” [Columbus Dispatch]
 
BECAUSE YOU’VE READ THIS FAR - Here’s a cat ruining someone’s morning routine.
YEAH, WHY NOT - Andrew Cuomo’s undoubtedly awful overreaction to this will really be what cinches it as a great story. ″On Aug. 4, The Wall Street Journal caused a stir when it reported that Sex and the City star Cynthia Nixon was thinking about challenging New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo in next year’s gubernatorial election…. On the same day the Journal article appeared in its print edition, a political operative who worked as the lead digital strategist for the grassroots organization People for Bernie and has made campaign websites for progressive candidates in the past launched what appeared to be a campaign website for Nixon’s candidacy. CynthiaNixonForGovernor.com was anonymously purchased on Aug. 4. But an email address hidden in the page’s source code showed a contact button and Squarespace hosting page run by Caleb-Michael Files…. [H]e acknowledged that he did create CynthiaNixonForGovernor.com, but insisted that he was ’not related to her campaign at all.’” [Daily Beast]
 
COMFORT FOOD
- Jabba the Hutt, insult comic.
- Allow us a bit of victim blaming: These frozen pizzas that spilled onto a highway deserved it. Frozen pizzas are disgusting and these ones had what was coming to them.
- Look out for dog!
TWITTERAMA
We're one misplaced @ away from the president telling North Korea to pass tax reform and threatening Mitch McConnell with military action
100% chance Trump mistakes the eclipse for North Korea nuking the sun
I remember last December when everyone was so happy that 2016 was almost over. We were so innocent then.
Got something to add? Send tips/quotes/stories/photos/events/fundraisers/job movement/juicy miscellanea to Eliot Nelson (eliot@huffpost.com)
 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Eric Bolling, a longtime Fox News host, sent an unsolicited photo of male genitalia via text message to at least two colleagues at Fox Business and one colleague at Fox News, a dozen sources told HuffPost. 
Recipients of the photo confirmed its contents to HuffPost, which is not revealing their identities. The women, who are Bolling’s current and former Fox colleagues, concluded the message was from him because they recognized his number from previous work-related and informal interactions. The messages were sent several years ago, on separate occasions.
The women did not solicit the messages, which they told colleagues were deeply upsetting and offensive. One of the recipients said that when she replied to Bolling via text, telling him never to send her such photos again, he did not respond. Four people, outside of the recipients, confirmed to HuffPost they’d seen the photo, and eight others said the recipients had spoken to them about it. 
For this story, HuffPost spoke to 14 sources in and out of Fox News and Fox Business, all of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity either because they currently work at the networks and aren’t allowed to speak to members of the press without prior authorization or because they have confidentiality agreements with Fox News and its parent company 21st Century Fox.
Over the past year, the network has been rocked by multiple accusations of sexual harassment and assault by Fox News and Fox Business executives and on-air talent. Last year, former Fox News Chairman Roger Ailes resigned after former Fox News host Gretchen Carlson filed a lawsuit accusing him of sexual harassment. Since Ailes was forced out, multiple former and current Fox News hosts have accused him of harassment, including CNN anchor Alisyn Camerota. Last April, after a bombshell New York Times report revealed that Bill O’Reilly had quietly settled multiple sexual harassment suits, the network forced him out.
Reached Friday by HuffPost about the accusations against Bolling, a Fox spokesperson said, “We were just informed of this and plan to investigate the matter.”
When asked whether Bolling at any point had sent unsolicited lewd or inappropriate text messages or emails (including an image of a man’s genitalia) to Fox News or Fox Business colleagues, his attorney Michael J. Bowe responded, “Mr. Bolling recalls no such inappropriate communications, does not believe he sent any such communications, and will vigorously pursue his legal remedies for any false and defamatory accusations that are made.” 
Bolling, a former commodities trader, has worked at the Fox News and Fox Business networks since 2007, when he joined after leaving CNBC. He has had a history of making misogynistic on-air remarks during his tenure at Fox News, the most notable during a September 2014 segment on the panel show “The Five” while discussing the first woman fighter pilot from the United Arab Emirates leading the bombing of the Islamic State. Bolling asked on air if instead of saying “boots on the ground” it would be more appropriate to say “boobs on the ground.” He apologized the next day, citing “a look” he got from his wife when he arrived home.
The allegations against Bolling recall statements he made attacking Anthony Weiner in 2014, after the former New York congressman had been embroiled in a scandal for sexting several women. During a Twitter war with Weiner, Bolling concluded with a tweet that said: “text us if you want a fair & balanced intv **NO SEFIES PLEASE [sic]**” In May 2017, when Weiner pleaded guilty to federal charges of exchanging lewd messages with an underage girl, Bolling said, “He is a sick human being, to continue to do this time and time again, continue to get caught, saying he’s not going to do it again, gets caught again.”
Bolling serves as one of the co-hosts of “The Specialists,” a new program on the Fox News Channel. Previously, he served as one of the hosts of “The Five” and as a fill-in host for O’Reilly and Sean Hannity. After the network fired O’Reilly last April, Fox News announced that Bolling would leave the “The Five” and host another panel program at 5 p.m. with co-hosts Eboni Williams and Katherine Timpf.
Bolling’s star at the Fox Networks has risen in the past two years, in part because of his close relationship with and strong support of President Donald Trump. Bolling can often be seen aggressively defending Trump on the network, and his loyalty has been repaid. Over the past few years, Trump has tweeted praise and support for Bolling at least a dozen times, including support for his book in 2016. When “The Specialists” premiered earlier this year, Bolling was granted an exclusive interview with Trump.
Fox News recently renewed Bolling’s contract. In a statement in June, Fox News co-president Suzanne Scott said that Bolling’s “insight is valued, and we are pleased to have him at the network for many more years to come.”
The multiyear extension ended speculation that he was going to accept a position in the Trump administration. In an interview with NJ.Com, Bolling said the Trump transition had floated the position of commerce secretary, but he said he would only consider joining as a senior adviser.
In the interview, Bolling said he believed he had a future in politics: “When the lights go down on my TV career, the next step is running for Senate.”
Follow Yashar — or send him a tip — on Twitter: @yashar
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster has removed an ally of his predecessor from the National Security Council, the White House said Wednesday. 
Ezra Cohen-Watnick, 31, senior director for intelligence programs at the NSC, was hired by Michael Flynn, Trump’s first national security adviser. Flynn was fired in February after it was revealed he discussed Russia sanctions with that country’s ambassador to the U.S. prior to President Donald Trump’s inauguration, then lied about it.
Cohen-Watnick’s ouster marks a victory for McMaster in his ongoing battle with members of the president’s inner circle. McMaster had reportedly tried to remove Cohen-Watnick in March, but was blocked from doing so by Trump after top advisers Steve Bannon and Jared Kushner pressed to keep him on staff. (McMaster did, however, succeed in ousting Bannon from the NSC, as well as Flynn’s former deputy, K.T. McFarland.) 
“General McMaster appreciates the good work accomplished in the NSC’s Intelligence directorate under Ezra Cohen’s leadership,” a White House official said in a statement Wednesday. “He has determined that, at this time, a different set of experiences is best-suited to carrying that work forward. General McMaster is confident that Ezra will make many further significant contributions to national security in another position in the administration.”
Cohen-Watnick one of several NSC staffers McMaster has fired in recent days. Earlier Tuesday, The Atlantic reported the sacking of Rich Higgins, the NSC strategic planning director, after he penned a controversial memo claiming globalists, the “deep state,” Islamists and others are trying to derail Trump’s agenda. Last week, McMaster removed Derek Harvey, a Middle East adviser and holdover from Flynn’s tenure. 
The moves suggest McMaster is succeeding in steering the NSC away from the nationalistic viewpoints of Bannon and Flynn and toward more traditional conservative perspectives. 
Cohen-Watnick is best known to the public for his role in providing intelligence documents to Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), chairman of the House intelligence committee. He was one of two White House officials who gave Nunes documents that suggested members of Trump’s transition were inadvertently swept up in surveillance operations. The House Ethics Committee later announced it would investigate Nunes for making unauthorized disclosures of classified information, prompting him to step down from his committee’s investigation into whether Trump’s team colluded with Russian officials to influence the 2016 election.
According to Politico, career CIA officials expressed reservations about Cohen-Watnick to McMaster, and pressed for his removal. 
As The Atlantic’s Rosie Gray detailed last month, Cohen-Watnick largely was a mystery in the Trump administration:
Unlike other White House officials who have become public figures in their own right, Cohen-Watnick never speaks for himself publicly, leaving others to fill the void. Yet he hardly comes into sharper focus when you talk to co-workers, friends, and former colleagues. Ask around about Ezra Cohen-Watnick, and people get defensive. Some profess not to know him, or ask why anyone would want to write about him. Others simply refuse to discuss him.
Prior to joining the White House, Cohen-Watnick served at the Defense Intelligence Agency, and was accepted into the agency’s Defense Clandestine Service in 2012. That’s where he met Flynn, who reportedly shared skepticism of the CIA’s intelligence operations. Cohen-Watnick later followed Flynn to Trump’s transition team and the administration.
Members of the national security community reportedly were surprised that a relatively young, inexperienced staffer had been appointed to such an important NSC role.
“No one at his level could have possibly had the experience to be made senior director for intelligence programs—no way, no how,” Daniel Benjamin, an NSC staffer under President Bill Clinton, told Newsweek. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
The President of the United States of America is a pathological liar.
The White House was forced to essentially admit that at least three of Trump’s recent statements were lies:
I consulted with generals before issues transgender military ban on Twitter.
A boy scout official called me and told me my speech was the greatest ever.
The Mexican president called me and said I’m doing a great job on immigration.
Each one of these statements has been shown to be totally and demonstrably false. The Pentagon said we don’t know of any generals that were consulted, the boy scouts said no one called Trump and told him that his speech was great and Mexico said their president didn’t speak to Trump on the phone or tell him that he’s doing a great job of anything.
Asked directly if Trump’s boy scouts claim was a lie, she said, “I wouldn’t say it was a lie. That’s a pretty bold accusation. The conversations took place, they just simply didn’t take place over a phone call … he had them in person.”
It was a similar story with the claim about Mexico’s president calling Trump to tell him how great he’s doing. Sanders said Trump had been “referencing a conversation that they had had at the G-20 summit.”
The argument here is that both times Trump alleged phone calls took place, the sentiment was accurate but the conversations were not on the phone.
So in order to believe that Trump wasn’t lying, and simply fabricating stories, you’d have to believe that Trump is incapable of distinguishing between conversations he’s had in-person and conversations he’s had over the phone.
In other words, either Donald Trump is a liar or a crazy person.
If you believe that the president is competent lucid and generally with it, saying he doesn't know the difference between in person and on the phone isn't a good defense.
But besides their falsity, another factor that each of these statements, particular the latter two, have in common is their triviality. Trump lies so often and so casually about everything and anything that it really is pathological. He lies for the sake of lying. It’s part of his character. He’s a fraud, a phony, a faker. Comments like these can only be the result of a volatile mix of hubris, delusion and petty narcissism.
The most disturbing part of all of this may be the fact that many of us are becoming desensitized to doublespeak and blatant misinformation coming out of the White House on a regular basis.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
WASHINGTON ― When Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) thinks about one of the authors of the Bush-era “torture memos” joining the Trump administration, her mind goes back to when she was flying missions to Abu Ghraib prison at the time that photos emerged of U.S. military personnel torturing prisoners. 
“When those pictures came out, pretty much almost universal reaction among my fellow soldiers and myself was utter disgust,” Duckworth said in an interview with HuffPost. “Our reaction, and pardon my language, was those fuckers just made it more dangerous for the rest of us to do our jobs.”
Duckworth is a Purple Heart recipient who lost both her legs after the helicopter she was co-piloting was shot down in Iraq in 2004. Now, as she represents Illinois in the U.S. Senate, she said her experience in the military drives her opposition to President Donald Trump’s nomination of Steven Bradbury to an administration post.
Bradbury was one of the Justice Department lawyers who signed off on methods of torture during the Bush administration. Bradbury authored four memos, one of which authorized the use of techniques like “dietary manipulation,” nudity, “walling,” “cramped confinement,” sleep deprivation of more than 48 hours and waterboarding. In another memo, Bradbury said detainees could be put in diapers so long as those diapers were “checked regularly and changed as necessary.” The Justice Department’s ethics office had “serious concerns” about parts of Bradbury’s analysis, though DOJ ethics attorneys did not conclude that Bradbury committed professional misconduct.
HuffPost was the first to report back in March that Bradbury was in the running for a nomination. Trump nominated him to the position of general counsel of the Transportation Department in June. Duckworth had placed a hold on Bradbury’s nomination, but Republicans on the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee voted last week to advance Bradbury’s nomination. Duckworth joined her Democratic colleagues in opposing his nomination. Bradbury’s nomination still must be confirmed by the Senate as a whole.
Duckworth told HuffPost that, just like the U.S. soldiers who mistreated prisoners at Abu Ghraib, Bradbury’s actions at the Justice Department “made it more dangerous and harder” for members of the military to do their jobs.
“It wasn’t just me, bleeding heart liberal, it was me in combat with my guys flying helicopters behind enemy lines thinking, ‘OK, now we don’t have the moral high ground,’” Duckworth said.
Duckworth said she was “incredulous” that the Trump administration would nominate someone who previously failed to gain confirmation in 2008.
“I could not believe that they would actually try to bring him up again,” Duckworth said.
“I’m frankly disappointed in people who I thought were more reasonable, I guess. I just feel like President Trump and his administration have sunk to such new lows,” Duckworth said.
Duckworth isn’t comforted by the fact that Bradbury, if confirmed, won’t be dealing with issues of torture in the Transportation Department. She says she doesn’t believe he’s “fit to serve in any capacity in government” and has shown he’s “willing to put loyalty to a single individual over loyalty to his nation.”
“One of the things that people really have not touched on is that once he’s been confirmed and he’s in the DOT, it is relatively easy to move him over to Justice. This may be a backdoor way to get him into Justice later on if they ever wanted to do it,” Duckworth said. “I don’t know that they do, but once he’s confirmed it’s easier to lateral him because he’s already had confirmation.”
Duckworth recalled her survival, escape, evasion and rescue training, and the importance of treating the enemy humanely.
“Our humane treatment of our enemy, of our captured enemy, impacts how they treat our people if they were to capture our people,” she said. “That’s a fundamental tenet of military training, and that torture memo and the acts that it condoned put our men and women who wore the uniform of our country and those who were most likely to be captured behind enemy lines ― which in the kinetic type of warfare that we have now is just about everybody who wears the uniform ― it puts them in danger and in greater chance of them being tortured.”
Sign up for the HuffPost Must Reads newsletter. Each Sunday, we will bring you the best original reporting, long form writing and breaking news from The Huffington Post and around the web, plus behind-the-scenes looks at how it’s all made. Click here to sign up!
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
President Donald Trump issued a stark warning to North Korea on Tuesday promising to unleash “fire, fury and, frankly, power, the likes of which this world has never seen before” if the country continues to escalate its threats against the U.S.
“North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States,” Trump said Tuesday in a short statement to reporters before a meeting on the national opioid crisis. “They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen. [North Korean leader Kim Jong Un] has been very threatening beyond a normal state.”
Trump’s remarks at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, only add tension to an already dangerous standoff with North Korea, several experts who spoke to HuffPost warned. Over the years, the U.S. has attempted to prevent the growth of North Korea’s nuclear ambitions and development of missile technology at various times using sanctions, diplomacy and the threat of military action. But nothing has fully obstructed the nation’s advancements.
“That is about the stupidest and most dangerous statement I have ever heard an American president make,” John Mecklin, editor-in-chief of Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, said to HuffPost. The Bulletin created the “Doomsday Clock,” a symbolic representation of humanity’s proximity to apocalyptic destruction.
Trump’s remarks followed reports Tuesday from NBC News and The Washington Post that North Korea has developed a nuclear warhead small enough to fit inside one of its long-range missiles.
The successful miniaturization of a nuclear weapon would mark a major advancement for North Korea’s nuclear program. While U.S. intelligence officials do not know whether North Korea has tested the miniaturized warhead yet, the reports come on the heels of two recent successful test-launches of intercontinental ballistic missiles that could reach the U.S.
Trump’s remarks closely followed fierce rhetoric from Pyongyang in response to new international sanctions against the isolated communist nation. “Should the U.S. pounce upon the DPRK with military force at last, the DPRK is ready to teach the U.S. a severe lesson with its strategic nuclear force,” Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho said in a statement, using the acronym for the official name, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
While North Korea’s strong language came as no surprise ― Kim has put out countless declarations of war against the U.S. throughout the years ― Mecklin argues that Trump’s response of heightened rhetoric is “exactly backwards.”
“It’s exactly wrong. It increases the likelihood of nuclear war. And those kind of threats are just not something an American president should make,” Mecklin said.
In January, Mecklin’s group moved the Doomsday Clock’s minute hand 30 seconds closer to midnight ― the hour symbolizing global catastrophe. The minute hand is now at 2½ minutes to midnight, closer than it has been since 1953, when it hit 2 minutes following the testing of hydrogen bombs by both the U.S. and the Soviet Union. Trump’s comments on nuclear arms and climate issues were among the factors the group took into consideration in advancing the clock this year.
MIT linguistics professor emeritus and renowned foreign policy critic Noam Chomsky agreed with Mecklin’s assessment. “Trump’s statement is extremely dangerous,” Chomsky said. According to the professor, the only reasonable approach the U.S. should take with North Korea is to “pursue the negotiating option put forth by China and North Korea, based on North Korea’s freezing its nuclear and weapons programs and the U.S. ending threatening military maneuvers on North Korea’s borders,” and then seek to move forward from there.
Trump and previous U.S. administrations have pushed China to pressure Pyongyang into compliance, as Beijing is seen as the only government with influence in the nation.
Bruce Blair, a nuclear safety expert at Princeton University, told HuffPost he’s worried about Trump’s leadership style, given the weapons at his disposal, and fears the risk of escalation to nuclear conflict “is growing by the day.”
“Trump has unchecked authority to order the use of conventional or nuclear weapons against North Korea,” Blair said. “I believe that both options are being prepared right now and that these preparations reflect the military’s acceptance of Trump’s authority to exercise either of them.”
Trump has the sole authority to launch nuclear weapons whenever he chooses with a single phone call, Blair explained to HuffPost, echoing his thoughts in a November op-ed about the many nuclear crises Trump would face as president. That’s because there are no checks and balances on his authority to do so, Blair said, no congressional veto or Supreme Court ruling.
With thousands of warheads at its disposal, the office of the United States presidency is now a “nuclear monarchy,” Blair explained in a chilling op-ed last year. The commander in chief has “virtually unlimited power to rain down nuclear weapons on any adversarial regime and country at any time,” which could extinguish “hundreds of millions of lives” in just a few hours, he wrote.
Blair also questions whether Trump has the temperament to handle the proverbial 3 a.m. call giving notice that a nuclear strike is imminent. With just minutes to deal with a missile launch from one of various adversaries around the globe, the president must have the wits and steadiness to confront such a crisis.
Blair told HuffPost that while it’s impossible to predict the behavior of either Trump or Kim as they ratchet up the vitriol and tensions, “they are both impulsive, stubborn bullies who seem prone to escalate rather than back down.”
Trump has also shown a seemingly blasé attitude toward the idea of nuclear engagement. As a candidate, he refused to rule out using tactical nuclear weapons in the war against the self-described Islamic State, and he has appeared to be cavalier about the use of nuclear weaponry, going so far as to ask why the U.S. has nuclear weapons if it can’t use them.
“Trump’s statement is incredibly reckless and foolish,” Kingston Reif, director of disarmament and threat reduction policy for the Arms Control Association, said to HuffPost.
“The escalating war of words between the two sides is only increasing tensions and the risks of miscalculation and conflict,” Reif said. “If a brake isn’t put on it, we could end up in a very dangerous place.”
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Fox News host Eric Bolling is suing reporter Yashar Ali for defamation following a story published on HuffPost alleging the news personality sent lewd, unsolicited text messages to multiple colleagues.
Bolling, who was suspended from the network following the publication of the article, is seeking at least $50 million in damages.
Ali confirmed he received a summons Tuesday.
Just received a summons. Eric Bolling is suing me for defamation - $50 million in damages. I stand by my reporting + will protect my sources
It's important to note that Bolling's summons does not include HuffPost - he is coming after me personally. I'm a big boy...but very telling https://t.co/nvludsIV87
Not going to stop reporting on Eric Bolling or anyone else. I've had family members killed/jailed in Iran, a lawsuit isn't going to scare me https://t.co/nvludsIV87
Ali declined to comment further on the suit.
Fox News suspended Bolling less than 24 hours after the publication of Ali’s story.
“Eric Bolling has been suspended pending the results of an investigation, which is currently underway,” a Fox News spokesperson said in a statement.
The summons accuses Ali of “reckless publication of actionable false and misleading statements about the plaintiff’s conduct and character,” arguing that Bolling was “substantially harmed” by publication of the story.
HuffPost, which published the story alleging the host sent an unsolicited photo of male genitalia to female colleagues at Fox Business and Fox News, was not named in the initial court summons.
“Yashar Ali is a careful and meticulous reporter. We stand by his reporting,” HuffPost Editor-in-Chief Lydia Polgreen said. “Ali is a paid freelancer under contract with HuffPost. We have no hesitation about standing by him financially in this case.” 
Bolling and his attorneys, meanwhile, have vehemently denied the allegations.
“Mr. Bolling recalls no such inappropriate communications, does not believe he sent any such communications, and will vigorously pursue his legal remedies for any false and defamatory accusations that are made,” Bolling’s lawyer, Michael J. Bowe, said. 
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Navy Secretary Richard Spencer said he would “process and take direction” on President Donald Trump’s proposal to ban transgender people from the military, but argued that “any patriot” should be allowed to serve.
Spencer, who was sworn in as Navy secretary just last week, spoke about the president’s proposal ― which Trump announced on Twitter in July ― while visiting a naval base in Virginia on Thursday, according to Norfolk’s Daily Press.
“We will process and take direction on a policy that will be developed by the secretary [with] direction from the president — and march out smartly,” Spencer told reporters. “As I said before, on a fundamental basis, any patriot that wants to serve and meets all the requirements should be able to serve in our military.”
Trump told reporters Thursday he felt he was “doing the military a great favor” by announcing the policy change.
He did not consult with the Pentagon before tweeting about the policy. The day after his announcement, Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman Gen. Joseph Dunford told the armed forces that no changes would be implemented without further clarification from Trump.
Military leaders lifted the ban on transgender troops last year after an exhaustive review of military readiness policies. Many were quick to criticize Trump’s policy change: Fifty-six retired U.S. generals, admirals and other senior officers penned a letter to Trump to voice their opposition to the ban, and several Republican senators expressed concern about the move.
Spencer’s predecessor, former Navy Secretary Ray Mabus, called the ban a “threat to America” in a July op-ed for Time.
“This latest Trump injustice is a threat to our military, a threat to our security, a threat to our standing in the world and a threat to the very idea of America,” Mabus wrote.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.
Share this slide:
President Donald Trump had a lot to say on Twitter Monday morning ― but none of his posts addressed the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday, where a car rammed into a group of pedestrians protesting a white supremacist rally.
Over the weekend, Trump condemned the “violence” and “hate” in general terms but stopped short of explicitly naming any of the white supremacist groups responsible for the event. He also blamed “many sides” for the unrest, which took place in a protest over the planned removal of a statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee.
In his tweets Monday, the president called out “obstructionist Democrats” as well as Ken Frazier, the CEO of pharmaceutical company Merck, who resigned from Trump’s manufacturing council over the president’s tepid response to the terror attack.
Heading to Washington this morning. Much work to do. Focus on trade and military. #MAGA
Luther Strange of the Great State of Alabama has my endorsement. He is strong on Border & Wall, the military, tax cuts & law enforcement.
The Obstructionist Democrats have given us (or not fixed) some of the worst trade deals in World History. I am changing that fast!
Now that Ken Frazier of Merck Pharma has resigned from President's Manufacturing Council,he will have more time to LOWER RIPOFF DRUG PRICES!
According to the White House, Trump is scheduled to meet with Attorney General Jeff Sessions and FBI Director Chris Wray on Monday to discuss the Charlottesville violence. It’s unclear whether he will offer any public remarks after the meeting.
Republican leaders and Democratic lawmakers alike have called on Trump to explicitly condemn the white nationalist groups in the wake of the violence.
Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.