
The Senate panel probing Russian interference in the 2016 election aims to finish its work by the end of this year and plans to double the number of witness interviews to nearly 90 before lawmakers break for the August recess, the Republican leader of the investigation said Wednesday.
“I’d like to finish by the end of this year,” Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) told reporters when asked about his timeline for completing a final report, saying that timeline was "aspirational." “It can be done.”
Story Continued Below
Burr said the intelligence committee’s aides have already spoken to “well over 40” people — and a source close to the investigation characterized that group primarily as intelligence community analysts and former government officials like Jeh Johnson, who served as President Barack Obama’s Homeland Security secretary.
“We’ve got a very aggressive schedule in July,” Burr explained. “We may double the number of interviews by the time we leave for the August recess based upon our schedule.”
The Senate panel is one of at least five committees digging into Russia’s role in influencing the election and any ties between the Cold War adversary and President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign.
Much of Burr’s committee's work has taken place behind closed doors, though it held its seventh public hearing on Wednesday on how Moscow has used cyber espionage and viral fake news stories to influence elections in Europe. Both the Senate panel and its House counterpart have issued multiple subpoenas, including to Trump’s former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.
And Burr told POLITICO on Wednesday his panel had reached an agreement to get memos James Comey wrote on his interactions with Trump, including a meeting in which the president allegedly urged the former FBI director to drop an investigation into Flynn.
On Tuesday, an attorney for GOP operative Roger Stone said the longtime Trump associate was preparing to testify July 24 in a closed session before the House Intelligence Committee, where he planned to explain his communications with Moscow-linked hackers and WikiLeaks, which published stolen emails last year from Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman John Podesta.
While the Senate Intelligence Committee has also sought documents from Stone, Burr said his panel wasn’t sure an interview with him was necessary.
“To bring anybody in for an interview or for a hearing, you have to know what it is you want to ask them. We’re not there with Roger Stone. We still have a very difficult time understanding whether he has anything to contribute to our investigation,” Burr said.
Several other former Trump associates have also signaled interest in speaking to Congress in attempts to clear their names, including former campaign communications adviser Michael Caputo, former campaign foreign policy adviser Carter Page and Flynn, who requested immunity in exchange for his testimony. Burr said the committee was still going through the roster of Trump's campaign associates to determine who mattered to the probe.
“We have to separate what people say from what we find people do or did,” Burr said. “They haven’t necessarily been high on our list because we haven’t identified high value to them.”
The North Carolina senator wouldn’t comment when asked if his panel was planning to interview Jared Kushner, the senior Trump White House adviser and presidential son-in-law whose finances and business dealings have reportedly drawn the interest of special counsel Robert Mueller. “I don’t get into specific people, but everybody of interest we’ve certainly made contact with,” Burr said.
Interest on Capitol Hill in deciphering Russia’s influence on the 2016 campaign has picked up steam since the start of the new Congress earlier this year. While there have been partisan splits over whether lawmakers should directly focus on the Trump campaign, members in both parties agree they must quickly determine what federal, state and local election officials can do to fend off another wave of Moscow-driven cyberattacks.
“You certainly want to have it done soon enough so that states and other authorities can take defensive steps,” said Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), one of Trump’s 2016 primary rivals.
GOP leaders have so far resisted calls for a special joint House-Senate effort to investigate the Russia issue, and it’s unclear how the investigation efforts will compare to oversight by lawmakers after other presidential scandals.
The Senate Watergate special committee lasted a little more than 16 months and disbanded after it produced a final report that prompted impeachment proceedings and led to President Richard Nixon’s resignation. A Senate committee tasked with investigating President Bill Clinton’s Whitewater land dealings took up 13 months and led to an 800-page final report.
In a recent interview, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who sits on the intelligence panel, said he believed the Russia probes could take “years.”
“Every few days there's a new revelation,” he said. “I just know we're in a full-fledged kind of a situation here that usually takes a while to work itself out.”
Across the Capitol, Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), who’s leading the House Intelligence probe, told reporters his workload is expanding. “If I talk to one witness and they give me someone else’s name, I’ve got to go find that witness and talk to them,” he said. “You’ve got to run the daisy chain of witnesses out.”
Conaway’s Democratic counterpart, Rep. Adam Schiff of California, said there are still a significant number of witnesses to interview and “mountains” of documents to review. The House panel is also still trying to coordinate with Mueller as he takes charge of his own investigation into everything from financial connections between Russia and Trump to the president’s decision in May to fire Comey.
"I think we'll let the investigation dictate the timing," Schiff said.
Rep. Jim Himes (D-Conn.), another member of the House Intelligence panel, said new revelations were slowing the probe: “Nobody was talking about obstruction of justice but, thank you to Donald Trump’s self-incrimination, we’re now talking about obstruction of justice.”
Burr’s Democratic counterpart, Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.) was hesitant to say the intelligence panel’s probe could be wrapped up this year. “I’m not going to try to get into predictions at this point,” he said.
“We still have all the individuals that were affiliated with the campaign that have been mentioned in the press as having potential contacts or ties,” Warner added. “We’re still in the process of reviewing their documents.”
The pace is causing frustration among Trump’s Republican allies on Capitol Hill, including Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn of Texas, a member of the Intelligence Committee.
Asked if the panel’s probe could be wrapped up by the end of 2017, Cornyn responded: “It could be, if we didn't chase every rabbit trail imaginable.”
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley and panel member Lindsey Graham are asking the FBI to turn over some closely guarded secrets: its applications for warrants to spy on people suspected of helping Russia meddle in last year’s presidential election.
Grassley’s panel is currently investigating Russia’s election interference, including the circumstances behind the firing of former FBI Director James Comey.
Story Continued Below
In a letter released Wednesday, Grassley (R-Iowa) and Graham (R-S.C.) asked the Justice Department and FBI to turn over all proposed and final applications for surveillance warrants submitted to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, along with the court’s responses, related to the FBI’s Russia probe.
The surveillance court is in charge of approving requests by intelligence agencies to spy on people suspected of acting as agents of foreign powers.
Their letter cites a report in The Guardian that the FBI applied for warrants last summer to monitor four members of the Trump campaign but that the surveillance court turned down the application, asking the FBI to narrow its request. The Washington Post later reported that the FBI obtained approval to monitor the communications of Carter Page, a former foreign policy adviser to the Trump campaign.
“We are writing to request information regarding FISA-related actions by the FBI and the Justice Department in the course of the investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election, including the investigations into allegations of collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russians,” Grassley and Graham wrote in their letter to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and Acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe. FISA is the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.
Several Republicans used a Senate hearing Wednesday to admonish former President Barack Obama for failing to stop Russia's hacking of the 2016 presidential campaign, echoing a narrative that President Donald Trump has promoted in recent days.
A number of lawmakers went after Obama for not being more publicly vocal about the Russian-ordered hacking, which U.S. intelligence agencies said targeted campaigns, Democratic Party organizations and state election databases in the months before Election Day.
Story Continued Below
“He stood idly by in the 2016 election,” said Arkansas Republican Sen. Tom Cotton during the Senate Intelligence Committee hearing, which focused on Russian attempts to meddle in European elections.
“I’m talking about somebody that could have done something while this was going on,” said Sen. Jim Risch, an Idaho Republican.
The attacks are not new — lawmakers on both sides of the aisle chastised Obama for inaction during the run-up to the election. But the accusations have gained additional steam following a recent Washington Post report that detailed the Obama administration's thought process behind the decision not to officially punish Moscow until the White House imposed sanctions in December.
The Obama administration did, however, publicly blame Russia for the digital intrusions at the DNC in October, one month after Obama privately scolded Russian President Vladimir Putin over his alleged actions.
The Post also reported that GOP leaders in Congress "resisted" the administration's pleas to join in warning the public about the Russian efforts, with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) "voicing skepticism that the underlying intelligence truly supported the White House’s claims." And Trump has repeatedly expressed doubts that Russia was necessarily involved, speculating at one point that the cyberattacks on the Democrats could be the work of "somebody sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds.”
Still, Trump quickly picked up on the Post story. “Since the Obama Administration was told way before the 2016 Election that the Russians were meddling, why no action?” he tweeted.
The president repeated the attacks on Twitter over the next few days.
Witnesses at Wednesday’s hearing mostly agreed that, in retrospect, Obama could have done more.
“If you go back and look at it, the American people, in my judgment, deserved to know what was happening,” said Nicholas Burns, a top State Department official during the Obama era and a former ambassador to NATO during the George W. Bush administration. “We should have had a more immediate response that was more painful to the Russians.”
But not all Republicans said Obama was singularly to blame.
Maine Sen. Susan Collins argued that while Obama’s reaction was “behind-the-scenes, ineffective and tardy,” Trump has not been any better.
His administration, Collins said, “does not seem to have any strategy to deal with this.”
Collins' remarks mirror a line of attack Democrats have been using in recent weeks — that Trump has repeatedly failed to take the necessary steps to harden the country’s election systems against hacking in 2018 or 2020.
Burns strongly agreed, telling Risch that “the more pertinent question” is why Trump isn’t taking action now.
“To me,” Risch countered, “what’s more pertinent is what should have been done by the commander in chief at the time.”
Rep. Jason Chaffetz is leaving Congress behind for a life in television, Fox News announced on Wednesday.
Chaffetz will be a contributor to the network starting July 1, the day after he will officially resign from Congress. The Utah Republican will "offer political analysis across FNC and FOX Business Network’s (FBN) daytime and primetime programming,” the network said in a statement.
Story Continued Below
Chaffetz’s move to television has long been in the works, with the Washingtonian and others reporting weeks ago that he was headed to Fox News. The former chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Chaffetz announced in April he would not seek re-election, and last month said he would resign his seat early to pursue opportunities in the private sector. Rep. Trey Gowdy has taken over the committee.
In a recent interview with The Hill, Chaffetz suggested members of Congress get a $2,500 stipend per month for housing, complaining that it’s hard for a member of Congress to afford a mortgage at home in Utah, kids in college and a place in Washington.
Though he’s leaving politics for now, Chaffetz said in that same interview that he isn’t closing the door on the possibility of a future run. The position with Fox News likely pays better than the salary for a member of Congress (which is around $170,000) and would keep Chaffetz in the public eye. A Fox News spokesperson did not immediately respond to questions about Chaffetz’s contract.
Jimmy Gomez, the California Democrat elected to succeed former Rep. Xavier Becerra in the House, will be sworn in on July 11, a senior Democratic aide said Wednesday.
Gomez was elected to the Los Angeles-based district on June 6 but his swearing-in has been postponed for weeks in what Gomez and allies have described as a “family conflict.”
Story Continued Below
Republicans have criticized Gomez for the delay, suggesting that he might be holding on to his current seat in the California Assembly to help Gov. Jerry Brown on a crucial vote in support of the state's cap-and-trade program.
The feud went national this week when House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) called Gomez’s delay an “abdication” of his responsibility. McCarthy noted in a letter to Gomez, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and California Secretary of State Alex Padilla that two other recently sworn-in members of Congress — Karen Handel of Georgia and Ralph Norman of South Carolina — were elected more recently than Gomez.
Becerra was tapped in December to become California’s attorney general in January, succeeding Kamala Harris, who was elected to the Senate.
Democrats punched back Wednesday, noting that the House has canceled recently scheduled Friday votes and has kept a relatively light floor schedule ahead of a weeklong Fourth of July recess.
“While we appreciate his interest in having a full complement of Democrats in Congress, perhaps his time would be better spent identifying exactly what and where the Republican agenda is,” said Pelosi spokeswoman Caroline Behringer. “Congressman-elect Gomez has been clear that he had an existing family conflict and couldn’t be sworn in this week.”
Gomez’s absence comes as the GOP-controlled House is grappling at the committee level with budget and appropriations measures and is awaiting the outcome of a Senate plan to replace Obamacare.
Gomez’s swearing in will give Democrats their 194th member.
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise’s ongoing recovery in a Washington hospital after a shooting earlier this month is a sign that “our prayers are being answered,” House Speaker Paul Ryan said in an interview that aired Wednesday morning.
Scalise was one of five people injured June 14 when a gunman opened fire on a group of Republican lawmakers practicing for the annual congressional baseball game, which was played the next day. The majority whip was among the first to be hit and sustained some of the worst injuries, suffering a pierced hip, severe bleeding and damage to his internal organs.
Story Continued Below
The gunman, 66-year-old James T. Hodgkinson, was shot at the scene and later died.
As part of an interview with Ryan that was taped last Monday, Fox News host Brian Kilmeade was allowed to visit a GOP House leadership meeting, where the speaker said Scalise’s seat near the head of the conference table has been kept empty since the shooting.
“This is where he normally sits. We’re keeping his seat right here vacant until he returns,” Ryan said, gesturing to the empty seat to his right. “Most of us have gone to see him or we’ve spoken with him. And he’s making a very good recovery. So we’re just – our prayers are being answered.”
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) added: “I have known Steve 10 years before he ever got here. This is one of the strongest men you’ll ever meet. Very difficult obstacle, but I was just with him on Friday. Even the doctors will tell you how strong he’s been through all of this.”
Chuck Schumer fired off a warning at a caucus-wide retreat in January: Senate Republicans will try to pick off Democrats, one by one, to join the GOP effort to dismantle Obamacare.
If that happens, Schumer said in Shepherdstown, West Virginia, Democrats are finished. And so the 48-member caucus must stick together to try to save it.
Story Continued Below
With that message, relayed by a source familiar with the episode, the New York Democrat and newly minted minority leader swiftly united an often-squabbling caucus against efforts to repeal Obamacare.
Months later, it helped deliver a major, though perhaps temporary, victory Tuesday when Mitch McConnell’s bid to repeal Obamacare stalled — a cause that had similarly united Republicans for the seven years since the landmark health care bill became law.
Now, as Senate GOP leaders punt a key vote on their health care bill until after the July 4 recess, Schumer faces his next challenge in his first major legislative battle as the top Senate Democrat: keeping his party and grass-roots allies mobilized for at least two more weeks, as Republicans rewrite their plan and hunt for votes.
Schumer also has to protect his moderate members up for reelection in 2018, who already have faced repeated attacks from the National Republican Senatorial Committee over their pledge to shield Obamacare from efforts to unravel it. President Donald Trump has also previewed that playbook, tweeting Tuesday that a “failed, expensive and dangerous ObamaCare” was the Democrats’ legacy. Trump is already trying to blame Democrats for obstructionism for any problems with the health system.
“Complacency is not something that we can countenance. We have to continue letting people know how bad this is,” Schumer told reporters on Tuesday. “Despite the fact that they have an amazing message machine… on this issue, it has sunk through. Only 17 or 16 percent of Americans support Trumpcare. They are really getting the message. We’re gonna keep doing that.”
Liberal activists were not always certain they could count on him to aggressively take on the GOP.
But earlier this year, Schumer quickly worked to ensure all 48 members of the Democratic Caucus — from Joe Manchin of West Virginia to Bernie Sanders of Vermont — would take a firm stance against repealing Obamacare, a position that solidified in January as efforts to dismantle the law ramped up.
“When they saw that I — in no way, shape or form — could vote to hurt every part of my state, every demographic in my state, I think that gave him the [sign] that we’re going to be united on this,” Manchin said.
That included any attempts from Republicans, limited as they were, to quietly reach out to Democrats on potential bipartisan health care talks.
When GOP Sens. Susan Collins of Maine and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana — who had been shopping around their own Obamacare replacement proposal — asked centrist Democrats including Manchin, Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota and Joe Donnelly of Indiana to chat about health care, Schumer gave the moderates the green light to go ahead, as long as they stressed that complete repeal was off the table.
“Whenever we started to do what each of us do, which is try to go solve a problem, he would remind us that there would be a time for that, but first we had to be together and send a message: It’s not OK to unravel the health care system,” Sen. Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, one of Schumer’s closest allies, said. “And he’s been very effective.”
A consummate dealmaker at heart, Schumer has nonetheless embraced a role leading a restive Democratic Party eager to oppose President Donald Trump at essentially every turn.
The minority leader has added Sanders and other liberal upstarts such as Jeff Merkley of Oregon and Brian Schatz of Hawaii to his broader leadership team. Merkley holds a standing meeting with liberal groups such as MoveOn.org, Our Revolution, UltraViolet and the Progressive Change Campaign Committee every other Thursday, often relaying feedback from the coalition back to Schumer.
One Senate Democratic aide said of Schumer: “I think he’s realized the value of the activist communities out there.”
“We have a diverse caucus and he’s got just as much enthusiasm among the moderates as he does among the progressives,” Schatz said. “And I think he’s adapted very quickly to the age of Trump and the era of social media. These are difficult times but he’s the right leader for these difficult times.”
Schumer’s relationship with the left wasn’t always as warm as it became in the last weeks of the heated health care fight.
Liberal activists pressed Senate Democrats for a procedural blockade in protest of the GOP’s secretive Obamacare repeal process, but the caucus didn't ramp up obstruction tactics until after passage of a bipartisan Russia sanctions bill. Another provocative maneuver, to shut down committee hearings, could have disrupted high profile testimonies, particularly in the Senate Intelligence Committee.
Angel Padilla, policy director at the anti-Trump group Indivisible, said activists “were really nervous” as they first urged Democratic senators to ramp up the opposition: “We thought, ‘They’re not going to do it because they’re Democrats and they don’t do this stuff.’”
After Democrats held their first Monday night talk-a-thon savaging the Republican repeal bill last week, however, activists rallied to their side — while constantly nudging for more resistance.
Democratic leaders “are learning to be receptive to where people are,” said Center for American Progress Action Fund campaign director Emily Tisch Sussman. “Understandably, they still have some deference to process, particularly in the Senate versus the House. … So they’re getting there.”
Still, the unity Schumer cultivated helped Democrats more easily exploit the divisions in the Republican Conference, whose members ranged from those who were fretful that dismantling Obamacare would harm their constituents to those who were frustrated that the repeal didn’t go far enough.
Schumer and the Democrats were handed some gifts along the way, including a private comment made by Trump himself that the House version of Obamacare repeal was “mean.” They also set out a goal of defeating the health care bill on a procedural vote to begin debate, rather than filibustering the bill with endless amendments once it got to the floor, as activists initially sought.
The New York Democrat is well aware that heeding the ornery spirit of the liberal grass roots can bring huge energy to Democrats’ push to hamper Trump’s agenda. Now that the GOP has postponed the repeal vote, activists are expecting him to not forget that lesson.
“The moment Democrats announced they were going to start shutting down business as usual in the Senate, health care leapt back onto the front page of newspapers, Republicans started falling off the bill,” MoveOn Washington director Ben Wikler said in an interview. “We are optimistic that Democrats have seen the effects of standing and fighting and are going to keep doing it.”
Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey, warned that the postponed vote could prove a temporary victory if Republicans regroup after the Fourth of July recess. And he urged the Democratic base to maintain this week’s level of energy and public pressure.
“I just hope that we use this time to wake more Americans up” to the consequences of Obamacare repeal, he said in an interview. “One of the biggest dangers we have right now is complacency, is silence, is people sitting on the sidelines.”
Mitch McConnell has little margin for error as he tries to salvage the Senate’s Obamacare repeal effort over the July 4 break.
The majority leader has to craft a compromise that tears down enough of Obamacare to satisfy the party’s conservative wing, while also ensuring the health benefits are generous enough to keep skeptical moderates in line. He can lose just two of the 52 Republican votes, and use Vice President Mike Pence as a tie-breaker.
Story Continued Below
Here are the five items on McConnell’s menu:
The Medicaid mess
The Senate health care bill would gut the safety net program, rolling back Obamacare’s expanded coverage and slashing its funding by $772 billion over a decade. And that’s perhaps the main obstacle facing McConnell as he tries to win over a crucial bloc of moderate GOP senators.
Republican leaders may try to soften the blow to Medicaid to win over several holdouts by considering lengthening the phase-out of generous funding for Medicaid expansion and easing the cap on the whole program’s funding. Senate Republicans hailing from expansion states — like vulnerable Nevada Sen. Dean Heller and key swing vote Rob Portman of Ohio — have pushed for a phase-out as long as seven years, far longer than the bill’s current three-year track.
McConnell may also float the potential for excluding certain groups from the program’s funding limits, in a bid to maintain coverage for some of the neediest Americans and relieve the financial burden on cash-strapped states.
But changes along those lines would put GOP leaders at risk of losing key conservatives who see Medicaid spending as out of control. Sen. Pat Toomey has led the charge to end the program’s entitlement status, with support from several other senators eager to limit Medicaid’s reach.
“Medicaid was initially set up to help the poor, women, children and the disabled,” Sen. John Barrasso of Wyoming said. “It has been taken in a direction way different than that."
The battle over Obamacare's subsidies
McConnell is also likely to weigh making the Senate bill’s tax credits more generous to alleviate concerns that poorer and older people wouldn’t get enough aid to purchase insurance on the individual market.
The current bill scales back those subsidies and cuts off eligibility at 350 percent of the federal poverty line, compared with Obamacare’s 400-percent threshold. The restructuring disproportionately benefits younger and healthier enrollees, the Congressional Budget Office projected Monday, raising concerns that older and poorer patients would be forced to pay significantly more for health care, or go without.
But Republican leaders can easily dial those subsidies back up if they are key to winning over swing votes like Sens. Susan Collins or Lisa Murkowski.
“I’m very concerned about the impact on premiums generally, particularly for that very vulnerable group between age 50 and 64,” Collins said.
What may not be so easy: Getting the conservative wing to go along with the bigger tax credits. Sen. Rand Paul — perhaps the most consistent opponent of the bill — has railed against the subsidies as just a perpetuation of Obamacare. Another holdout, Sen. Ron Johnson wants to eliminate that financial aid altogether.
Rolling back Obamacare regulations
Bringing conservatives back into the fold starts with repealing as much of Obamacare as possible — and that means doing more to gut the health law’s regulatory structure.
Paul and Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah have pushed to roll back all the standards governing health insurance plans, including protections barring insurers from discriminating against people with pre-existing conditions. And Republican leaders are already halfway there: The Senate bill lets states waive additional Obamacare rules in a bid to further lower premiums.
“I have been very clear from the beginning how to get my vote,” Cruz said.
But conservatives’ remaining demands are extensive, and include adding provisions — such as medical malpractice reform and allowing insurers to sell across state lines — that could disqualify the bill under the Senate’s strict reconciliation rules that are essential if McConnell is to pass the bill with a simple majority.
If he eliminates Obamacare’s protections for sick Americans, McConnell also risks inviting the backlash that nearly doomed the House GOP’s repeal bill. That controversy prompted Sen. Bill Cassidy to declare he wouldn’t support any bill that leaves the sick without access to care. And if moderate GOP senators are already worried about whether the bill maintains coverage for the most vulnerable, further gutting Obamacare’s protections likely won’t get them any closer to “yes.”
The Planned Parenthood problem
The easiest tweak Senate Republicans can make to the bill could also be among its most controversial: stripping out a provision that defunds Planned Parenthood for one year.
Collins and Murkowski — who have long been critical of zeroing out the organization’s funding — are drafting an amendment that would preserve the funds. Incorporating that into the Senate’s revised bill could go a long way toward winning those two crucial moderates. It would also come at little tangible economic cost since it has no effect on the rest of the bill.
But it risks upsetting the vast majority of Republican senators who saw this as their chance to finally cut Planned Parenthood’s funding after multiple failed attempts to do so. McConnell would have to take his colleagues' temperature before he makes any final decision and weigh whether he can endure the additional backlash from influential anti-abortion groups.
Adding enticements, including more money to combat opioid abuse
McConnell has roughly $188 billion to spend on sweeteners to the health care bill, thanks to CBO’s estimate that it would reduce the deficit by far more than the House-passed version of repeal. That gives him room to dole out aid for senators’ pet issues in hopes of winning their votes, and it could go a long way toward addressing some moderates' concerns.
Boosting funding to fight the opioid epidemic ravaging many states would likely be a strong inducement for holdouts like Ohio’s Portman and West Virginia’s Shelley Moore Capito.
“This bill will not ensure access to affordable health care in West Virginia, does not do enough to combat the opioid epidemic that is devastating my state, cuts traditional Medicaid too deeply, and harms rural health care providers,” Capito said in a statement laying out her complaints about the legislation.
Republican leaders could also funnel more money into tax credits to reduce the burden of premiums in Alaska’s particularly expensive individual market to lock in Murkowski’s vote, and respond to a range of asks from senators across the spectrum.
Sen. Marco Rubio, for example, said he’s mulling his own set of proposals aimed at shoring up Florida’s Medicaid and individual markets. Of course, sweeteners targeted to specific senators could sow discontent among the rest of the conference, especially those keen on preserving the bill’s deficit savings. That puts further pressure on McConnell to spend his billions wisely.
A pro-Trump outside group will pull its ads assailing GOP Sen. Dean Heller over his opposition to the now stalled Obamacare repeal bill — a move that follows massive backlash from senior Republicans who called on the organization to stop attacking the Nevadan.
America First Policies had begun airing TV and radio ads on Tuesday savaging Heller for his planned ‘No’ vote, with spots charging that Heller had broken his “promise” to voters that he would dismantle Obamacare — a stunning attack on a member of the president’s own party and the most vulnerable Republican up for re-election in 2018.
Story Continued Below
But on Tuesday evening — just a few hours after the TV and radio ads went up and after Senate Republicans tossed plans to vote on the legislation this week — the group, which is staffed with several of the president’s top campaign aides, decided to stop running the ads, two senior Republicans familiar with the decision told POLITICO.
An America First Policies official said the decision followed Heller’s decision to appear at the White House with other Republicans on Tuesday, arguing that it was evidence that he was open to negotiating on the bill.
The purpose of launching the campaign, this official argued, was to pressure Heller into coming to the negotiating table — which he'd now done.
Anger over the TV ads became a topic of discussion at the White House meeting, with Heller himself raising them as a point of concern, according to a spokeswoman for the Nevada senator.
“Let’s just say that I would say it was maybe a background issue” during the meeting, said South Dakota Sen. John Thune.
Since the group announced the offensive on Friday, it has come under fire from Republicans, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who privately fumed that the attack would make it harder to get Heller’s support. McConnell’s political team also reached out to the group, pleading with them to stop the commercials.
A number of senior Republicans, including former top officials at the National Republican Senatorial Committee, also spoke out against the barrage, saying it would make Heller’s already difficult re-election even tougher.
Seung Min Kim contributed to this report.
Longtime Donald Trump associate Roger Stone is set to appear July 24 before the House Intelligence Committee, which is examining contacts between Russia and the Trump presidential campaign, according to Stone’s attorney.
The hearing will be closed, said Stone’s lawyer, Robert Buschel. He said his client had asked for a public hearing on Capitol Hill to address his communications last year with Moscow-linked hackers and WikiLeaks, which published personal emails stolen from Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta.
Story Continued Below
“We tried really hard,” Buschel said, adding that he was told by the GOP-led House panel, “They’re done with public.”
Podesta testified Tuesday before the committee.
As he left his interview, Podesta was asked if the Obama administration had done enough to counter Russia’s election interference. “I think they were trying to make the best judgments they could on behalf of the American people,” he said.
In an email, Stone told POLITICO he wanted to testify specifically to counter Podesta.
“With John Podesta appearing before the committee I do feel it is essential that I have the opportunity to rebut his serial lies,” Stone said in an email. “I may not be able to sue a member of Congress but I sure as hell can sue the f--- out of Podesta. The claim that I had knowledge of the hacking of his email by WikiLeaks in advance is a demonstrable lie.”
Podesta did not respond to a later request for comment.
The committee had planned to interview Stone and others this month but Democrats put the hearings on hold amid a public spat between committee chairman Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) and ranking member Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.).
A spokeswoman for Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), the Republican leader of the House Intelligence Committee probe, declined comment about Stone’s scheduled appearance.
Stone, a Republican operative and one of the youngest members of Richard Nixon’s infamous 1972 reelection campaign, has been among the most public of Trump’s current or former aides in discussing his communications with Russia-linked affiliates. He talked in March about being in touch with “Guccifer 2.0” — the hacker persona that U.S. intelligence officials say is a Russian front for channeling stolen documents but who Stone insists is not a Moscow asset — and boasted during the campaign about his contact with WikiLeaks.
Stone predicted last summer on Twitter that there would be an October surprise that would disrupt Clinton’s campaign, and he even suggested Podesta would face scandal shortly before the Democrat’s emails started surfacing on WikiLeaks.
Podesta confirmed in October 2016 that he’d been in touch with the FBI as it probed the hack. Stone has long said he’s willing to talk to the FBI, but Buschel said neither he nor his client had heard yet heard from federal agents or Robert Mueller, the special prosecutor appointed last month by the Justice Department to investigate possible collusion between Trump’s campaign and Russia.
Stone has been “cooperating” with Senate and House investigators who have demanded documents related to the 2016 campaign, Buschel said. He also expects a transcript of his appearance before the House panel to be made public. “I’m sure Roger will be happy to tell you whatever he says,” he said. “I don’t think there will be much mystery after that.”
The stock value of the Australian biotech firm Rep. Chris Collins championed to fellow lawmakers plummeted on Tuesday, costing the New York Republican $17 million as investigators continue probing his relationship with the firm.
Innate Immunotherapeutic shares dropped more than 90 percent on Tuesday to 5 cents when markets closed in Australia. The tumultuous fall of the company's stock followed an announcement that the firm's star pharmaceutical drug for multiple sclerosis failed to pass clinical trials.
Story Continued Below
Collins’ relationship with the company has raised eyebrows in recent months. And the Office of Congressional Ethics is currently investigating whether Collins engaged in insider trading.
The longtime President Donald Trump supporter allegedly tipped off a number of lawmakers and Buffalo-area leaders to invest in the company, which sold Collins' political acquaintances discounted shares that soared after their investments. Collins, who is the company’s largest shareholder and sits on the firm’s board, had also helped craft legislation to speed clinical trials, which would theoretically benefit Innate.
The Collins stock controversy almost sank ex-Rep. Tom Price’s nomination to lead the Health and Human Services Department after it was reported that the Georgia Republican and former Budget chairman had invested in Innate as well. Price sold his shares earlier this year for $250,000, after an initial $94,000 investment.
Collins in a statement Tuesday said that he was disappointed in the news but “hopeful that someday we can find a treatment for this the terrible disease of secondary progressive multiple sclerosis.”
“After 14 years of hard work, substantial investment and dramatic progress, it is obvious that we have more to do,” he said. “For those that invested in Innate including me, we all were sophisticated investors who were aware of the inherent risk.”
A source close to the company said the $17 million loss was only on paper and that Collins' actual loses are just over $5 million, the amount he invested about 15 years ago when he first encountered the firm. The source said he “never sold a share” in Innate.
According to financial disclosure forms, Collins is worth upwards of $40 million — or at least he was before the Innate stock plummeted.
It is unclear how much lawmakers who invested in the company have lost overall. Collins had recruited Reps. Markwayne Mullin (R-Okla.), Billy Long (R-Mo.), Mike Conaway (R-Texas) and Doug Lamborn (R-Colo.) to invest money in the company.
Republican senators’ offices say they’re getting a flood of calls from voters worried about the GOP Obamacare repeal bill, potentially further complicating Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s attempt to muscle the legislation through this week.
Chris Gallegos, communications director for Mississippi Sen. Thad Cochran, who has so far not staked out a hard position on the legislation, said calls from constituents since the bill's release last week have mainly been negative.
Story Continued Below
“Since last Thursday, the Cochran offices have received approximately 224 constituent calls against and two in favor of discussion draft of the healthcare bill,” Gallegos wrote in an email Monday.
The office of Sen. Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), who has voiced support for the bill, reported similar call proportions. His communications director, Lindsay Nothern, said the office has also gotten word that there will be an organized protest on Wednesday outside their Boise office to oppose the bill.
“We’ve had several phone calls — there’s still a mix,” Nothern said. “But they probably run stronger against the Republican bill than for it. Most of them want to see changes in the bill.”
He said the majority of calls concerned Medicaid, though Nothern did not specify any numbers when asked.
Jill Gerber, communications manager for Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), who has not yet expressed a clear opinion on the bill, also did not provide statistics, though she said Iowans who have reached out expressed various opinions on the topic.
“Grassley’s office has had an uptick in calls since the Senate discussion draft bill came out last Thursday,” Gerber said. “In general, over the past few weeks, there’s been a lot of contact to the office about health care.”
She said some of the people calling were from out of state.
The strong constituent interest comes as the bill appears to be in a precarious position, with at least four Republican senators — Susan Collins of Maine, Rand Paul of Kentucky, Dean Heller of Nevada and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin — signaling they could oppose a key procedural vote that is expected to occur Tuesday afternoon or Wednesday.
That would put the GOP and President Donald Trump well short of the votes needed to advance the bill, and McConnell has indicated he’s ready to move on to tax reform if this Obamacare repeal push collapses.
Democrats, eager to thwart Republicans, have been highlighting the intense concerns from voters worried about Medicaid cuts, premium spikes and coverage losses.
Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) said in an interview Monday with the nonpartisan group Connecticut American Association of Retired Persons that he and his constituents openly oppose the bill.
“When I looked at my phone calls last week, I had received hundreds of calls — I hadn't received a single phone call in favor of it,” Murphy said. “I've never seen a bill this important with no one in favor of it.”
His office did not respond to a request for comment on the exact numbers of constituent responses he received.
Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) appeared to be the first to publicly report constituent statistics, and a visual she posted on Twitter said that of the 5,569 constituents who had called her office since January about repealing the Affordable Care Act, 5,461 opposed doing away with it.
“Since January, Granite Staters have been contacting my office abt the GOP #ACA repeal,” Shaheen tweeted on June 21, a day before the Senate health care bill was released. “Of >5500 notes, 98% are against it #AmericaSpeaksOut.”
Democratic Sens. Mark Warner of Virginia, Ben Cardin of Maryland,  Dick Durbin of Illinois,  Tom Udall of New Mexico, Catherine Cortez Masto of Nevada and Joe Manchin of West Virginia also tweeted statistics about responses from their constituents, but no GOP senators appeared to have done so as of Monday, even after Senate Minority Whip Durbin’s request for statistics.
“I’ve gotten 5,000 letters and more than 2,000 calls opposing Senate’s #Trumpcare just this week,” he tweeted. “@SenateGop what are your numbers?"
Mitch McConnell is delivering an urgent warning to staffers, Republican senators and even the president himself: If Obamacare repeal fails this week, the GOP will lose all leverage and be forced to work with Chuck Schumer.
President Donald Trump continued to float the possibility on Monday that Congress and the White House would simply let Obamacare’s individual markets collapse if the GOP’s repeal effort goes down later this week. But McConnell called up Trump recently, according to people with knowledge of the call, to deliver a reality check.
Story Continued Below
Voters expect Republicans to deliver on their long-held promise to repeal the law, McConnell said, according to those people. And failing to repeal the law would mean the GOP would lose its opportunity to do a partisan rewrite of the law that could scale back Medicaid spending, cut Obamacare’s taxes and repeal a host of industry mandates.
Instead, Republicans would be forced to enter into bipartisan negotiations with Democrats to save failing insurance markets.
McConnell delivered a similar warning Monday to Republican senators at his leadership meeting and to top GOP staffers, warning that Democrats will want to retain as much of Obamacare as possible in a bipartisan negotiation, according to Republican aides.
“If we fail, we’re going to be negotiating with [Democratic Leader] Chuck Schumer,” said one Republican staffer.
McConnell’s motivational words are aimed at reviving support for his bill to repeal the health care law through the party-line reconciliation method this week. GOP leaders are hunting for votes to even start debate on the bill, with at least four Republicans currently opposed to the legislation as written and many more undecided.
Republicans will have a party lunch on Tuesday that will offer a window into the repeal bill’s prospects and potential deal-making to be done.
McConnell still has about $188 billion in funds that he could use to shore up the bill’s support by offering Republicans money to fight opioid abuse, as well as several more proposals he could include to attract conservative support, particularly the expansion of health savings accounts to woo the party’s right flank.
The Senate is likely to vote on kicking off floor debate on the bill on Wednesday, though it could occur on Tuesday. Vice President Mike Pence will dine with wavering Republican senators on Tuesday night, which could boost the bill’s prospects for a Wednesday vote.
McConnell has told senators for weeks that he fears a failed repeal effort would be followed by a large bailout of the insurance industry that would be supported by moderate Republicans and Democrats, per people familiar with his thinking. And McConnell would be content to not touch Obamacare repeal again if this bill failed.
Trump has repeatedly weighed taking away cost-sharing subsidies and has privately told activists and administration officials that Democrats would own the failure of Obamacare and that it could be a political boon for Republicans.
But some of his senior officials believe the White House would take at least some of the blame if markets imploded.
If the bill fails, Schumer (D-N.Y.) and his members would be empowered to negotiate with centrist Republicans to save the flailing markets. A trio of Democratic senators met with some Republicans this spring to discuss a bipartisan proposal to shore up the nation’s health care system, but there are many elements of the GOP’s bill that those Democrats will not support.
“The price of admission for me sitting down with you is I’m not willing to [per capita] block grant Medicaid and eliminate Medicaid expansion,” said Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), recalling her message to those Republicans.
With Republican-leadership backed legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare struggling to gain traction in the Senate, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan expressed confidence in an interview that aired Tuesday morning that his GOP colleagues on the other side of Capitol Hill would find enough votes to pass the bill.
“It's the biggest signature issue we have, and it's the biggest promise we’ve ever made in the modern era. We said if we get elected, we will repeal and replace Obamacare,” Ryan told Fox News’ “Fox & Friends” in a pretaped interview. “We did this in the House. It's now the Senate's turn. I think they’re going to do it.”
Story Continued Below
Despite Ryan’s optimism, the future of the Senate’s measure is far from certain. At least five GOP senators have expressed their opposition to the bill, and some have gone so far as to signal that they could block a procedural vote on the measure expected Tuesday or Wednesday.
Republicans cannot afford to lose more than two votes on the bill and still have it pass. The legislation is not expected to receive any support from Democrats, who have been roundly critical of it.
Should Senate Republicans manage to muster enough support to pass the repeal-and-replace bill, the legislation would still need to be melded with the version that narrowly passed the House in May.
Ryan’s confidence that the Senate will ultimately pass its legislation despite its wavering support among the Republican rank and file could be based at least in part on his own experience shepherding through a House version of the bill that was unable to completely unify the GOP.
Republican leaders in the House struggled throughout the negotiation process to strike a compromise between arch-conservative members and more moderate ones, forcing Ryan at one point to cancel a vote on the bill when it became clear that there was not enough support among GOP members to pass it. A second version of the bill later passed, albeit by just a handful of votes.
“We were elected to solve people's problems, to improve people's lives. Fixing health care is a big part of that,” Ryan said. “We have an opportunity in front of us. We are making good progress on these things. We campaigned on doing serious things with this president. It's going to take us time to do those things. But [if] we get this done, this will be the most productive presidency and Congress in our lifetimes.”
White House and Capitol Hill officials are exploring potential deals to divvy up billions of dollars to individual senators’ priorities in a wide-ranging bid to secure votes for the imperiled GOP health care bill.
A Congressional Budget Office score that projected 22 million fewer Americans would have insurance under the plan sent some members fleeing Monday and left the bill in jeopardy of failing to have enough votes to even be called to the Senate floor this week.
Story Continued Below
But Republicans in the White House and in Congress were pleasantly surprised that the bill included more savings than they expected — and are trying to figure out if they can dole it out for votes.
The Senate has about $188 billion to play with.
Among the possible changes: More spending for health savings accounts to appease conservatives such as Sen. Ted Cruz and Sen. Mike Lee, according to three people familiar with the matter, and some additional Medicaid and opioid spending for moderates.
"We are still working with leadership to change the base bill," a Lee aide said.
Lee, Cruz and others on the right have been looking to wipe out as much of Obamacare as possible and replace it with health savings accounts, group plans and selling insurance across state lines, among other ideas. It’s not clear whether the Senate parliamentarian would allow all of those proposals through under strict reconciliation rules. And Lee will likely require far more dramatic changes to be won over.
Meanwhile, senators from Medicaid expansion states huddled after the CBO score revealed the nearly $200 billion in savings to see whether they could get GOP leaders to put more money into Medicaid and to thwart drug addiction. Those modifications might take place on the Senate floor, but Republicans are divided on how to use the money.
Negotiations are likely to continue quickly behind the scenes over the next 24 hours and could draw the ire of good government groups and advocates. Republicans hammered Democrats for supposedly crafting Obamacare in secret seven years ago and for handing out goodies to wavering Democratic senators.
But the GOP bill has been roundly criticized for being negotiated and written in secret — and the final terms are leaving even some Republicans queasy.
One Senate aide said that Tuesday would be "all about side deals," and another person familiar with the discussions said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had already begun talking about private deals.
"There's no one-size-fits-all to getting these people on board," said one White House official. "Each of them want different things, and we have to figure out if there is a path."
Defenders of the bill note that Obamacare's markets are struggling and the coverage losses are partially due to people choosing not to buy coverage, because there would no longer be a government mandate.
Any changes to appease moderates could face severe blowback from conservatives.
“There are some people who have some designs on that,” said Sen. John Thune, a South Dakota Republican. “It wouldn’t be a bad thing if we put the money toward deficit reduction."
The bill remains in peril. It is also unclear whether there is enough money to give out that could win over the divided GOP Conference.
Time is of the essence.
McConnell has said he wants a vote this week no matter what, even as some White House officials have said they wouldn't mind a delay and are fearful the votes aren't there with the current legislation.
“You could make an argument for delaying it if you could get a better policy, but this is the best we could do to satisfy all the different aspects of our conferences,” Thune said.
“There’s no reason not to get this done this week,” said Sen. Roy Blunt of Missouri. “And the CBO score was a little better than I thought it would be.”
White House officials said they were increasingly looking to Sens. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) and Dean Heller (R-Nev.) — and if the two maintained their opposition, the bill was likely dead. Senate leadership has largely written off Paul, and a Trump outside group has begun attacking Heller, drawing some head-scratching from Senate aides.
Tim Alberta contributed to this report.
Sen. Dean Heller’s harsh critique of the Republican effort to kill Obamacare has broken open a Democratic divide — between those who want to unseat him and those who prefer to lock in his "no" vote first to save the health care law.
The Nevada Republican gave Democrats a gift on Friday when he issued a stinging analysis of the Senate' GOP health plan and signaled he may vote against it. His reward: vicious reviews from Democrats who sense a chance to defeat him in 2018.
Story Continued Below
Heller was "cowardly," not courageous, argued Democratic super PAC American Bridge. He's "taking marching orders" from party bosses in Washington, said Senate Democrats' campaign arm. Nevada Democrats assailed his comments as "desperate," and EMILY's List called him "utterly spineless."
The assault, though, isn’t sitting well with some of the party's staunchest Obamacare defenders. Heller's defiance of GOP leadership may help Democrats stave off Republican efforts to gut the seven-year-old health care law this week. Attacking one of the few Republicans likely to break ranks feels disturbingly off-key, some Obamacare backers argued.
"Democrats look awfully disingenuous by attacking him for opposing a terrible plan that would punish his state and constituents," said David Axelrod, a top adviser to former President Barack Obama. "If Dean Heller stops a disaster for his state and people across the country, I'm not going to question his motives."
The tension over how to handle Heller reflects a broader conflict for the party. Democrats in Congress are desperate to stop a GOP health care push they warn will cause devastation for millions of families. But their outside allies tasked with chipping away at GOP control of Washington are solely focused on making vulnerable Republicans pay for the controversial bill.
To liberal advocacy groups focused primarily on preserving Obamacare, Heller's remarks Friday came as welcome news.
“We do think we need to praise members when they do something right, for whatever reason,” said Angel Padilla, policy director at Indivisible, which has waged a national campaign to thwart Republican efforts to repeal Obamacare.
“There are plenty of reasons to try to replace Heller,” Padilla added, “but on this he’s done the right thing.”
Another longtime Obama ally, Jesse Lehrich, called Democratic attacks on Heller "offensive" at a time when "thousands of lives are on the line."
Groups like the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee and American Bridge have their focus elsewhere — on the broader political effort to win back the Senate. In that effort, Heller is the most obvious target. He's the only Republican up for reelection in 2018 who hails from a state won by Hillary Clinton, and he's Democrats' best — if not only — shot to flip a GOP-held Senate seat next year.
"Some just are fighting for this one vote, but we're not just after his vote, we're also exposing his motivation," said one Democratic operative working to defeat Heller. "We're just looking at a slightly longer game here. We are going to hold him accountable through this vote and through November 2018."
Democratic strategists note Heller has voted to repeal Obamacare for years.
"Sen. Heller has supported the proposals this plan contains and he’s earned a reputation for saying anything that’ll help him out in the moment," said Lauren Passalacqua, spokeswoman for the DSCC. "Those who know him best think he was protecting himself with his caveats, equivocations and refusal to rule out ending the Medicaid expansion."
Asked about the Democrats' debate over how to handle his position, Heller smiled broadly but declined to comment.
But Heller knows he's got a perilous path to reelection. He has already drawn a Democratic challenger, Rep. Jacky Rosen, and his maneuvering on the health care bill may be the defining issue of the race. His public criticism of the Senate GOP bill has already earned him scorn from his own party, too. Conservatives blasted his critique and a pro-Trump PAC even ran ads linking him to House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi.
Democratic operatives note that Republicans offered no quarter to Democrats who bucked their party on Obamacare in 2010. The blue dog coalition of conservative Democrats that attempted to survive the Obamacare backlash that year was largely wiped out, and Republicans didn't distinguish between those who backed the health care bill and those who didn't.
"Not one of them was ever given credit for it by one Republican," said a Democratic strategist involved in the current health care fight. "They would say 'oh bulls--t, they voted for Pelosi for speaker.'"
In that tradition, Democrats say they intend to call out Heller for his lengthy record of advocating for Obamacare repeal before 2017 and for backing the process that has allowed Republicans to advance repeal measures to this point. His concerns now, they argue, are just about self-preservation.
Even those suggesting Democrats should ease up on Heller in the short term agree he should be watched with a wary eye.
"He may yet yield to enormous pressure from his own party, trade his vote for Yucca Mountain and call it a win," Axelrod said, referencing longtime efforts by Nevada political leaders to block a nuclear waste site in their state.
Indivisible's Padilla, too, urged Democrats not to let Heller "off the hook" in case he reverses course. And others on the left agreed.
“Until we see and hear the 'No' votes from the floor with our own eyes and ears, we are going to keep all out pressure on key Republican senators across all channels,” said Murshed Zaheed, political director at the liberal group CREDO Action, in a statement.
But the party's most stalwart defenders of Obamacare say if Heller follows through and votes against the GOP health care bill, it doesn't really matter whether his motives were about political survival or policy. And they believe his opposition will encourage other moderate Republicans to withhold their support.
"We saw a Republican senator saying exactly the same things about Mitch McConnell's health care bill that Democrats have been saying ... That's a big deal," said one Democratic operative involved in the health care fight, who hopes it could put pressure on other swing GOP votes like West Virginia's Shelley Moore Capito and Alaska's Lisa Murkowski.
“But those senators have less incentive to take that stand if Democratic groups are just going to engage in shameless partisan hackery and slam them anyway," he added.
Democratic Reps. John Conyers of Michigan and Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico are under scrutiny by the House Ethics Committee for alleged violations, although both men strongly deny any wrongdoing.
The allegation against Lujan is tied to the Democratic "sit-in" on the House floor in June 2016. Conyers has come under review for his interaction with a former top aide who pleaded guilty to receiving stolen property.
Story Continued Below
And Michael Collins, chief of staff for Rep. John Lewis, is also under investigation by the Ethics panel following a complaint from a conservative watchdog group over allegedly serving improperly as the Georgia Democrat's campaign treasurer and top aide at the same time.
All three cases were disclosed today following referrals from the Office of Congressional Ethics. The Ethics Committee has another 45 days to decide to go ahead with full investigations or handle the case in another manner.
The Ethics Committee review of Lujan was spurred by a complaint filed by a right-leaning group, the Foundation for Accountability and Civic Trust, with OCE. The same organization filed the complaint against Collins.
House Democrats staged a high-profile "sit in" on the House floor last year when Republicans refused to allow votes on several gun-related measures. The dramatic move caught national attention; after Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) adjourned the House and C-Span cameras stopped showing what was happening on the floor, Democratic lawmakers streamed it on their phones.
The group filing the complaint, FACT, alleged Democrats improperly used images of themselves on the floor during the protest in fundraising appeals. House rules prohibit using official resources for political activities. Lujan sent out a fundrainsing pitch with a photo of him on the floor during the sit-in. FACT filed a complaint with OCE over this fundraising pitch, as well as other by additional Democratic lawmakers. OCE voted to refer the matter to the Ethics Committee.
"This announcement is the result of a frivolous complaint, filed by a highly partisan outside group about activities during the sit-in last year — a complaint that is without merit," said Joe Shoemaker, Lujan's communications director, in a statement. "Congressman Luján is committed to abiding by House rules, is confident he has done so in this case, and looks forward to a timely resolution by the Ethics Committee.”
The Conyers case has to do with Cynthia Martin, formerly his top aide. Martin pleaded guilty to receiving stolen property in April 2016. Martin was mistakenly routed $16,500 in deposits to her credit union account by another customer. Martin refused to return the money and was later charged with a crime. She pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and was placed on leave by Conyers. The Ethics Committee review involves her departure from Conyers' staff.
According to an OCE referral, "From April to August 2016, Cynthia Martin received compensation from the House of Representatives at a time when she may no longer have been working for the House. If Ms. Martin accepted compensation that was not commensurate with the work she was performing, then she may have violated House rules and standards of conduct."
Martin formally left the House payroll on Sept. 30, 2016.
"This is not a new controversy, but rather involves the same matter that the Office of Congressional Ethics released back in February," said a Conyers' spokeswoman. "Mr. Conyers’ office has worked diligently at all times to comply with the rules, is cooperating with the Ethics Committee, and is confident that this matter can be swiftly resolved."
Collins and Lewis have denied any wrongdoing in how the Georgia Democrat's top aide handled his dual role as campaign treasurer and chief of staff. Collins is no longer the campaign treasurer, according to Federal Election Commission records.
"Mr. Collins would like reporters to refer to the committee’s release which states 'the mere fact of a referral or an extension, and the mandatory disclosure of such an extension…does not itself indicate that any violation has occurred,'" said a statement from Brenda Jones, Lewis' communications director. "Mr. Collins respects the process of ethics review and is cooperating with the committee."
Carter Page, a former Donald Trump campaign foreign policy adviser, said Monday he’s been interviewed by the FBI as part of its investigation into Russia’s election meddling.
The interviews, which he called “extensive discussions,” came prior to James Comey’s firing as FBI director in May, Page said. Page, an energy consultant who traveled to Moscow last summer to deliver a speech while advising the Trump campaign, has become a target of the FBI investigation, along with the probes being pursued by the House and Senate Intelligence Committees, which are all looking into the possibility of collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign.
Story Continued Below
“During my extensive discussions with the FBI agents just weeks before Comey’s departure, they acknowledged that I’m a loyal American veteran but indicated that their ‘management’ was concerned that I did not believe the conclusions of the fake January 6 intelligence report,” Page said in a statement, referring to the public assessment by U.S. intelligence agencies that Russia sought to sway the presidential election in Trump’s favor.
“I told them that I learned the lessons from the intelligence failures of the original Dodgy Dossier from 2003 which cost this country thousands of service members lives and over a trillion dollars,” he continued. “Our frank and open conversations gave me confidence that there are still logical, honest individuals at the Bureau who respect civil rights and the Constitution, despite the recent devastating impact on our democracy by self-centered politicians at the top of the Clinton-Obama-Comey regime.”
Page has previously claimed to be the victim of a civil-rights conspiracy because of possible government surveillance of his communications.
The Washington Post first reported that he had been interviewed by the FBI.
The House Budget Committee is planning to unveil a long-awaited budget resolution next week calling for a spending boost to the Pentagon alongside cuts to domestic programs, despite lingering disputes within the GOP conference.
House budget writers reached a tentative agreement this afternoon to move ahead with a resolution that would set spending levels at $511 billion for domestic programs and $621 billion for defense, two lawmakers confirmed. Compared to current law, that would amount to a $72 billion boost for defense and a $4 billion cut for domestic spending.
Story Continued Below
The budget resolution would also instruct GOP committees to cut $150 billion from mandatory programs over a decade. Those cuts, while not specified in the budget, would be intended to target anti-poverty programs, like food stamps and disability insurance, according to members.
“We’d like to mark up next week, next Wednesday,” senior member Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.) said, acknowledging the committee still has “a few i's to dot and t's to cross.”
The mandatory spending cuts — which, unlike the rest of the budget proposal, would actually become law — have been among the most controversial pieces of this year's GOP budget. The cuts would be included as reconciliation instructions, alongside tax reform, which means the legislation could dodge the Senate's filibuster.
Rep. Mark Sanford, who sits on the committee, said he was pushing right up until the end for members to aim for far more spending cuts.
"Think about how small $150 billion over 10 years is," he told reporters after the meeting. "To say that we're doing robust work in deficit reduction I don't think is the case."
The defense spending comes in above the Trump administration's proposal of $603 billion but falls short of the $640 billion members of the House Armed Services Committee demanded. Those lawmakers fought for the $640 billion spending levels in this morning's House GOP conference meeting.
“It’s not everything the defense people want, but it’s certainly a substantial increase for them," Cole said. "If you’re a non-defense appropriator, you don’t like that cut, but it’s not an unreasonable cut."
House GOP leaders have not yet given the official approval, Cole added, though he said he believes they will sign.
A spokesman for the House Budget Committee said nothing has been finalized.
The fractious House Republican Conference is struggling to unite behind a plan to pass budget and spending bills, divided over policy priorities as well as basic questions of process.
Lawmakers emerged from a closed-door meeting Wednesday morning with virtually no consensus on how to proceed. And disagreements are beginning to fester, pitting chairman against chairman and even panel members against one another.
Story Continued Below
“It was all over the board,” said Rep. Mike Simpson (R-Idaho), who sits on the House Appropriations Committee, upon exiting the meeting.
The stalemate — which centers on how much to spend on defense as well as whether to use their Republican majority to cut mandatory programs like food stamps — has the potential to jam the GOP agenda. If Republicans don’t decide on a path forward soon, they may not be able to pass a budget at all.
The budget has been grounded for months amid internal House spending spats and the Trump administration’s own delay in writing a budget.
Eager to push ahead, House budget writers tentatively agreed in a separate meeting Wednesday afternoon to advance a budget resolution that takes a middle-of-the-road approach to both defense spending and the mandatory cuts. It would also trim domestic spending by several billion dollars.
Members are planning for a Budget Committee vote on June 28, though they’re waiting approval from GOP leadership. Lawmakers are also still fearful that their budget could fail to make it to the floor for the second year in a row.
Should that happen, GOP leaders can say goodbye to the fast-tracking budget tool they need to pass tax reform, which would be a huge blow to Capitol Hill Republicans and the White House.
Speaking to reporters as she exited the meeting, House Budget Committee Chairwoman Diane Black (R-Tenn.) declined to say whether she still hoped to pass the budget before the July Fourth recess, or if she thought the House GOP caucus was inching toward consensus.
“Of course I want to be able to mark up as soon as we’re ready. I’m continuing to make good progress,” Black said. “We are making progress.”
That progress was less than evident Wednesday, however. While Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) likes to say Republicans are having a “family conversation” about how to move forward on major issues, the House Republican Conference is more akin to an estranged family than one that chats over dinner each night.
During the Wednesday conference meeting, defense hawks stood up to say they want higher spending levels for the Pentagon and warned about potential harm to military readiness without a massive spending bump. Some even suggested they’d haul in Defense Secretary James Mattis if necessary to teach the conference a lesson in protecting the nation.
House Armed Services Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-Texas) has been making the case for a $640 billion Pentagon budget, well above President Donald Trump’s $603 billion budget proposal and substantially higher than the current $549 billion defense spending cap.
Thornberry's committee is set to mark up its annual defense policy legislation at the subcommittee level this week and at the full committee level next week. While House Armed Services has been mum on the total amount of spending it will outline in its must-pass bill, observers have said they expect Thornberry to press ahead with the $640 billion level.
Budget writers have called for $621 billion for defense, a compromise number they believe is sufficient, and they’re peeved that defense hawks don’t appear to be accepting that middle-ground number.
Some lawmakers and aides, however, say defense hawks usually win the battle between frugality and security — and they’re predicting Thornberry and his crew will again be victorious.
"I think people understand the need for a strong national defense, and I think what we need to talk about is what capabilities we either gain or give up... rather than just talking numbers,” said Rep. Brad Wenstrup (R-Ohio), who sits on Armed Services.
Exiting Wednesday’s meeting, Rep. Duncan Hunter, a California Republican who also sits on the defense panel, said “I think everybody's pro-$640 [billion], but they're gonna want things in exchange for that."
The thing conservatives want in exchange has become another sticking point: Black has been advocating for hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of cuts to mandatory programs in her budget, and hard-liners who love that idea say they could potentially support higher defense numbers if welfare programs are reformed and reduced.
But some chairmen, including Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-Texas), have balked at the idea of making cuts to programs in their purview. Black has lowered her proposed cuts to mandatory programs from $400 billion to $150 billion, but she’s still getting pushback.
Asked about mandatory cuts under Agriculture, which would likely mean reductions to food stamps and farm subsidies, Conaway seemed peeved that details of Black’s budget had already made it to the press.
“I’m going to continue to talk to the Budget Committee to try to get her reasonable accommodation of what they’re trying to get done,” he said. “Once they put out an official statement, I’ll respond officially, but this leaking of information to try to run [ideas] up the flagpole is not the best way to run” business.
Even if the conference can hash out an agreement on defense numbers and mandatory cuts, it will face divisions on the process, which was the main focus of the Wednesday meeting. In fact, GOP lawmakers said they were surprised by how little talk there was about budget numbers, given how little time members have to act.
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) presented several scenarios to pass appropriations bills through the House, with the aim of averting a dreaded stopgap bill this fall. All would involve bundling at least some spending bills, meaning that lawmakers have officially ditched the idea of “regular order.”
Some Republicans prefer passing a massive, partisan spending bill in July even if it will never clear the Senate where Democratic votes would be needed. That idea, from Rep. Tom Graves (R-Ga.), is intended to give the rank and file more input, but other appropriators and staff are dreading the proposal and hoping leadership kills it quickly.
There’s concern about time: Can they really write a GOP spending bill in five weeks before the August recess? That timeline would give appropriators only about seven working days to file the text and get it to the floor in July.
Some, like appropriator Charlie Dent (R-Pa.), said they didn’t see the point since it would never become law.
“Some of the other options I consider to be a fake process that would lead to fake bills,” Dent said.
Multiple lawmakers said they expect to decide on a path forward at the next House GOP meeting on Friday morning. “Hopefully at that time, we’ll have some reading on a consensus,” said Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.), former chairman of the House Appropriations Committee.
Rogers said there’s a “strong sentiment to at least get some of the work done before the August break.” That, for now, appears to be where the consensus ends.
Rep. Elijah Cummings, the top Democrat on the House Oversight Committee, wants the White House to explain why senior adviser Jared Kushner still has a security clearance despite reports he failed to disclose meetings with Russian officials and businessmen.
Cummings sent a letter signed by all the Democrats on his committee to White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus on Wednesday requesting documents by July 5, including Kushner’s security clearance application and records of his contacts with Russians.
Story Continued Below
Kushner, President Donald Trump’s son-in-law and adviser, omitted dozens of contacts with foreign leaders on his security clearance application, The New York Times reported in April, even though the application asks for a list of all encounters with foreign government officials over the past seven years. The Washington Post also reported last month that Russia’s ambassador to the U.S. had told his superiors Kushner wanted to set up a secret communications backchannel between the Trump transition team and Moscow.
Cummings’ letter cites government rules that say when there are credible allegations that a government employee is unfit to handle classified information, the employee’s security clearance is suspended pending an investigation.
“It is unclear why Mr. Kushner continues to have access to classified information while these allegations are being investigated,” the Maryland Democrat wrote.
His letter also questions why the White House didn’t suspend the security clearance of former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn after being informed by former acting Attorney General Sally Yates that he might be susceptible to Russian blackmail.
“Although the White House received credible allegations of obvious security concern relating to General Flynn from the Acting Attorney General, it appears that the White House did not suspend his security clearance while those allegations were reviewed,” Cummings wrote.
The top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee said Wednesday that subpoenas could be the next step if the White House doesn’t comply with a Friday deadline to hand over information on any tapes of President Donald Trump's meetings with former FBI Director James Comey.
Rep. Adam Schiff suggested in an interview the intelligence panel could also consider issuing subpoenas to get hold of memos Comey wrote and gave to some colleagues and friends about his interactions with Trump.
Story Continued Below
“I certainly would hope we'll get a response from the White House by Friday,” Rep. Adam Schiff said in an interview Wednesday, referring to his committee’s deadline to receive the tapes — if any exist,  as the president hinted in a tweet last month. “If we don't, then we'll have to determine what the next steps are.”
Asked if next steps could include subpoenas, the California Democrat responded: “Yes, it could.”
Rep. Mike Conaway, the Republican leading the intelligence panel’s investigation into Russia’s meddling in the presidential election, would have to agree to any effort to issue subpoenas, as would House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.).
Conaway said Wednesday he did not know whether the Trump administration would meet the Friday deadline. “I'm not clairvoyant,” the Texas Republican quipped.
Comey’s memos — and possible tapes of his conversations with Trump — have been a source of controversy and speculation on Capitol Hill ever since last month, when The New York Times reported that Comey kept detailed memos of his interactions with the president. That includes a meeting in which Trump allegedly suggested to Comey he should drop the FBI’s investigation into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn — a revelation that has led some to accuse the president of obstructing justice.
Shortly before that story published, Trump had suggested the existence of tapes in a tweet, writing: “James Comey better hope that there are no ‘tapes’ of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press!”
More than a month later, Congress has yet to get its hands on the memos or any tapes, despite requests from several House and Senate Committees. A friend of Comey's has said he turned over copies of the memos to the FBI.
White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said Tuesday he expects Trump this week to clarify whether such tapes exist.
Conaway and Schiff requested information on any tapes and copies of the memos earlier this month, setting a Friday deadline for the tapes.
The Senate Judiciary and Intelligence Committees are also seeking any tapes and memos.
The Judiciary panel’s top Democrat, Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, said Tuesday she did not know yet whether either panel would actually get them.
Rep. Seth Moulton (D-Mass.), frustrated over Democrats’ loss in the Georgia special election and tired of relying on party leadership to recruit candidates, on Wednesday will release a list of eight fellow veterans he’s endorsing in 2018 House races.
Moulton is backing Dan McCready in North Carolina, Mikie Sherrill in New Jersey, Roger Dean Huffstetler in Virginia, Joseph Kopser in Texas, Patrick Ryan in New York, Ken Harbaugh in Ohio, Josh Butner in California and Jason Crow in Colorado, all Democrats who plan to challenge sitting Republican lawmakers next year.
Story Continued Below
Moulton, who vented Tuesday night in a series of tweets about the Georgia race, told POLITICO that he expects to endorse more candidates, as Democrats’ angst over non-stop losses leads to more fragmentation away from party leadership.
“We need more service-driven leaders who are prepared to put country over party and people over politics,” Moulton said. “The Democratic Party needs a new generation of leadership - one focused on the future.”
Moulton did four tours in Iraq as a Marine, and he has been active for the last few months in helping recruit veterans to run for office — in line with the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee’s own veteran-heavy focus in seeking out candidates they think can help put control of the House in play next year.
It also serves another end: since arriving in the House in 2015, Moulton has been an outspoken critic of House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and other leaders.
“#Ossoff race better be a wake up call for Democrats—business as usual isn’t working. Time to stop rehashing 2016 and talk about the future,” Moulton tweeted after the Georgia results came in. “We need a genuinely new message, a serious jobs plan that reaches all Americans, and a bigger tent not a smaller one. Focus on the future.”
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and other top Democrats put a brave face on Wednesday morning after a disappointing loss in the Georgia special election, yet there is no disguising the unhappiness in the party ranks.
There is no challenge to Pelosi’s leadership, and none is going to happen at this point, said numerous Democrats. But it’s clear frustration is growing with the longtime Democratic leader following the extensive losses Democrats have suffered over the past half-decade.
Story Continued Below
And the fact that Republicans spent millions of dollars on TV ads tying Democratic hopeful Jon Ossoff to Pelosi — and the brand of progressive policies she represents — shows that she will once again be an issue for Democratic challengers in the very districts that the party needs to win to make her speaker again.
Some Democrats want to replace Pelosi atop their caucus, as they have since last November’s poor showing at the polls; they say there is no way to get back in the majority with her as their leader. And others who backed her in last year’s leadership challenge have now flipped their stance.
“I think you’d have to be an idiot to think we could win the House with Pelosi at the top,” said Rep. Filemon Vela (D-Texas), who supported Pelosi in her last leadership race. “Nancy Pelosi is not the only reason that Ossoff lost. But she certainly is one of the reasons.”
Rep. Kathleen Rice (D-N.Y.), who backed a challenge to Pelosi last year, said the results of the Ossoff race further underscore that Pelosi should let someone else take the reins.
“There comes a time when every leader has to say, ‘For the good of the order and for the betterment of the party, it’s time for me to step aside.’ And I wish that that would happen right now,” Rice said in an interview. “This is not a personal thing. I want to get back in the majority.”
Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), who challenged Pelosi for minority leader in November, wouldn’t comment directly whether she should step down, saying only, “My position hasn’t changed.”
“I think it’s very concerning that that tactic still has some punch,” Ryan said. “Again, it’s part of the broader national brand that average people don’t feel connected to the Democratic Party. Walk up the street and ask 10 people what the Democrats stand for, you’ll get 10 different answers. That’s no way to build a national party.”

Pelosi told her members in a closed-door meeting on Wednesday morning that Ossoff was “a candidate who was young and enthusiastic, and attracted national support,” according to Democratic sources. Pelosi also pointed out that Ossoff lost by only a small margin in the 6th Congressional District race — 3.8 percent — far smaller than the previous Democratic candidate for the seat lost by in November.
Pelosi, though, admitted: “A loss is a loss. It is a setback. Unfortunately, a loss for us. But not good news” for Republicans. Pelosi also cautioned her members not to overreact to the results of this specific race.
Pelosi didn’t talk to members about the GOP ads focusing on her. No members brought up the issue of her leadership or said she should step aside.
Pelosi pointed out that Democrats won the special-election fights during the 2009-10 cycle, only to lose 63 seats in November 2010, while in 2005-06 — when Democrats won the House — they lost several special elections.
And Pelosi talked about how the recent shooting of Rep. Steve Scalise (R-La.) may have aided GOP candidate Karen Handel. Republican outside groups tried to tie that shooting to the frenzy of anti-Trump rhetoric among Democratic supporters, as the shooter posted strongly negative comments about President Donald Trump on his Facebook page.
“Republican voters don’t get to select the leaders of the Democratic Party,” said Drew Hammill, a spokesman for Pelosi. “Since [Newt] Gingrich, the politics of personal destruction has been a GOP hallmark. They will do this to any and every Democratic leader because the only thing sustaining their majority is desperation.”
Some Democrats said they left the meeting surprised and disheartened that the GOP’s Pelosi attack ads weren’t addressed in some way.
“It was probably one of the more disturbing caucus meetings that I’ve ever been in. And everyone pretty much sat in silence, and I’d like to think that they were as shocked as I was that they were hearing the spin that was being put on this loss,” Rice said.
With President Barack Obama out of office, Pelosi is once again the Democrat that Republicans most love to hate. She has been on the national scene for 14 years, and Republicans have long made the phrase “San Francisco values” a pejorative for any Democratic challenger.
And Democrats — despite the fervor among their base — are being forced to acknowledge that an anti-Trump message is not going to be enough by itself to win in 2018. Trump may have historically bad poll numbers for this point in his presidency, but Democrats are likely to need more than that to get back in the majority.
Pelosi still has a lot going for her. She remains the most successful nonpresidential political fundraiser in U.S. history, raising more than $560 million for House Democrats since she became leader in 2003, even though critics say all the money doesn’t matter if they keep losing. There’s also no question Pelosi remains popular with many House Democrats, despite her detractors.
“I think she’s one of the best speakers ever, and I am glad to support her,” said Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota, a leading progressive who lost a race for Democratic National Committee chairman earlier this year.
“This is nothing new,” Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley of New York said of the GOP’s Pelosi bashing. “I think we’ll have an opportunity to look at all the ads on all sides that were ran, all the issues, all the warts that existed in evaluating the results of this election. But the day after is a little too soon.”
Some Democrats who are running statewide — either for governor or Senate — say the party must not try to nationalize every race. Instead, they say, it must focus on local issues in order to reach voters. And official Washington’s obsession with the Trump-Russia probe, while vitally important, is not something average voters are focusing on daily.
“I think what people are looking for is that they want to believe someone knows where they are coming from. They want to believe that you’re a decent person,” said Rep. Tim Walz (D-Minn.), who is running for governor. “I think the race in my district, I think that President Trump would still win it, although it would be closer. That’s totally on him, and really doesn’t have to do with us.”
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise’s condition has been upgraded from “serious” to “fair,” his doctors said Wednesday.
“Congressman Steve Scalise continues to make good progress,” his doctors at MedStar Washington Hospital Center said in a statement. “He is now listed in fair condition and is beginning an extended period of healing and rehabilitation.”
Story Continued Below
It's another sign that the Louisiana Republican is making progress in recovering from last week's near-fatal gunshot wound.
ATLANTA — Facing fresh criticism from fellow Democrats after a disappointing loss in a Georgia special election, Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee chairman Ben Ray Luján on Wednesday sought to rally his party by declaring the House of Representatives in play and distributing internal data suggesting a number of incumbent Republicans are in more electoral trouble than widely thought.
In a nearly 1,600-word Wednesday morning memo to committee staff that was obtained by POLITICO, the New Mexico congressman shared polling conducted between late March and mid-June showing Democrats in position to make gains in a handful of competitive seats held by Republicans.
Story Continued Below
Explaining that in some cases the pollsters tested specific Democratic challengers against Republican incumbents, Lujan said “many incumbents — who won with double digits last cycle — would be in the race of their careers, including Reps. Martha McSally (D+5), Brian Mast (D+3), Kevin Yoder (D+2), and Rodney Frelinghuysen (D+3).”
“We have a unique opportunity to flip control of the House of Representatives in 2018. This is about much more than one race: the national environment, unprecedented grassroots energy and impressive Democratic candidates stepping up to run deep into the battlefield leave no doubt that Democrats can take back the House next fall,” he writes elsewhere in the memo. “I don’t make this statement lightly — I’ve never said it before. I know the road back to a Democratic House majority will be long and hard.”
The message lands at a difficult time for Democratic leaders, coming after they pumped millions of dollars into Georgia's 6th District to try and elect Jon Ossoff to replace now-HHS Secretary Tom Price, Tuesday's loss to Republican Karen Handel hit them hard.
Activists, consultants, and lawmakers alike spent hours on Tuesday night and Wednesday morning questioning the DCCC’s leadership in Georgia and in a handful of other special elections where Democrats have come close but fallen short.
The party’s candidates have come far closer than previous Democrats in the heavily Republican districts, but the handful of high-profile losses — including in Kansas and Montana — still proved demoralizing to many party strategists.
Lujan’s message on Wednesday was that the Trump-driven swing that’s been seen in those races portends a broader shift ahead of 2018.
“As you know, we need 24 seats to retake the majority. Our DCCC polling team and outside pollsters went into dozens of districts in the last few months to learn: Is the momentum real? Is it building to the point that we can win 24 seats and take back the House? The answer is yes. In more than 24 districts and counting, generic Democrats are leading in the polls or have already made significant shifts from the last polls available in 2016.”
One of the polling graphics included in the memo shows an 18-point Democratic advantage in Florida’s 27th District — held by retiring Republican Ileana Ros-Lehtinen — an 11-point lead in California’s 21st — held by David Valadao — and 9-point leads in both California’s 10th (Jeff Denham) and 49th (Darrell Issa) districts.
Lujan also told staff that starting this week, senior aides and allies will be deployed into target districts to ramp up candidate recruitment, and that Lujan himself is planning trips to states including Maine, Kansas, Pennsylvania, Illinois, and Missouri.
Former Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said Wednesday the Democratic National Committee “did not feel it needed” the assistance of the Department of Homeland Security following last year’s election hack, which U.S. officials have since attributed to Russia.
“Sometime in 2016 I became aware of a hack into systems of the Democratic National Committee,” Johnson said in prepared testimony to the House Intelligence Committee. “I pressed my staff to know whether DHS was sufficiently proactive, and on the scene helping the DNC identify the intruders and patch vulnerabilities. The answer, to the best of my recollection, was not reassuring.
Story Continued Below
“The FBI and the DNC had been in contact with each other months before about the intrusion,” he continued, “and the DNC did not feel it needed DHS’s assistance at that time.”
Johnson’s testimony is part of the House Intelligence panel’s investigation into Russian meddling in the presidential election, which is looking into possible collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign.
U.S. officials believe Russia later provided the information stolen from the DNC, possibly using intermediaries, to WikiLeaks as part of the Kremlin’s larger effort to damage Hillary Clinton and help elect Trump.
In a statement Wednesday, Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.), who chaired the DNC until July of last year, said no government agency contacted her about the Russian hack into the organization’s network.
“It is astounding to me that the Chair of an organization like the DNC was never contacted by the FBI or any other agency concerned about these intrusions,” she said in a statement. “As a member of Congress, I had the unique clearance to hear any classified briefing that would be involved in such an intrusion, and the FBI clearly should have come to me with that information. They did not.”
She added that if the FBI or any other agency had contacted her, she “would have gladly welcomed their help.”
During Wednesday's hearing, Johnson faced questions from the intelligence panel’s ranking Democrat, Rep. Adam Schiff of California, over why the Obama administration waited until October to inform the public about Russia’s cyber campaign.
“This was a big decision, and there were a lot of considerations that went into it,” Johnson responded. “This was an unprecedented step.”
He said the administration was concerned about being criticized for trying to influence the election, especially given that Trump was calling the election process “rigged.”
He also noted that when the administration finally did decide to issue its statement about the hacking — on Oct. 7 — that it got overshadowed because that was the same day the news broke of the “Access Hollywood” video from 11 years earlier in which Trump bragged about groping women.
Schiff then asked why President Barack Obama did not do more to draw attention to the issue of Russia’s cyber campaign.
“You shouldn't view the Oct. 7 statement in isolation,” Johnson responded. "This was an ongoing effort to inform the public."
In his prepared remarks, Johnson chronicles his attempt to sound the alarm about Russia’s cyber campaign — only to run into political obstacles. For instance, he said he wanted to declare the country's election infrastructure to be "critical infrastructure," which would have made it a top priority for receipt of DHS services and ensured it received "the benefit of various domestic and international cybersecurity protections."
“To my disappointment,” he explained, “the reaction to a critical infrastructure designation, at least from those who spoke up, ranged from neutral to negative. Those who expressed negative views stated that running elections in this country was the sovereign and exclusive responsibility of the states, and they did not want federal intrusion, a federal takeover, or federal regulation of that process. This was a profound misunderstanding of what a critical infrastructure designation would mean, which I tried to clarify for them.”
The idea, he said, was shelved until after the election. In January, DHS made the designation of election infrastructure as critical infrastructure — and his successor, John Kelly, has reaffirmed that designation.
Johnson added that to his knowledge, Russia’s cyber attacks did not result in any actual votes being tampered with or changed.
“I am not in a position to know whether the successful Russian government-directed hacks of the DNC and elsewhere did in fact alter public opinion and thereby alter the outcome of the presidential election,” he said.
After unsuccessful bids to be governor and a U.S. senator, Karen Handel’s victory in Georgia’s 6th congressional district special election Tuesday keeps the longtime Republican seat in conservative hands.
Handel, a former businesswoman, cast herself during the race against Democrat Jon Ossoff as “a lifelong conservative who built her career on delivering results in both the public and private sectors.”
Story Continued Below
Her previous positions in government include serving as Georgia’s secretary of state from 2007-2009 and as chair of the Fulton County Board of Commissioners from 2003-2006.
Handel’s tried to winnow down Georgia voter rolls as secretary of state, drawing allegations of voter suppression and a federal lawsuit filed by the ACLU.
She left that post early in 2009 to run for governor of Georgia. Though she gained endorsements from former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin and future GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney, Handel lost in the Republican primary by less than 3,000 votes to Nathan Deal, who is now finishing up his second term as governor.
Her next attempt at running for public office came in 2014, when she sought to replace to retired Sen. Saxby Chambliss but came in third in the primary. But she jumped into the race for the 6th District earlier this year when Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price vacated the seat to join Trump's Cabinet. In April, Handel came in second in the all-party special primary, triggering Tuesday’s runoff against Ossoff.
During the campaign, which was the most expensive House race in history, Handel backed many of President Donald Trump’s policy positions, including building a wall on the southern border. She also touted the House proposal to repeal Obamacare, rolling back federal regulations and simplifying the tax code.
Perhaps most central to her conservative agenda was a staunch pro-life stance. Handel left a high-ranking position with the Susan G. Komen for the Cure charity in 2012 after the cancer-fighting organization decided to restore funding for Planned Parenthood, an organization she called “blatantly partisan.”
House Speaker Paul Ryan and Vice President Mike Pence both campaigned for Handel in Georgia, and outside groups poured money into her election bid.
Still, though Handel supported most of Trump’s policies and held a private fundraiser with him in April, she did not go out of her way to mention the president on the campaign trail, in a bid for the district’s moderate voters. In 2012, Republican nominee Mitt Romney won the district by 23 percentage points, but it became much closer last year. In 2016, Trump won the district by just 1.5 points.
The day after Republican Karen Handel won the heated Georgia 6th Congressional District special election, President Donald Trump offered some advice to Democrats, recommending that they work to cut deals with Republicans on some of his top policy goals and suggesting that such a maneuver would ultimately be to their benefit.
“Democrats would do much better as a party if they got together with Republicans on healthcare, tax cuts, security. Obstruction doesn't work!” the president tweeted Wednesday morning.
Story Continued Below
While Democrats have expressed some interest in working with the president on a package of infrastructure legislation, one of his campaign promises, they have been unwilling thus far to join Republican efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare, Trump’s top policy priority. The president seems similarly unlikely to receive Democratic help in passing a tax reform package, another top goal for Trump.
But while the president could certainly benefit from Democratic votes to pass some of his preferred legislation, he does not need them. Republicans are the majority party in both houses of Congress and can pass some legislation, including a repeal-and-replace bill expected to be unveiled Thursday, through the Senate with a simple majority that will not require a single Democratic vote.
Even with their majorities in the House and Senate, Republicans have struggled at times to find consensus even within their own caucus. The House version of legislation to undo Obamacare, the highest-profile piece of legislation to date of Trump’s presidency, failed on its first attempt to garner enough GOP support to pass, unable to strike a balance between the archconservative and moderate wings of the party.
A later version of the bill did manage to strike that compromise, but only barely, clearing the House by just two votes.
Handel bested Democratic challenger Jon Ossoff Tuesday night to win Georgia's special election.
The Congressional Black Caucus is expected to reject an invitation to meet with President Donald Trump, according to four sources close to the group.
The Trump administration, sources said, has done nothing to advance the CBC's priorities since the group's executive board first met with Trump in March. And members are worried the request for a caucus-wide meeting would amount to little more than a photo op that the president could use to bolster his standing among African-Americans.
Story Continued Below
“No one wants to be a co-star on the reality show,” said one senior Democratic aide.
Lawmakers in the 49-member group each received an invitation last week from Omarosa Manigault, the-reality-TV-star-turned-White-House-aide who has pitched herself as an unofficial liaison to the CBC.
“As requested by the president, we would like to schedule a follow-up meeting with the entire membership of the Congressional Black Caucus to discuss issues pertinent to your members,” Manigault wrote in the invitation, obtained by POLITICO.
But multiple CBC members said they were put off that she signed the invitation as “the Honorable Omarosa Manigault,” saying she hasn’t earned that title nor has she helped raise the profile of CBC issues within the White House as promised.
CBC Chairman Cedric Richmond (D-La.) isn’t expected to make an official announcement until after the group discusses the invitation during its weekly meeting Wednesday. Kamara Jones, a spokeswoman for the CBC, declined to comment on the record.
But sources close to the group say they have been told the caucus-wide meeting with the president is "off the table."
There are both logistical and political hurdles to the entire caucus meeting with Trump.
With nearly 50 members, assembling even most of the caucus for a meeting would be difficult. “How do you get 30-plus members into a room having a meeting and make it meaningful?” said one source familiar with the caucus’ deliberations.
But members of the caucus are also worried about the optics of a meeting. During their meeting with Trump in March, members of the leadership tried to avoid taking a picture with Trump for fear it would be used to make it look like they had thrown their support behind the president.
If the majority of the caucus were to go to the White House, the pressure to huddle with Trump in the Oval Office for a group photo could be tougher to avoid. “The entire caucus goes down there, it’s sort of harder to control,” the source familiar with the situation said.
Aside from the optics, Trump has done little, if anything, to address any of the policies important to the caucus, members say.
CBC sources said caucus members were miffed that the Trump budget proposal didn’t include additional funding for historically black colleges and universities after the president made a big show of meeting with leaders from those schools in the Oval Office in February.
Trump further angered the CBC when he issued a statement accompanying the stopgap funding bill in early May questioning the constitutionality of federal funding for historically black colleges and universities.
“For a president who pledged to reach out to African-Americans and other minorities, this statement is stunningly careless and divisive,” Richmond and Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.), ranking member on the House Judiciary Committee, said in a joint statement at the time.
Sources say the president also hasn’t made any efforts to advance CBC priorities on criminal justice reform or voting rights, two issues that are also critically important to the group, and the White House hasn’t even responded to policy requests from members since the March meeting.
Senate Republicans are closer than ever to voting to repeal Obamacare after three months of work that’s unparalleled in its secrecy and speed. They’re unapologetic, though. Because so far, it’s working.
The closed-door deliberations, which have left even some GOP senators in the dark, have prompted widespread charges of hypocrisy and even a fair amount of heartburn within a party that railed for seven years against Democrats’ rush to pass their 2010 health care reform law.
Story Continued Below
But it’s that secrecy that has also helped put the GOP within potential reach of dismantling Obamacare and handing President Donald Trump his first big legislative win.
By keeping the process under wraps, Senate Republican leaders have largely bypassed the headaches and inevitable blowback when any ambitious piece of legislation sees the light of day — especially one that has already become wildly unpopular if polls on the House GOP’s effort to overhaul the U.S. health care system are any indication.
They’re also betting that for all the stone-throwing from the left, voters already convinced that Congress is broken won’t punish Senate Republicans for putting yet another dent in the institution.
“I’ve always said I would’ve preferred a more open process,” Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-La.) said. “But if you just wait and say, ‘Oh, we want an open process,’ then you never get that. So at some point you’ve got to play the cards dealt to you.”
The Senate GOP’s speed play comes after House Republicans barely pushed through their own version of Obamacare repeal — an effort hampered by fierce criticism over both its secrecy and Congressional Budget Office projections the proposal would leave millions more Americans without health insurance.
Senate Republicans pledged to learn from the backlash and start from scratch on their own bill. Instead, they appear to be largely keeping the House-passed bill’s framework and moved their deliberations completely out of public view.
GOP lawmakers have spent the two months since debating broad policy during closed-door lunches, and confining the details to small-group meetings. The actual bill-writing has fallen to an even more select group.
“The leader is really writing this bill,” said Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), referring to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and his staff. “I mean, we can say the Finance Committee is. We can say the Budget Committee is. We can say the HELP Committee is. But the leader’s office is really writing the bill.”
That’s left much of the rest of the conference in the dark on the legislation’s final details, prompting uneasiness among lawmakers facing daily questions about the bill. A number of GOP senators say they’ve expressed private concerns about the process to Republican leaders, and have increasingly tried to fend off criticism by saying publicly they wish the conference had taken a different route.
“Health care is such an important thing, I think we should’ve debated it in open, in committee hearings,” said Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul, perhaps the most outspoken Republican skeptic. “If you do it on one side only, what you’re setting yourself up for is failure.”
Sen. Pat Toomey, who has spearheaded conservative senators’ effort to quickly end enhanced funding for Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion, bristled at questions about the GOP’s strategic secrecy.
“You can ask leadership for their reason,” the Pennsylvania Republican said. “They do what they do.”
Still, GOP senators aren’t slowing the march toward a vote, reasoning that the closed-door process has boosted their ability to briskly debate and cobble together proposals that could reshape health care for millions of people.
Republicans have only a limited period to repeal Obamacare under arcane Senate rules that require only 50 votes. They say that bypassing public hearings and committee markups saves valuable time that would otherwise be consumed by unyielding Democratic opposition. And avoiding the public scrutiny that comes with debating every provision in public has upped the odds that Senate Republicans can keep their thin majority united long enough to push the bill through the chamber.
“At the end of the day, you’re judged by what you get,” said one GOP senator, dismissing concerns about the lack of public feedback on the bill. “At the end of the day, they’re not going to be critical of how we got there.”
Others, including McConnell, wave off criticism of the GOP’s tactics as identical to the Democrats’ approach in the run-up to Obamacare’s party-line passage seven years ago. In fact, the approaches differ sharply: The 2009 debate over Obamacare spanned more than a year and included public hearings, committee markups and roundtables, with President Barack Obama at times taking questions directly from congressional Republicans.
Pressed on the contrast, GOP senators argue that lawmakers have nevertheless debated health care countless times in the several years since Obamacare’s passage.
“There’s been all this talk about having hearings,” Sen. Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) said, exasperated. “My God, I went through how many hours of hearings?”
That hasn’t stopped Senate Democrats from seizing on the GOP’s secrecy, hoping to boost public criticism of a bill that they’re powerless to stop. During an all-night occupation of the Senate floor, Democrats railed against the repeal effort not only for rolling back Obamacare but for threatening to forever rewrite the rules for passing bills in a chamber famously known as the world’s greatest deliberative body.
“Perhaps some of the biggest issues of humanity were debated in an open forum — we have records of those discussions, records of those deliberations,” said New Jersey Democrat Cory Booker. “Tonight, it’s remarkable to me, it’s almost tragic to me, to see a process that is so broken, a process that is so secretive.”
Urged on by liberal activists, Democrats are weighing the strategy of grinding the Senate to a halt, in hopes of dragging out the chamber’s work and forcing the repeal bill to go public long enough to mobilize stronger opposition.
But Republicans’ secrecy has succeeded even in muting that resistance.
Activists have had no new proposals to rally against, and groups across the health care spectrum that hoped to help improve the House-passed repeal bill have found few opportunities to pressure senators over what’s ultimately included in the bill.
As for the public, Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) dismissed speculation that voters would make Republicans pay a price.
“If you really want to judge whether Obamacare is a good election-year issue, then look at the last three election cycles,” he said.
Jennifer Haberkorn and Burgess Everett contributed to this report.
Members of the House Intelligence Committee huddled Tuesday with Robert Mueller — the special counsel probing Russian interference in the 2016 election — to ensure their parallel investigations don’t conflict with one another.
Reps. Mike Conaway (R-Texas) and Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), who are leading the House’s probe into the matter, huddled with Mueller in a secure Capitol conference room to begin setting parameters.
Story Continued Below
“We are setting up a system to deconflict,” Conaway said shortly after the meeting.
Mueller has been expanding his investigation, which was authorized by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein after President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey. He is also tasked with looking into the possibility that Trump associates aided Russian efforts to meddle in the 2016 campaign. And he’s also believed to be looking into the prospect that Trump obstructed justice when he fired Comey, who had been leading the FBI’s Russia investigation at the time.
Conaway said he was unsure how long it would take to establish clear delineation between the probes, and he declined to say whether there were any other subjects raised during the meeting with Mueller.
Conaway also said he wouldn’t discuss whether the White House has responded to the committee’s request for any recordings that might exist of meetings between Trump and Comey.
Comey testified earlier this month that he felt pressured by Trump to help “lift the cloud” of the Russia investigation from his White House and to end a related investigation of former national security adviser Michael Flynn.
When Comey’s account began emerging shortly after he was fired, Trump insinuated on Twitter that tapes of their conversations might exist. Comey has said he would welcome the production of such tapes, and the White House has refused to say whether any such recordings exist.
Rank-and-file House Republicans, frustrated by the lack of wins on crucial spending issues, are pushing GOP leaders to get more partisan.
Support is building among GOP members to hold a summer vote on a Republican spending package decorated with GOP goodies, an idea first proposed by House Appropriations Committee cardinal Rep. Tom Graves (R-Ga.). Some House appropriators who like the idea are moving full steam ahead to write the bill, multiple sources said. And supporters argue that while their idea may never pass the more moderate Senate, it will buy the leadership goodwill with the conference while giving Republicans a leg up on spending negotiations with Democrats this fall.
Story Continued Below
But some leaders and appropriators are privately worried about the short window before the August recess and the risk of embarrassment if a GOP spending bill fails to clear the notoriously divided House Republican Conference. The debate will come to a head during a closed-door meeting Wednesday that is likely to highlight early fissures within the House GOP.
“I think it’s vitally important that we as a Republican Conference put our marker down as to what we believe and what we stand for, and let’s pass a conservative House Republican funding package,” Graves said in an interview. “I think the conference is ready and desires to vote on our vision for the Republican Party, and aligning that as best as we can with the administration’s priorities.”
House Republicans during the Wednesday conference are expected to consider whether to pursue the Graves plan. House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) will lay out several alternatives, including a “security bus” — a smaller, national security GOP appropriations package that would boost the military.
Nobody appears to want to make a firm decision. GOP leaders on Wednesday will encourage the conference to plot a path forward. Appropriators, meanwhile, say they’re waiting for guidance from leadership.
It’s an awkward situation because the proposal even pits appropriators against appropriators. While several appropriators — including top cardinals with subcommittee gavels — back the idea, others privately are grumbling and hoping leadership will pan it altogether.
Republican House members who’ve campaigned on fiscal responsibility their entire careers hoped they’d finally get to pass more GOP spending priorities now that their party controls the White House and Congress. But they’re increasingly resigned that nothing has really changed since Senate rules require eight Democrats to do virtually anything.
Enter Graves, the financial services subcommittee chairman close to GOP leaders. He pitched his fellow appropriators and McCarthy on the idea of passing a GOP spending package about six weeks ago — even if it doesn’t pass the Senate. And he presented the proposal to members a few weeks ago, arguing it allows Republicans to show constituents what they would support if they could pass something without Democrats.
Many Republicans, frustrated by the lack of input they’ve had on appropriations bills that have been stalled in recent years, applauded. They envision something like ex-Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) put on the floor in early 2011, when Republicans first seized the majority and, over the course of several days, voted on hundreds of amendments to a massive GOP spending package.
“We’re 100 percent behind the Graves idea,” said Republican Study Committee Chairman Mark Walker (R-N.C.), whose group has endorsed the plan. “If we get past August, and then we’re in September, and then there is some kind of rollout and in 24 hours you’ve got to vote on something that you’re still trying to process and read, it’s not going to be a good thing.”
Walker said conservatives are willing to deal with higher spending levels if they can offer amendments with their own priorities.
“I think it’s a great idea!” said Rep. Trent Franks of Arizona, a Freedom Caucus member. “It would help focus the country.”
But some in leadership and on Appropriations are concerned about time — particularly after lawmakers lost much of last week after Wednesday’s congressional baseball practice shooting.
If appropriators work every day from now until the end of the July, they may be able to finish the package. It would likely have to go straight to the floor, probably the last week before the August recess, in what’s bound to be a tedious process for staff who will work nonstop to get hundreds of amendments lined up and ready — just as they did in 2011.
There’s also concern about an already packed July calendar. The House will also have to pass a potentially more-moderate Obamacare replacement and probably raise the debt ceiling — two controversial votes that will be a heavy lift for GOP leaders.
Even if Republicans could finish the bill and find time to vote, leadership is also concerned about doing all the leg work only to find that it can’t pass. They want rank-and-file Republicans to commit to supporting their GOP legislation — even if some of their prized amendments go down.
Some also expect moderates to balk at taking tough votes for nothing, given the bill is essentially a public relations statement and will have no chance of becoming law. Controversial amendments dealing with government contractors and hiring practices for gay applicants, or the Confederate flag, are likely to surface — votes Republicans typically try to avoid.
Still, many in the conference say it’s time for change. And they want to show the GOP base they’re trying.
“The last election is not far from our memory, and we cannot ignore what people all across this country said. … ‘Go clean things up, get spending under control, rebuild our military,’” Graves said. “We’ve got a chance to show the American people what that is, and this is our one opportunity to do that.”
John Bresnahan contributed to this report.
Senate Republicans are planning a pivotal meeting for Thursday morning to start the whipping process for Obamacare repeal, according to two sources familiar with the process.
Mitch McConnell’s current whip count to repeal Obamacare is far short of 50 votes. There is still no bill, and even Republicans are moaning about the rush and lack of transparency.
Story Continued Below
The GOP plan to jam through a bill over the next 10 days amounts to a rare political risk by McConnell with no guarantee of success — and one that could jeopardize his Senate majority long-term if the bill ends up being viewed as poorly as the House-passed bill, which has a 17 percent approval rating.
McConnell himself wouldn’t guarantee passage on Tuesday, or even commit to a vote next week, though that is his plan.
Senate Republicans will gather Thursday morning to get an early read on whether an Obamacare repeal vote next week will be successful, according to the sources. Regardless of the outcome, the vote is still planned for next week.
Although other sources downplayed the significance, noting that the text won't be released until Thursday and a CBO score won't be out yet.
Some Republicans suspect the Senate majority leader has a master legislative stroke ahead, but it appears that only the canny Kentucky Republican has any inkling of what will transpire next week.
With a razor-thin margin, McConnell can afford to lose only two votes. A handful of moderates and conservatives have already — and loudly — voiced their concerns with the Senate bill so far, meaning McConnell is going to have to choose between making the moderates happy, making the conservatives happy or somehow splitting the difference.
“We don’t have a bill. But I’m confident,” said Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas). “It’s my job to find 50 votes. We’re going to have 50 votes.”
Unlike with most legislative gambits on Capitol Hill, Republicans are divided on what exactly is going to happen: Those close to leadership believe passage is likely next week, while others on the periphery of the caucus are far less bullish and say the same intractable debates over pre-existing conditions, Medicaid and Planned Parenthood are still raging.
Already, the emerging GOP bill is drawing critics from across the spectrum of the GOP Conference, not to mention furious Democrats.
“I think you’re going to wind up with what you had with the House bill. About 20 percent of the public’s going to think it’s a good idea,” said Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), who appears to be an almost certain “no” vote. “No Democrat’s going to like it; that’s half the public. And half the Republicans are going to say: My goodness, it certainly doesn’t look like repeal.”
Republicans believe that setting a deadline of next week is necessary to get the Senate GOP out of its rut and its circular negotiations. And McConnell could always introduce a bill this week and pull it before next week’s vote is held, still leaving him with a month to get the bill across the finish line before the August recess, considered a harder legislative deadline.
There is no formal whip count right now, though leadership is aware of two moderates, at least a trio of conservatives and a half-dozen senators from Medicaid expansion states who need to be placated. Whether those wobbly Republicans will vote for the bill is unlikely to be clear until a Congressional Budget Office score emerges early next week that will spell out in plain English what the bill would do, including how much it would cost and how many people would lose health coverage.
“I assume we’ll vote on this bill whether we have 50 votes or not,” said Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), one of McConnell’s deputies. “On a bill like this, everything happens in the last 10 days.”
Most senators said things are impossible to game out at this stage, barely a week before the vote, with no bill text in hand and no CBO score. Several Republicans on Tuesday hedged their support until they see text, but said they want to have at least several days to review it.
An activist approached Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) in the Russell Office Building to ask him when the health care bill would be public. His response: “I don’t know.”
“I can’t say no to something I haven’t seen. It’d be nice to say no, but I haven’t seen something to say no to,” he growled when asked about how he can turn his process complaints into action.
After weeks of lengthy meetings on health care and little movement toward consensus, one thing has become clear: McConnell is ready to change the conversation. His preference is to pass a bill, but he and the rest of his caucus are ready to reach a conclusion.
Republicans say that when McConnell puts the bill up for a vote, the bill will be boiled down to a binary decision by leaders: Either you’re on the side of Obamacare, or you’re against it.
“It’s hard for eight years to be critical of something and then turn around and vote against [repealing] it,” said Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.), a close leadership ally.
For all the public complaints from Republicans about the lack of transparency, senators aren’t generally taking their complaints behind closed doors, which could suggest a rosier outlook for McConnell than many senators’ comments have suggested. At a party lunch on Tuesday, Republicans mostly just listened to Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price talk about changes he can make through executive branch authority.
But there are exceptions.
“I won’t vote yes until I’ve satisfied myself that it’s a continuous improvement over what we currently have, and I’ll need information to make that determination,” Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) said gruffly after party meetings on Tuesday. “I’ll have to see what the final bill is. And by the way, I think the American people ought to have enough time with the final bill as well.”
Senate Republicans are moving forward amid the uncertainty in part because they are largely insulated from short-term political blowback with a highly favorable battleground map in 2018. It’s difficult to envision how Republicans could lose the Senate next year in response to passing an unpopular bill, though they could pay a price in 2020 if the public sours on the opaque, partisan process or the results of the repeal effort, which will likely come into focus by the next presidential election.
It’s not lost on Republicans the price that Democrats paid by passing Obamacare: losing the House, then the Senate and statehouses and governors’ mansions across the country.
“If at the end of the day, this ends up easing some of the pain that’s out there right now relative to health care, I think people will look favorably upon that,” said Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.). “If it ends up making things worse, I think they will look upon it very much like the ’09 bill passage did” among Democrats.
In the short term, Dean Heller of Nevada is the most vulnerable Senate Republican, the only incumbent up for reelection in a state won by Hillary Clinton. But he says he’s willing to follow McConnell and risk his seat if the bill is favorable to his state.
“I will vote for this if it’s good for the state of Nevada,” Heller said Tuesday. As to whether the emerging outline is good for the state, Heller couldn’t yet say. “I’m going to find out when I see the CBO,” he said. “What will make me comfortable is a discussion with the governor.”
Indeed, the fortunes of the bill will develop over the next week and may not come into focus until perhaps a day or so before the vote. A group of about a half-dozen senators from Medicaid expansion states are still resisting reduced spending rates on Medicaid, and conservatives say they can’t commit until they are convinced that the bill lowers premiums.
The lack of bill text has only heightened the uncertainty and delayed the tough choices facing Senate Republicans until they actually hold the bill in their hands.
“I’m not going to tell you I’m going to vote for something I’ve never seen,” said Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-La.). “You’re asking hypotheticals. So I have to answer in the hypothetical.”
Senate Democrats are struggling against an invisible enemy — the GOP’s still-secret Obamacare repeal plan. So on Tuesday, three of them decided to take a field trip to hunt for it.
Sens. Cory Booker of New Jersey, Chris Murphy of Connecticut and Brian Schatz of Hawaii headed across the Hill to the Congressional Budget Office, located in Southwest Washington about a 10-minute drive from the Capitol, in what they acknowledged would be a fruitless quest for a copy of the health care bill that Republicans expect to bring to a vote as soon as next week.
Story Continued Below
The media-savvy trio live-streamed most of their journey on Facebook in the latest gambit of the Democrats’ campaign to force the GOP’s closed-door process for repealing Obamacare into the public consciousness.
“This is a way to expose, with a little bit of humor, the absurdity of this moment in time,” Booker told reporters as the trio left the CBO empty-handed. “Right now there are literally Americans fearing what might be in this bill…and for this all to be happening in private and in secrecy is absurd.”
The three Democrats said they met with senior officials at the nonpartisan budget office but were unable to obtain a copy of any text under evaluation for its budgetary impacts. Republicans have not said whether they've given the CBO a copy of a full bill, but they have referred some ideas to the office for consideration.
As they arrived at the CBO, their fellow Democrats were also protesting the clandestine health care process by invoking an obscure rule that allows any senator to object to committee meetings held more than two hours after the Senate goes into session.
Republicans urged the minority to rethink its maneuvering. Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) delivered a floor speech accusing Democrats of doing little more than giving “impassioned speeches” after spurning “every entreaty, every request for them to work with us” on mending Obamacare.
Sen. Todd Young (R-Ind.) navigated around Tuesday's committee-work stoppage by simply continuing a public health hearing he had scheduled, though he said it was an informal meeting and live-streamed it on Facebook.
“That’s what drives people back home absolutely crazy — this Washington shell game up here,” Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.) said in a brief interview. “We need to put it aside and get this thing fixed.”
Other Republicans weren’t as riled up. “I don’t critique their behavior. Whatever they want to do is fine with me,” said Sen. John McCain of Arizona.
Democrats vowed to keep using every tactic possible to draw attention to the GOP’s avoidance so far of any public hearings on an Obamacare repeal bill that Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) expects to release for public discussion on Thursday, potentially only a few days before a vote.
Booker even offered to debate President Donald Trump on the Obamacare repeal, a key promise by Republicans during the 2016 campaign, in a nod to former President Barack Obama’s 2010 televised summit with Republicans before passage of the health care legislation that came to bear his name.
“I’m at my wit’s end," declared Booker, who parried a fan’s question about his 2020 ambitions on his way out of CBO headquarters.
All three Democrats goaded Trump in stark terms during their visit, appearing to relish the prospect of a public battle with the president. Murphy predicted Trump would avoid talking with Democrats about Obamacare repeal “because he doesn’t know what’s in this bill.”
Schatz told reporters that Trump likely “wakes up in the morning, he reads a headline on MSNBC or CNN--”
“Breitbart,” quipped Booker.
“And then he changes his mind about the legislation,” Schatz continued. “There is zero chance that he’s read the House bill, and there’s zero chance that he will read the Senate bill. There is 100 percent chance he will sign those bills into law.”
White House spokesman Sean Spicer said Tuesday he was unsure whether Trump had seen the Senate health care bill. "But I know that they've been working extremely hard, and the president has been giving his input and his ideas and feedback to them, and he's very excited about where this thing is headed," Spicer told reporters.
Back at the Capitol, Democrats largely welcomed the maneuvers by their colleagues. Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) said he was disappointed that a hearing his Judiciary Committee sub-panel planned for Tuesday was scrapped by the protest but added that "I was in a very small minority."
Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.) saw a Tuesday hearing on a top priority of his cut short by his party's procedural tactics, but he declared that "we just can't make it easy for these guys to take health insurance away from 23 million people."
Democrats' pushback against Obamacare repeal is breaking through the frenetic news cycle "to some degree," Kaine said. "It's hard to completely break through until they reveal what they're working on. So we've got to build up the momentum, so when they reveal it, people are very focused on it."
The House has found a potential constitutional issue with the Senate's recently passed sanctions package targeting Russia and Iran, raising the prospect of a delay that could allow President Donald Trump's White House to secure its preferred changes to the bill.
The House has held off on referring the sanctions bill to a committee, a GOP aide said Tuesday, while staff reviews whether it runs afoul of a requirement in the U.S. Constitution that any revenue-raising legislation start in the lower chamber. The so-called "blue-slip" issue could slow the momentum of the Senate's bipartisan bill — which passed 98-2 and includes new handcuffs on Trump's ability to ease penalties against Russia.
Story Continued Below
A stuck Russia sanctions bill would help the White House, which planned to ask its House GOP allies for a different approach that would preserve Trump's power to work on more collaborative relations with Vladimir Putin's government. Democrats slammed the House GOP's constitutional concerns as an attempt to water down or stop legislation that would constrain Trump.
“House Republicans are considering using a procedural excuse to hide what they’re really doing: covering for a president who has been far too soft on Russia," Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a statement.
The House Foreign Affairs Committee's top Democrat, New York Rep. Eliot Engel, described the Republican "blue-slip" review as "nothing but a delay tactic, and the public shouldn't be fooled by complex-sounding parliamentary procedure. If Republican leadership says we can't act on the Senate bill, here's an easy solution: Let’s introduce an identical House version and we can vote on that instead."
Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), a chief architect of his chamber's popular sanctions deal, told reporters Tuesday that "we think we addressed" any constitutional hurdles but that he would follow up on the issue, which was first reported by the Washington Post.
“Anytime there’s issues relative to money or spending, obviously you've got to deal with" blue-slip concerns, Corker added.
A Corker spokeswoman said by email that Foreign Relations staff and House Ways and Means Committee staff worked together "while crafting the legislation to address procedural hurdles in the House."
"They have concerns with one of the final provisions, and now that we fully understand the issue raised today, we are working closely with them to further resolve the matter," the spokeswoman added. "We are confident we can find a path forward."
Sen. Ben Cardin of Maryland, the top Democrat on the foreign relations panel, also called on the House to pass their own version of the sanctions bill or add its language to another House bill to resolve the problem.
“You can always use" the blue-slip issue as a way to quietly quash a bill, Cardin told reporters. "But there is no question: They’ve had this problem in the past and they have quickly resolved it."
The sanctions bill also imposes new penalties on entities connected to Iran's ballistic missile program as well as Tehran's human rights violations and support for terrorist groups. The Russia provisions added to the package would allow Congress to block Trump from easing or ending sanctions against Moscow, while adding new punishment in a direct response to cyberattacks during the 2016 election — meddling that Trump has previously dismissed.
An aide on House Foreign Affairs said that the panel would work with GOP leadership and other committees of jurisdiction on the constitutional issue with the Senate's sanctions legislation.
Seung Min Kim contributed to this report.
Several House Democrats were on a flight from the West Coast that was diverted due to a medical emergency, and the lawmakers could miss votes Tuesday night.
The California Democrats were on an American Airlines flight from Los Angeles to Washington when the flight was forced to make an emergency landing in Kansas City at about 2:30 p.m. Tuesday.
Story Continued Below
Reps. Linda Sanchez, Tony Cardenas, Alan Lowenthal and Nanette Barragán are all on the flight. Other members are also said to be on the plane but have not been confirmed by POLITICO.
The medical emergency did not involve any of the members, according to two Democratic sources. The lawmakers are scheduled to be on a flight from Kansas City that should land right around the time of Tuesday night’s only scheduled House votes at 6:30 p.m.
Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker says Congress should consider legislation making it illegal for Americans to travel to North Korea, a day after the death of a U.S. college student who had been imprisoned there.
“It's something we should seriously look at, because it affects our national security,” the Tennessee Republican said in an interview Tuesday. “It puts us in a very precarious situation. We have three Americans there now. We're constantly having to get people out of the country.”
Story Continued Below
Corker’s Foreign Relations gavel gives him major sway over legislation dealing with U.S. travel abroad, and his remarks mean Congress is likely to at least explore the issue. The State Department is also looking at imposing new restrictions on U.S. travel to North Korea, which does not have diplomatic relations with the United States.
“We have been evaluating whether we should put some type of travel visa restriction on North Korea,” Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said at a House hearing last week. “We have not come to a final conclusion, but we are considering it.”
The top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Ben Cardin of Maryland, said he was open to the idea of a legal prohibition on travel. “I am sympathetic to taking steps that would protect Americans,” he said Tuesday. “Clearly we cannot assure the safety of Americans when we see what happened to that student.”
Cardin added that he planned to talk to his staff about the legal implications of making it illegal to travel to North Korea. “What does it do about humanitarian aid?” he asked. “What does it do about some of the other issues? I'd like to know a little bit more about that.”
In the House, Reps. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) and Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) are already pushing a bill, the North Korea Travel Control Act, which would bar U.S. citizens from going to North Korea for tourism.
“The North Korean regime has shown once again that it is perfectly willing to treat Americans who visit their nation as hostages to extract concessions from the United States, and to put their lives in danger,” Schiff said in a statement Tuesday.
The State Department now advises Americans against traveling to North Korea, but such travel is not prohibited.
U.S. citizens who travel there “are at serious risk of arrest and long-term detention under North Korea’s system of law enforcement,” says a warning on the State Department’s website. “This system imposes unduly harsh sentences for actions that would not be considered crimes in the United States.”
Three Americans are currently being held by the Kim Jong Un regime, which often tries to use U.S. prisoners as leverage to extract concessions.
Otto Warmbier, a college student who was detained in North Korea in January 2016, was returned to the United States this month in a coma. He died on Monday.
Senate Armed Services Chairman John McCain (R-Ariz.) said Tuesday he was not ready to back a legal prohibition on travel to North Korea, and that he first believed the U.S. government should warn Americans it was not responsible for their safety if they choose to go there.
“I think first we need to warn Americans that they should not go and that their lives are endangered if they go,” McCain said.
Nahal Toosi contributed to this report.
Members of the Senate are scheduled to be briefed on lawmakers' personal safety Tuesday following last week's shooting at a congressional baseball practice that nearly killed House Majority Whip Steve Scalise.
The briefing is scheduled for 4 p.m. Tuesday at the Capitol, and will be led by Senate Sergeant-at-Arms Frank Larkin and Matthew Verderosa, the chief of Capitol Police.
Story Continued Below
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) requested the briefing on behalf of their members.
House lawmakers got a similar briefing last week.
House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) said a "general fund" to provide security funding for members and their district staffs is one of the options being considered as congressional leaders mull ways to ramp up protection following the shooting.
Other ideas floated include allowing members to use their annual allowances or campaign funds to hire security. But Hoyer said he thinks a general fund, under the umbrella of the legislative branch budget, is the best idea.
"I think that this is a public responsibility," he told reporters Tuesday afternoon. People ought not to fear running for the Congress of the United States, being elected to serve their public and thereby becoming targets."
Hoyer met with Scalise and Crystal Griner, the Capitol Police special agent wounded by the shooting, at the hospital Tuesday morning. Hoyer said both were in good spirits and Griner is expected to be released from the hospital Wednesday.
Senate Republicans are planning for a July vote to raise the debt ceiling, according to senators and aides.
But House Republicans aren't prepared to show their hand yet, although they also hope to resolve the issue before the August recess begins. Yet with a possible health care vote in July — if the Senate passes a bill — top House Republicans are worried that the two issues could become entangled politically, making two already difficult votes even tougher.
Story Continued Below
Though the Treasury Department has said Congress can likely wait until September to avoid default, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and his lieutenants are increasingly disposed to clearing the Senate’s plate as much as possible before heading home for August recess. That would also likely mean decoupling the debt ceiling from a potential government shutdown fight in September.
It’s not clear what exactly such a bill would look like, but members of both parties are interested in a broad spending deal that would avoid the blunt budget cuts of sequestration. A “clean” debt ceiling increase — one with no policy strings or cuts attached — might be a problem for a GOP majority filled with fiscal conservatives.
There is also an emerging consensus among Hill leaders that the debt ceiling — currently $20 trillion — should be raised by an amount large enough to preclude another vote for several years. This would make it politically dicey for fiscal conservatives, yet it would be easier for most rank-and-file lawmakers to just have one vote this Congress.
“I’d like to see that done earlier,” said Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn of Texas when asked about lifting the debt ceiling in September. “I’m hoping there will be a negotiation on spending caps. Maybe it will be part of that.”
On Monday, Republican Senate staffers were provided new schedule guidance laying out that the preferred debt deadline is before the August break.
In the House, GOP leaders have not formally settled on a plan to raise the debt ceiling, according to multiple sources. The topic, which is toxic for many in the more right-leaning chamber, is expected to be discussed Wednesday morning during a GOP Conference meeting on the budget and appropriations process.
Conservatives in the House Freedom Caucus have called for spending cuts to accompany any increase in the nation’s borrowing limit, and more than a few GOP leadership allies have bristled at the idea of doing a clean debt ceiling increase, as Democrats have demanded in previous years.
But GOP leaders in the House are eyeing what’s feasible in the chamber across Capitol Hill. And since Senate Democrats will never go for spending cuts, the idea will likely remain a far-off hard-liner dream.
There may be some rank-and-file support among House Republicans to piece together a bipartisan budget deal to raise spending caps, as is being discussed in the Senate. More than 141 defense-minded House Republicans signed a letter in early May asking GOP leaders to raise the cap on the Pentagon budget.
Senate Democrats would be loath to support a military boost without increases for domestic programs as well. Some GOP defense hawks may be willing to negotiate to do both. It’s unclear, however, whether they would want to link that to a debt ceiling vote.
Sen. Bob Corker has not yet seen the health care legislation currently being crafted by his Republican colleagues, the Tennessee lawmaker said Tuesday, but he expects to get his hands on it Thursday and looks forward “to diving into that substance” of the bill.
Senate Republicans have kept a tight lid on their efforts to write legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, creating it via a working group and keeping the language a secret even from other GOP senators. Corker told MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” that he expects the legislation to be made public on Thursday and for a vote to take place roughly a week later.
Story Continued Below
The process, which has not included hearings before the relevant Senate committees, is not what Corker would have preferred, he said. But he still intends to judge the legislation based on its merits.
“I'll tell you this. We will work around the clock to make sure that we understand what's in it, and we'll just see,” he said. “I don't want to prejudge, and, you know, I would have liked, as you already know, for this to be a more open process and to have committee hearings, but that's not what we're doing. At the end of the day, that doesn't preclude my responsibilities as a senator to either vote yes or no based on the substance that's in it.”
While Corker was cautiously critical of his party’s process for the repeal-and-replace measure, Senate Democrats have loudly complained about a lack of transparency, staging a talk-a-thon on the Senate floor on Monday.
Corker stopped short of saying that the planned week will provide enough time for lawmakers to understand the health care proposal from Senate Republicans. But his GOP colleagues have kept him in the loop, Corker said, such that “I have a sense of where this is going and understand the rubs that exist.”
"I am going to vote for this bill or vote against this bill determined based on how it affects people in Tennessee, and actually how it affects our nation,” he said. “I have a sense of where this is going, and I know that, you know, the leadership is having various aspects of this scored, and it should be out there, it looks like, about a week before a vote takes place. I think it's planned to be out, language and all, on Thursday.”
Congress received mostly high marks for its response to a shooting last week at a Republican baseball practice in Alexandria, Virginia, according to a new poll released Monday, although those surveyed said overall civility in political debate has deteriorated.
Fifty-three percent of respondents to the CBS News poll said they approve of Congress’s response to last week’s shooting, which left five people, including House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.), injured. Twenty-nine percent said they disapproved of the response from Congress.
Story Continued Below
The response from President Donald Trump, which included multiple posts to Twitter, a televised statement and a visit to Scalise in the hospital, earned the approval of 46 percent of those polled, while 36 percent said they disapproved of it.
Beyond the response to last week’s shooting, 68 percent of respondents said that the tone and civility of political debate in the U.S. is getting worse and 75 percent said it is encouraging violence among some people. Opinions of the state of political discourse are shared on both sides of the political spectrum, with roughly two-thirds of liberals and conservatives, respectively, responding that civility is diminishing.
Elsewhere in the poll, a third of those surveyed said the president’s response to the ongoing investigations into possible ties between Trump associates and the Kremlin, which Trump has labeled a “witch hunt,” has negatively affected their view of him. Just 28 percent of respondents said they approve of his handling of the investigations, while 63 percent said they disapprove.
Overall, the president’s approval rating in the poll released Monday sits at 36 percent, a low point for that number in CBS polls taken since Trump’s inauguration. Fifty-seven percent said they disapprove of the president.
The CBS News poll was conducted from June 15-18, reaching 1,117 adults nationwide via landlines and cell phones. The margin of error was plus-or-minus four points.
Leaders on the Senate Judiciary Committee, who are investigating the circumstances around the firing of former FBI Director James Comey, will meet with special counsel Robert Mueller this week, three congressional aides confirmed Tuesday morning.
The committee’s chairman, Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), and its top Democrat, Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California, announced last week that they will launch a probe that examines not only what led to Comey’s surprise firing last month, but also any attempts to influence FBI investigations during the Obama administration. The meeting was first reported by Reuters.
Story Continued Below
The meeting, scheduled for Wednesday, will include Grassley, Feinstein and Sens. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), according to one of the aides.
Key senators on the Intelligence Committee, which is leading the congressional investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 campaign, had a private meeting with Mueller last week to ensure their respective probes don’t conflict with each other.
But members of the Judiciary Committee, which has broad oversight of the Justice Department and the FBI, have been seeking their own ways to make sure that the congressional probes and Mueller’s investigation can run simultaneously.
“It’s a possibility, as we saw in things like congressional grants of immunity to witnesses who then can’t be prosecuted,” Whitehouse said in an interview last week about the potential for the probes to run into each other. “It’s also possible, if congressional testimony outs a cooperating witness who otherwise people don’t know is cooperating.”
Whitehouse added, “There are a few areas where it’s possible for there to be some conflict, and so that’s why we’ve asked for the Department of Justice to set up a deconfliction apparatus of some kind so we can talk to each other.”
A Judiciary subcommittee led by Whitehouse and Graham, which has already been looking into the FBI’s role in the Russia probe, is scheduled to hold a hearing Tuesday afternoon looking at concurrent criminal and congressional investigations.
Ivanka Trump is set to meet Tuesday morning with Sens. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.) and others to discuss paid family leave, according to two sources with knowledge of the plans.
The meeting comes as the Trump administration pushes a proposal for six weeks of mandatory paid leave for mothers and fathers. That is an unpopular proposal with many in a Republican-controlled Congress, but the idea has gained traction among more moderate members.
Story Continued Below
Fischer and Rubio have been leaders within their party on family leave. Fischer reintroduced a bill this year that would give tax credits to companies that offer paid leave for employees. Rubio also supported the idea during his run for president in 2016.
Ivanka Trump's proposal, however, would impose a mandate on businesses. That idea, which is included in her father's budget proposal, hasn't been embraced by Republicans.
The issue is one of personal importance to Ivanka Trump. She has sought to sell her own left-leaning workplace policies in a White House run by conservatives. Privately, she has told people that the paid leave policy in Trump's budget is just a placeholder, and even hinted she'd be willing to push for something more ambitious.
"They’re not too stuck on the details," said Aparna Mathur, an economic policy scholar with the American Enterprise Institute who met with Ivanka Trump on the issue earlier this month.
Democrats have said the proposal is inadequate. But the final version may depend largely on which Republican the White House gets to carry the bill. Based on Tuesday's meeting, Rubio and Fischer would appear to be top contenders.
Even as Senate Democrats began a Monday night talk-a-thon designed to spotlight the GOP’s still-secret Obamacare repeal plan, some of their own questioned the party's other potential procedural tactic to block committees from meeting this week.
The skepticism within the caucus underscores the risk facing Senate Democrats as they launch an all-out battle against a Republican health care bill they have had zero power to influence. Democrats want to use every procedural tool at their disposal to slow the GOP’s progress, but one of their more arcane options — the power to block committee meetings two hours after the Senate goes into session — risks inviting Republicans to paint them as heedlessly obstructionist.
Story Continued Below
“I do think we need to do something to try to get some input on this crazy damn health bill that they’re doing,” Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.) said in an interview. But Tester held back from supporting a halt to committee work starting on Tuesday: “I don’t know if that’s the right thing to do. I think we should still try to be doing our business.”
Two high-profile Tuesday hearings could get sandbagged by a Democratic blockade using the so-called “two-hour rule,” if it is invoked: the Foreign Relations Committee’s discussion of presidential authorizations for the use of military force and a Judiciary Committee look at past congressional and criminal investigations. If the tactic is used Wednesday, it could prematurely cut off an Intelligence Committee hearing on Russian meddling in the 2016 election.
A spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer on Monday night declined to confirm that Democrats would begin holding up committee work, but other senior Democratic sources said that those objections would happen on Tuesday.
Rhode Island Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, the top Democrat on the Judiciary subpanel hosting former Sen. Carl Levin (D-Mich.) for a Tuesday look at past congressional investigations, said that “I hope that we’ll find a way to let the hearing go forward. But we’ll see.”
The reluctance to endorse a stoppage of committee work on Tuesday appears to be a minority view among Democrats, most of whom said no tactic should be out of bounds when it comes to protesting the GOP’s clandestine drafting of a health care bill that will have a huge impact on the public. Senators offered multiple unanimous consent requests Monday night aimed at forcing the Obamacare repeal bill through the regular committee process that Republicans have sidestepped this year, though all were blocked by the GOP.
“We have to make the point that this isn’t the way to legislate,” Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) said in an interview, calling for any tactic possible to draw attention to the GOP’s “bizarre” avoidance of public hearings.
“We’ll get to the Russia hearing,” Feinstein added. “How many people are going to die if we don’t do the right thing [on health care]?”
But moderate Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), one of the GOP’s top targets in the midterm elections and a member of his party’s leadership, warned that Democrats should not be responding to Republican exclusion on health care with hardline tactics of their own.
“I don’t like any of this idea — any of these ideas,” Manchin said, “First of all, Republicans not involving the Democrats is wrong. It’s purely wrong. Does this highlight it? I don’t know. My gut tells me back home... it just makes it look like if we’re not doing anything.”
The Foreign Relations hearing on congressional approval of military operations is a top priority for Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), who has joined Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) to pitch a new authorization that would cover operations against the Islamic State, al-Qaeda and the Taliban. The intelligence committee’s Russia hearing is a rare public opportunity for members to advance their bipartisan investigation of President Donald Trump’s ties to Moscow.
Still, even Democratic members of the committees where business might get blocked starting Tuesday called for the Senate’s routine business to slow amid a health care process that’s been anything but routine.
“Many people are really focused on [Obamacare repeal] because it hits them where they live," said Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), who sits on Judiciary. “ I’m always reluctant to shut down anything, but refusing to have hearings and provide a text or draft of a bill is like shutting down democracy.”
Sen. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) acknowledged in an interview that "some people are enthusiastic about shutting down hearings. Others are less so."
“Look, we don’t want to shut down hearings — but we will,” Schatz said. “Everybody has a good relationship with their chair. But it is hard to defend staying in the regular order and maintaining a sense of bipartisanship when something so egregious is happening."
America in 2017 is a place where a mass shooting at a congressional baseball practice is a surprise, but not a shock.
Just like the rest of what happened Wednesday.
Story Continued Below
The thoughts and prayers echo statements that came after other shootings. President Donald Trump delivered a sober and unifying message from the White House. House Speaker Paul Ryan and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi gave warm, embracing speeches on the floor.
But pretty much everyone expects that Trump will tweet something inflammatory before long. And that Ryan and Pelosi will be back attacking each other by next week, if not by the end of this week. And that any big show of changing up the congressional baseball game to be East vs. West instead of Republicans vs. Democrats will have about the same lasting effect than when senators went as bipartisan pairs to the State of the Union the week after Gabby Giffords was shot.
Meanwhile, the question now looms of how the mainstream left responds to the act of violence coming from within its own ranks, even as Bernie Sanders, whose presidential campaign the shooter supported online and on the trail, issued a statement saying he is “sickened by this despicable act” and pleading for nonviolence.
In Washington, it was yet another day on edge about what happens next, with the distinctive swirl of factors around the Trump White House, like a son who quickly tweeted about the connection between the shooting and the Kathy Griffin photo and a Central Park production of “Julius Caesar” that he’s been raging about, and the president had White House counselor Kellyanne Conway promoting unconfirmed information about the shooter before the White House made a statement.
America in 2017 is also a place where people decry the shooting of House Whip Steve Scalise, two staffers and two Capitol police officers, and swear this time will be different. But they've sworn that before — and then, after a politically acceptable period of public self-recrimination and calls for a change, start churning the anger again, harder. People tweet about murdering and raping political opponents. They show up at rallies with guns.
They are not discouraged.
“I can only hope that Democrats do tone down the rhetoric,” Rep. Chris Collins (R-N.Y.) said in a local radio interview, which didn’t exactly match Ryan declaring to his colleagues in the House, “an attack on one of us is an attack on all of us.”
"This could be the first political rhetorical terrorist attack," Rep. Rodney Davis (R-Ill.) said on CNN.
Giffords was shot in the head at a constituent event in her district all of six years ago.
“Don’t politicize it!” shouted the people who didn’t want to talk about gun control or silencer regulations, though as many gun control advocates point out, insisting that gun control can’t be discussed in the wake of a gun incident is itself a politicization.
“Terrorism” has also become a politicized word, with debates over whether the racially motivated shooting at the Mother Emanuel church in Charleston, South Carolina, in 2015 was a terrorist attack, whether the San Bernardino shooter with hazy ISIS ties was a terrorist attack, whether the white man who shot two Indian immigrants in Kansas in February was a terrorist.
“We may have our differences, but we do well in times like these to remember that everyone who serves in our nation’s capital is here because above all, they love our country,” said the president on Wednesday — though this is the same president who made encouraging violence against protesters a standard of his campaign rallies last year.
Partisans spend hours bulging at each other on social media and in person, raging about each other’s idiocy and treachery. If you don’t agree, you’re not American, or you’re not human. This is the same country where a North Carolina Republican Party office was firebombed. This is the same city where a man started shooting up a pizzeria in Northwest Washington six months ago because online conspiracy mongers had convinced him that John Podesta was part of a child sex ring being run out of the basement.
Waiting for the shooter to be identified, people held their breath and prepared their talking points to slot him into. If he had an Arabic name. If he had ties to white supremacist groups. If he had political statements on his Facebook page.
James Hodgkinson is dead, but now his life and police record and social media accounts can be attached to whatever narratives people want.
“We can all agree that we are blessed to be Americans, that our children deserve to grow up in a nation of safety and peace, and that we are strongest when we are unified and when we work together for the common good,” Trump said Wednesday.
“We do not shed our humanity when we enter this chamber,” said Ryan after Trump spoke.
“We are not one caucus or the other in this House today, but we speak for each other,” said Pelosi after Ryan spoke.
Then there was the reaction in the less august settings.
"A Democrat campaign volunteer who deeply believed the president and his advisers were traitors tried to murder Republican congressmen,” said Michael Caputo, a Republican operative fired from Trump’s campaign last year, in a radio interview he had someone promoting on his behalf. “For nine months, Democratic Party leaders have lied, regularly calling me and my friends traitors, so forgive me if I'm not more tender with their karma in Alexandria."
The Senate Judiciary Committee is launching a wide-ranging probe into the circumstances behind James Comey’s firing as FBI director, as well as any attempts to influence FBI investigations under the Obama administration.
The committee’s chairman, Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), laid out his plan in a letter made public Wednesday in response to requests from Democrats to investigate potential obstruction of justice surrounding Comey’s dismissal by President Donald Trump last month.
Story Continued Below
“The Judiciary Committee has an obligation to fully investigate any alleged improper partisan interference in law enforcement investigations,” Grassley wrote to his Democratic counterpart, Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California. “It is my view that fully investigating the facts, circumstances, and rationale for Mr. Comey’s removal will provide us the opportunity to do that on a cooperative, bipartisan basis.”
In the letter, Grassley also stressed that the committee is obligated to look into the Justice Department’s handling last year of the probe surrounding Hillary Clinton’s private e-mail use, citing Comey’s testimony last week that he was concerned DOJ “could not credibly complete the investigation and decline prosecution without grievous damage to the American people’s confidence in the justice system.”
“There should be no improper interference with FBI investigations to favor any elected official or candidate of either party,” Grassley wrote to Feinstein. “The Committee has an obligation to pursue all evidence of such misconduct.”
Grassley and Feinstein met late Tuesday to discuss the Russia matter following testimony from Attorney General Jeff Sessions before the Senate Intelligence Committee, according to a Grassley spokesman. The Judiciary Committee has oversight of the Justice Department and the FBI.
One year ago, Sen. Chris Murphy sprang into action almost immediately after a gun massacre at an Orlando nightclub — accusing Congress of an “unconscionable deafening silence” and launching a 15-hour filibuster on the Senate floor.
But the gun-control advocate who once argued that lawmakers should put forward “legislative action within an hour of a shooting” was more circumspect on Wednesday after a shooting at a congressional baseball practice in the suburbs of Washington. One tragic incident, he acknowledged, won’t move the needle — even one that affected one of their own, House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.).
Story Continued Below
“This is very personal. I mean, Steve is a friend of mine and frankly my time this morning has been dedicated just to making sure that my friends are OK,” Murphy said. “The way you talk certainly is affected by the fact that your priority is that the people you know are still alive.”
The Connecticut Democrat continued: “We’re beyond the place where Washington responds to mass shootings. I mean, we don’t. We don’t. After Orlando and Sandy Hook, that’s clearly not how people’s minds work here.”
The shooting Wednesday morning on a sleepy suburban baseball field — injuring Scalise and four others — horrified Capitol Hill, which has cycled through repeated rounds of tense battles over gun policy after mass shootings in recent years.
But on Wednesday, the tone among even the most ardent proponents of stricter gun laws was dramatically different. In multiple interviews, several Democratic lawmakers urged that no, today was not the day to revive the dormant gun control debate. It was too soon, it hit too close to home — and lawmakers simply didn’t want to stand accused of politicizing a shooting that injured a colleague and friend.
“We don’t know the facts,” pointed out Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), who served as his state’s governor during the Virginia Tech shootings a decade ago.
“You know, today is not the day,” said Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), who helped steer the debate over background checks as Judiciary Committee chairman in the aftermath of the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre. “People know my record … but today is not the day for that. I’m praying for the victims. I’m praying for the police officers.”
“Today we need to focus on what happened and our prayers have to be with the injured,” said Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.). “We can talk about other issues in the future.”
Congressional Democrats have taken notably sharper and more aggressive tactics in recent years when it comes to advocating for tougher gun laws. The Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando spurred the most visible action — not only Murphy’s filibuster but a sit-in led by House Democrats in the chamber that lasted more than 25 hours and captured national attention.
But Democratic lawmakers tiptoed around the gun issue on Wednesday. Notably, several Democrats asked to speak without attribution for fear of being seen as insensitive so soon after one of their colleagues was shot. They acknowledged privately that if the shooting of another colleague — former Rep. Gabby Giffords (D-Ariz.) — and the mass shooting in Newtown didn’t move the dial, this won’t either.
Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat and another advocate of stricter gun laws, also spoke about a “feeling of resignation” for his party in the gun debate.
“Until there’s significant changes around the country or within Congress, we know each other’s positions and we know they don’t change,” Durbin said. “There’s a fatigue. We know each other’s arguments. We know what’s going to happen.”
Democrats say they’re not abandoning their push for tougher gun laws, but they didn’t think it was appropriate to talk about it too quickly after Wednesday’s shooting, which occurred around 7 a.m. during the GOP lawmakers’ practice in advance of the annual congressional baseball game Thursday.
“I think that both sides of the aisle are going to be pretty disciplined on just focusing on [the victims] today,” Rep. Tony Cardenas (D-Calif.) said. “And then tomorrow we’ll probably, hopefully respectfully, get back to the debates of what kind of policies we should have.”
Even lawmakers who have seen an uptick in death threats against them recently like Rep. Al Green (D-Texas) weren’t ready to revive the gun debate. Green became the target of lynching threats after calling for President Donald Trump’s impeachment.
“I think these are issues that I would feel more comfortable discussing a little bit more removed from what happened today,” he told reporters following a briefing for House lawmakers on Wednesday’s shooting. “I don’t want someone to think that I’m seizing on this as an opportunity to get into a debate that may seem political in nature.”
There were other differences between shootings that prompted gun control pushes from Democrats and what happened Wednesday, such as that the massacres in Newtown, San Bernardino and Orlando were tragedies of a significantly larger scale, with upwards of dozens of fatalities.
In Wednesday’s shooting, only the suspect — identified by law enforcement officials as James Hodgkinson, 66, of Belleville, Illinois — has died. Hodgkinson had often published social media posts lashing out at Trump and the GOP, stoking concern from Republican lawmakers about whether they will be targeted because of their party label.
Last June, Democrats in the Senate prompted the most sweeping debate over gun policy since the aftermath of Sandy Hook, when the chamber considered restricting firearms access to those with ties to terrorism and to bolster background checks. But the deeply divided chamber rejected all four measures put on the Senate floor for a vote.
Three years before that, Sens. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) and Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) teamed up on a comprehensive background checks proposal in the wake of Sandy Hook. It was ultimately filibustered by nearly all Republicans and a handful of Democrats in the Senate.
On Wednesday, Manchin downplayed speculation about whether the shooting would prompt any concrete legislative action tightening rules on gun ownership.
"It always spurs that," Manchin said of a new gun control push. "I just don't get overexcited anymore."
Another Republican who backed Manchin-Toomey — Sen. John McCain of Arizona — said Wednesday that reviving a gun debate would “be fine with me, whenever they want to.” But most other GOP lawmakers have long resisted enacting new and tougher firearms restrictions.
“I own a gun; I don’t go around shooting people with it. Bottom line: People get shot, run over by cars, stabbed. It’s just a crazy world,” said Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.). “If we had that debate it’d end like it always ends. We’re not going to tell law-abiding people they can’t own a gun because of some nut job.”
Indeed, as legislative battles over gun policy raged in the Senate, the GOP-controlled House did not take up firearms measures on the floor, even in the aftermath of Orlando. A House panel on Wednesday had been scheduled to take up legislation making it easier to purchase gun silencers — the most significant movement on gun rights measures under the new Trump administration — but that hearing was postponed.
The legislative standstill in Washington has forced supporters of additional gun restrictions to confront a difficult reality on Capitol Hill — is it even possible in this political climate to enact tougher laws while balancing constitutional rights to own firearms?
“I don’t know who this person is,” Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.) said, referring to the shooting suspect. “But obviously someone who is very sick and if he had a criminal background … then yeah, shame on us. But Second Amendment is the Second Amendment.”
Adam Cancryn contributed to this report.
Former Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson is set to testify publicly next Wednesday before the House Intelligence Committee as part of its investigation into Russia’s election meddling, according to a congressional source.
Johnson appeared earlier this week before the Senate Intelligence Committee, but the session was closed.
Story Continued Below
Next week’s hearing comes as the House Intelligence panel begins working to schedule private depositions with key witnesses. An impasse earlier this month between Democrats and Republicans on the panel led to about 10 witness interviews being put on hold.
The House and Senate Intelligence panels are both looking into the possibility of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia, as is a Justice Department investigation led by special counsel Robert Mueller.
Mueller on Wednesday met with the Senate panel to “deconflict” their investigations. Mueller is also expected to meet with House investigators.
Johnson, who served under President Barack Obama as Homeland Security chief from 2013 until earlier this year, is likely to face questions about Russian attempts to hack U.S. election systems.
Former President Barack Obama reached out to Sen. Jeff Flake Wednesday morning in the wake of the shooting at the GOP's congressional baseball game practice to extend his "best wishes and prayers" for the victims, the Arizona Republican said.
Flake was among the Republicans gathered on an Alexandria, Va., baseball field when a shooter opened fire, wounding House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) and several others. Obama maintained a good working relationship with Flake, who flew out to Arizona with the former president in 2011 after the shooting of then-Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.).
Story Continued Below
"This is particularly raw for those of us in Arizona," Flake told reporters of Tuesday's shooting, adding that Obama asked him to let Scalise know the former president is thinking about him. "He went through this a couple of times," Flake added of Obama.
Obama called no other lawmaker besides Flake and did so as a friend, according to a person familiar with the call. The former president and Flake did not talk about gun control or any policy issues, focusing only on the Republican senator's condition after the shooting.
Edward-Isaac Dovere contributed to this report.
The Senate on Wednesday overwhelmingly approved a bipartisan package of new Russia sanctions that also lets Congress block President Donald Trump from easing or ending penalties against Moscow, the year's most significant GOP-imposed restriction on the White House.
The 97-2 vote on the Russia sanctions plan capped a week of talks that demonstrated cross-aisle collaboration that's become increasingly rare as Trump and the GOP push to repeal Obamacare without any Democratic votes. Senators merged the sanctions package with a bipartisan Iran sanctions bill that's on track for passage as soon as this week, complicating the politics of any future veto threat from the Trump administration.
Story Continued Below
"It’s particularly significant that a bipartisan coalition is seeking to reestablish Congress, not the president, as the final arbiter of sanctions relief, considering that this administration has been too eager — far too eager, in my mind — to put sanctions relief on the table," Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), who pressed hard for the strongest possible anti-Russia bill, said in a floor speech. "These additional sanctions will also send a powerful, bipartisan statement that Russia and any other nation who might try to interfere with our elections will be punished."
But the Senate's deal faces a murky future in the House and with the White House, which has yet to say where it stands on congressional review of sanctions that would tie Trump's hands on future relations with Vladimir Putin's government.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson declined to endorse the deal for a second straight day on Wednesday while emphasizing the importance of "a constructive dialogue" with Russia. Although "Russia must be held accountable for its meddling in U.S. elections," Tillerson told House Foreign Affairs Committee members, "I would urge Congress to ensure any legislation allows the president to have the flexibility to adjust sanctions to meet the needs of what is always an evolving diplomatic situation."
Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), a leading negotiator of the sanctions deal and a Tillerson ally, said earlier this week that he believed the legislation would get Trump's signature. Democrats, however, are also wary of House GOP attempts to change their popular, bipartisan agreement to punish Putin.
"I know that some people in the White House are pushing back" on the Senate sanctions framework, Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown, the Banking Committee's top Democrat and another key player in the talks, told reporters. "People in the White House, we hear, are making calls in the House to try to stop it, slow it, weaken it, dilute it."
The deal, which adds new sanctions against Russia's defense and military-intelligence sectors while codifying existing sanctions into law, drew opposition only from GOP Sens. Mike Lee of Utah and Rand Paul of Kentucky. Democratic Sen. Chris Van Hollen of Maryland missed the vote.
Arizona Sen. John McCain, among the upper chamber's strongest Russia hawks, rallied support among fellow Republicans for striking back after Russia's cyberattacks during the 2016 election — which Trump has dismissed repeatedly in the past.
"Vladimir Putin’s brazen attack on our democracy is a flagrant demonstration of his disdain and disrespect for our nation," McCain said on the floor ahead of the vote. "This should not just outrage every American, but it should compel us to action."
Yelp has slapped a warning notice on the business page of James T. Hodgkinson, the alleged shooter in the congressional baseball game attack, after it got deluged with sarcastic and politically charged reviews following news of the Wednesday shooting.
Visitors to the page for JTH Inspections are greeted by a red pop-up box and the rest of the page obscured. The "Active Cleanup Alert" tells users that the business "has recently been in the news in connection with a recent tragedy. As a result, people may be coming to this page to share their thoughts and concerns."
Story Continued Below
Laurent Crenshaw, director of public policy for Yelp, told POLITICO that "our priority is ensuring there is honest, first-hand content on the platform, and notifying users when we think there's not." Yelp's terms of service permit reviews based only on customer's direct experiences with the relevant business.
"Right now, if you go to the page, you see people leaving snide remarks related to the shooting. So our user operation team is going through the page, and reviewing and removing reviews" that are tied to Wednesday's events, he said.
The pop-up box counsels Yelp users that the company takes the such steps "regardless of the business and regardless of the event at issue in order to avoid injecting our own varied viewpoints into the debate," saying that, "Unfortunately, that means that we need to remove comments even when we agree with them."
Social media pages tied to controversies often become gathering points for those eager to comment on the events. Yelp has posted similar warnings in the past, including for Comet Ping Pong, the Washington pizza restaurant that was the target of a fake news story about Hillary Clinton and a pedophilia ring.
Yelp also alerts users to businesses it thinks are especially likely to sue customers over negative reviews, Crenshaw said.
Special counsel Robert Mueller met with Senate Intelligence Committee leaders on Wednesday to deconflict their investigations, Chairman Richard Burr said in an interview.
The meeting included Burr, Mueller and Intelligence Committee ranking member Mark Warner of Virginia, Burr said. The goal is to separate Mueller's investigation from the panel's probe of Russia's influence on the 2016 elections.
Story Continued Below
"I'm going to acknowledge that we had a meeting with special counsel Mueller. But I'm not going to get into the content," Warner told reporters.
Burr separately told reporters he now has "clarity" on whether or not he will receive the memos written by James Comey that detail the former FBI director's conversations with President Donald Trump. Comey has alleged Trump told him it was his "hope" that Comey would let go of an investigation into ousted national security adviser Michael Flynn.
Both Burr and Warner would not say whether the committee has the memos.
The chairman said he's "always felt" that the two investigations would continue to run without conflicting with each other and that he'll stay in touch with Mueller to make sure it stays that way.
"We'll be in communication on any aspects that might bleed over," Burr said.
House Republicans earlier this year discussed ramping up security in light of new anti-Donald Trump and anti-Republican anger on the far-left.
Now, they fear their worst nightmare has come true: a politically motivated shooting.
Story Continued Below
Republicans on Capitol Hill are fretting that their colleagues were targeted by a gunman during a Wednesday congressional baseball practice because of their party affiliation — or because of an anti-Trump sentiment pulsing through the nation. Many are asking about additional security, fearing they could be next, while also calling for civility to be restored to an increasingly divisive political discourse.
Speaking to reporters just hours after the shooting, Rep. Jeff Duncan recounted an exchange he had with the gunman before he opened fire — and before the South Carolina Republican realized the man was a threat. Duncan said the shooter stopped him in the parking lot by the field as he was leaving team practice early and asked him if Republicans or Democrats were playing.
Duncan told him it was the Republican team, and minutes later, the man opened fire.
Asked if he believed his colleagues were singled out because of party affiliation, Duncan said he did.
“Based on the question he asked me, I would make that assumption because he asked me if this team was the Republican or Democrat team privately,” he said. “I responded that it was the Republican team practicing, and he proceeded to shoot Republicans.”
He added: “Take that for what it’s worth.”
Republicans echoed Duncan’s sentiment throughout the day, as news dripped out that the Facebook page of the gunman — identified as James T. Hodgkinson, a former home inspector from Belleville, Ill. — was awash in anti-Trump posts. Rep Rodney Davis (R-Ill.), for instance, brought up the current partisan political discourse as a cause behind the shooting.
“This political rhetoric and political discourse that has led to hate, has led to gunfire,” Davis said. “I never thought I’d go to baseball practice for charity, and have to dodge bullets. This has got to stop, and it’s gotta stop today.”
Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN), speaking from the floor of the Capitol with a Tennessee Volunteers baseball hat on, called for civility on Fox News when asked whether the shooting was politically motivated: “We come up here and represent the people of the United States, and that’s very sad that someone would take it upon themselves to open a weapon and fire upon anybody of any political party or any persuasion. It's very sad.”
Since Trump was elected president, Hill Republicans have often taken the brunt of the anger from progressives unhappy at the direction the country is headed. They’ve seen their town halls and offices overrun with protesters, and while the discourse is often civil, several Republican lawmakers have complained to POLITICO about security concerns. Some have even said they won’t hold town halls anymore for fear of their own safety. Others have received death threats.
POLITICO reported on a special conference more than two months ago in which GOP leadership asked former cop-turned-Rep. David Reichert (R-Wash.) to brief members on how to ensure their staff are safe. His tips included asking police to monitor town halls, a practice that most have taken up. He also advised them to install heavy solid doors instead of glass at district offices and ensure each office has a security system in place as well as a backroom exit in case of emergencies.
Wednesday’s shooting is likely to only exacerbate those fears. During a members-only security briefing with House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving Wednesday just hours after the shooting, lawmakers pressed leadership with questions about what funds they could use to increase protection for themselves and their staff. Arizona Democrat Ruben Gallego said that while no changes to security on the Hill were announced, a bunch of lawmakers asked if they could use campaign dollars to hire security back home.
Two members, Reps. Ann Wagner (R-Mo.) and Al Green (D-Texas), stood up to talk about death threats they had received recently.
Several Democrats leaving the briefing said they have received an influx of threats against them and their staffs in recent months as well and would be supportive of additional security measures.
“The concern is not about our personal safety as much as it is about our staff and our families,” said Rep. Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.), chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. “The lack of uniformity, especially in the districts…to even have metal detectors or a security team in place, those nuances make it more difficult to ensure the safety of our staff.”
Green said congressional leaders should consider increasing members’ annual expenditure allowance to provide extra money for security.
“An attack on one of us should be an attack on all of us,” Green said he told members during the briefing. The Texas Democrat has recently received lynching threats after calling for Trump to be impeached.
“There should be an allocation for us to have someone in our offices, in these district offices,” Green told reporters. “If it can already be used [but] budgets are tight, then we need to increase the budget so that the district offices can be protected. The staff is much more vulnerable than I am.”
House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) said the next step is a review of “exactly what funds can and should be used in the event that there are security concerns by any member.”
The review will be led by Speaker Paul Ryan’s office “in communication with both the FEC and the Ethics Committee,” Hoyer added as he was leaving the briefing.
Republicans’ fear is grounded in a belief that politics had something to do with the incident. Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz), who was at the practice that erupted in chaos, said on TV that “you’ve got to assume [the gunman] knew what he was doing here” — though he added, “whether he was targeting certain members, we don’t know.” Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.), who was also at the practice field, argued that “people know this is the Republican baseball team practicing” because of the security detail and the timing.
“It is pretty well known in the neighborhood who those folks are on the baseball field and where we practice, and there is probably also publicity about it on Capitol Hill,” he said. “It’s no question that he knew who we were and what he was intending to do, in my judgment, and I’m a former prosecutor in Tuscaloosa and Huntsville and yeah, he was going after elected officials, congressmen.”
Coming out of the security briefing with House Sergeant at Arms Paul Irving on Wednesday, several Republicans speculated that the motivation may have been more anti-Trump than anti-Republican.
"It seems like this is was more an anti-Trump sentiment, but that's speculation," Rep. Trent Franks (R-Ariz.) said. "There was some discussion about that but clearly speculation."
Louis Nelson and Jake Lahut contributed to this report.
The Northern Virginia shooting wounding a Republican House leader at a congressional baseball practice “is an attack on all of us,” Speaker Paul Ryan told the chamber on Wednesday afternoon.
In an impassioned floor speech hours after a gunman shot House Majority Whip Steve Scalise and others, Ryan acknowledged the “very strong emotions” lawmakers are feeling.
Story Continued Below
“We are all horrified by this dreadful attack on our friends and on our colleagues and those who serve and protect this Capitol,” Ryan said. “We are all praying for those who were attacked and for their families.”
Police responded to reports of an active shooter on Wednesday morning in Alexandria, Virginia, where Republican lawmakers were practicing for Thursday’s annual congressional charity baseball game. Authorities have said at least five people were wounded, including Scalise, who is believed to be in stable condition. Other casualties include former House GOP aide Matt Mika, current House GOP aide Zack Barth and special agents David Bailey and Crystal Griner.
“We are giving all our thoughts to those currently being treated for their injuries at this moment, and we are united,” Ryan said. “We are united in our shock. We are united in our anguish. An attack on one of us is an attack on all of us.”
In a rare show of unity from an often divided Congress, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi seconded Ryan’s sentiments, something even the California Democrat conceded was unusual.
“To my colleagues, you’re gonna hear me say something you’ve never heard me say before: I identify myself with the remarks of the Speaker,” Pelosi said, drawing laughter from lawmakers. “They were beautiful remarks, Mr. Speaker. Thank you so much for the sentiments that they represent.”
Pelosi stressed Wednesday that “we are not one caucus or the other in this House today, but we speak for each other in saying we send our thoughts and prayers to our colleague Steve Scalise.”
She said she told Ryan she would be asking “every five minutes” for updates on Scalise’s condition and implored lawmakers to consider Capitol Police’s daily sacrifice and “how fortunate we all were that they were on the scene because other lives would have probably been lost.”
Ryan, who spoke with both special agents, extolled them for their heroism. “It is clear to me, based on various eyewitness accounts, that without these two heroes, Agent Bailey and Agent Griner, many lives would have been lost,” he said.
Lawmakers were briefed on the incident by the sergeant at arms, and Thursday’s game will continue as planned, although Ryan joked, “Knowing Steve Scalise as we all do, he is likely really frustrated that he’s not gonna be able to play.”
“There are so many memories from this day that we will want to forget, and there are so many images that we will not want to see again,” Ryan said. “But there is one image in particular that this House should keep, and that is a photo I saw this morning of our Democratic colleagues gathered in prayer this morning after hearing the news.”
The speaker was alluding to a photo that emerged from the Democrats’ practice showing them gathered in prayer for Scalise. Ryan said members of both parties come to work daily to “test and challenge each other,” sometimes letting their emotions get the best of them, but don’t “shed our humanity when we enter this chamber.”
“For all the noise and all the fury, we are one family,” he said. “These were our brothers and sisters in the line of fire. These were our brothers and sisters who ran into danger and saved countless lives.”
For her part, Pelosi echoed the familial nature of the House. The Democratic leader said she continues to pray often for her colleagues, including Republicans in Congress and even President Donald Trump.
“It’s in the family. It’s an injury in the family for the staff and for our colleague and for his leadership,” Pelosi said. “For this person to take this action was so cowardly — so cowardly.”
Wednesday’s attack, she said, was “particularly sad” because it came “at a time when people want us to come together and we were prepared to come together tomorrow night.”
“But we cannot let that be a victory for the assailant or anyone who would think that way,” Pelosi warned. “So tomorrow, we’ll go out on the field, we’ll root for our team … and we will use this occasion as one that brings us together and not separates us further.”
Wednesday's shooting of House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) at a congressional baseball practice in Alexandria, Va., joins a series of other incidents in which more than a dozen federal lawmakers have been killed or wounded by gunfire.
The most recent previous attack occurred in January 2011, when then-Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, an Arizona Democrat, was shot in the head during an outdoor town hall meeting in a supermarket parking lot in her state. Giffords, who went on to co-found a gun violence prevention group while struggling with partial paralysis and other after-effects, expressed her condolences on Twitter for Wednesday's shooting.
Story Continued Below
“My heart is with my former colleagues, their families [and] staff, and the US Capitol Police — public servants and heroes today and every day,” she wrote.
Giffords' shooter, Jared Loughner, is serving seven life terms plus 140 years in prison without the possibility of parole.
In one of the most politically traumatic shootings in modern American history, then-New York Sen. Robert Kennedy was assassinated in June 1968 while campaigning for the Democratic nomination for president in Los Angeles. His assassin, Sirhan Sirhan, is serving a life sentence in state prison in California.
Louisiana Sen. Huey Long was shot and killed after a physician named Carl Weiss opened fire on him in the Louisiana State Capitol in 1935. The exact circumstances of the Democratic politician's death remain a mystery, with one theory suggesting that his bodyguards accidentally shot him as they aimed at Weiss.
The only House lawmaker to be assassinated in office is Democratic California Rep. Leo Ryan, who in 1978 was one of five people killed by members of Jim Jones’ Peoples Temple cult on an airstrip in Guyana. Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.), who was then an aide to Ryan, was shot five times and waited almost 24 hours before help arrived.
Nine other sitting members of Congress have been wounded or killed in shootings.
In January 1973, Sen. John Stennis (D-Miss.) was exiting his car outside his home in Washington when two young men approached him and demanded money, according to police. After taking his wallet, his watch and other valuables, they shot him twice. Stennis recovered and continued to serve in the Senate for another 16 years.
The shooting involving the most lawmakers occurred in the Capitol Building in March 1954, when Puerto Rican nationalists stormed into the House gallery and shot Reps. Alvin Bentley (R-Mich.), George Fallon (D-Md.), Kenneth Roberts (D-Ala.), Clifford Davis (D-Tenn.) and Ben Jensen (R-Iowa). According to the New York Times, the shooters “shouted for the freedom of their homeland” as they fired. All five congressmen survived.
The Capitol itself has been a high-profile target for decades, and it featured relatively lax security until the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. In 1998, a man walked into the Capitol and shot and killed two Capitol Police officers. No lawmakers were injured, but the man made it to the office of then-House Majority Whip Tom DeLay (R-Texas) before an officer shot him.
Democratic Texas Rep. John Pinckney and his brother were shot and killed in April 1905 when a riot broke out at an event in Hempstead, Texas. In July 1869, Republican Alabama Rep. Thomas Haughey got into an argument with a man who shot him; he died five days later. And in October 1868, a member of the Ku Klux Klan shot and killed Rep. James Hinds (R-Ark.).
Matt Mika, a lobbyist for Tyson Foods and one of five victims of the carnage at a congressional baseball practice in northern Virginia on Wednesday, suffered multiple gunshot wounds to the chest and was in critical condition at a Washington hospital following surgery.
Mika, a Michigan native and director of government relations for Tyson’s D.C. office, is being treated in the intensive care unit at George Washington University Hospital, where his family expects him to remain "for at least several days," according to a statement.
Story Continued Below
His parents traveled from their home in Michigan to be with him at the hospital, where friends and colleagues were keeping vigil.
"We continue to be in disbelief that he would be part of this heinous attack," the family said in a statement early Wednesday evening that provided an update on his condition.
Mika is one of at least five people who were wounded when a lone gunman opened fire on the field during the Republican team's baseball practice in Alexandria, Va., on Wednesday morning. Also wounded were House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, Zack Barth, a legislative correspondent in the office of Rep. Roger Williams (R-Texas), and Capitol Police officers Crystal Griner and David Bailey.
The GOP team was preparing for a charity game against the Democratic squad, scheduled for Thursday. “As a former baseball player, he was volunteering at this morning’s practice to help the congressional team get ready for the game,” said Rep. Tim Walberg (R-Mich.), for whom Mika once worked.
Mika, a former college baseball and football player, was not scheduled to play in the game, Tyson said in a statement. His family described baseball as "one of his great passions" and said that his dedication to the congressional team is characteristic of the type of person he is.
"While the attack today was a terrible surprise, Matt’s presence on the ball field, helping longtime colleagues and friends was not," the family's statement added. "He is a very thoughtful, fun-loving person who is competitive and loyal — all things which contributed to his continued commitment to the Congressional Baseball Game.”
Rep. John Moolenaar (R-Mich.), a friend of Mika's, said he knows that dedication well, remarking in a statement how Mika "would always be at practices at 6 a.m., full of energy."
"I join with his countless friends across the country in praying for Matt and his family during this difficult time, and I hope he makes a full recovery,” Moolenaar added.
In the immediate aftermath of the shooting, GOP Reps. Kevin Brady of Texas, Erik Paulsen of Minnesota and John Shimkus of Illinois, who room with Scalise in Washington, showed up together at the George Washington University Hospital to check on Mika.
“He’s been a big part of the team for a number of years and just a great athlete, helps us, frankly, at second base and at shortstop. He’s a great guy,” Brady told reporters before leaving to visit Scalise at another area hospital.
Mika is well known and well regarded in food and agricultural policy circles. In his current role, he works on a variety of livestock concerns, ranging from issues affecting the organic sector to regulations related to fair competition in the meat industry. “Matt has worked for Tyson Foods for more than six years and we’re deeply concerned about him and his family,” Gary Mickelson, a Tyson spokesman, said in a statement.
Mika is a 2001 graduate of Adrian College in Adrian, Mich. He received a master’s degree in public administration and public policy from Western Michigan University in 2004. He started on Capitol Hill in 2005 as a legislative assistant for former Rep. Dave Camp (R-Mich.), and joined Walberg’s staff in 2007. He served as the congressman’s lead staffer on the House Agriculture Committee, according to Mika’s LinkedIn profile.
After Walberg narrowly lost a reelection bid in 2008, Mika left the Hill to lobby for the North American Meat Institute. He joined Tyson Foods in 2011.
Former Michigan state Rep. David Palsrok told a local media outlet that he met Mika in 2004 when he gave him a job running his campaign that year. They have been friends ever since.
“He’s somebody who’s touched a lot of lives in Lansing and in his travels to D.C.,” Palsrok told mlive.com. “There are a lot of people who care for him."
“We're praying for him and we love him," he added. “We're just hoping that he recovers and that he's OK.”
Catherine Boudreau, Austin Wright, Brianna Ehley and John Lauinger contributed to this story.
ALEXANDRIA, Va. — It started as an idyllic morning for baseball, two dozen Republican congressmen and aides attending practice and escaping, for a moment, the rancor of Washington. Then the bullets started to fly.
“I was on deck about to hit and I hear, bam!” said Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.). “And I look around and behind third base in the third base dugout, I see a rifle. And I see a little bit of a body and then I hear another ‘bam’ and I realize there is an active shooter. At the same time I hear Steve Scalise over near second base scream. He was shot.”
Story Continued Below
Scalise, the third-highest-ranking member of the House GOP leadership, crumpled to the ground near second base, where he had been fielding ground balls at Eugene Simpson Stadium Park. Horrified lawmakers described watching as a helpless Scalise screamed in pain and began crawling toward the outfield, leaving a trail of blood.
“I wanted to get to him but there were still shots going overhead from both sides,” said Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.). “Finally, when the shooter was down, I just ran low out to Steve.”
After a 10-minute firefight, police took down the lone shooter — but not before there was carnage. The shooter later was identified as James Hodgkinson, 66, a home inspector from Belleville, Illinois, with a string of violent outbursts who had grown increasingly angry at the political order in recent years.In addition to Scalise, others wounded included a congressional staffer, a lobbyist for Tysons Foods and two Capitol Police officers.
As local and Capitol police, firefighters, FBI agents and ATF officials scoured the scene – helicopters flying overhead – questions began flying about the incident. Was the shooter targeting lawmakers? Republicans? Was he alone? Lawmakers and staff who attended the practice eventually migrated to a nearby basketball court, surrounded by security, as law enforcement secured the scene, and confusion still reigned.
All of Washington quickly ground to a halt — votes in Congress were canceled for the day, hearings on major legislation were nixed, and a Democratic news conference hitting President Donald Trump was called off. Trump quickly tweeted, sending well wishes to Scalise, who was airlifted to a hospital for treatment. For a moment, at least, the intense partisanship gripping Washington eased. Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle prayed for the wounded. Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-La.) told reporters he intended to visit Scalise in the hospital.
Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle prayed for the wounded. Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-La.) told reporters he intended to visit Scalise in the hospital. And former President Barack Obama reached out to Flake on Wednesday morning to extend his "best wishes and prayers" for the victims, the Arizona Republican said.
The episode began during batting practice. A burst of gunfire rang out shortly after 7 a.m., startling residents and pedestrians and sending local coffee shop employees fleeing for cover. Two residents said they assumed the noise was construction – until it didn’t stop.
It was in that first burst of fire when Scalise, the House majority whip, went down. He had been taking ground balls at second base, witnesses said. The shooter, according to witnesses, approached from the third base side and perched behind a nearby fence when he began firing.
Scalise’s colleagues watched, horrified, from the dugout, fearful for their own lives, as a hail of gunfire erupted and Capitol Police returned fire at the shooter, who was eventually taken down.
Flake described lawmakers’ effort to protect Rep. Joe Barton’s 10-year-old son by shielding him in a nearby dugout. Members described Rep. Brad Wenstrup, a doctor, rushing to Scalise’s side as soon as the shooter was taken down by police. He was preparing to cut Scalise’s pant leg off to begin treatment before a helicopter came and evacuated Scalise to a nearby hospital. Others on hand included Reps. Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), Chuck Fleischmann (R-Tenn.), Roger Williams (R-Texas) and Joe Barton (R-Texas). Rep. Gary Palmer (R-Ala.) also received medical attention, Brooks said.
Flake said he grabbed Scalise’s phone and called the leader’s wife. A short while later, he fielded a call from Mark Kelly, the husband of his former Arizona colleague Gabby Giffords, who was shot in the head years ago by a crazed gunman while holding a public event in her district.
Brooks provided the most vivid account of the shooting itself. He said he was along the third base line when the first shots rang out, which he noted put him the closest to Scalise.
“You can imagine all the people in the field scatter. I run around to the first base side of home plate. We have a batting cage with plastic wrapped around it to stop foul balls. I was lying on the ground as gunfire continued. Heard a break in the gunfire and decided to take a chance,” he said.
Brooks said he ran into the first base dugout where multiple members of Congress and staffers had taken cover. One aide, he said, had been shot, so Brooks said he took off his belt and used it as a tourniquet “to try to slow down the bleeding.” Soon, Capitol Police began returning fire.
“There must have been 50 shots fired,” he said. “There were some congressman on the phone screaming for reinforcements. Seemed like a long time and we weren't even hearing sirens from local police officers which tells me they didn't yet know what was going on.
Lawmakers described a scene of confusion and sheer terror.
"I felt like I was back in Iraq,” Wenstrup, a former combat surgeon in the U.S. Army Reserve, told CBS News.
“I grew up in the South. I’m used to hearing an occasional shotgun and it didn’t sound like a rifle,” said Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) “And then there were a couple of seconds. Everybody looked up and heard the sounds. But we were about ready to come back and do our business. Then five or 10 shots in a row quickly rang out and that's when everybody was hitting the dirt.”
Flake, clearly shaken, spoke to reporters dressed in his congressional baseball team uniform, the word “Republicans” emblazoned on his shirt. Brooks, wearing denim shorts and his batting glove, recounted the panic in vivid detail.
Flake told reporters that he had recently finished batting and outfield practice and was watching other players hit when the initial series of shots were fired in what the Arizona senator described as a “rapid succession.” The shooter used a “large gauge” rifle, according to Flake.
Two of the victims were members of Scalise’s U.S. Capitol Police detail, Flake said, one of whom was shot in the leg but continued to return fire against the gunman. It was that officer with the leg wound that ultimately took down the gunman, Flake said.
Flake said he was the first person to reach Scalise and administer aid, quickly joined by Wenstrup and others. The Arizona senator said Scalise was conscious and coherent throughout the incident.
The gunman appeared to be acting alone, Flake said, though members and police feared a second shooter could be hiding. He said it was likely that the shooter intended to target members of Congress.
“You’ve got to assume he knew what he was doing here,” Flake said. “Whether he was targeting certain members, we don’t know.”
Flake, in an interview with reporters at the scene, estimated that the entire incident lasted around 10 minutes and that there were roughly 25 members of Congress present.
“Well, people know this is the Republican baseball team practicing. You can tell. You can recognize many of us. You can see our security detail,” Brooks said. “It is not a secret that we're practicing over here and the Democrats are practicing at a different place and I'm not going to divulge where that is under these circumstances. It’s no question that he knew who we were and what he was intending to do, in my judgment, and I’m a former prosecutor in Tuscaloosa and Huntsville and yeah, he was going after elected officials, congressmen.”
The normal rhythms of Congress were shattered Wednesday morning by a shooting that injured House Majority Whip Steve Scalise and at least four others, stunning lawmakers and staffers. But the denizens of the Capitol sought to quickly reassert a sense of normalcy in the Senate, projecting to the world that Congress won't be intimidated by the frightening attack.
Rather than imposing new security restrictions or pausing its work, the best thing for Congress to do is just “move on,” said Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.). One of the best-known members of Congress, he said he’s received no guidance to alter his movements in and around the Capitol after the shooting. And he said he and his colleagues should not spend time or energy worrying about their own safety.
Story Continued Below
"This is terrible. Just be grateful it wasn't worse. You’ve got to just move on. The best thing we can all do is just get back to work,” Graham told a handful of reporters. “I have long since stopped worrying about stuff like this. I have stopped worrying about things I can’t control."
Still, in an era of heightened political tensions, the thought of their own safety is frequently on the minds of lawmakers, whether during daily activities in Washington or meeting with voters back home.
On Wednesday morning, Sen. Bob Menendez (D-N.J.) said he recalled having that thought when the entire Senate was shuttled to the White House in April for a closed-door briefing on North Korea.
"I said, you know what? All it takes is some guy with a rocket launcher or a couple guys throwing a hand grenade and you can knock out most of the Senate," Menendez said. "That's the world in which we live in."
"There’s not many hours in a day when I don’t think about the potential of some goofball wanting to make a name for himself," added Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.). "So you just got to be aware and you gotta hope you’re lucky."
Though some committee hearings were canceled and House votes postponed, the Capitol was mostly operating as usual, albeit with a slightly heightened security presence. Senate votes remained on schedule and Republicans were expected to continue discussing Obamacare repeal.
Party leaders offered brief comments on Wednesday morning, with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said he was "deeply saddened" by the event and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) relaying a conversation with Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), who was at the baseball field where Scalise was shot. Paul told Schumer: "Had these two Capitol Police officers, who were part of Congressman Scalise's detail, not been there it might have been a massacre."
"The shooting at the congressional baseball practice reminds us of the importance of numbering our days. May we refuse to boast about tomorrow, for we know not what a day may bring," said Senate Chaplain Barry Black in opening the chamber.
Later in the day, Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) delivered their own remarks praising Capitol Police while projecting unity and prayer in the aftermath of the shooting.
“We are giving all our thoughts to those currently being treated for their injuries at this moment, and we are united,” Ryan said. “We are united in our shock. We are united in our anguish. An attack on one of us is an attack on all of us.”
After acknowledging the frightening aspects of the shooting, members of Congress dug into their daily work. Sen. Mike Rounds (R-S.D.) said he met with constituents as usual on the Capitol grounds in the hours after the shooting.
“This is one of those freak deals. You can’t let it impact the way you do your daily activities,” Rounds said in an interview. “You’re not going to be able to perform your job and your responsibilities as well as you should if you’re looking over your shoulder all the time.”
Scalise has a security detail, which prevented the attack from worsening. Top congressional leaders and those in the presidential line of succession receive constant security due to their prominent positions.
Others take additional measures. "I feel pretty safe back in Texas, particularly," said Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas). "My license to carry helps a little bit there, too."
“I have never felt like I needed it, except in rare situations,” Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) said of his security detail that shadows him in Washington. “Today is a reminder of the vulnerability.”
But rank-and-file members of Congress do not generally have such security presences unless there is an active threat against them. They walk in and out of the Capitol in public areas where they can be approached by reporters, tourists and even lobbyists. And at town halls back home, where “you never know who’s going to show up,” in Graham’s words, lawmakers generally have local police protecting them.
"It is a brutal and terrifying reminder about the prevalence of violence in our society," Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) said. Still, he added, "I've done public meetings, parades, forums for more than three decades, and people have more dangerous jobs."
And occasionally members face explicit threats, like threats against Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) and his family in 2014.
“We’ve been very, very blessed to have so much good security around us and then we go home, we’re in public places, we have our local state police and all of them have been very good helping us and everything,” Manchin said. After this shooting, he added that “everybody will be on high alert. Because then what happens is, you have copycats.”
Yet visitors poured into the Capitol for tours and meetings with staffers and members, all part of an apparent effort by lawmakers to put on a brave face and continue Congress’s work.
“You’ve got to live. You just go about your business. It’s just, I see the world for what it is,” Graham said. “The threats against people in politics are real, but the threats against our soldiers? I’ve been in places where everyday you get up and everyday somebody is trying to kill you. So you put it all in perspective.”
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, the Louisiana Republican shot in the hip at a congressional baseball practice Wednesday morning, is always on the move as the third-highest ranking member of the House of Representatives.
The 51-year-old fifth-term congressman, a New Orleans native, is the top vote counter for House GOP leadership, a tough job in an increasingly divided Washington.
Story Continued Below
He’s known on the Hill for his jovial attitude and for being a huge Pelican State enthusiast: passing out trinkets from Louisiana, scribbling lists of top-notch restaurants to visit for Hill staff or reporters vacationing on his home turf, or taking members of Congress to visit a Gulf of Mexico oil rig to learn his state’s economy.
First elected in 2008, Scalise has risen through the ranks to become the chamber’s top whip counter. He developed a taste for politics at a young age, when he would ride a red, white and blue-decorated bike around his neighborhood and encourage anyone who would listen to head to the polls and vote, according to a “Politics in America” almanac profile.
Scalise registered as a Republican the day he turned 18 and joined College Republicans at Louisiana State University, where he also volunteered for George H.W. Bush’s 1988 campaign.
Local Republicans recruited Scalise in 1995 to run for the Louisiana House of Representatives, where he went on to serve for 12 years. After spending a few months in the state Senate, Scalise ran for Congress, where for a time he was considered one of the more conservative members of the House.
He quickly developed a reputation as a big supporter of the National Rifle Association. He even led a fight in the late 1990s against a New Orleans mayor who had sued several gun manufacturers in an attempt to recoup the city’s costs for curbing violent crime, according to a CQ profile. Scalise wrote a bill barring cities from taking businesses to court over what their customers did after purchasing products.
Scalise also used his perch on the Hill to advocate for Louisiana in 2010 after the BP oil rig explosion in the Gulf of Mexico, the largest oil spill in U.S. history. He sponsored legislation giving fines related to the spill to coastal states to rebuild.
At the end of 2012, Scalise ran and was elected to lead the Republican Study Committee, defeating Tom Graves despite the Georgia Republican’s endorsement from former RSC chairmen. He steered the group, which includes more than 160 members from the more conservative half of the conference, into supporting legislative positions to rein in federal spending, sometimes at odds with leadership. He also used his post to rail against then-President Barack Obama for advocating what Scalise called a “radical” left-wing agenda.
In June 2014, then-House Majority Leader Eric Cantor’s (R-Va.) unexpected primary defeat by conservative challenger Dave Brat triggered a leadership scuffle that landed Scalise on his current trajectory.
When then-Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) ran for Cantor’s position, Scalise likewise jumped into the race to replace McCarthy, defeating senior Republican Peter Roskam of Illinois, who many considered the favorite, and conservative Rep. Marlin Stutzman (R-Ind.).
Republican Southerners, who had no representation in leadership, were particularly excited to install one of their own near the top.
Scalise found himself engulfed in a controversy when a Louisiana blogger reported that Scalise had given a speech in 2002 to the European-American Unity and Rights Organization, a white supremacist group founded by former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke.
Scalise apologized and said he regretted that decision, explaining that he was there to drum up support for a tax bill in the state legislature — not to support the group’s cause. Leadership backed him, curbing any political fallout. But ultimately it was his longtime friendship with Louisiana Democratic Rep. Cedric Richmond, a black lawmaker who had served with Scalise in the state House, that saved Scalise. Richmond vouched for him.
Scalise is married and has two children.
House Majority Whip Steve Scalise is in critical condition in a Washington hospital, and will require additional surgeries after a bullet pierced his hip, injured organs and caused "severe bleeding," according to a statement Wednesday night.
Scalise, a Louisiana Republican, is in MedStar Washington Hospital Center in Northwest D.C., where he has had at least two procedures, and "multiple units of blood transfusion," the hospital said Wednesday night. Scalise was brought to the hospital in "shock," the statement said.
Story Continued Below
President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump visited the hospital Wednesday night, and brought flowers for the Scalise family.
A gunman shot Scalise, two police officers, a congressional aide and a lobbyist Wednesday morning during a congressional baseball practice. The shooting shocked Capitol Hill and froze congressional business. Votes were canceled in the House Wednesday, and the GOP leadership is allowing lawmakers to leave town Thursday afternoon — one day early.
The FBI identified the alleged gunman as 66-year-old James T. Hodgkinson of Illinois. He died after being shot at the scene.
Scalise's office said earlier on Wednesday morning that he was undergoing surgery after being shot in the hip and transported to MedStar Washington Hospital Center, and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) later told reporters the surgery had been completed. The hospital tweeted that Scalise remained in critical condition.
"Prior to entering surgery, the Whip was in good spirits and spoke to his wife by phone. He is grateful for the brave actions of U.S. Capitol Police, first responders, and colleagues," his office said. "We ask that you keep the Whip and others harmed in this incident in your thoughts and prayers."
The Trumps met with Scalise's doctors and sat by his bed side during their visit, White House press secretary Sean Spicer said. The first couple also met with Capitol Police Officer Crystal Griner and her wife.
In a televised address Wednesday morning, Trump called Scalise "a very good friend," "a patriot" and "a fighter," and said the prayers of his family, the nation and the world were with him.
“We may have our differences, but we do well in times like these to remember everyone who serves in our nation’s capital is here because, above all, they love our country. We can all agree we are blessed to be Americans,” Trump said in his statement, delivered from the White House's Diplomatic Room.
Tim Slater, the FBI special agent in charge of the Washington Field Office, told reporters at a press conference from the scene that it was too early in the investigation to label the incident an act of terrorism or determine whether it constituted an assassination attempt. Likewise, he could not say whether members of Congress had been specifically targeted.
He said Wednesday evening that the FBI believes Hodgkinson had been in Alexandria since March and was living out of his vehicle.
The bureau said in a statement that it is “actively investigating Hodgkinson to include his associates, whereabouts, social media impressions, and potential motivations.”
Alexandria Police Chief Michael Brown described the scene to reporters as “not only chaotic” but also “a combat situation.”
The shooting shook Washington off its usual routines. The House canceled its scheduled votes on Wednesday, although Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) said votes in that chamber would go on as scheduled. Some committees canceled hearings as well. Visitors to the Capitol on Wednesday also observed increased security in the wake of the shooting.
House Speaker Paul Ryan summoned House members to the floor at noon, where he and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi delivered back-to-back remarks urging a break from the fierce partisanship that divides the town.
"We are all horrified by this dreadful attack on our friends and on our colleagues and those who serve and protect this Capitol," Ryan said. "We are united in our shock. We are united in our anguish. An attack on one of us is an attack on all of us."
"To my colleagues, you're gonna hear me say something you've never heard me say before: I identify myself with the remarks of the Speaker," Pelosi said. "We are not one caucus or the other in this House today, but we speak for each other in saying we send our thoughts and prayers to our colleague Steve Scalise."
Former congresswoman Gabby Giffords (D-Ariz.), who was the victim of a shooting in 2011, described the shooting as “an attack on all who serve and on all who participate in our democracy.”
“I am heartbroken for the pain of Congressman Scalise, the other victims, and their family, friends, and colleagues who survived. I am thankful for the great courage of Capitol Police, who were my protectors after I was shot and became my friends,” said Giffords, who was among 19 people wounded during the shooting at a Tucson, Ariz., meet-and-greet at which six people died. “I also know the courage it takes to recover from a shooting like this, and I know Steve and everyone there this morning have such courage in great supply.”
Hodgkinson, the shooter, featured a prominent photo of Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) on his Facebook page, and Sanders said Wednesday in remarks on the Senate floor that Hodgkinson had volunteered for his 2016 presidential campaign. He offered his prayers for Scalise and the shooting's other victims, denouncing the attacker who had once supported his White House bid.
"I have just been informed that the alleged shooter at the Republican baseball practice is someone who apparently volunteered on my presidential campaign. I am sickened by this despicable act," Sanders said. "Let me be as clear as I can be. Violence of any kind is unacceptable in our society and I condemn this action in the strongest possible terms. Real change can only come about through nonviolent action, and anything else runs against our most deeply held American values."
Also among those injured was Zack Barth, a legislative correspondent in the office of Rep. Roger Williams (R-Texas), one of the GOP baseball team’s captains. Williams wrote on Twitter that Barth was "receiving medical attention but doing well and is expected to make a full recovery."
Matt Mika, a lobbyist for Tyson Foods and a former House GOP aide for Rep. Tim Walberg (R-Mich.), was receiving treatment at George Washington University Hospital in Washington after suffering multiple gunshot wounds. His family issued a statement saying had come out of surgery but remained in critical condition.
The hospital, which had previously said two shooting victims were there in critical condition, later amended that statement to announce that one of the patients had died. The hospital did not announce the identities of the patients and would not say if the deceased shooter was one of them.
Two members of the Capitol Police Department’s Dignitary Protection Division, officers charged with protecting Scalise because of his role in House leadership, were also injured. Capitol Police Chief Matthew Verderosa said in a statement Special Agent Crystal Griner was in "good condition" in the hospital after being shot in the ankle, and Special Agent David Bailey had been released after treatment for a "minor injury."
Verderosa said the Capitol Police officers on the scene exchanged fire with the gunman. Multiple lawmakers who were at the practice credited Scalise’s protective detail with fighting back against the shooter and stopping him from further harming the otherwise unarmed attendees at the practice.
The FBI also said a second lawmaker “sustained minor injuries and was also transported by a medic unit.” Rep. Joe Barton (R-Texas) told reporters that Williams may have sprained his ankle trying to protect people but wasn’t shot. “He has had medical attention,” Barton confirmed.
The lawmakers were practicing for the annual congressional baseball game at a field in Alexandria when the shooting began just after 7 a.m. The game itself, a popular bipartisan event held each summer, is scheduled for Thursday evening at Nationals Park and will go on as planned.
Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.) described on CNN how Scalise was wounded in the shooting, explaining in a phone interview that the GOP whip was among the first to be shot and was hit while standing in the area of second base.
“He’d crawled into the outfield but leaving a trail of blood. We started giving him some liquids,” said Brooks, who was not hit.
Sen. Rand Paul vividly recounted the scene in his own CNN interview, and gave credit to Scalise’s protective detail for saving lives. "Nobody would have survived without the Capitol Hill police," Paul said on CNN. "He was just killing everyone — he would've. It would have been a massacre."
“And having no self-defense, the … field was basically a killing field. If you were to run out while the killer was still shooting, he could have shot anybody," he continued.
GOP Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-S.C.), who left the practice before the shooting began, told reporters that he had spoken to a man, believed to be the shooter, as he was departing who asked if the people on the field were Republicans or Democrats. He said he had shared his account with the Alexandria Police Department and that he believed the man he spoke to was the shooter “based on the profile that I saw on TV.”
Brooks identified a handful of other lawmakers in attendance at Wednesday morning’s practice, including Paul, Barton, Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) and Reps. Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), Chuck Fleischmann (R-Tenn.), Brad Wenstrup (R-Ohio), Gary Palmer (R-Ala.) and Williams. Brooks said Wenstrup, a medical doctor, immediately attended to victims, including Scalise.
“I felt like I was back in Iraq as a surgeon,” Wenstrup, a former combat surgeon in the U.S. Army Reserve, told CBS News.
Brooks told CNN that the gunman fired from behind the field’s third base dugout.
“And I look around and behind third base in the third base dugout, I see a rifle,” Brooks said. “And I see a little bit of a body and then I hear another bam and I realize there is an active shooter. At the same time I hear Steve Scalise over near second base scream. He was shot.”
The Alabama congressman said he never saw Scalise lose consciousness, though there was a 10- or 15-foot trail of blood behind him as he crawled into the outfield.
“The gun was a semiautomatic,” Brooks said. “It continues to fire at different people. You can imagine all the people in the field scatter. I run around to the first base side of home plate. We have a batting cage with plastic wrapped around it to stop foul balls. I was lying on the ground as gunfire continued.”
Worried that the plastic batting cage would do little to protect him and staffers from gunshots, Brooks said he took a gamble to get to cover.
“Heard a break in the gunfire and decided to take a chance. Ran from home plate to the first base dugout for better cover. There were a number of congressmen and congressional staffers who helped us lying on the ground,” he said.
There were approximately 25 members at the field, Flake said. One staffer was shot while on the field, and ran with a wound to the dugout, Flake said.
"He had a lot of ammo," Flake said, explaining why it took several minutes to get the situation under control. In an interview with reporters at the scene, he estimated that the entire incident lasted around 10 minutes.
"Just a harrowing scene," said Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-Tenn.), who said he ran into a dugout when the shooting started. "If this gunman had come into [the] dugout, we would have been sitting ducks."
The shooting took place in a neighborhood baseball field near a dog park that was full of early-morning dog walkers. As the shooting started, neighbors on the adjoining streets heard what they described as "dozens" of shots as people in exercise clothing began to flee past their homes.
Virginia House of Delegates member Mark Levine decried the politics that have killed gun control efforts in the state. Asked if it's the right time to talk politics, he cried out, "Then when is the right time?!"
Trump canceled a planned event at the Department of Labor scheduled for Wednesday, while Pence canceled a morning speech to the National Association of Home Builders. At the group's annual D.C. gathering, Rep. Peter Roskam (R-Ill.) called for a moment of silence.
"I thought I was going to come up here and charm you on tax reform, but we're here on a very different day," Roskam told those assembled. "Will you just pray for these people and their families."
In the wake of the shooting, Democrats canceled a press conference announcing a lawsuit against Trump. The Senate also postponed a hearing examining a budget request for the Capitol Police.
Kyle Cheney, Jake Lahut, Heather Caygle, Clea Benson, Negassi Tesfamichael, Toby Eckert, Caitlin Emma, Anna Palmer, Burgess Everett, Nolan D. McCaskill and Diamond Naga Siu contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump is facing yet another lawsuit over the profits his far-flung business empire brings in from dealings with foreign governments.
The latest legal salvo came from nearly 200 Democratic members of the House and Senate, who joined in a suit filed early Wednesday in federal court in Washington.
Story Continued Below
It's at least the fourth pending lawsuit alleging that Trump is violating the foreign emoluments clause in the Constitution, a provision that prohibits federal officeholders from accepting financial benefits or other things of value from foreign governments without the permission of Congress.
Plans for the new suit were first reported by POLITICO last week. The lead plaintiffs in the case are Sen. Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut along with Rep, John Conyers of Michigan, long the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee.
The 54-page complaint targets a wide array of Trump's business ventures, from Trump Tower spaces rented to foreign governments, to "The Apprentice" reruns aired by state-owned foreign broadcasters, to trademarks the Chinese government has granted Trump to market his brand in China for construction services, catering and clothing.
"Because Defendant is not coming to Congress and identifying the emoluments he wishes to accept, the American people will have no way of knowing whether his actions as President reflect only his beliefs about what is best for the country, or whether they are partly motivated by personal financial considerations," the suit says.
The new suit was filed just two days after the attorneys general of the District of Columbia and Maryland filed a joint suit in federal court in Greenbelt, Maryland, making similar arguments on behalf of the people of those jurisdictions. In addition, a pair of lawsuits were filed in New York last year challenging the legality of Trump's business dealings with foreign entities.
The Justice Department moved to toss out one of the New York cases last week, arguing that the plaintiffs lacked standing to bring such a suit and that routine business transactions with foreign governments are not covered by the foreign emoluments language in the Constitution.
At a news conference early this year, a private lawyer for Trump publicly made a similar argument. However, Trump also pledged to set up a process to donate to the U.S. Treasury profits his hotels and other businesses earn from foreign governments.
The Trump Organization, which oversees Trump's business holdings, has released a flyer indicating that it plans to flag some business with foreign governments and track the profits from that activity. However, the Trump businesses do not plan to try to figure out whether foreign individuals who do business at Trump properties are actually representatives of foreign governments, the flyer said.
The White House and the Justice Department declined official comment on the suit, but a White House official said it was without merit.
"The President’s business interests do not violate the Emoluments Clause, for reasons explained at length in DOJ’s filing on Friday night in the CREW case," said the official, who asked not to be named. "This lawsuit appears to be just another politically motivated iteration of that case. The White House will review the Complaint, but we expect that DOJ will move to dismiss this case in the ordinary course. This is another example of the Democrats playing political games instead of working for the American people they were elected to serve."
The lawmakers are represented in the new suit by a liberal legal nonprofit, the Constitutional Accountability Center.
SAN JUAN CAPISTRANO, Calif. — John Mathews, a self-described retired technology guru and life-long Republican from the coastal town of Del Mar, Calif., is a Darrell Issa voter.
But during a Saturday morning town hall here in an affluent Southern Californian neighborhood, Matthews lit into the nine-term Republican congressman for failing to do more to stop Russia’s interference in the 2016 election.
Story Continued Below
“I want to know when you and the Republican Party are going to stand up, use your political capital, and recognize that our democracy is under attack from an adversary,” he asked Issa.
The crowd cheered, and raised yellow signs reading “Agree.”
Issa — who just minutes earlier had boasted about being the first Republican to ask Attorney General Jeff Sessions to recuse himself from the FBI's Russia investigation — retorted that Russia wasn’t a Republican problem at all. He argued it was a bipartisan nuisance, and claimed he’s been tough on what he called the “evil empire" of Russia his entire career.
As the audience jeered at Issa to “Stand up! Stand up!” against President Donald Trump, and “revoke" the security clearance of Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, Matthews said he would not vote for Issa again.
“I would prefer having a Republican representing this district,” he said. “However, if this is going to happen, he needs to step away from running for re-election and let another Republican run in his place, because quite honestly, he is unelectable.”
This Orange County area between Los Angeles and San Diego is supposed to an Issa stronghold. While he narrowly won re-election last fall, beating his Democratic challenger by fewer than 2,000 votes, much of Orange County backed him.
But anger from the left — and more than a little from his own party — has dogged Issa here in a Republican-leaning part of his increasingly Democratic district. Every seat in a nearly 500-person auditorium at the San Juan Hills High School was filled, and hundreds of constituents protested outside, irate that they couldn’t get in.
Protesters outside the building Saturday morning chanted and held colorful homemade signs that read “Repeal and replace Issa,” “healthcare for all,” and “Issa… try this for a change: country before party.” One attendee held a sign with a rubber chicken taped onto a picture of Issa’s face and plastered with the phrase “Missing in Action.”
“He’s telling us one thing and doing something different,” said Debbie Hanna of Encinitas, Calif., a registered Democrat who left her house early this morning so she’d be first in the wait-list line. “He told us Planned Parenthood would not be defunded then voted to defund it when he got to Washington. He proclaims that he has some kind of saving grace for health care for everybody … but then he voted for Trumpcare!”
This dynamic has left Issa, a nine-term incumbent, in an awkward spot. The former chairman of the House oversight committee made a name for himself in Washington as President Barack Obama’s chief inquisitor, grilling the Democratic administration on allegations of waste, abuse and corruption.
But now, seven months after Hillary Clinton won his district, Issa is showing a softer side. He’s boasted about working with Obama on legislation and hosting events with area Democrats. During the town hall, he sympathized with supporters calling for immigration reform, and he promised Congress wouldn’t make draconian cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency or the National Institutes of Health.
For his part, Issa rejects the notion that his politics are changing — once calling the suggestion “bullshit.” In a brief interview after the town hall, he scoffed at the idea he was in trouble politically in a competitive district.
“Not a bit,” Issa quipped when asked how concerned he was about re-election. “I got more votes in the last election than I did in any previous election. But there was an 83 percent turnout." He added: "That’s not duplicatable in an off year. It’s not even normally duplicatable in a presidential year.”
Saturday’s town hall was carefully choreographed: Issa’s office emailed area constituents a registration code allowing them early registration for the limited-space event. Within a couple minutes of registration going live to the entire district, tickets were gone — angering hundreds who felt Issa was trying to surround himself with supporters.
“I think he has tried to stack the inside with favorable constituents,” said Denise Stillenger of Cardiff, one of hundreds of wait-listed constituents who showed up Saturday morning in hopes of getting in.
Issa’s spokesman Calvin Moore denied that Issa was trying to select his audience and said his office simply wanted to ensure people near San Juan Capistrano were able to get seats. In previous town halls, he said, locals were blocked from attending when angry protesters flooded the event.
In an apparent attempt to alleviate some of that criticism and connect with constituents who have picketed outside his office in recent weeks, Issa on Thursday held an impromptu “pop up” town hall in Vista.
Despite the short notice — the email only went out five hours before the event — about 200 people showed up to press Issa on everything from Trump pulling out of the Paris climate agreement to concerns about Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner allegedly trying to establish a “back channel” of communication with Russian officials
While the town hall Saturday appeared to be an even split between supporters and antagonizers, there were still plenty of challenging questions for Issa, including some about the House Republicans' health care replacement.
Karen Abrams, a 53-year-old stage-three breast cancer survivor from Encinitas, Calif., criticized Issa for backing the plan and raised concerns about coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.
"When I asked you this question before the vote … you eventually came around to saying, ‘Yes, people with pre-existing conditions should not have to pay [more],'" she said. "You use this world ‘should’ all the time. Yet you chose to vote opposite of your words. How can we trust you?”
Issa made no apology for his health care vote. Instead, he explained that in the current bill, people who maintain continuous coverage would not be charged more than a healthier person.
Red signs sprang up saying “Disagree.”
Issa did his best to identify himself as an independent-minded Republican. When Cindy Monahan, a retired businesswoman and registered Democrat, told him “we do not hear your voice” pushing back on the Russia scandal, Issa vowed to use his congressional perch to ensure special counsel Robert Mueller has “the freedoms and the funds” to investigate — and take the probe wherever it may lead him.
Likewise, when 30-year-old Oscar Gomez of Vista asked Issa about deportation raids “not just going after bad hombres” but innocent people, Issa boasted that he once “got booed by my own party” for wanting to tackle immigration reform.
“I appreciate the American dream as much as anyone does,” Issa said, later adding, “I’m tried of people being afraid when that’s not what America is about … I’m going to work with any Democrats, hand in hand.”
Highlighting the divide, many attendees had praise for Issa. While exiting the theater, Gene James, a registered Republican and Issa supporter from San Clemente, said he thinks Issa is “doing great.” He argued that many area Republicans still supported Issa but didn’t attend the town hall because they’re out golfing and enjoying the weekend.
But even James was concerned about Issa’s future. Indivisible, he said, is “the tea party of 2017,” and Orange County has changed — and not in Issa’s favor, he said.
“They’re organized, they’re angry,” he said of the Democratic protesters. “They’re a small percentage, but being a districts that’s in transition, that small percentage could definitely hurt him." He added, "Orange County isn’t what it once was.”
Hill Democrats are outraged by a new Trump administration policy to ignore information requests from members and senators unless they come from committee or subcommittee chairs.
They argue it’s part of a broader pattern by the White House, designed to make the executive branch less responsive to Congress. And they say it effectively locks them out of information necessary for government oversight.
Story Continued Below
From refusing to release White House visitor logs to scrubbing agency websites of health and safety data and refusing to respond to simple media requests on government operations — or even admitting whether President Donald Trump is playing golf or not — the Trump administration has made it harder for Democrats and the press to find out what is going on inside the White House and federal agencies.
This effort is sometimes being aided by Republicans on Capitol Hill, or undertaken at their behest. For instance, House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) has asked federal agencies to refuse to comply with Freedom of Information Act requests designed to find out what data his panel is seeking from those agencies.
Such FOIA inquiries are routinely made by journalists, lobbyists and political operatives. News organizations have strenuously objected to Hensarling’s demand.
But the latest initiative by the Trump administration — backed by a May 1, 2017, opinion drafted by the Office of Legal Counsel of the Justice Department — has crossed a once unthinkable line, Democrats argue.
Under this new policy, Democrats — as the minority party — would be limited in their ability to get information from the agencies unless the request was supported by a Republican chairmen. Since the GOP controls both the House and Senate, this would effectively give Republicans a veto over such information requests.
“Every member of Congress represents hundreds of thousands of American citizens who expect their representatives in the House and Senate to fulfill their duty under the Constitution to act as a check on the executive branch in order to promote the proper functioning of federal agencies and departments,” said Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), ranking member on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
“We cannot do our jobs if the Trump administration adopts this unprecedented new policy of refusing to provide any information to Congress unless a request is backed by the implicit threat of a subpoena. This has never been the standard for responding to congressional inquiries — and it should not take the threat of a subpoena to pry information free from this administration.”
Cummings added: “This is the latest in a series of abuses by the Trump administration to operate in a shroud of secrecy, hiding their actions from federal ethics officials, the Government Accountability Office, the media, Congress, and the American people.”
However, relying on the OLC opinion, White House officials say they do not have to respond to any requests from individual lawmakers, or those that do not come through a committee.
“’Oversight’ is a constitutional power which Congress exercises through its established committees and their chairmen,” said Lindsay Walters, a White House spokeswoman. “This legal advice provides much needed clarity to the executive branch so that the administration can ensure resources are effectively dedicated to accommodating authorized congressional oversight requests and responding to nonoversight requests, independent of the political party of the requester.”
According to the OLC opinion, no minority lawmaker — including the ranking member of a full committee — may request information without the approval of committee or subcommittee chair.
“Individual members of Congress, including ranking minority members, do not have the authority to conduct oversight in the absence of a specific delegation by a full house, committee, or subcommittee,” OLC asserted. “Accordingly, the Executive Branch’s longstanding policy has been to engage in the established process for accommodating congressional requests for information only when those requests come from a committee, subcommittee, or chairman authorized to conduct oversight.”
OLC added: “Members who are not committee or subcommittee chairmen sometimes seek information about executive branch programs or activities, whether for legislation, constituent service, or other legitimate purposes (such as Senators’ role in providing advice and consent for presidential appointments) in the absence of delegated oversight authority. In those nonoversight contexts, the Executive Branch has historically exercised its discretion in determining whether and how to respond, following a general policy of providing only documents and information that are already public or would be available to the public through the Freedom of Information Act … Whether it is appropriate to respond to requests … from individual members will depend on the circumstances. In general, agencies have provided information only when doing so would not be overly burdensome and would not interfere with their ability to respond in a timely manner to duly authorized oversight requests.”
The OLC memo was drafted by Curtis Gannon, the acting assistant attorney general.
The Justice Department’s copy of the famed “torture report” from the Senate Intelligence Committee, which extensively detailed the CIA’s Bush-era detention and interrogation tactics, doesn’t appear to be returning to the Senate anytime soon.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), who chaired the Intelligence Committee when the panel produced the report in 2014, said Friday that she has confirmed the CIA, its inspector general and the director of national intelligence have returned their copies of the torture report to the Senate. Her successor as the Intelligence chair, Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.), had asked the administration to return its copies to the Senate, where it could be blocked indefinitely from public view because Congress exempted itself from open records laws.
Story Continued Below
“After more than two years of litigation, the federal courts have ruled that the Senate Intelligence Committee’s 2014 Full Report on the CIA’s Detention and Interrogation Program is a congressional document,” Burr said in a statement Friday. “I have directed my staff to retrieve copies of the congressional study that remain with the executive branch agencies and, as the committee does with all classified and compartmented information, will enact the necessary measures to protect the sensitive sources and methods contained within the report.”
But Attorney General Jeff Sessions pledged to Feinstein in written responses that he would not return DOJ’s copy to the Senate during his confirmation process earlier this year. Asked whether that is still the attorney general’s view, a DOJ spokeswoman said that the department's copy of the nearly 7,000-page report is tied up in the courts — raising the prospect that it could stay there for years.
“The DOJ report is the subject of two district court orders and, pursuant to those orders, has been lodged with the Court Information Security Officers for the District Court for the District of Columbia,” Sarah Isgur Flores, DOJ director of public affairs, said Friday.
Copies of the 2014 report were distributed to the CIA and its inspector general, the FBI, the director of national intelligence, as well as the Justice Department, the State Department and the Pentagon, with the eventual goal of making it public.
A military judge has also ordered the Defense Department to preserve a copy of the report in connection with a military commission prosecution pending against alleged conspirators in the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.
But Burr, when he took over as Intelligence Committee chairman in 2015, asked the Obama administration to return all executive branch copies to the Senate. The issue has been tied up in the courts, with the American Civil Liberties Union suing to make the report public. But the Supreme Court declined to hear its case in April.
“No senator — chairman or not — has the authority to erase history,” Feinstein said. “I believe that is the intent of the chairman in this case.”
Still, multiple judges have ordered the report be preserved in court records and former President Barack Obama included another copy as a part of his White House paperwork with the National Archives, which could be released as early as 2029.
The ACLU noted Friday that Courtney Simmons Elwood, President Donald Trump's nominee to be CIA general counsel, promised during her confirmation hearing to read the full report, but the agency was one of the handful that had returned its copy. Her confirmation vote is scheduled for Tuesday.
“The report contains difficult facts to face, but they must be aired,” said Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), who as an Intelligence Committee member helped prepare the report. “Purging history of unpleasant facts is not the American way; Putin and his Soviet forebears would approve, but we should not.”
Josh Gerstein contributed to this report.
Democratic leaders may take a hard line against raising the debt ceiling if Republicans seek a tax cut that increases the deficit.
The idea is for Democrats to receive a commitment from GOP leaders that their tax reform efforts will be revenue neutral. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) told reporters on Friday that her party would be hard-pressed to support a “clean” debt ceiling lift with no policy attachments if it was merely to help clear the way for Republicans to slash tax rates.
Story Continued Below
“I don’t have any intention of lifting the debt ceiling to enable the Republicans to give another tax break to wealthy in this country,” Pelosi said. “When we say a clean debt limit, we mean not one that enables the Republicans to have a giant tax cut for the rich. That’s not why we’re lifting the debt limit.”
While the idea does not yet have sign-off from the Senate Democratic Caucus, it has been discussed by Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York and some of his members. Schumer suggested the strategy to Pelosi last week, a source familiar with the interaction said. Still, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and the White House have said it is their preference to do deficit neutral tax reform rather than budget-busting standalone tax cuts.
It’s not clear how Democrats would be able to enforce a tax reform commitment from Republicans as a condition of averting default. But because most bills need 60 votes to pass the Senate and House conservatives are loath to increase the debt, Democrats do have significant leverage in the months ahead.
“I tend to think that the debt ceiling ought to be extended as a matter of course without any controversy or unrelated issues. But I certainly have an open mind if there is any condition related to it,” said Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), in an interview last week.
As Congress returns to Washington next week, the looming debt ceiling battle is front of mind for both parties. And they have been left with a confusing set of instructions from the Trump administration.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has publicly and privately left lawmakers with the impression that the debt ceiling needs to be raised before the August recess, which could complicate a congressional calendar devoted to repealing Obamacare and reforming the tax code. But while Mnuchin prefers a clean debt ceiling increase, White House budget director Mick Mulvaney wants to attach spending cuts to a debt ceiling increase. And Paul Teller, a legislative affairs liaison for Trump, told fiscal conservatives last month at Americans for Tax Reform’s headquarters to prepare their “asks” for conservative legislation to be attached to the debt ceiling increase, according to two sources with direct knowledge of the meeting.
Senate Democrats are unlikely to agree to a deal that raises the debt ceiling and includes new spending cuts or other conservative bills, so Republicans would likely have to slip the debt increase into a fast-track “reconciliation” bill if they want cuts, a difficult lift for a party divided on spending priorities. Moreover, Republicans may not appreciate Democrats’ attempts to derail their tax reform efforts as a condition of moving forward.
Gary Cohn, the chief economic adviser to President Donald Trump, refused to weigh in on Congress and the administration’s own internal divisions on CNBC on Friday, saying it is up to Capitol Hill. Trump does have final say, though: He will have to sign whatever is sent to him by Congress.
“Every treasury secretary would love to have a clean debt ceiling, I understand that. I think in a perfect world you’d love to have a clean debt ceiling,” Cohn said. “But if we need to get things attached to get it through, we’ll attach things. At the end of the day, Congress is going to raise the debt ceiling, because they have no choice.”
Senate Republicans remain publicly pessimistic about their prospects of repealing and replacing Obamacare this year with several raising concerns this week about the party’s central campaign promise even as one of their leaders vowed to pass such a bill this summer.
Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) made the most direct prediction on Thursday, telling a news station in his home state that “I don’t see a comprehensive health care plan this year.” Earlier in the week, Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) suggested to home-state reporters that lawmakers might shift to a shorter-term plan that would keep insurance markets working, on the heels of negative comments from Iowa GOP Sens. Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst.
Story Continued Below
The Senate is drafting its own legislation after the House narrowly passed its proposal to repeal and replace parts of the Affordable Care Act, former President Barack Obama’s signature 2010 health care reform law. But the House bill is widely regarded as too conservative to pass the Senate, making this week’s downbeat comments from Republicans both a realistic acknowledgment of their political challenges and a means to lower expectations ahead of their return to Washington.
“It’s unlikely that we will get a health care deal, which means that most of my time has been spent trying to figure out solutions to Iowa losing all of its insurers,” Burr told North Carolina’s WXII 12 News, describing the House-passed American Health Care Act as “not a good plan” and “dead on arrival” in the Senate.
Johnson took a more diplomatic approach, telling local reporters that a “two-part process” on Obamacare would likely start with a “market stabilization” proposal before any repeal attempt, according to the Madison State Journal. He also acknowledged that his is “probably a minority view in the Republican Senate right now.”
Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas), in fact, offered a significantly sunnier prediction of Obamacare’s demise this week, telling his state’s KFYO radio station that “we’ll get it done by the end of July at the latest.”
House Budget Chairman Diane Black (R-Tenn.) prodded Senate Republicans to vote on whatever Obamacare package they can rather than abandon the push.
“It’s sad, honestly, that the Senate would consider giving up so quickly on saving the American people from Obamacare,” Black said in a statement. “The House already did the heavy lifting to repeal and replace Obamacare. If they can’t pass our bill, then they should pass what they can and send it back to the House.”
Senate Republicans face a quickly shrinking window to finish work on Obamacare repeal before the fall, when they stand to lose the procedural power of the budget reconciliation process, which allows them to pass a health care bill that cannot be filibustered by Democrats. Even now, they can only afford to lose two of their 52 votes, with Vice President Mike Pence voting to break a 50-50 tie.
The House would then have to vote to pass the Senate’s version of the bill, or the two bills would have to be reconciled in conference talks, followed by another vote in each chamber for final passage. legislation.
Senate GOP leaders have vowed to move ahead with some form of health care legislation, although Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has acknowledged that the votes needed to pass such legislation aren’t there yet. Grassley on Tuesday acknowledged another difficulty the party faces, telling The Associated Press in his home state that any full-scale Obamacare repeal would require “60 votes, and we don’t have 60 votes at this point.”
Ernst offered her own reality check after an appearance alongside Grassley, describing reconciliation as a way to “tinker around the edges” of the health care law. She also declined to predict that any Senate-passed Obamacare plan would win favor in the House, according to the AP, saying only that “we will be working with the House.”
Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.) pocketed an advance of $332,750 for his latest book, “Giant of the Senate,” released this week, according to personal financial disclosure records.
The advance, included in Franken’s financial disclosure forms filed May 15, was paid by Grand Central Publishing. Franken’s book was published by Twelve, an imprint of Grand Central.
Story Continued Below
The Huffington Post reported in 2015 that Franken’s book deal was worth at least $1 million. Aides to the Minnesota senator did not immediately comment Friday on whether the money listed in Franken’s financial disclosures, filed last month, is a portion of a fuller advance.
Franken’s disclosure includes few details on the financial terms of his book deal with Grand Central, which was inked in April 2016. According to the forms, Franken is getting an advance and royalties “based on customary and usual terms for a memoir.”
The second-term Minnesota senator has recently been on a whirlwind publicity tour for “Giant of the Senate,” a political memoir from the former “Saturday Night Live” comedian who has written a host of other satirical books. But he also was forced to cancel a book event later this summer with Kathy Griffin, who came under fire this week after being depicted holding a fake beheaded likeness of President Donald Trump. Griffin has since apologized.
In addition to his book advance and his congressional salary, Franken also earns income through pensions from the Screen Actors Guild, American Federation of TV and Radio Artists, and the Producers-Writers Guild of America Pension Plan, according to the disclosure forms. Senators are required to submit paperwork disclosing their personal finances — including noncongressional income, assets and liabilities — every year.
SANTA CLARITA, Calif. — Rep. Steve Knight tried desperately to distinguish himself as a moderate Republican and counterpoint to an unpopular President Donald Trump during a 90-minute town hall here in sunny Santa Clarita.
But when it came to his recent vote to repeal Obamacare, the vulnerable Californian couldn’t escape the public grilling. He was regularly mocked, jeered and interrupted by a crowd that seemed unsatisfied with his answers.
Story Continued Below
“I am angry and disappointed that you voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act, then replace it with garbage,” said one constituent in the front-row of a high school auditorium — the first of at least 10 health policy questions of the evening.
The crowd whooped.
And then green signs that read “agree” flew up in the air as the constituent hammered on: “I feel that your vote to repeal Obamacare was a vote for political capital with [Speaker Paul] Ryan (R-Wis.) — not to help provide a good health care system for the citizens of this district. You represent the people of the 25th district of California; you do not represent the first district of Wisconsin!”
The comment came during Knight’s first public town hall since backing House Republican’s Obamacare replacement. Knight spent the entire evening warding off attacks from left-leaning constituents furious about his vote, fighting to maintain his composure during a sometimes tense give-and-take.
While many Republicans around the nation are shaking off angry liberal activists at public events— knowing that often such crowds comprise a small portion of their GOP districts — Knight doesn’t have that luxury: Democrats comprise about half Knight’s swing-district just north of Los Angeles, which re-elected him by six points last fall. He sits in one of more than half-dozen GOP seats in deeply Democratic California that went for Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election.
While one attendee praised Knight for that vote, most lit into him, like this:
“I am not some undeserving ne’er-do-well leaching off society in your district,” said one who railed about the so-called American Health Care Act (AHCA). “Neither is my husband and neither are the… constituents — Republicans, Democrats, conservatives, progressive, liberals, independents — whom your legislation, and your vote for it, slapped in the face!”
Knight, for his part, tried to empathize where he could. He blasted the president’s proposed cuts to education and Meals on Wheels. And he vowed to an upset woman, who said she had a schizophrenic son on Social Security disability insurance, that Congress would never, ever, cut that safety next — even if the White House is trying to.
But for the most part, all attendees wanted to talk about was the House’s health care bill.
After walking out on stage to a receptions of boos, Knight tried to talk up his legislative accomplishments. He said Congress in the first 100-some days of the year had passed more than 100 bills, though the crowd scoffed. And when the first questioner pressed him on “how you work with a pathological liar” — referring to Trump — Knight dodged.
“I think that everyone thinks that I sit around and watch the news … We keep our head down and we work,” Knight said, launching into a lecture about his duties as a sub-panel chairman on the House Small Business Committee and efforts to bring jobs to the district. “I do have a job to … represent the district, so that’s kind of what we do.”
Health care questions weren’t as easily avoided, however.
A woman whose son has a speech impediment asked Knight “why you would vote on a bill” that cuts Medicaid, which funds special education programs her son relies on.
Knight cut her off, eager to dispel the notion that his vote for AHCA would hurt her son.
“Your son will continue to be on Medicaid,” he said, apologizing for interrupting her. “That wouldn’t be changed under … AHCA.”
The House-passed bill would cut more than $800 billion from the federal health insurance program for low-income earners — something several constituents reminded Knight. But while Knight tried to move on to other questions, the Medicaid issue kept coming back at him.
“How could you justify, let alone support something that could ruin millions of lives?” said one high school student, referring to the bill’s Medicaid cuts. “Forty-two percent of Medicaid spending goes to people with disabilities… If you cut Medicaid, you will be reversing disability rights and stopping positive change. Congressman is that something you want to be known for?”
Knight gave a similarly vague response as he had to previous Medicaid inquiries, before calling for the next question: “Remember: Medicaid was that before. Medicaid was that in the ACA. And Medicaid is that in the AHCA. And it continues on.”
At times, the room, which was guarded by at least 15 police officers, grew testy.
When one man stood up to praise Knight for voting to repeal Obamacare, the crowd began jeering at the constituent, with one man standing up to yell, “Let the idiot speak!”
The audience similarly targeted a conservative woman who asked Knight to commit to voting to defund Planned Parenthood, which sent the crowd studded with hats, t-shirts and signs supporting the organization into a frenzy.
Knight seemed increasingly annoyed as the evening went on, imploring at one point: “Let’s have a little bit of decorum here?”
And after he was again interrupted mid-sentence halfway through the night, Knight paused his answer to lecture the crowd: “It is difficult: You lose your train of thought when somebody just yells at (you).”
Members of the crowd were unsympathetic: “Aww!” they mocked as if to say, “poor baby!” — some jutting out their bottom lips in a pretend pouty face.
Knight tried to sympathize with his more liberal constituents where he could. One area he found relief: bashing Trump’s budget.
After one student said he was concerned about the president’s cuts to education, Knight pulled out and started reading aloud Trump’s proposed reductions to teachers grants and after-school programs.
He panned them: “I don’t believe in those cuts. I don’t.”
When one mother, who said her son has schizophrenia, talked about his struggle to live a normal life, long-term hospitalizations and desperate need of Social Security disability insurance, Knight vowed that Trump’s proposed cuts to the program wouldn’t get through Congress.
“For the president’s budget: Understand there is going to be an appropriations process that goes through it, and that… Congress spends the money,” he said. “And I don’t see how we cut any of those programs going forward.”
In the end, however, that just might not save him from his AHCA vote.
“It’s very hard to be a Republican in California right now,” said David Goss, a 36-year-old Republican constituent who was wearing a “Stands with Steve Knight” shirt.
Health care is “all anybody cares about. They don’t look at all the other good stuff that Steve Knight has done. All they want to focus on is this one thing.”
SAN FRANCISCO — Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren delivered a fiery call to political action to hundreds of women activists in San Francisco, urging progressives to invest their energy in resisting the Trump administration.
The Democrat also sidestepped talk of a potential bid for president in 2020, saying when asked if she would make the race: “No," she said, adding, "I’m running for Senate in 2018.”
Story Continued Below
Warren’s response came to a question from MSNBC host Joy Ann Reid who pressed Warren about her plans for 2020 at a day-long “Joyous Persistence” conference for women activists — a conference named, in part for Warren.
Warren was greeted with cheers and a standing ovation at San Francisco’s Palace of Fine Arts where she told activists to focus not just on the future but more immediate issues. “We cannot be spending our energy” looking so far into the future as 2020, she said.
When Warren’s answer about the White House run drew moans from the activist crowd, the Massachusetts Senator launched into an impassioned call for action from the sold-out crowd who paid upwards of $125 to be part of an event that combined art, poetry and politicians and included California Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom.
“I don’t want anybody to doubt….I get how important today is,’’ said Warren. “I get how important tomorrow is.”
“I get how much damage Donald Trump, and Republican Senate and a Republican House have done to this country every single day,’’ she said. “Democracy has to make its voice heard. People in this room have to make their voices heard – right now. We have to be in the fight every single day.”
Warren’s comments came at the close of a seminar organized by Susie Tompkins Buell, one of the country’s most generous Democratic donors and a longtime friend of Hillary Rodham Clinton.
The “Joyous Persistence” conference in one of the nation’s liberal bastions underscored Warren’s continued appeal to women activists who have been energized to action in the era of Trump — organizing not only to march, but to get out votes and run for office.
The name of the gathering was inspired in part by GOP Senate Majority Mitch McConnell’s rebuke of Warren earlier this year. McConnell moved to silence Warren in the Senate after “she persisted” in a speech in opposition to the nomination of then-Senator Jeff Sessions as Attorney General.
McConnell declared Warren had broke Senate decorum saying: “She was warned. She was given an explanation. Nevertheless, she persisted” — became an instant meme on the left.” “Neverthless, she persisted,” soon became a liberal rallying cry.
Thursday’s seminar drew an enthusiastic crowd of women, many dressed in the color pink to signal resistance to Trump, and who snapped up tee-shirts, some with the likeness of Hillary Clinton.
Clinton addressed the gathering by video, and said their presence underscored a “determination to advance the vision that nearly 66 million Americans for last November.”
Warren also addressed Trump’s decision Thursday to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris Climate accord, announced from the White House Rose garden, as a critical energizer for action heading toward the 2018 elections.
“It’s one more reason we must all be in the fight,’’ Warren told them. “This is one more reason we’ve got to be effective, we have got to be focused and we’ve got to make change in Washington…the Republicans have been framing this for a long time, jobs versus the environment,’’ she said. “It is not. This is really about big donors to the Republican party.”
Warren said the decision was “symptomatic of what’s wrong in Washington,’’ adding that “America used to be a country that filtered things through the lens of, “does it help working families..?”
“Today, we have a government … that works just great for a thin slice at the top,’’ she said. “Which works just great if you can hire an army of lawyers.”
Many of those in the audience expressed admiration for Warren’s role as high profile fighter against Trump — and as a woman who has stood up against Senate Leaders like McConnell.
“She’s very powerful and she can lead, and she can fight,’’ said one attendee, Merle Goldstone, as she watched the Senator. “She knows what her role is, and that she has a job to do.”
But others suggested that as powerful as her voice has been, Warren – at age 67 – may not represent the party’s future heading toward 2020.
“She’s an older white woman, like Hillary Clinton,’’ said Judy Strebel of San Francisco. Her role is more “to fight in the Senate” than to be the party’s next nominee, she said.
Many in the crowd said they welcomed efforts by Democratic activists like Buell and Warren to channel the energy shown in Women’s Marches around the country in the wake of the November election.
“It’s still hard to believe that it’s only been a few months when the world as we knew it lurched unpredictability,’’ said Eleni Tsakopolous Kounalakis, a Democratic candidate who hopes to become California’s first female Lt. Governor. “For me, I felt our beautiful country had elected the worst possible person ever to hold the most important office in the world.”
Organizer Buell said the crowd had Donald Trump to thank for one thing — his ability to bring women and leaders like Warren together as activists.
“There’s a purpose for everyone now, and it’s a joyous purpose,’’ Buell told them, adding that with new leaders and new energy, the country will turn a corner with “hope..and new life.”
Sen. Al Franken has reversed himself and decided "it would be best" for Kathy Griffin not to attend an event that the Minnesota senator had scheduled with the comedian for July.
The Democratic senator had said on Wednesday that he would still hold an event with Griffin on July 7 in California, even after publicly distancing himself from an image showing Griffin with a faux beheaded President Donald Trump.
Story Continued Below
But Franken said on Thursday evening that he'd changed his mind regarding the event promoting his new book, "Giant of the Senate."
"I believe what Kathy Griffin did was inappropriate and not something that should be anywhere in our national discourse. I consider her a friend and I'm glad she realized she crossed the line and apologized," Franken said.
He added, "After hearing from many Minnesotans who were rightfully offended, I've come to the conclusion that it would be best for her not to participate in the event we had previously scheduled. I understand why Minnesotans were upset by this, and I take that very seriously."
Griffin apologized for participating in the image and asked for its removal earlier this week. She's been a contributor to the campaigns of Franken and other Democratic politicians, although Sen. Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.) announced plans this week to donate the $1,000 received from Griffin to charity.
The embattled House investigation into Russia’s election meddling is once again beset by sniping and strategy disagreements, with Democrats now blocking key witness interviews, according to two sources familiar with the probe.
The House Intelligence Committee, which is exploring allegations of collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign, was set to interview 10 witnesses this month. But the committee has put the interviews on hold after the panel’s top Democrat objected, the two sources said. A third source said the panel wasn't yet ready to conduct the interviews, since some of the witnesses have not fully complied with the committee's requests for documents.
Story Continued Below
The interviews would have included former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser Carter Page and longtime Trump confidant Roger Stone, who both say they’re eager to appear before the panel, along with former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort.
The stalled interviews come amid another public spat between House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) and ranking Democrat Adam Schiff of California.
Schiff on Thursday went on national television to blast Nunes for continuing to hold power over the investigation’s subpoenas, despite pledging nearly two months ago to step aside from probe.
Nunes responded on Twitter, writing: “Seeing a lot of fake news from media elites and others who have no interest in violations of Americans' civil liberties via unmaskings.”
The House Intelligence Committee’s internal battles are in contrast to a parallel Russia investigation being conducted by the Senate Intelligence Committee. Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and top Democrat Mark Warner of Virginia have forged a strong bipartisan relationship, and the Senate panel is preparing for a highly anticipated public hearing next week with former FBI Director James Comey.
The behind-the-scenes battle in the House over the stalled interviews follows a Tweet from President Donald Trump earlier this week in which he accused Democrats of blocking a key witness interview.
Trump wrote on Wednesday that "Democrats, who have excoriated Carter Page about Russia, don't want him to testify," adding that Page "wants to clear his name."
The two sources familiar with the probe, who like others interviewed for this article spoke on the condition of anonymity about the sensitive Russia probe, blamed Democrats for the witness interviews being put on hold, expressing concern that the investigation has ground to a halt as a result of Schiff's objections.
“The majority and the witnesses are ready to go,” said one of the sources familiar with the House panel’s investigation. “But the minority continues to object claiming they aren’t ready.”
There is disagreement, though, over the reason for the stalled witness interviews.
A third source familiar with the probe — who agreed to be identified only as a senior committee aide — said Schiff and Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), who’s now leading the investigation after Nunes' decision to step aside, had agreed not to conduct witness interviews until after the witnesses responded to the committee’s requests for documents.
“Many such requests have yet to be complied with, and neither member believes that interviews should be scheduled until they are answered in full,” the senior committee aide explained. “Anyone suggesting that interviews should take place before the committee has a chance to review the relevant documents plainly does not have the best interests of the investigation in mind.”
Conaway’s office did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
Even with the fight over the stalled witness interviews, there are some signs of progress for the embattled House investigation, which nearly fell apart two months ago under Nunes’ controversial leadership. Nunes has never referred to his decision to step aside from the investigation as a full recusal.
The committee on Wednesday issued seven subpoenas, including to former White House national security adviser Michael Flynn and Trump’s longtime personal attorney, Michael Cohen.
Nunes unilaterally decided to issue three separate subpoenas related to the issue of unmaking without the agreement of Democrats. Unmasking is a process used by intelligence officials to learn the identities of people inside the United States who are referenced in intelligence reports.
Nunes has suggested the Obama administration might have abused the “unmasking” process to obtain the identities of Trump campaign aides who were caught up in routine surveillance of foreign targets. The Trump administration has cited the issue as evidence for the president’s much-maligned claim that President Barack Obama ordered a wiretap of Trump Tower.
Schiff said Thursday that he was only informed of Nunes' subpoenas the night before they went out. He added that they were "part of the White House's desire to shift attention away from the Russia probe and onto the issue of unmasking."
Schiff called Nunes' decision to issue the subpoenas "a violation" of his pledge to step aside from the probe and said he believes Nunes’ power to issue subpoenas related to the Russia probe should be relinquished to Conaway.
If House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) “wants to allow this kind of thing to go on,” Schiff said on MSNBC Thursday, “that is really up to him, and I think he will ultimately be held accountable for how this is conducted.”
The issue of the committee’s stalled interviews comes as several of the most high-profile witnesses are expressing an eagerness to appear before the panel.
Page signaled in a letter to the committee earlier this week he was more than ready to testify. He wrote that he had "learned from your committee staff" that "I might not be immediately afforded the opportunity" to address what he called "misleading testimony" by Comey, former CIA Director John Brennan and others.
Page indicated the committee had canceled a "previously scheduled" interview set for next week. “In the interest of finally providing the American people with some accurate information at long last, I hope that we can proceed with this straight dialogue soon," he added.
Stone, meanwhile, said the House Intelligence panel has offered him a chance to testify privately with two members of each party present.
But the political provocateur, whose relationship to Wikileaks publisher Julian Assange has become a focus of congressional inquiries, said in an email to POLITICO that he's demanding a public session before the full committee and has been unable to work out the logistics.
"Bottom line — they can't handle the truth," Stone wrote.
Aides to Conaway and Schiff declined to respond to Stone's suggestion.
After two straight recesses with high-profile harangues from voters, fewer members of Congress are holding town halls recently — and it’s not just Republicans who are cutting their time in the spotlight back home.
Thirty-six House Republicans scheduled public meetings during the current weeklong recess and one earlier in May, according to a POLITICO analysis of data maintained by the independent website Legistorm. That’s less than half the 74 House Republicans who held town halls during a two-week break in April, and only a handful more than the 31 who booked such public or televised events during February’s one-week pause in legislating.
Story Continued Below
The drop in town halls as protests continue this year over repealing Obamacare and other aspects of President Donald Trump’s agenda is even sharper among Senate Republicans. Only two have town halls this week, their only time off since April. During their two-week April break, 11 GOP senators booked public meetings, and in a week off in February, five had them.
Democrats are cutting appearances as the year drags on, too. The number of House Democrats holding town halls during the most recent two weeks off — 65 — almost doubles the number of House GOP members holding them but is a 14 percent drop from the 76 House Democrats who held public meetings during April’s two weeks off. In just a week break in February, by comparison, 64 House Democrats held town halls.  Only six Democratic senators held town halls this week, down from 20 during April’s two-week break and 11 in a week off in February.
The bipartisan decline in the number of lawmakers holding town halls lately compared with earlier this year suggests that, although most attention has focused on denunciations of Republicans by Indivisible and other liberal groups, members of both parties may be growing weary of the format. Smartphones and social media have enabled partisans on both sides of the aisle to turn unfiltered encounters with lawmakers into viral, politically perilous content.
“Whenever a member announces a town hall now, a lot of groups get to work organizing supporters to attend,” GOP strategist Alex Conant said in an interview, noting that conservative as well as liberal groups have worked to pack the audiences for such meetings.
“Town halls are not the organic neighborhood get-togethers they once were,” said Conant, a former spokesman for Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.). “Now they’re political theater and, frankly, less productive for everyone.”
POLITICO focused its analysis on the number of lawmakers holding events to gauge members’ interest in holding town halls as the year progresses. Some lawmakers still hold multiple public meetings each recess — Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) has scheduled 79 town halls so far this year, while Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) has booked 44.
House Republicans have held a total of 544 public events so far this year, according to Legistorm’s database, while House Democrats have had 571. Senate Republicans’ public events have totaled 63, compared with 155 for Senate Democrats.
The GOP has borne the most brutal constituent engagement at town halls so far this year, as voters trained fear and frustration on Republicans from Colorado to Arkansas. Louisiana Sen. Bill Cassidy, one of two upper-chamber Republicans to book town halls this week, parried his constituents’ concerns about the repeal of Obamacare on Wednesday by distancing himself from the House’s bill, the American Health Care Act.
But Democrats have also battled a wave of protests as so-called resistance groups mobilize. Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) has grappled with angst from the left, and local media reported the arrest of three demonstrators Tuesday outside an immigration town hall hosted by Rep. Lou Correa (D-Calif.).
Activists say the public’s interest in more direct engagement with lawmakers is growing, particularly as the Republican push to repeal Obamacare teeters in the Senate.
“Constituents across the country have a lot of tough questions and a lot of concerns — frankly, they’re not sure what’s going on — and want to have these conversations,” said Town Hall Project Executive Director Jimmy Dahman, whose liberal-leaning group works with more than 100 volunteers to maintain a database tracking lawmakers’ public events.
Members who sidestep town halls might "avoid some tough questions," Dahman said, "but we know the appetite for that civic engagement and dialogue is as high as it’s ever been."
Some Republicans have boosted the security presence at their events, while others conducted town halls by telephone and Facebook as confrontational public meetings became more frequent. POLITICO limited its analysis to in-person events, but leading GOP pollster Glen Bolger said alternate methods of voter contact could gain favor now that live town halls "have become protests and shoutfests."
"I'm not sure there's a whole lot of return on them the way there used to be," said Bolger, co-founder of Public Opinion Strategies. “That doesn’t mean you go dark on your constituent communication. You have to find other outlets for it."
Progressive activists have followed the reduction in in-person town halls with new ways to pressure Republicans. More than two dozen House Democrats have linked up with Indivisible and the Progressive Change Campaign Committee for an "adopt-a-district" project that will send minority-party members to so-called empty chair meetings in the districts of House Republicans.
One such meeting in Pennsylvania on Thursday was planned by liberals who have held weekly demonstrations in a bid to get Sen. Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) to schedule a town hall in Philadelphia and take a stronger line against Trump. Toomey spokesman Steve Kelly said in a statement the senator appreciated the invitation but could not go because of "a longstanding obligation."
Toomey is hardly an outlier. POLITICO's analysis of Legistorm data found that less than half the Senate’s total membership — just 17 Republican and 31 Democrats — held public town halls so far this year.
"Over the past six years, Senator Toomey has conducted more than 60 town halls, of all varieties," Kelly said. "Senator Toomey has also hosted meetings this year with protesters in five cities across Pennsylvania and in Washington."
Devin Nunes has said he’s stepped aside from the House Intelligence Committee’s Russia investigation, but he is still involved in a major way.
As chairman of the intelligence panel, Nunes continues to hold the power to issue subpoenas. On Wednesday, the California Republican issued three subpoenas without the agreement of the committee’s Democrats, and despite having stepped back from the Russia investigation because the House Ethics Committee is investigating him for disclosing classified information.
Story Continued Below
These subpoenas related to the issue of “unmasking,” which is a process used by intelligence officials to learn the identities of people inside the United States who are referenced in intelligence reports.
Nunes has suggested the Obama administration might have abused the “unmasking” process to obtain the identities of Trump campaign aides who were caught up in routine surveillance of foreign targets — an issue the Trump administration has cited as evidence for the president’s much-maligned claim that President Barack Obama ordered a wiretap of Trump Tower.
Rep. Adam Schiff, the intelligence panel’s top Democrat, said Thursday that he was only informed of Nunes' subpoenas the night before they went out, adding that they were "part of the White House's desire to shift attention away from the Russia probe and onto the issue of unmasking."
Schiff called Nunes' decision to issue the subpoenas "a violation" of his recusal, adding that he believes Nunes’ power to issue subpoenas related to the Russia probe should be relinquished to Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), who is leading the investigation in Nunes’ place.
If House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) “wants to allow this kind of thing to go on,” Schiff said on MSNBC Thursday, “that is really up to him, and I think he will ultimately be held accountable for how this is conducted.”
"Whether you call it recusal or step aside, and I don't really understand what the difference is, the public was given the assurance he wouldn't be making decisions in the Russia investigation," Schiff later added on CNN. Despite stepping aside, Nunes has not called it a “recusal.”
A committee aide, speaking on background, noted that “all subpoenas are issued unilaterally by the chairman” because “those are the committee rules.” Democrats were “informed and consulted about them beforehand by email, in-person, and in writing via hard copy.” The aide added that the three subpoenas on unmasking "were not related to the Russia probe."
In Nunes' April statement announcing he would step back, he suggested that he could reclaim his spot as head of the investigation if and when the Ethics Committee probe wraps up.
In the meantime, Conaway is leading the Russia investigation, which issued four other subpoenas on Wednesday, aimed at former and current Trump aides. Those subpoenas were issued with the consent of Democrats.
Conaway’s office did not respond to questions about whether the congressman was involved in Nunes’ decision to issue the three other subpoenas related to unmasking.
The House Ethics Committee probe is looking into whether Nunes disclosed classified information during a news briefing at the White House in which he said members of the Trump transition team might have been under inadvertent surveillance following November's election.
The White House briefing came during an explosive two weeks for Nunes, when he drew national attention — and sparked the ire of Democrats — over his handling of the Russia probe.
Nunes claimed in March that a whistle-blower had shown him what appeared to be surveillance abuses by the Obama administration, but it was quickly revealed that he got his information during a meeting with White House officials at a secure facility on the White House grounds.
He then went back to the White House the next day to brief Trump on what he had learned from Trump’s own aides.
“It has to do with FISA,” Nunes told reporters at the White House who asked him about his meeting with Trump, referring to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. “There's multiple number of FISA warrants that are out there.”
His remarks set off alarms for surveillance experts, including the editors of the Lawfare blog. They wrote at the time that it was their understanding that information obtained under FISA “was classified until affirmatively declassified by the original classifying authority.”
A week later, the liberal advocacy group MoveOn filed an ethics complaint, citing the congressman's remarks at the White House and accusing him of disclosing classified information "for political purposes."
Two influential Senate Democrats disclosed Thursday that they had privately asked former FBI Director James Comey to investigate all contacts and communications that Attorney General Jeff Sessions or his aides may have had with officials from the Russian government — and raised the issue of whether Sessions had committed perjury in his Senate testimony.
The revelation by Sens. Patrick Leahy of Vermont and Al Franken of Minnesota comes a day after CNN reported that investigators are looking into whether Sessions had a third, previously undisclosed meeting with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak during the presidential campaign last year.
Story Continued Below
Sessions was forced to step aside from federal Russia investigations earlier this year when The Washington Post reported that the former Alabama senator had met twice with the Russian ambassador, even though he testified during his confirmation hearing in January that he “did not have communications with the Russians.”
CNN reported Wednesday that congressional investigators were now examining whether Sessions and Kislyak met a third time. In their first request to Comey, sent March 20, Leahy and Franken argued that Sessions’ testimony before the Judiciary Committee could be “construed as perjury.”
“We served with the attorney general in the Senate and on the Judiciary Committee for many years,” Leahy and Franken said in a joint statement Thursday. “We know he would not tolerate dishonesty if he were in our shoes. If it is determined that the attorney general still has not been truthful with Congress and the American people about his contacts with Russian officials during the campaign, he needs to resign.”
Earlier this year, Franken said Sessions needed to resign from his post if he had lied under oath about his communications with Russian officials. Leahy, a former Judiciary Committee chairman, had not previously made similar calls.
Franken and Leahy both pressed Sessions, through written questions and during his confirmation hearing, whether Sessions had communications with Russian officials during the campaign. Sessions testified then that he had not, although the Justice Department said the attorney general met with Kislyak in his capacity as a senator after the initial meetings were disclosed.
The Democratic senators also asked acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe to brief them on the matter after Comey’s abrupt firing last month. Comey is scheduled to testify before the Senate Intelligence Committee next Thursday, although neither Franken, nor Leahy, sits on that panel. Leaders on the Judiciary Committee have also requested that Comey testify before that panel.
Former FBI Director James Comey will testify before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday, June 8, regarding Russian interference in the 2016 election, committee leaders announced on Thursday.
The hearing will be one of the most highly anticipated events on Capitol Hill in years, after President Donald Trump suddenly fired Comey in May and a flood of news reports followed suggesting that the president tried to get Comey to squash an investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn.
Story Continued Below
After an open session in the morning, the committee will then be further briefed by Comey behind closed doors, said Sens. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Mark Warner (D-Va.).
In addition to Russia's efforts to influence the presidential election, much of the questioning is likely to center around Comey's termination, which shocked senators in both parties.
Trump has said that the Russia investigation was on his mind when he fired Comey, though administration officials have also said that Trump fired Comey based on the guidance of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. Rosenstein, however, told senators in a closed briefing that it was clear Trump had already decided to fire the former director before asking for Rosenstein's guidance.
Comey's appearance will be the first since his firing. The former director agreed to appear before the Senate Intelligence Committee several weeks ago, but the committee first had to "deconflict" any of his testimony with Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation of the Trump campaign's ties with Russia.
The last time Trey Gowdy and Elijah Cummings oversaw a politically explosive investigation, the two congressmen ripped into each other on national TV, as a grimacing Hillary Clinton looked on.
With Washington in the grip of a new scandal over President Donald Trump and his team’s possible ties to Russia, Gowdy and Cummings appear set for a reunion that would test a deeply divided Congress’ ability to hold the White House to account.
Story Continued Below
Gowdy, a South Carolina Republican and former prosecutor, is the likeliest choice to succeed outgoing Rep. Jason Chaffetz as chairman of the House Oversight Committee, which has broad discretion to probe allegations of collusion between the Trump campaign and Moscow. The Baltimore-bred Cummings is the longtime top Democrat on the panel.
The Gowdy-Cummings relationship, forged over their two-year tenure as the leaders of the House Select Committee on Benghazi, is as complicated as it will be critical. It's often harder for the executive branch to ignore bipartisan requests, which was a difficult hurdle during the Benghazi probe.
The two men have squabbled publicly, but when the cameras are off, both profess respect for each other and an ability to work together, however haltingly.
“They do have a good relationship, and I don't think Mr. Gowdy has any doubt that they could work well together in a bipartisan fashion on the Oversight Committee,” said Gowdy spokeswoman Amanda Gonzalez.
Meanwhile, when Cummings was asked about the prospect of Gowdy getting the gavel, he responded: “Whoever they send, I’m gonna be me.”
So far, the Maryland congressman has managed to use his committee perch to unearth several revelations about former Trump national security adviser Michael Flynn, sometimes working with Chaffetz and sometimes striking out on his own.
Gowdy has been less vocal on the issue of Russia’s election meddling but was recently given a leading role in the House Intelligence Committee’s Russia probe. Privately, aides to several Democratic committee members grumble that Gowdy could use his gavel to protect Trump or lead the committee down tangents that divert focus from holding the White House accountable.
“The main knock on Gowdy is he seems to be an advocate for one side or another rather than an independent seeker of facts,” said a Democratic aide who took part in the Benghazi probe, speaking on the condition of anonymity. The investigation into the 2012 attacks on U.S. facilities in Libya was “really a prosecution,” said the aide. Gowdy “was doing whatever he could to exclude what he called the other side, which was the Democrats.”
But Gowdy was also squeezed on the right, with some conservative lawmakers accusing him of not being harsh enough on Clinton.
Some Democrats also worry that Gowdy would come with a bias toward investigating leaks of classified information at the expense of a broader look at allegations of collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign.
“If Trey Gowdy is the best hope,” said Jaime Harrison, former chairman of the South Carolina Democratic Party, “then there's no hope at all.”
Still, Democrats on the panel are reserving judgment and describe a pleasant rapport with Gowdy.
Rep. Jamie Raskin, a liberal freshman lawmaker from Maryland and member of the Oversight Committee, said in his few conversations with Gowdy, he discerned the South Carolinian’s “amiable and convivial spirit.”
“That Southern charm goes a long way with fellow politicians,” he said. “As long as Democrats get the sense that he's interested in true investigation and analysis rather than partisan collaboration with the administration, then we have a good pathway forward.”
Raskin noted that one prominent GOP Trump critic, Sen. Lindsey Graham, is also from South Carolina. Perhaps that showed Gowdy that his constituents value an independent streak, Raskin said.
Republicans regard Gowdy as a top-notch investigator and insist he will exercise independent judgment if he becomes head of the committee. And South Carolina Republicans say Gowdy may have conservative convictions, but he's not beholden to the politics of Trumpism. His district is primarily made up of mainstream, business-minded Republicans, and Gowdy endorsed Sen. Marco Rubio in the 2016 Republican primary — a move that drew sharp condemnation from Trump and his allies at the time.
In fact, at the time of the endorsement, Trump himself retweeted several followers who slammed Gowdy, including one who said he “failed miserably” as chairman of the Benghazi panel and that the endorsement would “finish Gowdy.”
Gowdy was a member of the Trump transition executive committee, but he has taken pains to shield himself from the appearance of being too close to the president. The Trump-supporting Great America PAC plowed $5,000 into Gowdy's campaign account in March, according to Federal Election Commission records, but Gowdy returned the donation within days, according to Gonzalez, his spokeswoman.
Gowdy “has never met Mr. Trump,” Gonzalez added. “He has never been to the White House. He has no relationship with the president, nor has he ever spoken directly to the president.”
This independence has not been lost on the White House, which is tracking the congressional Russia investigations closely. One administration official told POLITICO he worries that Gowdy could turn into a headache for Trump since he is not driven by loyalty to the president and knows how to run a thorough investigation that could take months, if not years.
Gowdy also appears sensitive to the charge that he’s too focused on leaks.
During a House Intelligence Committee hearing last week, as he grilled former CIA Director John Brennan, Gowdy intentionally saved his questions about leaks of classified intelligence for the end, telling Brennan, with a sly smile, that he didn’t want to be accused of concentrating too much on the issue.
Former South Carolina GOP chairman Matt Moore said Gowdy was wary of appearing too partisan while he was overseeing the Benghazi probe. Moore said the party turned down “literally dozens of requests” for Gowdy to speak to out-of-state fundraisers because Gowdy didn’t want his oversight efforts to seem politicized.
"Trey Gowdy ... will put the country over politics," Moore added. "He's done that throughout his career in lower-level offices. He'll be less concerned about reelection than doing what's right for the country."
The steps Gowdy has taken haven't shielded him from complaints by Democrats who view him as overtly partisan. And Gowdy's Democratic critics — including those on the Benghazi panel — have a laundry list of complaints about him, many of them documented in the report released by Democrats at the conclusion of the Benghazi panel’s work.
The probe led by Gowdy was “a case study in how not to conduct a credible, legitimate investigation,” the Democratic report said. Democrats were excluded from some witness interviews, they wrote, calling the investigation a “one-sided process in which Republicans selectively informed Democrats of witness interviews only after-the-fact.”
Democrats also noted that information from the investigation was selectively leaked to the news media during the 2016 campaign, often leading to inaccurate stories that reflected poorly on Clinton and her associates, and that when Democrats raised the issue with Gowdy, he “refused to investigate or condemn” the leaks.
At least one other man may be wondering whether Gowdy and Cummings can forge a strong partnership: Trump.
“Mr. Gowdy's a former prosecutor, and he can certainly recognize the abuse of power when he sees it,” Raskin said. “And whether it's him or someone else who takes the gavel, we hope that the new chair will be guided by questions of public integrity and accountability rather than partisanship.”
Rachael Bade contributed to this report.
The federal budget process is so broken that lawmakers are now preparing to write spending bills without even knowing how much total cash they've got to play with.
It's a new level of dysfunction for Capitol Hill, and it undermines GOP leaders’ promises to return to "regular order," where spending measures are carefully considered and funding the federal government is a priority.
Story Continued Below
Without clear spending targets, federal agencies are left in the dark, with only a vague idea of how to plan their budgets. The uncertainty also could complicate plans by House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to avoid a government shutdown showdown in the fall.
“It’s a puzzling year. It’s going to be a very difficult year,” said Rep. Mike Simpson (R-Idaho), who oversees spending for energy and water programs.
Under the law governing the fiscal calendar, the House and Senate are supposed to pass budgets by April 15 that establish a total federal spending level. That figure is then divvied up among 12 appropriations subcommittees, which draft bills to fund the federal government that must be passed by Sept. 30.
Congress hasn’t finished its spending work on time in two decades, but this year’s effort stands out for its struggles, and longtime budget watchers are surprised by how Republicans are moving forward.
Lawmakers are in session for just three more months before the September funding deadline, but Republican leaders are likely still weeks away from releasing a budget. So GOP appropriators say they’ve been left to guess how much money they’ll have for each bill.
“If we can get anything like a notional number, we can get started on next year’s [appropriations],” Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), chairman of the subcommittee that funds the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education departments, told POLITICO recently.
The slapdash start to this year’s appropriations process is leading to informal budget-writing, where lawmakers are working mostly behind closed doors. The first set of public budget hearings is now kicking off across Capitol Hill, but GOP leaders still haven’t given committee leaders a clear picture of their spending levels.
Simpson, echoing other anxious Republican appropriators, said GOP leaders “needed to make that decision in March.”
“There’s a lot of major decisions that have to be made,” said Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.), a senior member of the Budget and Appropriations committees. “I’m very worried with the truncated process we’ve got for appropriations.”
Neither the House nor the Senate passed a budget on time last year, but Congress had a total spending level to adhere to when drafting bills because of a bipartisan 2015 budget law. This year, stiff spending caps for defense and domestic programs return if Congress does nothing to ease the bite of sequestration.
One option for the GOP is to stick to the current caps when writing spending bills, though bipartisan opposition to those lower levels suggests those bills would likely need to be completely rewritten at the last minute in the fall.
Or lawmakers could decide to ignore those limits entirely. “They could come up with any number they want,” said Stan Collender, a veteran Democratic budget aide now at Qorvis MSLGROUP.
In past years when Congress hasn’t passed a budget, the House and Senate have typically deployed a procedural maneuver to “deem” a top-line spending level. That may be the likeliest course if the fractious GOP is unable to agree on a budget. In the meantime, President Donald Trump’s Cabinet members are hamstrung as they try to plot out their policy agenda.
House Appropriations Committee Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said last week he didn't yet have a time frame for dividing up spending levels for his 12 subcommittees.
“We’ll cross that bridge when we come to it,” the New Jersey Republican said. “We’re going to do our job as we always have.”
There’s no guarantee the process will go smoothly even after appropriators get their formal spending allocations.
Republican leaders are already strategizing to avoid a shutdown, but punting on some of the thorniest spending decisions may not prevent a massive political brawl in the fall.
Conservatives feel emboldened by Trump’s proposed cuts to domestic spending and are pushing the same kind of austerity in Congress’ budget. Defense hawks want to raise military spending even above the levels in Trump’s proposal, which called for a Pentagon budget boost. And without having held a floor vote on the budget, GOP leaders lack a key litmus test for what spending levels the rank and file will support.
Democrats, meanwhile, are eager to shield domestic programs from the sequester. They also are frustrated that the spending process is stalled at least in part because Republicans are using budget reconciliation procedures to try to repeal Obamacare.
“Republicans are playing politics with the budget,” said Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), an Appropriations Committee member. “They’re not doing an honest budget because they want to use the budget process to jam though health care, and one of the consequences is it makes it very hard to write appropriations bills.”
Sen. John Hoeven (R-N.D.), who oversees agriculture spending, said he will probably start writing his bill soon at the budget sequestration level — a figure that would require some cuts compared to current spending.
“We’ve talked about some hearings. ... I’m not sure, we’ll have to see. I have to get a sense of what that top-line is,” Hoeven said. “We want to get going, no doubt about it, because we’d like to go through regular process.”
Betsy DeVos and extended members of the Education secretary's wealthy family have contributed at least $22,500 to one of President Donald Trump’s judicial nominees for the judge's campaign for a state Supreme Court seat, according to a review of campaign finance records.
Michigan Supreme Court Justice Joan Larsen, whom Trump has nominated to the U.S. 6th Circuit Court of Appeals, collected $2,500 each from DeVos and eight relatives on Aug. 9, 2016, according to Michigan records. The donations were made several months before Trump nominated DeVos to be Education secretary. Larsen was appointed to the state’s high court in 2015 and was formally elected last November.
Story Continued Below
But Larsen’s profile rose nationally well before her victory to the Michigan court last fall, when then-candidate Trump named her to his short list of potential Supreme Court nominees during his presidential campaign.
Members of the DeVos family who contributed to Larsen’s judicial campaign in Michigan included DeVos; her husband Dick, who is president of investment firm The Windquest Group; Dick DeVos’ parents, Richard and Helen; Dan DeVos, Betsy DeVos’ brother-in-law and his wife, Pamella; another brother-in-law, Doug DeVos, and his wife, Maria; and sister-in-law Suzanne Cheryl DeVos. The family’s patriarch, Richard DeVos, co-founded Amway, the global direct-sales company.
"Betsy DeVos and her family's donations to fellow far-right Republicans like Joan Larsen are a bright flashing sign to Donald Trump that Larsen is a hard-line conservative who will back Trump's extreme policies from the bench,” said Kevin McAlister, a spokesman for the Democratic opposition research group American Bridge, which flagged the donations to POLITICO.
“DeVos' donations to Senate Republicans helped grease the wheels to her confirmation and now, the DeVos family contributions to Trump's judicial pick are helping to get her one step closer to a lifetime seat on the 6th Circuit that will be dangerous to working families."
Officials at the White House and at Education Department did not return requests seeking comment.
Betsy DeVos’ deep well of campaign contributions to Republican candidates and conservative causes became one of several flash points during her contentious confirmation battle. During her hearing, DeVos said it was “possible” that her family has made $200 million in campaign contributions over time, while liberal groups pressured GOP senators who had gotten checks from the DeVos clan to recuse themselves from voting on her confirmation.
None did, but DeVos was narrowly confirmed to lead the Education Department only after Vice President Mike Pence cast a tie-breaking vote. Two Senate Republicans — Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska — opposed DeVos in her confirmation vote in February.
The battle over Larsen has yet to begin in earnest in the Senate, which handed Trump an early win with the confirmation of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court in April and installed Amul Thapar, the first of Trump’s nominees to the lower courts, just last week. Larsen was among 10 judicial nominees announced by the White House earlier this month.
Democratic senators actually have more leverage against Larsen’s nomination than other judicial candidates, since she hails from a state represented by two Democrats who could try and block her confirmation proceedings through the so-called blue-slip rule. The Senate Judiciary Committee has traditionally not scheduled hearings for judicial nominees until both home-state senators return a blue slip to the committee — giving the in-state duo effective veto power.
But that may change. Senate Republicans this year have already signaled that they are less willing to abide by the blue-slip rule for circuit court nominees, who would sit on a court that spans several states, rather than for district court candidates who represent a single state. Larsen has been nominated for the 6th Circuit, which is based in Cincinnati and hears appellate cases from Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky and Tennessee.
Whether Michigan's senators — Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, who are both Democrats — will try and block proceedings for Larsen isn't yet determined. An aide to Stabenow said the senator has not yet received Larsen’s paperwork, while a spokeswoman for Peters said the senator had not made a decision.
Larsen, who clerked for the late Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, has also served as an adjunct professor at the University of Michigan Law School and in the Office of Legal Counsel at the Justice Department under former President George W. Bush.
More than 40 House Democrats are urging the White House to revoke Jared Kushner's security clearance "to protect national security" until the FBI resolves its investigation of potential collusion between associates of President Donald Trump and agents of the Russian government.
The lawmakers expressed concern over recent reports about Kushner's secretive meeting with Russia's ambassador, Sergey Kislyak, including that Kushner, President Donald Trump's senior adviser and son-in-law, sought a back channel to the Kremlin that would rely on Russian facilities to avoid detection by U.S. officials.
Story Continued Below
"While the various congressional and law enforcement investigations continue, the White House should take all possible steps to protect national security including immediately revoking Mr. Kushner's security clearance," the lawmakers wrote in a letter to White House Counsel Don McGahn.
Rep. Don Beyer (D-Va.), who spearheaded the letter, raised similar concerns in April, when reports indicated Kushner had omitted the Kislyak meeting from his application for a security clearance.
"Multiple reports now say that he discussed opening a secret line of communications that could be monitored by Russian intelligence but not American intelligence, which would be disqualifying," Beyer said in a statement to POLITICO. "Jared Kushner cannot be trusted.”
It's a sharp escalation from Democrats aimed at Kushner. When Beyer initially raised his concerns in April, just four Democrats joined his call, and they noted that Kushner's failure to detail his meetings with foreign officials could amount to a felony. This time, at least 41 had signed on by Wednesday evening, and more were expected to add their names by Thursday.
The signers include House Armed Services Committee ranking member Adam Smith of Washington and Rep. Tim Ryan of Ohio, as well as the five signatories on the April letter: Beyer, Ted Lieu of California, Jerry Nadler of New York, Jamie Raskin of Maryland and Peter Welch of Vermont.
The Trump administration has largely defended Kushner, with top officials emphasizing that back channels are a routine part of diplomacy. But Democrats note the meetings came after intelligence agencies issued an assessment that Russia had actively interfered in the 2016 presidential election and after the Obama administration had levied sanctions in retaliation.
Senate Democrats called Thursday for President Donald Trump’s company to disclose significant more details about how it’s been operating since its owner became president.
In a letter to the Trump Organization’s new leadership, including the president’s adult sons Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump, Sen. Patrick Leahy and 16 other Democrats also questioned whether their company remains “effectively a pass-through for income” that repeatedly puts the president in violation of the Constitution’s ban on accepting gifts or payments from foreign government officials or the U.S. government itself.
Story Continued Below
Citing a spate of recent media reports, the senators said Trump’s pre-inauguration pledge to extricate himself from his company didn’t square with his son Eric Trump’s recent statement that he’s giving his father business updates “probably quarterly.” They also challenged Trump over a trust arrangement he set up that allows him to take “net income or principle” from his trust whenever he wants.
“It defies common sense to believe that this type of arrangement resolves the President’s conflicts of interest,” the senators wrote. “It also raises serious questions regarding how such an arrangement could credibly insulate the President from unending Emoluments Clause violations.”
The Democrats posed a series of specific information requests to the Trump Organization. They want to know whether the company is generating any income from federal or state governments or foreign governments, and if it is, the Democrats called on the company to say whether that money is separated and reported in a different account.
They also asked for a “complete accounting” of federal funds paid to the Trump Organization for space at Trump Tower or at the president’s golf courses to rent golf carts; and they pressed for an estimated value from the 38 Chinese trademarks that the Trump Organization recently obtained, as well as an additional 157 pending trademark applications in 36 countries detailed in a recent New York Times report.
As the minority party, Senate Democrats don’t have the power to compel the Trump Organization to answer its questions, and their letter asked only for a response “as soon as possible.”
Across the Capitol, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) earlier this month did obtain materials from the Trump Organization detailing its arrangement for identifying and donating profits to the Treasury Department that come from foreign officials who make payments to any of the president’s businesses. A spokeswoman for the committee said staff were “still reviewing the docs” and declined to answer follow-up questions about whether they’d be made public.
The Trump Organization and White House did not respond to requests for comment about the latest Senate Democratic letter.
Rod Rosenstein already knew James Comey was going to be fired as FBI director when he wrote the three-page memo that the White House would later assert had sealed Comey’s fate, multiple senators said Thursday as they left a highly-anticipated briefing with the deputy attorney general.
Rosenstein learned Comey was being ousted on May 8, according to Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), but the memo is dated May 9 — the day the firing took place.
Story Continued Below
“It was very clear that he learned before he wrote the memo that Comey was going to be removed,” added Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.). “Somebody made a decision to remove Comey before he wrote the memo.”
Rosenstein declined to say who asked him to write the memo, Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) said.
White House officials originally said Comey’s firing came at the recommendation of Rosenstein and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, but President Donald Trump later undercut that argument when he told NBC News he planned to fire Comey regardless.
Trump then appeared to reverse himself and cited Rosenstein's memo during a Thursday afternoon press conference with the Colombian president.
“Director Comey was very unpopular with most people. I actually thought when I made that decision — and I also got a very strong recommendation, as you know, from the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein,” Trump said. “He had the very poor performance [before Congress]. … I believe that’s why the deputy attorney general went out and wrote his very, very strong letter.”
Thursday’s all-senators briefing was scheduled earlier this week at the insistence of Democrats, who wanted to question Rosenstein about his role in Comey’s ousting. Senators emerging from the meeting, which took place in a secure room in the Capitol, said Rosenstein made clear he was giving his newly appointed special prosecutor, Robert Mueller, wide leeway to run the FBI’s Russia investigation as he sees fit.
“He said over and over again that Mueller is going to draw the scope of this investigation, that Mueller is going to have the resources, that Mueller is not going to be interfered with by him or the Department of Justice,” Durbin said.
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) said the briefing made clear to him the FBI’s investigation into Russia’s election meddling had transitioned from being a counterintelligence probe to being a full-fledged criminal probe.
"It was a counterintelligence investigation until now," Graham told reporters. "It seems to me now to be considered a criminal investigation."
Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) said Rosenstein pledged to let Mueller take the FBI investigation in any direction — including exploring allegations of obstruction of justice.
"He was very clear that Director Mueller has the latitude to decide where this investigation goes," Murphy said. "He was pressed on that several times. And every single time he reaffirmed that Director Mueller has the ability to bring this investigation wherever it needs to go, including any questions of obstruction of justice."
The FBI’s Russia investigation, which includes looking into possible collusion between Moscow and the Trump campaign, is running parallel to investigations by the House and Senate Intelligence Committees. Sen. Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate intelligence panel, said as he left the briefing he wanted to set up a meeting with Mueller for him and Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.).
Warner and Burr had a close relationship with Comey, meeting frequently with the then-FBI chief to ensure their Senate investigation would not conflict with the FBI’s probe.
Thursday's briefing was announced on Monday — ahead of Tuesday's explosive reports that Comey himself wrote memos detailing his meetings with Trump, including one where Trump allegedly urged Comey to drop his investigation into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.
Democrats had demanded the briefing in the wake of Comey's firing and had originally planned to use the session to press Rosenstein to appoint a special prosecutor to oversee the FBI's investigation into Russia's election meddling. Rosenstein's decision Wednesday to do exactly that took some of the heat off of him, and Democrats heaped praise on him for the decision as they left the briefing.
Rosenstein’s controversial three-page memo blasted Comey for what Rosenstein described as unfair treatment of Hillary Clinton during the FBI's investigation into her private email server.
"The reason why Comey was fired is because the president wanted to fire him,” Sen. Tom Carper (D-Del.) said as he left the briefing. “Mr. Rosenstein, that was for show. The president wanted to fire him, he fired him. And they thought about having some documentation to show it and thought it was a good idea. That's not the case."
Several senators griped as they left that they didn’t learn anything new, with Rosenstein declining to discuss the FBI’s Russia probe except to assure them Mueller would face no political obstacles. Sen. Chris Coons (D-Del.) said Rosenstein plans to release the opening statement that he delivered to senators inside the private briefing, adding: “I’ll let you draw what conclusions you will from his opening statement.”
"I'm just really disturbed by the whole presentation," said Sen. Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.). "We learned nothing except things designed to make him look good."
Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) mused that the meeting was "really not a big deal to be honest."
And Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) said it was a "good question" why the briefing was even held because he learned so little, adding that the only thing he took away was how to pronounce Rosenstein's name correctly.
Speaker Paul Ryan on Thursday doubled down on a vow to reform the tax code this year, an optimistic timeline that could face headwinds amid the ongoing Russia investigations.
The Wisconsin Republican, a policy wonk eager to show voters that Congress is still focused on the GOP agenda, chafed at a question about whether tax reform would slip beyond 2017.
Story Continued Below
“I don’t think this is the case,” Ryan said at a news conference. “Our goal, and I believe we can meet this goal, is calendared 2017 for tax reform. And I think we’re making good progress.”
Ryan’s timeline, however, is optimistic, to say the least. Republicans in January, for instance, initially thought they’d get an Obamacare repeal bill to the president’s desk by mid-April. It’s now mid-May and the bill has yet to get far in the Senate.
What’s more, the unraveling scandal surrounding President Donald Trump’s relationship with Russia has sucked up all the energy in Washington. Lawmakers have been forced to respond to allegations that Trump tried to pressure the FBI into dropping an investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn, or shared classified information with Russian officials — questions they hardly want to answer.
GOP insiders hope that the Justice Department’s move appointing a special prosecutor to take over the case will take the heat off them for a while, allowing leaders to focus on policy.
During his news conference, Ryan also gave a full-throated endorsement of his controversial border adjustment tax proposal, which essentially hikes taxes on imports in an attempt to get companies to keep their headquarters in the U.S.
The White House and Senate have been extremely lukewarm to the idea, which is intended to free up $1 trillion to lower tax rates for businesses and individuals but could drive up the price of goods when businesses pass the tax on to consumers.
Many privately have predicted that Ryan will drop his push for border adjustment. That, however, doesn’t appear to be the case — at least not yet.
“I obviously think border adjustment is the smart way to go,” Ryan said. “I think it makes the tax code the most internationally competitive of any other version we’re looking at. And I think it removes all tax incentives for a firm to move … their production overseas.”
Ryan also argued that “if you’re not going to do border adjustment, you have to look at the alternatives to that.” Those “alternatives,” which would be axed to reduce tax rates, are breaks for various business industries. Eliminating them would rev up lobbyists fighting tooth and nail to maintain their clients' tax credits or deductions.
That could prove just as unpalatable to critics of border adjustment, or worse.
Speaker Paul Ryan wants House committees to continue their investigation of Russia’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election — despite the Justice Department’s move to name a special prosecutor to probe the matter.
The Wisconsin Republican told reporters Thursday that the department’s decision to tap former FBI Director Robert Mueller to lead the investigation doesn’t at all interfere with the House Intelligence Committee’s work.
Story Continued Below
“We are going to keep these investigations going here, as I’ve always said,” Ryan said at a press conference. “I think the intelligence committees are the right place to do an investigation involving Russia, involving another country interfering in our elections. And so… these committees are going to continue their investigations.”
The Intelligence panel isn't the only one that's digging into the White House’s ongoing Russia controversy. House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz invited recently-fired FBI Director James Comey to testify next week. The Utah Republican wants to question Comey about reports that President Donald Trump tried to get him to drop the agency's investigation into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, before ultimately firing Comey.
Asked about Oversight’s work, Ryan was less clear, saying only that it is “appropriate” for the committee to make document requests into the matter.
Ryan did not say whether Chaffetz — who has told sources he will resign on June 30 and head to Fox News — should step down from the gavel early. Ryan declined to comment because he said he did not yet know the details of Chaffetz's departure.
Ryan also agreed with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s assertion that Congress could use a “little less drama from the White House” — namely because he wants to focus on the GOP agenda.
“Well, yeah, it’s always nice to have less drama,” Ryan said. “People in the country need to know that we’re busy at work trying to solve these problems. I realize there’s a lot in the media these days, but that’s doesn’t seize up Congress. That doesn’t stop us from doing our jobs.”
Former FBI Director James Comey might not be able to testify before Congress now that a special prosecutor is overseeing the FBI’s Russia investigation, Sen. Lindsey Graham said Thursday.
Graham, who chairs a Judiciary subcommittee with oversight of the FBI, had sent an invitation earlier this week for Comey to testify in an open session.
Story Continued Below
“I'm not so sure we can do it now,” the South Carolina Republican said. “You've got a special counsel who has prosecutorial powers now, and I think we in Congress have to be very careful not to interfere.”
Graham said that while he was happy with the decision to appoint former FBI Director Robert Mueller as a special prosecutor to oversee the FBI’s Russia probe, he thinks the decision means less information can be made public.
“Public access to this is probably going to be very limited now,” he said. “I think a special counsel — he's a good guy, a good pick. I respect the decision. But it's going to really limit what Congress can do. It's going to really limit what the public will know about this.”
Graham also said he had not yet received a response from Comey, who was fired by President Donald Trump last week.
“We're gonna have to put him on a milk carton,” Graham said. “'Have you seen this man?'"
Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) said he believed the appointment of a special counsel should give Congress a chance to “reset.”
"Essentially the people who wanted a special counsel got what they asked for, so now it's time to let him do his job,” Cornyn said. “I do think whatever committees have some jurisdictional hook on this will be conducting our oversight.
“But I think it's time for maybe a reset in terms of the way we approach these because we're not the Department of Justice, we're not the special counsel,” Cornyn continued. “We don't have the authority to bring cases in court but we do have important responsibilities on oversight and that's where we should be focusing."
Seung Min Kim and Burgess Everett contributed to this report.
Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr said Thursday that former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn is not cooperating with his panel’s investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election.
But the North Carolina Republican said he does not have a "definitive answer" yet on whether Flynn is complying with a subpoena issued to him last week for documents related to his contacts with Russian officials.
Story Continued Below
Earlier Thursday, The Associated Press reported, based on comments from Burr, that Flynn had informed the panel he would not honor the subpoena. But Burr later said his comments “may have been premature” and that “there may be a day or two left” until the deadline to respond to the subpoena.
“We have not gotten the definitive answer,” Burr clarified. “Michael Flynn has not cooperated with the committee up to this point.”
Asked whether he would recommend a contempt of Congress vote if Flynn fails to comply, Burr responded: “I'm not going to go into what we might or might not do. We've got a full basket of things that we're willing to test.”
Flynn’s lawyer, Robert Kelner, declined to comment when asked last week whether Flynn would comply with the subpoena. Kelner did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Thursday.
If Flynn refuses to comply, Congress could vote to hold him in contempt and refer his case to the Justice Department for criminal charges or to federal district court for civil enforcement. But these routes are long and complicated, and there’s no guarantee they would succeed.
Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) is expected to announce Thursday that he is resigning before the end of this congressional term, according to three sources familiar with his plans.
Chaffetz did not respond to a request for comment Wednesday evening or Thursday morning. Multiple sources say he will leave Congress on June 30.
Story Continued Below
Chaffetz, 50, is chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, the top investigative body in the chamber. He recently threatened to subpoena James Comey's memos, and invited the fired FBI director to testify next week before his panel.
Chaffetz told POLITICO last month he had begun exploring employment outside Congress. Several sources in the Capitol say Chaffetz has told his colleagues he will appear on Fox News.
Sen. Susan Collins said Thursday that she would still like James Comey, the former FBI director whom Trump fired abruptly last week, to testify before the Senate Intelligence Committee as it investigates Russia’s suspected attempts to influence last year’s presidential election.
On Wednesday, the Justice Department named Robert Mueller to probe the alleged Russian election meddling as well as a special counsel, prompting the question of whether senators will still call on Comey to testify for their investigation or if they will defer to Mueller.
Story Continued Below
Collins, a Maine Republican and member of the Intelligence Committee, told MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” on Thursday morning that Comey should still go before the Senate because the two investigations remain distinct.
“I’d still like to have Director Comey testify before the Senate Intelligence Committee as soon as possible, before we go out for the recess, next week,” Collins said. “I think it's important because our investigation is broader.”
“People ask, ‘Why do we need a special counsel and the Senate Intelligence Committee investigation?’” she continued. “And the answer is that we have two very different missions. The special counsel is going to focus on whether or not criminal charges are appropriate. We're focused on counterintelligence policy, and we can impose sanctions on Russia.”
Collins acknowledged that Mueller might not want Comey to go before the Senate because of his own investigation but said that process is important because it would involve a public hearing.
“I hope we can resolve those conflicts,” Collins said. “Any prosecutor-investigator is going to say, ‘I don't want any witness coming before the Senate.’ But I think we can tailor this so that perhaps certain subjects would be off-limit.”
“But our investigation is really important because it will be in public,” she added. “His won't. And we need a far broader set of the facts to come out.”
More and more Republicans have called on Comey to testify this week in the wake of an explosive report that President Donald Trump allegedly asked him to shut down the FBI's investigation into his former national security adviser, Michael Flynn.
Former FBI Director Robert Mueller is “probably the best possible choice” the Justice Department could have made for a special prosecutor to lead the investigation into Russian interference into last year’s presidential election and the possibility of collusion between Russian officials and the campaign of President Donald Trump, House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz said Thursday.
Still, Chaffetz (R-Utah) said he remains unconvinced that Mueller’s appointment was necessary in the first place.
Story Continued Below
“Well, I don't know that a special counsel was warranted at this point. I have not seen the direct, full evidence of an actual crime, and I do believe that the career officials are true professionals,” he told ABC’s “Good Morning America” in an interview Thursday morning. “They've done a great job, and they should be allowed to continue to do that job. But with that said, I do think Director Mueller is probably the best possible choice they could have made.”
Mueller’s appointment was announced Wednesday evening by the Department of Justice, a decision made by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who had been overseeing the Russia investigation because Attorney General Jeff Sessions had recused himself from it. The move was greeted warmly by Democrats, who had been calling for such an independent investigation for weeks, but received a chilly reception from the White House, which had long said such a separate probe was unnecessary.
Thursday morning, Trump called the independent investigation “the single greatest witch hunt of a politician in American history” and complained that the administration of former President Barack Obama and the presidential campaign of Democrat Hillary Clinton, both of which the president accused of committing “illegal acts,” had never faced similar scrutiny.
Even with a newly forming independent investigation, Chaffetz said he expects congressional inquiries into Russian election interference and possible collusion between Trump associates and the Kremlin to continue, even despite the possibility that the multiple probes could interfere with one another.
“Look, the House of Representatives has its own equities and its own interest in this,” he said. “Just because there is an investigation or work being done at the Department of Justice doesn't excuse the Congress from doing its own work and getting to the bottom of things. So that's hardly an excuse that has worked in the past, and it's not going to work moving forward.”
Republicans’ long-held dreams of tweaking Medicaid, repealing Obamacare and overhauling the tax code appear in more jeopardy than ever as scandal and investigations beset President Donald Trump's White House.
Some Republicans fear that subpoenas and congressional inquiries will swamp the time they need to pass a health care or tax bill in 2017 — not to mention renegotiate NAFTA, unify behind a $1 trillion infrastructure plan or build that border wall.
Story Continued Below
“Everything affects our work right now. The more controversy we have the more difficult it is to do things,” said Senate Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah). “But this place is filled with controversy, so if you don’t understand that, you’re in the wrong job.”
The Dow fell by more than 370 points on Wednesday, the largest drop since Trump took office, reflecting investors’ fears about the news out of Washington. That plunge was followed by the Justice Department's decision to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate alleged Russian involvement in the presidential election — just the latest in a series of furors involving ties between Trump's campaign and Russia.
It’s not just Republicans’ policy agenda on the line but the party’s own political future. Republicans control the White House and Congress and need to show they can govern, rather than just oppose, major policy packages. Many conservatives supported Trump precisely for that reason — the chance to enact a sweeping agenda. If that opportunity falls away as the White House’s credibility erodes, so too could Trump’s support among lawmakers, establishment Republicans and even his loyal base of voters.
“What has swayed a lot of mainstream conservatives is the possibility that we could do dramatic conservative reform on issues we care about,” said Lanhee Chen, former policy director for the Romney-Ryan presidential campaign of 2012. “The ability to advance a conservative agenda they care about is a big reason why people skeptical of Trump have hung in there.”
Republican lawmakers and Trump supporters say they’re still determined to push through policy wins before the 2018 midterms — with or without the president’s high-profile help. They have had a handful of early victories, including Trump's appointment of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court and the rollback of Obama-era regulations through the formerly little-used Congressional Review Act.
But the congressional calendar is tight, with long recesses in June and August. Floor time will be consumed by the passage of spending bills and action on the debt-ceiling limit this fall, not to mention the ongoing confirmation of Trump’s political appointees. Congress has only so much bandwidth — and now investigations related to Trump's campaign and Russia will be taking up a share. “There are all kinds of questions about hearing time and floor time, if the investigations get more serious and that gets in the way,” said Tevi Troy, a former domestic policy adviser to President George W. Bush. “The mantra of any administration is that you have limited amount of time to get stuff done, and you need to keep pushing to get things done.”
Lawmakers seem prepared for a go-it-alone strategy, as the Senate writes its own version of the health care bill and the House tax writing committee begins its first hearing on tax reform on Thursday. “It’s just something we’d have to confront," said Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.). "Would it be a lot easier to do this if other things weren’t ongoing? Of course. We’re just going to have to deal with what we have before us."
The problem with this approach, however, is that even a totally Republican-controlled Congress needs a president to help close a deal. That was certainly the case with the health care legislation that the House narrowly passed this month. In the final hours before the bill passed the House, earning just one more vote than the 216 it needed, Trump had to make several phone calls to win over nervous GOP lawmakers such as Michigan Rep. Fred Upton.
Some Republicans wonder whether Trump will be able to play that role effectively for future votes.
“Every piece of significant legislation gets to a point where it requires the president to deliver the votes for his or her party. I have a real doubt as to whether this administration can deliver the last four to five votes,” said one former Senate Republican leadership aide. “The margin for error is practically nothing and requires the administration to have some juice on the Hill to get anything done.”
For the second week in a row, Senate Republicans have ignored the rising scandal and controversy at their daily lunches, which have been completely devoted to health care. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) briefly mentioned Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein’s upcoming briefing with senators on Thursday, but other than that there was no discussion of the matter, senators said.
Republicans want to show some independence from Trump and figure that continuing the work on legislation, despite the chaotic White House, will underscore their serious efforts at legislating.
Yet the president’s unpopularity with the broader electorate and penchant for controversy could make it harder to move legislation later this year, several senators acknowledged. One of the chief concerns is that if and when a health care deal emerges, damaging revelations from Trump’s White House could make it impossible to get across the finish line.
“The bigger question is when we do get something that we think we could pass, what’s the political backdrop when we try to do it,” said Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.).
The same concerns could also hinder longer-term policy goals such as an infrastructure proposal or renegotiation of the free trade deal with Canada and Mexico.
Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao said this week that the administration will “share its vision” by the end of May for Trump's still-unreleased infrastructure package, leaving Congress to fill in the blanks with legislation later in the year. But while rebuilding the nation's roads and bridges once seemed a fruitful area for Trump to build buy-in from Democrats, the multiplying questions about the president's actions make a kumbaya moment less likely.
As for trade, experts doubt that Canada and Mexico will be motivated to pursue talks in August — the earliest they can formally begin — with any seriousness if Trump's troubles worsen. That's especially true given Mexico's elections next year and the fact that neither country wanted to redo NAFTA in the first place.
Even without the investigations and the threat of subpoenas, the White House has already fallen behind its policy agenda of quickly passing health care and tax overhauls through reconciliation and then moving onto other agenda items.
“All of the predictions of productivity for the year were predicated on the assumption that Trump could bring the GOP together,” said one Republican lobbyist. “That assumption has proven faulty so far. The outlook will get even more grim if, instead of being a unifier, Trump becomes a liability. You’re seeing some disturbing signs that this is where this thing is headed.”
To the doubters and naysayers who argue that Republicans cannot work on domestic policy and handle incoming investigations, Trump supporters say: Just wait and see.
“There is a tendency with the Beltway crowd, when there is a headwind, to count him out,” said David Tamasi, the former Washington, D.C., finance chairman of Trump Victory. "Whoever has made that bet in the past has not done well."
Kathryn A. Wolfe and Doug Palmer contributed to this report.
House Republicans facing tough reelection bids are running for cover from Donald Trump — an early sign that they believe the president’s deepening scandals could cost them their seats and even put the House in play.
More than 10 centrist Republicans over the past 48 hours have criticized Trump for reportedly sharing classified information with Russian officials or allegedly trying to quash an FBI investigation. Many joined Democrats in calling for a special prosecutor to take the reins of the Justice Department investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Moscow. (The DOJ named a special counsel on Wednesday.) Others want a select congressional committee to be appointed.
Story Continued Below
One swing-district lawmaker, Rep. Carlos Curbelo of Florida, raised the possibility of impeaching Trump if it turns out to be true that he leaned on FBI Director James Comey to drop an investigation of former national security adviser Michael Flynn. But in case it wasn’t clear how Curbelo felt about the matter, his office called reporters to make sure they emphasized Curbelo was the first Republican lawmaker to utter the “I-word.”
“Obstruction of justice is an impeachable offense, so that is an allegation that we have to take very seriously,” Curbelo told a Miami CBS affiliate. “That does not mean it happened, but if this story is accurate, it may have happened. Whatever the case is, we need to get the facts.”
The break from Trump among centrist Republicans is especially notable because some of them had stuck by the president through the brutal fight over Obamacare repeal legislation two weeks ago, backing an unpopular bill despite great political risk at home.
Case in point: Rep. Steve Knight of California, a top target for Democrats in 2018. Hillary Clinton carried his district by nearly 7 points, and Cook Political Report moved his reelection rating from “lean Republican” to “toss-up” after he voted for the health care bill.
But on Tuesday, after reports that Trump shared classified intelligence with Russia, Knight backed a special prosecutor to take over the ongoing FBI investigation, arguing that “there is so much conflicting information from many sources.”
“Americans deserve the opportunity to learn the truth,” Knight said in a statement.
The moves suggest that the most endangered GOP incumbents believe that loyalty to the White House could cost them their jobs.
“Any member of Congress who represents a marginal or swing district better develop their own brand very quickly,” said Rep. Charlie Dent (R-Pa.), who leads the moderate Tuesday Group. “It wouldn’t be too hard to figure out what the opposition’s attacks on them will be: They’re going to call everybody a rubber stamp” for Trump.
Dent also said Republicans “can’t assume for a moment that the majority is safe” — noting that the party controlling the White House typically loses many seats in the first midterm election after the president is elected.
“We’re only talking about a 24-vote swing, and if you believe the political prognosticators, we’ll be in a pretty competitive situation in the midterms,” he continued, referring to the maximum number of seats the GOP can lose and still hold the House.
After the November election, GOP leaders including Speaker Paul Ryan said vulnerable House Republicans did better than expected thanks to Trump’s coattails. But no one is making that argument now.
In the past, GOP leaders have told Republicans to feel free to criticize Trump to reflect the sentiment of their districts.
And GOP insiders say leaders will impart the same message to members in the coming months if Trump continues to stumble.
“Folks in swing districts have to represent their constituents, and that means they’ll be the first to push back in the event that independent and swing voters call for them to be a check on Trump,” said one senior House Republican who asked not to be named.
Protests from moderates continued into Monday and Tuesday after The Washington Post reported that Trump disclosed highly classified information to Russian officials in the Oval Office.
“Media reports are deeply concerning & I will raise issue surrounding disclosure of classified info in @HouseIntelComm when we meet this week,” Rep. Frank LoBiando (R-N.J.) tweeted.
By Tuesday morning, several others had joined him. Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.) tweeted that “sharing classified info to one of our enemies is a threat to our national security, troops on the ground & relationships w/ trusted allies.” He’s since gone on TV to echo those comments.
Rep. Barbara Comstock, who represents a swing district in Northern Virginia, also jumped into the fray. “We need to have immediate classified briefings on what occurred at this meeting so that Congress can at least know as much as Russian leaders and know the impact on our national security, our allies and our men and women protecting our country,” she said in a statement.
While polls suggest that Republican voters give Trump the benefit of the doubt when it comes to the Russia investigation, the issue has energized the Democratic base. That’s why moderates from districts with large Democratic or independent populations are most exposed as the scandals unfold.
Republicans disagree how much the Russia-Comey controversy might jeopardize their House majority. GOP pollster David Winston said it’s unlikely to be a deciding factor for voters in 2018. But he noted that the drama is distracting elected Republicans from the core issues they campaigned on, including tax reform and jobs.
And that, Winston said, could create a problem.
“One of the things you saw in terms of this election is a frustration of the electorate, their voice wasn’t being heard. They were saying, ‘Why aren’t you paying attention to the issues we’re concerned about?’” Winston said. “The challenge for [Republicans] is that this topic has now been front and center for a while.”
Lawmakers in both parties hailed Wednesday’s appointment of a special prosecutor to investigate Russia’s election meddling — a shift in Republican sentiment after allegations President Donald Trump sought to shut down a related probe.
For Democrats, the move amounts to a major victory. Many of them demanded that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appoint a special prosecutor in the wake of James Comey’s firing as FBI director last week – and vowed not to vote to confirm a successor to Comey until the demand was met.
Story Continued Below
And for Republicans, Mueller's appointment underscores the extent to which the mood is changing when it comes to investigating Trump’s alleged ties to Russia. Most Republicans previously opposed the appointment of a special prosecutor — but a number had expressed more openness to it following allegations Tuesday that Trump told Comey to shut down the FBI’s investigation into former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.
And key Republicans jumped on the special prosecutor bandwagon on Wednesday after the announcement that former FBI Director Robert Mueller had been named to oversee the Russia investigation. The probe includes looking into allegations of coordination between Moscow and the Trump campaign.
“I see it as a positive thing, especially having Bob Mueller involved,” Senate Intelligence Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) said. “It brings a lot of public credibility to whatever process they go through.”
Burr, whose committee is leading its own investigation, had previously opposed the appointment of a special prosecutor. The investigations being conducted by the House and Senate Intelligence Committees into Russia’s election meddling are expected to continue running in parallel to the FBI investigation now overseen by Mueller.
House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) both signaled support for the naming of a special prosecutor, with McConnell noting that the Senate Intelligence panel would “also continue its investigation into this matter.”
“My priority has been to ensure thorough and independent investigations are allowed to follow the facts wherever they may lead,” Ryan said in a statement. “The addition of Robert Mueller as special counsel is consistent with this goal, and I welcome his role at the Department of Justice.”
GOP Rep. Darrell Issa also praised the move.
“I view it as good and what we’ve been waiting for and I think it sends the right message that Mueller will go where the facts lead,” said the California congressman and former chairman of the House Oversight Committee. “It was inevitable.”
Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, also appeared to endorse the move, saying it shows the Trump administration is taking the investigation “seriously.”
As for Mueller, Meadows said the pick appears to be more favorable to Democrats than Republicans.
“I think he comes with more credibility on the Democrat side than the Republican side,” the congressman said. “But he has credibility on both sides.”
Some Republicans also acknowledged the decision would take some heat off of them as they try to focus on passing a GOP agenda. Republican lawmakers for days have been ducking for cover from reporters peppering them with questions about Trump’s latest controversies.
“I think it takes the issue off the table for the time being,” Rep. Ryan Costello (R-Pa.) told reporters Wednesday night. “We’re trying to separate fact from fiction and we’re getting asked by all of you, respectfully, ‘Should an independent commission be established?’ ‘What about an independent prosecutor?’”
Costello added: "It’s one less question that we have to answer about an extremely confounding and contentious issue that a lot of people are politicizing.”
Other Republicans lauded Mueller, who served as FBI director for 12 years under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama.
Mueller “has sterling credentials and is above reproach,” said Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee. “Because of his experience leading the FBI for more than a decade, Mr. Mueller has established relationships with FBI agents and will be able to move forward quickly. He is well respected on both sides of the aisle and will inspire public confidence in the investigation.”
House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) also praised the Mueller pick, saying he is confidence he will “serve with integrity and professionalism, and will conduct a thorough and fair investigation.”
Senate Democrats also lauded the decision to appoint a special prosecutor.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a statement Wednesday that Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, had “done the right thing” by appointing a special prosecutor.
“Former Director Mueller is exactly the right kind of individual for this job,” Schumer said. “I now have significantly greater confidence that the investigation will follow the facts wherever they lead."
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) called Mueller "a respected public servant of the highest integrity.” But Pelosi added that she still wanted an independent commission to investigate Trump’s Russia ties.
Mueller "cannot take the place of a truly independent, outside commission that is completely free from the Trump Administration’s meddling,” Pelosi said in a statement. "A special prosecutor does not negate the need for vigorous congressional investigations either."
Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), who’s leading the House investigation into Russia’s election meddling, said he does not expect the special prosecutor to affect his ongoing probe.
“I don’t think so. We’ll see. My guess is no,” he said. “We never had criminal prosecutorial tools and if we found something, we’d have to turn it over to Justice anyway.”
Conaway said he doesn’t know Mueller personally but that he “has a great reputation in the industry.”
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, called Mueller’s appointment “a good first step” for getting to the bottom of Russia’s role in the 2016 presidential election and allegations of coordination with the Trump campaign.
“I know Bob Mueller. I knew him as a United States attorney in San Francisco when I was mayor. I knew him as … FBI director,” Feinstein told reporters. “He’s a stalwart, wonderful man and I think he’ll be a great special counsel.”
Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) noted that the appointment of Mueller, who was twice unanimously confirmed as FBI director by the Senate, would make it easier for senators to install Comey’s successor at the bureau.
“He’s a well-respected law enforcement professional,” Cornyn said of Mueller.
The news, like other revelations in the Russia affair this week, stunned Capitol Hill — with senior Republicans such as Cornyn and Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) saying they had gotten no advance notice of the appointment.
As the decision was being announced, Rosenstein and acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe were seen leaving a secure meeting room in the Capitol, where they had been briefing senior members of Congress.
Not every lawmaker felt the appointment was necessary, however.
"It's fine, but there's absolutely no need for it," said Rep. Peter King (R-N.Y.). "Generally, there's a crime. In Watergate, there was a crime. In the [Monica] Lewinsky case, there was a crime. There's no crime here."
Burgess Everett, John Bresnahan, Heather Caygle, Elana Schor, Seung Min Kim, Kyle Cheney, Ali Watkins and Rachael Bade contributed to this report.
House Democrats are buzzing about the possibility of President Donald Trump being impeached. But party leaders aren’t going there — at least not yet.
Top Democrats in the House and Senate know their liberal base is clamoring for a harder line, especially after reports that Trump urged then-FBI Director James Comey to stop investigating ousted national security adviser Michael Flynn.
Story Continued Below
But Democratic leaders first hoped to secure an independent investigation into possible ties between the White House and Russia. (A special counsel was named Wednesday.) Until there’s clear proof Trump broke the law, they say, impeachment chatter does little more than distract from the party’s broader messaging.
“I’m not afraid of the ‘I’ word — it’s independent, an independent commission,” House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley of New York told reporters Wednesday. “That’s also the general consensus of our Democratic leadership.”
Senior Democrats want to avoid looking as if they are gunning for impeachment, aides say.
“There’s a reason that most of my colleagues have” stopped short of suggesting impeachment is in the offing, liberal Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) told Politico. “Not the least of which is, we need to get a lot more facts before us before you could make a conclusion like that.”
But while House Democratic leaders are holding their fire and encouraging members to do the same, it’s becoming increasingly difficult to rein in their rank and file.
“If what Director Comey is saying is true, then we are looking at an impeachable offense,” Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.) said in an interview. “This, at the end of the day, has nothing to do with Donald Trump. It has to do with obstruction of justice.”
Democratic Reps. Al Green of Texas, Maxine Waters of California and more than a dozen others are floating the possibility of impeachment as well.
There also has been a clear shift in the GOP’s mood since The New York Times reported that Comey detailed his conversation with Trump in a memo. Three Republicans — Reps. Justin Amash of Michigan, Carlos Curbelo of Florida and Walter Jones of North Carolina — have warned that the allegations against Trump could be grounds for impeachment.
And House Oversight Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) threatened to subpoena the Comey memo if it isn’t willingly handed over by the administration, a move backed by Speaker Paul Ryan.
Still, Democratic leaders are holding back from discussing impeachment despite mounting pressure from the left to force the issue. Liberal demonstrators thronged the White House the day after Comey’s firing, and activists are pressing hard on what they think is a clear obstruction of justice case against Trump.
Democratic leaders want to prove that case first, opting to wait and see whether Trump writes his own case for impeachment first.
Both Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) publicly tamped down impeachment talk this week, and Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) said Wednesday he’s urged patience to the party’s activists.
“I’ve been talking to the base since November the 9th and telling them this is a marathon, it’s not a sprint,” Durbin said. “We have an orderly process in our government. We’re going to follow it. They don’t like to hear it, but I think that’s the facts.”
And House Democratic leaders are sticking with the game plan they had mapped out for the week long before the latest Comey news broke: deployment of a rarely successful procedural tactic to force a floor vote on legislation establishing an independent commission.
The discharge petition unveiled Wednesday would require about two dozen Republicans to sign on in support. The petition is expected to fail, but Democrats hope the latest reports will pressure at least some Republicans to join them.
In the Senate, Democrats’ focus remains on piecing together possible evidence to argue that Trump engaged in obstruction of justice — an offense that legal experts have said could raise the prospect of eventual impeachment proceedings.
The Senate Intelligence Committee issued a bipartisan request for Comey’s memo, and the former FBI director is expected to publicly testify soon, perhaps before Senate and House committees.
“We are at most a week or two away from having concrete, direct evidence and testimony,” Sen. Chris Coons (D-Del.) said in an interview. “And, at that point, it’s my hope and expectation that Republican leaders in the Congress will step up to their responsibilities if the facts are as alleged.”
Two Senate Democratic Caucus members, Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut and Maine independent Angus King, have raised the prospect of impeachment in TV appearances this week. But both later clarified that they want to see the investigative process go ahead first, illustrating that Senate rank-and-file Democrats are more reluctant than their House counterparts to predict Trump’s political demise.
“What the remedy would be depends on what the evidence is,” Blumenthal said in an interview. “My focus right now is pursuing the evidence and following it wherever it leads.”
Comey’s firing last week, followed by reports that Trump leaked highly classified information to Russian officials in the Oval Office, had already ramped up calls to remove Trump from office. But allegations that Trump tried to interfere in a federal investigation and shield Flynn, who was fired for lying to the vice president about his conversations with the Russian ambassador, is like pouring gasoline on a long-simmering fire.
Still, senior Democrats warn talk of impeachment is a gravely serious matter that shouldn’t be batted about lightly.
“Because it’s such an extraordinary and wrenching remedy,” said California Rep. Adam Schiff, the House Intelligence Committee’s top Democrat, “it’s not something I believe that people should wish for — whether you like or dislike the president.”
Furthermore, with the prospect of impeachment still far, far off in a Republican-controlled Congress, Democrats in both chambers want to stay focused building opposition to the GOP’s Obamacare repeal effort. They’re well aware that the Trump scandals dominating the news cycle threaten to shift attention from unpopular parts of the Republican agenda.
Given that media environment, Democrats argue, the key to breaking through is to present a united front.
“We have big battles ahead,” said a Democratic leadership aide. “The last thing we need is the base distracted over something that, right now, is a waste of time.”
John Bresnahan contributed to this report.
House Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz is inviting former FBI director James Comey to testify next Wednesday at 9:30 a.m.
Chaffetz (R-Utah) told POLITICO he has officially scheduled the hearing and is in the process of trying to connect with Comey. The hearing will be the day the FBI is due to send documents to the oversight panel.
Story Continued Below
Comey hasn't officially accepted the invite, "but wants to testify publicly as soon as he can," one person who has spoken to Comey said. "They are trying to connect," this person said.
The leaders of the Senate Intelligence Committee on Wednesday asked the FBI to turn over memos prepared by former Director James Comey detailing conversations he had with the White House and Justice Department about the FBI’s Russia investigations.
Separately, four top members of the Senate Judiciary Committee wrote separately to the FBI and to the White House seeking any documents that detail communications between the fired FBI director and Trump, as well as other paperwork on the matter stemming back to the Obama administration.
Story Continued Below
“We need all those memos,” Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) said in an interview. “We’re going to try to get not just the Comey memo as you heard in my letter, but all memos, all communications between everybody — Comey, and other people in the hierarchy — and throughout the organization, wherever we have to, and over a long period of time.”
The senators requesting the documents — Grassley and Sens. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) — said they want the records by May 24. Grassley said late Wednesday that he also sent a letter to Comey, asking him to appear before the Judiciary Committee.
In the Intelligence Committee, Sens. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Mark Warner (D-Va.) also sent a letter Wednesday to Comey asking that he testify before their panel in open and closed sessions. The senators had previously asked Comey to testify in closed session this Tuesday, but he declined.
Their request follows a letter House Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz sent the FBI on Tuesday asking for copies of memos documenting Comey's communications with President Donald Trump. “I have my subpoena pen ready,” the Utah Republican added on Twitter.
Lawmakers in both parties are demanding that Comey testify before Congress and that his memos be turned over after a New York Times report that Comey wrote in a memo that Trump asked him to shut down the FBI’s investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn. The Times also reported that Comey wrote memos detailing all his conversations with Trump.
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) has also invited Comey to testify before a Senate committee.
Anxiety and dismay spread throughout the ranks of Capitol Hill Republicans on Wednesday as lawmakers reckoned with the fallout from the James Comey scandal and the damage it could cause to President Donald Trump and their own agenda.
Republicans quickly split into factions — from defending Trump and blaming the media on one end, to calling for a special prosecutor and even raising the specter of impeachment on the other — as they responded to news that Trump allegedly pressured the former FBI director to drop the agency's investigation of Trump's ex-national security adviser Michael Flynn. Many others demanded that Comey testify and turn over private memos documenting his conversations with Trump.
Story Continued Below
Privately, Republicans are plainly distressed and even panicked over what a prolonged scandal could mean for their agenda and grip on power. Some wonder whether Trump will still be president next year, while others are frustrated that the White House hasn't done more damage control. Chatter has begun about what a President Mike Pence might look like.
And many lawmakers don't want to defend Trump publicly because they don't know what damaging revelation will come next.
“Things are tough now, we all know that,” Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) said of the mood on Capitol Hill. “What do you think this is, a joy ride?”
Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) and party leaders appear mostly to be playing for time and trying to provide political cover for their rank and file. Ryan said he would reserve judgment until the facts are out, but that Congress should seek out those facts. He's backing House Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz’s effort to have Comey appear before his panel, one of at least three committees seeking to hear directly from the ex-FBI director. Chaffetz called a May 24 hearing with Comey, although the Oversight chairman hasn’t yet connected with him.
More than a half-dozen Republicans — including Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Rep. Adam Kinzinger of Illinois — are joining Democrats in calling for the appointment of a special prosecutor or independent commission to investigate the Trump-Comey interactions, as well as the alleged ties between the Trump campaign and Russian officials. Another bloc is open to such a move if more damaging information emerges. Murkowski said Wednesday that “it may be that we need to look” to the independent avenues to investigate the matter.
Trump backers — a small but vocal group — deny the president did anything wrong. They blame the media, the “deep state” and Democrats for the president’s problems.
And least three House Republicans — Reps. Justin Amash of Michigan, Carlos Curbelo of Florida and Walter Jones of North Carolina — have warned that the allegations against Trump, if true, could constitute obstruction of justice and an impeachable offense. Sen. John McCain compared Trump’s situation to Watergate.
"I think it could be" impeachable, Jones told POLITICO. "We have to see where the evidence goes. If the evidence proves — and there has to be a proof — that there is reason for a discussion on impeachment, then it needs to happen... If we don't protect the truth and defend the truth, then there's no hope.... This has probably been the four months that I have felt like my nation is upside down."
Multiple Republicans said there's been a palpable mood change inside the GOP, as lawmakers worry that a Trump implosion could wreck their own careers.
“If what the [New York Times] reported is true, Pence is probably rehearsing,” said one House Republican. “It’s just like Nixon. From the standpoint that it’s never the underlying issue, it is always the cover-up. It’s this denial. This whole notion that if he did tell Comey to stop the investigation and then later fires Comey, it’s hard not to make a practical case of obstruction.”
During a closed-door House GOP meeting on Wednesday, Ryan tried to contain the political fallout by urging members to avoid a rush to judgment. Ryan told reporters after the session that there are many “unanswered questions,” and that he won't make up his own mind based on “speculation and innuendo."
"We need the facts," Ryan said. "It is obvious that there are some people who want to harm the president. But we have an obligation to carry out our oversight regardless of which party is in the White House."
Many Republicans took his advice, either dodging questions from reporters or trying to downplay the current impact of the scandal in their public comments.
“There’s a lot of talk, there’s a lot of reporting going on,” said Rep. Steve Womack (R-Arik.). “We need the facts. That was the message and I think it’s a reasonable and prudent message from leadership. There is a tendency to respond to conjecture and give opinions on ‘what if.’ And I’m not sure that’s really constructive.”
Added Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn of Texas: “I’m not going to reach a conclusion based on news stories. We need to conduct our oversight and investigation and satisfy ourselves as to what the facts are.”
At the same time, though, a growing chorus of congressional Republicans is calling for Comey to testify before Congress about his interactions with Trump — including whether Trump tried to obstruct the criminal probe of Flynn's connections with Russia.
Chaffetz has asked the FBI to turn over any records it has on the Trump-Comey interactions. Chaffetz also wants Comey to appear before his panel and said he will subpoena Comey if necessary.
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) is also asking the FBI and White House to turn over any documents they have on Trump and Comey. He said Wednesday evening that he sent a letter to Comey, asking the former FBI director to appear before his committee.
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) said in an interview that if Comey doesn't hand over his notes on his conversations with Trump, they should be subpoenaed.
"We need to see the memo," Rubio said. "We need to have Comey come in and testify."
More Republicans also appeared open to appointing a special prosecutor or independent commission to investigate the ties between the Trump campaign and Russian officials.
“I think it’s time that we look at the idea of an independent commission or special prosecutor. I’m not sure the best venue," Kinzinger told CNN. "But I think it’s time that we do whatever is necessary that when this is over, we give people confidence that either way, either way it goes, justice has been served."
Still, a number of Republicans are waving off allegations that Trump tried to stop the FBI's Flynn probe then fired Comey over the issue. His most ardent defenders in the party claim it's all hearsay and there's no proof yet that Trump did anything improper.
Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah, the most senior GOP senator, said he believes the entire narrative is “overblown” and he wants to put the Comey memo story “to bed.” He does not believe that Comey should be hauled in front of Congress for public testimony.
“It’s up to them to determine how they want to do it. I never impose,” Hatch said of the White House in an interview. Asked whether he believed Comey should testify, Hatch broke with some of his colleagues: “Not particularly. I think it’s overblown."
"It's hearsay so far," added Rep. Barry Loudermilk (R-Ga.). "For all I know, nobody's seen the memo… Also it's Comey writing a memo from a conversation, so it's a lot of hearsay.”
Loudermilk also argued that there’s “nothing illegal about” anything that’s been reported. Asked whether it constitutes obstruction of justice he said: “No…. That’s not political pressure being put on someone. That's an opinion being expressed."
John Bresnahan, Austin Wright and Burgess Everett contributed to this report.
It is “inevitable” and “inescapable” that former FBI Director James Comey will testify before Congress about his interactions with President Donald Trump and allegations that the president asked him to end an investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn, Sen. Marco Rubio said Wednesday morning on Fox News.
Citing contemporaneously written memos by Comey, The New York Times reported Tuesday evening that Trump told the FBI director during a one-on-one meeting last February that “I hope you can let this go,” in reference to the bureau’s probe into Flynn’s ties to the Russian government.
Story Continued Below
The White House quickly responded with a statement that such a conversation never occurred, but Rubio said the Times report will only fuel calls for Comey to testify before Congress that began last week when he was abruptly fired by Trump, who later said he had done so with the FBI’s Russia investigation weighing on his mind.
“Look, it's inevitable now and inescapable. I thought he was going to have to do this anyway,” the Florida Republican told “Fox & Friends.” “But given what we read yesterday in the newspaper, Director Comey, or former Director Comey, will have to testify before Congress, I imagine before the Judiciary Committee, and he's going to have to turn over these notes and anything else that he kept, and we'll go from there.”
Rubio was quick to caution, though, that aside from the two men involved in the conversation, “no one knows entirely what happened.” He noted that even the Times reporting, which was quickly matched Tuesday by other media outlets, was not sourced to Comey or even directly to his memo, but instead to individuals with knowledge of the memo’s contents.
Rubio said his intention was not to denigrate the media’s reporting on the issue or even to call into question its veracity, only to insist that the unfiltered facts make their way into the public.
More broadly, Rubio said Trump, whose campaign for president was built around his unconventional experience as a businessman and his separation from the “swamp” of Washington politics, would benefit from some increased measure of controls inside his White House.
“Well, look, ultimately I think systems are important and so working out systems internally within the White House, there is a reason why — I mean, you don't have to be purely conventional, but there is a value to convention,” he said. “There's reasons for these systems, and I think if the White House became more systematic in its approach to messaging and scheduling and the like, they would avoid some of the friction that you're now seeing.”
House Speaker Paul Ryan urged lawmakers to be “sober” about swirling allegations that President Donald Trump asked FBI Director James Comey to call off an investigation into his national security adviser Mike Flynn.
“That is our job, to be sober, to be passionate … and to follow the facts wherever they may lead,” he said.
Story Continued Below
“It is obvious – there are some people out there who want to harm the president,” he said. “We have an obligation to carry out our oversight, regardless of which party is in the White House. That means before rushing to judgment we get all the pertinent information.”
Ryan added that he expects Congress to hear from Comey, and he wants to know why the director “didn’t take action at the time” Trump reportedly pressured him to halt the Flynn investigation. The New York Times reported Wednesday that Trump made the request during a February dinner with Comey, according to a memo Comey kept of the encounter.
As he exited the press conference, Ryan was asked whether he still had confidence in Trump.
“I do,” he said.
The House may finally be on its way to scrapping Obamacare, but don’t expect the Senate to go along: Any plan sent over will undergo major surgery — and survival is far from assured.
The hurdles in the upper chamber were on vivid display Wednesday as House Republicans celebrated their breakthrough on the stalled repeal effort. The compromise cut with House Freedom Caucus members won over the right flank, but the changes will almost surely make it harder to pick up votes in the more moderate-minded Senate.
Story Continued Below
Not to mention that some Senate conservatives still seem opposed to the emerging House deal.
“The Freedom Caucus has done a good job of trying to make the bill less bad,” Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), one of the lead Senate agitators against the House health care push, said Wednesday. “For me, it’s a big stumbling block still that there’s taxpayer money that’s being given to insurance companies, and I am just not in favor of taxpayer money going to insurance companies.”
Phil Novack, a spokesman for Sen. Ted Cruz , also indicated that the conservative Texas firebrand isn't sold, saying “significant work remains” in the Senate, “specifically to address Obamacare’s insurance mandates and enact major patient-centered reforms that will further reduce the cost of health care.”
Sources say it may take more than a month for any House health care bill to run through the traps in the Senate, including internal party discussions and an analysis of how the measure would affect the deficit and insurance rolls. No committee hearings are planned because Republicans don’t want to give Democrats a public forum to bash an effort they are not involved in. And similar to the Senate's dim view of the House's proposal, the lower chamber may not ultimately be able to pass whatever the Senate is able to produce on Obamacare.
Plus, a procedural rift is beginning to emerge within the GOP, with several Republicans questioning whether reconciliation — the fast-track legislative process that circumvents a filibuster, and thus the need for Democratic support — is even the best avenue for health care overhaul efforts.
Few Senate Republicans are currently engaged in the health care efforts. Several GOP senators declined Wednesday to wade in to the specifics of the revised plan drafted by Rep. Tom MacArthur (R-N.J.) and Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), taking pains to note that senators will probably have to rewrite it anyway.
“It isn’t discussed a lot over here,” said Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa). “Except for the hard work of [Susan] Collins and [Bill] Cassidy, there’s hardly anything being done.”
Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas), the party’s chief vote counter, also downplayed any notion that the new House version of an Obamacare replacement will sail through the Senate intact.
“Once they pass a bill, my assumption is, the Senate’s going to take a look at it but not necessarily be rubber-stamping what they’re proposing,” Cornyn said. “So I would anticipate that we’ll do what we used to do all the time which is, the House will pass a bill, we’ll pass a bill and then we’ll reconcile those in a conference committee.”
Weeks after the spectacular collapse of Obamacare repeal efforts last month, MacArthur and Meadows struck a deal with new language that would allow states to opt out of several key Obamacare provisions, such as its ban on charging sick people higher premiums and the so-called essential health benefits mandate that requires insurers to provide a set of minimum benefits.
The new language was enough to earn the formal endorsement of the Freedom Caucus, but House moderates who were opposed to the previous plan remain wary of backing a proposal that could cause constituents with pre-existing conditions to lose affordable health care coverage. In fact, the new plan may be having the reverse effect on some centrists: Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.) had supported the initial Obamacare replacement but now says he’s a “maybe.”
Influential Senate Republicans also raised doubts about whether the new House proposal is workable.
“I think the better approach is to stabilize the insurance pool,” said Cassidy, who is shopping around his own Obamacare replacement measure with Collins. “So one, I’m glad they’re working on common ground. But two, I’m not sure their approach is where I think it will most lower those premiums.”
If legislation does manage to clear the House, it's unclear whether it will get official sign-off from the Senate parliamentarian to qualify for the fast-track reconciliation rules. Under the so-called Byrd rule, only provisions that affect the budget can be taken up under reconciliation.
One senior Senate Republican official said Wednesday that the MacArthur-Meadows language has been reviewed in the Senate, and — for now — "we believe it would" not be ruled out of bounds for reconciliation.
Still, the GOP source cautioned that a final ruling on whether it passes reconciliation muster will have to wait until an official Congressional Budget Office score and Democrats make their case to the Senate parliamentarian. On Wednesday, Democrats were adamant that the new health care deal would not fly under the Byrd rule. A spokesman for Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) the GOP effort "is almost certainly going to run afoul" of Senate restrictions.
A separate Republican source familiar with party strategy said it would likely take a month under the most optimistic circumstances to finish a repeal-and-replace bill under reconciliation rules. There is much work to do: Senators are likely to make Medicaid cuts less severe, deliver more money for opioid funding, make tax credits for the middle class more generous and rework the House’s waivers from Obamacare’s requirements.
The CBO will also have to score the legislation, an assessment that many House Republicans seem unconcerned with, senators said in interviews Wednesday. Many lawmakers requested anonymity to candidly discuss a sensitive matter that divides Republicans.
“If they release text and try to vote on it 26 hours later, it’s a problem. It’s a complicated topic a lot of representatives don’t understand. It’s not an area of their expertise,” said one GOP senator. “They can send it to us, but we’re not going to rush it over here.”
In interviews with senators across a broad ideological range, there was growing irritation with attempts to ram complicated legislative language through the House and expect the Senate to clean it up. Some GOP senators suggested that a bipartisan bill may be the only way to overhaul the health care system in a lasting manner.
“I don’t know if this bill is better … the worst thing we can do is replace it with a Republican-only alternative that doesn’t drive down costs, that doesn’t improve access to care,” said Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.). “A Republican-only bill to replace a Democratic-only bill is not what I hope for. I hope for a bipartisan bill.”
Graham is not alone. Several senators said they worry that the current three-step plan — repeal and replacing through reconciliation, making executive action changes to the law and working with Democrats to fix the rest — is unrealistic.
Republicans wonder: Why would Democrats work with Republicans after watching their primary achievement from Obama’s presidency gutted on a party-line vote?
“I would just like to see us maybe show the American people we can work through a normal process. We’ve got majorities in both houses,” said a second GOP senator. “We shouldn’t [use reconciliation] on anything.”
House Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen late Wednesday released a short-term spending bill that would give lawmakers an extra week to strike a final deal and avert a government shutdown.
In announcing the stopgap bill, top Republican appropriators in both chambers said lawmakers are close to an agreement that would fully fund the government through September, but they need more time to hash out final details before the Friday deadline for fiscal 2017 funding.
Story Continued Below
Both spending committee chairmen — Frelinghuysen (R-N.J.) and Sen. Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) — said lawmakers have made “substantial progress” toward an agreement. Frelinghuysen added that a short-term bill is needed to “finalize” the package.
“I am optimistic that a final funding package will be completed soon,” he said in a statement.
With just two days left until the spending deadline, lawmakers had been expected to pass such a week-long bill. But Democrats this week said they would refuse to back a short-term continuing resolution until it became clear both parties would reach a deal on updated spending levels for the remainder of fiscal 2017.
One of the final sticking points in those negotiations — the dispute over Obamacare subsidies — was resolved earlier Wednesday. But Democrats have argued there are still dozens of remaining items to reconcile.
In one preview of the full-year spending bill, Frelinghuysen announced that the short-term measure extends funding for a retired coal miners’ health insurance program that would have lapsed on April 29.-
House Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz announced Wednesday that he will take a leave of absence from Congress to undergo surgery on his foot, with an estimated return in mid-May.
The Utah Republican posted a picture of an X-ray on Instagram and wrote that a foot injury he sustained 12 years ago is now prompting him to undergo "immediate" surgery.
Story Continued Below
The estimated recovery time is three to four weeks. Chaffetz said avoiding the procedure could put him "at risk for serious infection."
Chaffetz's absence comes amid a crucial stretch for House Republicans and the Trump administration. There are looming votes on a spending bill to avoid a government shutdown and, potentially, a close vote on legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.
"I’m sorry to miss the important work we are doing in Washington," Chaffetz wrote. "This is not an opportune time to be away but medical emergencies are never convenient. I appreciate my constituent’s patience and understanding as I take time to recover."
Chaffetz told POLITICO he plans to fly back to his home state early on Thursday. He said he expects to resume his place in Congress and his panel chairmanship in three weeks, likely after the May recess.
Chaffetz announced last week that he would not be seeking reelection to his House seat in 2018.
“After long consultation with my family and prayerful consideration, I have decided I will not be a candidate for any office in 2018,” he wrote in a Facebook post.
Chaffetz said later in the week he has not ruled out the possibility that he might vacate his seat prior to the end of his current term.
“In the meantime, I still have a job to do and I have no plans to take my foot off the gas," Chaffetz said.
Rachael Bade and John Bresnahan contributed to this report.
Speaker Paul Ryan and House GOP leaders are facing their worst nightmare: a Freedom Caucus-run House committee.
But Trey Gowdy might bail them out.
Story Continued Below
House Oversight Chairman Jason Chaffetz’s announcement last week that he might soon resign from Congress has triggered a behind-the-scenes battle for one of the highest-profile chairmanships on Capitol Hill. And the power vacuum has the potential to cause GOP leaders serious heartburn.
That’s because the committee, which is charged with investigating the executive branch, is stacked with prominent Freedom Caucus members whom House GOP leadership doesn’t trust. Chief among them is Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), a ringleader of the group of far-right agitators. Jordan has made a name for himself as one of the most aggressive Oversight interrogators, but he’s also been a huge problem for leadership over the years.
Jordan is next in line if the most senior member, Rep. Jimmy Duncan of Tennessee, decides not to run. Former Oversight Chairman Darrell Issa of California is third in seniority, but he’s chaired the panel before.
So GOP leaders could face a quandary whether to reward someone whose past behavior has tripped up their agenda and infuriated most of the GOP conference.
Jordan wouldn’t say whether he would run, though people close to him believe he will.
“We’ll see,” was all Jordan would say when asked Wednesday whether he wanted the gavel. “Right now, Chaffetz is the chairman, and I want to continue to support the chairman.”
But sources told POLITICO that they’re not sure Jordan can win the post, and not just because of his rocky relationship with GOP leaders. Many members of the House Steering Committee that chooses chairmen — and is composed entirely of leadership loyalists — don’t like him, either.
GOP leaders and their allies are so worried about a Jordan candidacy that they've begun buttonholing Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) — the former chairman of the House Benghazi Committee and a dark-horse candidate for the Oversight post — to run, according to multiple House sources. While Gowdy often jokes that he hates the high-profile nature of his job and would rather be home watching Hallmark movies with his wife, insiders say he is now considering a bid.
Gowdy’s office declined to comment.
In the meantime, several other Oversight Committee members are quietly jockeying for potential bids as well. Rep. Dennis Ross of Florida, a deputy whip and longtime leadership loyalist, told Speaker Paul Ryan on Wednesday that he plans to run — as long as Gowdy doesn’t.
“I think Trey Gowdy would be exceptional for that … but if he chooses not to do that, I would definitely choose to be in the running for that position,” Ross said in an interview. “I think I’ve got as good a shot as anybody if Trey decides not to do it, so I’m going to make a push for it.”
Ross, a lawyer who also sits on the House Financial Services Committee, chaired the the Oversight Subcommittee on the Federal Workforce and the U.S. Postal Service several years ago. He has a good relationship with Oversight panel Republicans as well as Democrats, but he’s 14th in seniority behind Jordan.
Rep. Mark Sanford (R-S.C.), another Freedom Caucus member who is fourth in line in seniority on Oversight after Jordan, is interested in the gavel as well. He told POLITICO that he’s “making preliminary queries into how realistic or unrealistic a run would be.”
Sanford acknowledged that it would be difficult, if not impossible, for any Freedom Caucus member to win a race for a full committee chairmanship after having antagonized party leaders and their own colleagues for years. In his case, Sanford said he's taken some unpopular stances that may further hurt his cause, such as calling on President Donald Trump to release his tax returns. Sanford could try to argue that would make him a strong check on the president, but it's unclear how far that might get him.
"I think as a generality, it could be tough for a Freedom Caucus member to end up with a chairmanship," Sanford said. "And then add a layer to the cake of I've been fairly robust in calling for the president [to release] his tax returns. I think historically in that [OGR] role, they've generally wanted someone quiet, or compliant, you pick the word, as it relates to the administration in power" being from the same party.
Issa also could run for chairman again. While he was term-limited out last Congress, when Chaffetz took over, House rules would allow him to run again after a reprieve from the post. And a source said he hasn't ruled it out, though his office declined to comment.
Jordan is one of the most influential members of the House, though not always in a constructive way for leadership. He was even floated as a potential long-shot challenger to Ryan for speaker last fall.
In an interview with POLITICO last fall, Jordan said his favorite part of the job was being on the Oversight dais and grilling people he believes are hiding information from him. Indeed, the hard-nosed former wrestling champion is best known for his interrogation of the IRS commissioner and former staffers in the middle of the tea party targeting scandal in 2013.
Jordan also served on Gowdy’s Benghazi committee, receiving praise from right-leaning commentators for challenging the Obama’s White House talking points about the terrorist attack.
Gowdy’s reputation as an unforgiving questioner, however, is just as strong as Jordan’s — and the former federal prosecutor is better liked within the House Republican Conference.
“I think Jordan is obviously a top choice. Gowdy’s great, too, so fortunately we have a lot of good candidates,” said Oversight member Scott DesJarlais of Tennessee, also a member of the Freedom Caucus.
Republicans greeted President Donald Trump's splashy tax rollout Wednesday with muted enthusiasm — hopeful that the tax code could be reformed but eager to hear a lot more details as well as the president’s strategy for success.
Democrats didn’t hold back, slamming the tax outline as a giveaway to the wealthy, which suggests that Trump will have to pass his plan with only the GOP’s narrow majorities.
Story Continued Below
In the hours after Trump’s principles were unveiled for “the biggest tax cut and the largest tax reform in the history of our country” as Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin told reporters, it was clear the administration has a lot of work to do on Capitol Hill.
Perhaps the biggest unanswered question facing Republicans is how they can work with Trump on a tax plan that is expected to pay for itself with massive economic growth. Independent analysts worry about the administration’s math. And adding to the deficit presents a politically perilous choice for many Republicans as well as significant legislative complications.
“I’m very sensitive to the deficit and the $21 trillion worth of national debt,” said Rep. Tom Reed (R-N.Y.).
Mnuchin and other Trump officials said they want to work with Congress on shaping a bill that can pass by the end of the year. But the White House is already spurning a key piece of Speaker Paul Ryan’s tax plan — a proposed tax on imports that would help pay for cutting the corporate tax rate to 15 percent, as Trump has proposed.
Ryan downplayed the provision’s absence in Trump’s plan Wednesday.
“We all agree that in its present form it needs to be modified,” Ryan said border adjustment tax at the law firm BakerHostetler. “We don’t want to have severe disruptions — if you’re an importer or a retailer heavily dependent on importers, we don’t want to shock the system so much that it puts them at a disruptive disadvantage.”
Ryan also told reporters that congressional Republicans have been in close contact with the White House. "This is something we've been talking to them all along," he said.
Republican leaders sought to present some sense of party unity with a joint statement from Ryan, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) and Senate Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) that called Trump’s principles “critical guideposts,” but which otherwise provided little specific comment on what Trump laid out.
Rank-and-file Republicans said they hoped for more input from the president and more than the document they saw Wednesday.
“I want to give the president a chance to actually produce a bill,” Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.) told reporters. “I would prefer not to add to the deficit, but I’m going to wait and see what the legislative language looks like before I take a hard and fast position on any of this.”
Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-La.) said the corporate tax cut could prove “workable, but we’re going to need guidance from the president.”
Some saw Wednesday’s principles as more of a messaging document pegged toward the approach of Trump’s 100th day in office than a clear path toward tax reform.
During a tax reform briefing for Republican congressional staff on Wednesday afternoon, White House Communications Director Michael Dubke belabored the unfair treatment of Trump in the press and defended the administration’s accomplishments, according to multiple GOP aides present who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Democrats ridiculed the outline’s high price tag, the benefits to the richest Americans and the potential to personally benefit the president, who refuses to release his tax returns.
“This is an unprincipled tax plan that will result in cuts for the one percent, conflicts for the President, crippling debt for America and crumbs for the working people,” said Sen. Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee.
Another senior Democrat, Rep. Joe Crowley (D-N.Y), said that that the president should release his tax returns before any Democratic engagement on tax reform.
“The president needs to release his taxes,” Crowley said. “We need to know who’s lent him money and who he owes his allegiance to... [and] what effect would this change in tax structure have,” on Trump’s business?
Despite the White House’s hints at seeking bipartisanship, Democrats said the administration has made close to zero effort to involve them in tax reform talks, on both the leadership and committee levels.
Trump’s principles also did not include investments in infrastructure, which had been considered a possibility to woo Democrats.
“This plan is just tax reform,” said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin at an event at the Newseum Wednesday when asked if infrastructure spending could also be included as a way of courting Democrats. The proposal does call for a childcare tax credit that could interest some Democrats.
Mnuchin also told reporters Wednesday that Trump's tax plan included a potential rollback of the popular deduction for state and local income taxes. That move would be a non-starter with most northeastern lawmakers in both parties, whose constituents benefit heavily from the deduction.
Rep. Richard Neal (D-Mass.), the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, said that the administration had made no outreach to his fellow party members, and wondered aloud whether Trump was even on the same page as congressional Republicans.
“Are we for the border adjustment tax, are we for the president’s plan? It’s not very clear,” Neal told POLITICO, referring to the vagueness of Trump’s proposal. “Has the border adjustment tax succumbed? We need to know.”
Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) echoed Neal’s sentiment. “All I know is what I read in the papers,” he said, adding dryly that “obviously, we are not a deficit-conscious Congress.”
The concern over the deficit is not only an issue for fiscal hawks. Republicans are likely to use a complex procedure known as budget reconciliation to circumvent a Democratic filibuster in the Senate and allow passage of tax legislation with a simple majority rather than 60 votes.
But under Senate rules, reconciliation can only be used if the bill will not add to the deficit after a decade. Non-partisan estimates say that even a two or three year temporary cut to the corporate tax rate would add to the deficit in the long run. That’s why House Republicans included major revenue-raisers like the border adjustment tax and a phase-out of a deduction businesses can take for the interest they pay on debt. Both combined would raise trillions over ten years, offsetting the rate cuts.
When pressed by reporters for more details on how to pay for the president’s goals Wednesday, National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn said simply, “We’ll get back to you with definitive answers on all these details.”
Rep. Mike Conaway, the House’s new top Russia investigator, is telling lawmakers on the Intelligence Committee that they should expect to be in Washington more than usual as the beleaguered probe gets a reboot, panel members said after a closed-door meeting Wednesday.
Committee Democrats welcomed Conaway’s remarks, describing the Texas Republican as a “straight-shooter” who was committed to a thorough, bipartisan investigation into Russia’s interference in the presidential election, including the possibility of collusion with the Trump campaign.
Story Continued Below
“Mike Conaway told us this morning, expect to be in D.C. a little more than you might’ve anticipated,” Rep. Jim Himes (D-Conn.) told reporters, adding that Republicans and Democrats had agreed to a witness list “in the neighborhood of three or four dozen.” He and other committee members declined to say who would be interviewed.
“It’s going to be a time commitment,” Himes added.
Conaway took charge of the probe earlier this month after House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) announced he was temporarily stepping aside because of a House Ethics Committee investigation into whether he disclosed classified information. The Russia probe suffered a complete breakdown of bipartisanship under Nunes, who critics said seemed more interested in providing political cover for the White House than in conducting an objective assessment of Moscow’s meddling.
Democrats on Wednesday said they believed the investigation was back on track under Conaway, pointing to several signs of progress. The intelligence panel has scheduled a closed hearing for next week with FBI Director James Comey and NSA Director Mike Rogers. It’s working to reschedule a public hearing canceled by Nunes with members of the Obama administration, including former acting Attorney General Sally Yates.
And the panel is now getting access to more documents than it was previously — a development that Rep. Eric Swalwell (D-Calif.) suggested might be a result of Nunes’ departure.
“We have wider access now,” Swalwell said, explaining that federal agencies are more willing to cooperate with congressional committees when they work “in a bipartisan fashion.”
“So far, Mike Conaway has been a straight shooter,” said Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-Texas). “It seems like he really wants to get to the bottom of what happened and whether there are Americans who coordinated with the Russians who interfered in our 2016 elections.”
Conaway declined to answer specific questions from reporters about his leadership of the investigation and would not confirm details about what he told committee members during Wednesday’s closed-door meeting.
Instead, he provided the same terse answer to every question he was asked about the investigation: “We're doing an active investigation. We're going to do it in a bipartisan manner. This is serious stuff. And I'm not going to talk about the details.”
A number of questions remain about how the probe will work under the new leadership structure, including how Conaway will share duties with the two Republican lawmakers who are set to work with him to run the investigation — Reps. Trey Gowdy of South Carolina and Tom Rooney of Florida.
“It sort of seems like we’re still trying to figure that out,” Rooney told reporters. “I’ve worked with people like Trey before as a prosecutor and we tend to sort of play off each other. He says something that might remind me to bring something up and vice versa. So it’s a really good team.”
Rep. Adam Schiff of California, the Intelligence Committee’s top Democrat, said he felt the investigation was on “a very productive path again.”
“Mike and I are determined to run the committee on the investigation on the straight and narrow,” Schiff told POLITICO. “And I think that’s positive.”
For his part, Nunes declined to say how long he expected the Ethics Committee investigation into whether he disclosed classified information to last.
“I'm not going to talk about any of that,” Nunes said Wednesday.
Darius Dixon contributed to this report.
Senators were alarmed by a Trump administration presentation Wednesday at the White House complex about the dangers of North Korea, though lawmakers in both parties said it was unclear what the president’s next action against the combative nation will be.
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary James Mattis, who led the session, did not divulge whether the United States is considering military options against North Korea after recent weapons tests and military activities were conducted by the regime of Kim Jong Un. And senators said officials did not discuss putting North Korea back on the list of nations that sponsor terrorism, as some lawmakers want.
Story Continued Below
“There’s so many options that we need to be taking that are a long ways away from a strike,” said Sen. Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), who is urging the administration to sanction Chinese officials that do business with North Korea. “I have supported putting North Korea back as a state sponsor of terror … no indication yet from the administration.”
President Donald Trump spoke for a few minutes at the classified briefing, according to senators and aides. His comments, said an attendee, were “long at the 30,000 foot, short on the specifics.” Though the session was classified, everything said was already public, the person said.
“It’s a very serious situation. As I knew before I went there,” said Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who chairs the Senate Armed Services Committee. “I knew all about it. I didn’t hear anything new because I have been heavily briefed.”
Added Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.): “It’s good to get everyone together. I’m not sure I would have had it ... I knew what was discussed.”
The administration briefed House members afterward at the Capitol. No explicit explanation was given for why all 100 senators were hauled to the White House, though Trump's appearance was likely part of the reason. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) accepted an invitation from Trump to move the briefing from the Senate, where such briefings are typically held, to the White House, according to spokesmen for McConnell and the administration.
"This is the first time I remember anything like this. In my congressional career there's never been a similar type of a meeting held at the White House that I'm aware of," said Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.) ahead of the meeting. "We've had all-member meetings at the White House, but I don't think they've ever been in a classified setting. They might have been in a sensitive setting."
Joseph Dunford, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats, a former GOP senator, also briefed senators.
The White House said the meeting was intended to sound the alarm for senators about a situation that's grown increasingly fraught in recent months. The meeting provided an opportunity “to communicate the seriousness of the threat from North Korea,” a senior administration official told reporters. It also allowed the senators to learn about responses the U.S. is considering to the “very grave threat” from a “brutal regime," the official said.
The recent murder of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s half-brother in Malaysia with a chemical agent, and the secretive state’s advancing nuclear capabilities, have combined to put the administration on alert, the official said.
“We’re looking at a broad range of options obviously across all elements of national power and multi-national power in connection with North Korea,” the official said. “What you’ll see soon is using the economic dimension of national power, as well as the military preparations that are underway.”
Afterward, Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) said “of course” he was more concerned about North Korea after the briefing, while Sen. Chris Coons (D-Del.) said he “learned some things” at the meeting.
“It was a sobering briefing and an important opportunity for the entire Senate to hear the emerging plans of the Trump administration to confront what is a very real threat to our security,” Coons said. “This is a very difficult situation that I think is going to require persistent and engaged application of both diplomatic and military resources.”
Austin Wright contributed to this report.
The top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee says he’s no longer worried President Donald Trump will notch a quick deal with Russia to undo sanctions it faces for aggression in Ukraine.
Sen. Ben Cardin introduced a bill in February with Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) making it harder for Trump to unilaterally lift sanctions on Russia put in place by the Obama administration. At the time, Cardin said, he considered the matter urgent because of Trump’s friendliness toward Moscow and wanted the bill taken up immediately.
Story Continued Below
But Trump’s more critical rhetoric in recent weeks has reassured the Maryland Democrat that no quick agreement with Vladimir Putin is in the works.
“I thought it was urgent at the time because of the language the president was using in regards to cutting a deal,” Cardin told reporters Wednesday. “I'm not as concerned today as I was three months ago. The president's language today gives no indication that there's anything in the works. I'd still like to see it advance, but it's not as urgent.”
Trump came to office pledging to repair relations with Russia and hinted at a deal to remove sanctions in return for nuclear weapons reductions. Since then, top Trump officials, including U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley, have taken a hard line on Russia. Trump also authorized a missile strike on Syria, a top Russian ally. And his administration last week denied a request from Exxon Mobil, which wants to drill for oil in the Black Sea, for a waiver from Russia sanctions.
“I'm not as anxious and concerned that Trump might be cutting a quick deal with Russia on sanctions,” Cardin said.
The senator also introduced a bill in January to impose stricter sanctions on Russia in response to its meddling in the 2016 presidential election. The measure has drawn support from 10 Republicans, including McCain and Graham, but has so far not received a crucial endorsement from Senate Foreign Relations Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tenn.).
Cardin said he was in negotiations with Corker on a new Russia bill that would incorporate parts of his Russia sanctions measure, possibly including provisions designed to counter Russian propaganda.
“We are talking about trying to see where we can work together,” Cardin told POLITICO. “I think it will be different than the bill we filed.”
House Speaker Paul Ryan said the spending bill to keep the federal government running won’t include funding for Obamacare’s cost-sharing subsidies.
“CSRs, we’re not doing that," Ryan said Wednesday, referring to the subsidy program that helps reduce out-of-pocket health costs for low-income Obamacare customers. "That is not in an appropriation bill, that’s something separate that the administration does.”
Story Continued Below
Lawmakers are "very, very close on everything else" in the spending bill, Ryan said during a press conference. Government funding is set to run out after Friday.
Insurers, state regulators and health care groups have urged Congress to continue funding Obamacare's cost-sharing subsidies, warning the law's insurance marketplaces could collapse without them.
The House, which complained the Obama administration illegally funded the subsidies, successfully sued to block the program. But the subsidies continue to flow while the case is on appeal.
If Congress refuses to fund the subsidies, the Trump administration must decide by next month whether to fight the House lawsuit or let the payments end. Trump has often suggested he will use these subsidies as leverage with Democrats on repealing and replacing Obamacare.
Ryan also did not say when the House may reschedule a vote on an updated Obamacare repeal bill, which would allow states to opt out of major Obamacare rules under certain conditions.
The White House is telling lawmakers that it will continue paying Affordable Care Act cost-sharing subsidies, potentially defusing a bruising conflict between Democrats and Trump administration officials that had sparked a new round of shutdown fears in Washington on Wednesday.
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi confirmed the news Wednesday afternoon after word started spreading around the Capitol. It was not immediately clear how long the White House planned to keep the money flowing.
Story Continued Below
“Our major concerns in these negotiations have been about funding for the wall and uncertainty about the CSR payments crucial to the stability of the marketplaces under the Affordable Care Act,” Pelosi said in a statement after two phone calls with White House chief of staff Reince Priebus. “We’ve now made progress on both of these fronts.”
With Congress closing in on an agreement, lawmakers were expected to buy another week to finish the deal as a Friday evening shutdown deadline loomed, two sources said. Leaders are leaning toward passing a one-week extension of funding at current levels.
“More progress needs to be made on some of our priorities, and we continue to be concerned about poison-pill riders that are still in this legislation,” Pelosi said.
On Tuesday evening, Pelosi and President Donald Trump’s budget director clashed in a phone call over the Obamacare subsidies threatening delicate bipartisan negotiations to fund the government, according to sources familiar with the matter. The solution to the row appears to be to continue the status quo: paying for the subsidies outside of the congressional spending process. That would give Trump some future leverage over Obamacare while allowing Democrats to say they’ve protected the law, if only temporarily.
And it would allow Republicans to avoid blame for causing chaos and confusion in the insurance markets.
“If we pull the subsidies … I think there would be nobody with a health insurance plan next year.” said Rep. Phil Roe (R-Tenn.).
But some Republicans slammed the White House decision, saying it undermines the party’s position in an ongoing lawsuit that the payments are unconstitutional.
The administration choosing to continue paying the subsidies without congressional approval “is both clearly illegal and unconstitutional,” Rep. Mark Walker (R-N.C.), chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee, said in a statement.
The movement was unlocked after the Tuesday call between Pelosi and Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney. The California Democrat told Mulvaney that she could not support a spending bill that doesn’t include a commitment to continuing the subsidies for Americans with low incomes, according to a high-ranking Republican source briefed on the conversation. Mulvaney responded that Trump would not sign a bill to fund the government through September that includes those payments, called cost-sharing reductions, the source said.
“She’s giving him back some of his own medicine,” the source said, referring to Mulvaney’s hard-edged tactics during the 2013 shutdown, which Mulvaney supported as a conservative House member. But Mulvaney “delivered [the] message that Trump would not sign a bill with CSRs.”
A Democratic aide confirmed the call, but said the Trump administration didn’t commit to continuing to pay for crucial Obamacare subsidies starting next month, which could upend the insurance markets.
“Mulvaney indicated that, while the Trump administration had continued the CSR payments, they had not yet decided whether they would make the May payment. Mulvaney made clear that, absent congressional action, the judge’s order would stand and the administration would cease making payments,” the Democratic aide said. The GOP-led House filed a lawsuit against the Obama administration last year, arguing the subsidy payments were unconstitutional. Republicans won an initial ruling in the courts, but the decision was put on hold pending appeal.
Mulvaney, through a spokesman, said the Democratic assertion that he said the administration would stop making the subsidies next month is “false.”
“Let me be clear: The only thing standing in the way of a landmark defense and border security bill is a handful of Democrats who are insisting on an eleventh-hour bailout of Obamacare. We can get this deal done today. There is no excuse not to,” Mulvaney said. “This administration has made CSR payments in the past, and the only reason some are raising this now is to hold the government hostage and find an excuse to oppose a bipartisan agreement.”
Senate Democratic leaders seemed less dug in and leaders have said that as long as the payments continue, they are less concerned about whether it’s the administration or Congress making them.
“She’s been the hardest driver on this,” a Senate Democratic source said of Pelosi.
House Speaker Paul Ryan suggested Wednesday morning that the bill would not include the Obamacare payments.
“CSRs, we’re not doing that,” Ryan said during a news conference. “That is not in an appropriation bill, that’s something separate that the administration does.”
Currently, the payments are made through the executive branch, but that’s subject to a lawsuit that could disrupt the approximately $7 billion in yearly payments.
Lawmakers also were finalizing language to extend insurance benefits for coal miners and aid Puerto Rico’s ailing Medicaid system. Another sticking point is a GOP push to include legislation authored by Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) that would change food labeling regulations to shield companies from lawsuits if a product was incorrectly labeled, according to two Democratic sources.
Negotiators on both sides privately concede a short-term extension is likely in order to hammer out the final details of a government funding deal.
“I think we’re very close,” said Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn of Texas.
John Bresnahan, Seung Min Kim and Rachana Pradhan contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump inched closer to his elusive goal of transforming the health care system Wednesday as hard-line House conservatives — once the chief opponents of the GOP plan — embraced a new proposal to replace Obamacare.
Senior House Republican sources said they still didn’t have the votes for passage Wednesday evening. But GOP leaders felt bullish enough about their progress that they began considering a vote as early as this week. Nothing is scheduled. However, Republicans on Wednesday — through an obscure House rule for another piece of legislation — gave themselves same-day authority to fast-track any bill at the last minute, through Saturday.
Story Continued Below
“It’s only a matter of time now,” Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), the House’s chief deputy whip, declared after the House’s arch-conservative Freedom Caucus endorsed the measure.
Yet even as the backing of the conservative group provided an undeniable burst of momentum to Trump and the GOP leadership, a band of moderate House Republicans remained deeply skeptical. Insiders say the changes to the bill have hardened the positions of some moderate and traditional Republican opponents of the bill. And even if the House passes the bill, the Senate remains an enormous hurdle.
But moderates present the most immediate threat to the White House’s sudden progress. Rep. Mike Coffman (R-Colo.), who backed an earlier version of the proposal, said he’s now undecided. Rep. Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), who opposed the initial version, said she needs “basic information” about the conservative-backed changes before she takes a position.
And Rep. Charlie Dent (R-Pa.), co-chair of the moderate, 50-member Tuesday Group, said he hasn’t detected any reversals among the opponents of the health care bill — in fact, he said, their ranks may grow.
“The question now is how many people does it take from yes to no,” he said.
Others Tuesday Group members, including Reps. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.) and John Katko (R-N.Y.), wouldn’t comment on the measure, an amendment to the Affordable Care Act.
That resistance could threaten the White House’s desire for a quick vote on the new plan. It also tempered the exuberance of some backers of the House health care plan, known as the American Health Care Act, after the Freedom Caucus endorsement.
The group of three dozen conservatives said in an early Wednesday statement that an agreement negotiated by caucus Chairman Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) and centrist Tuesday Group co-Chairman Tom MacArthur (R-N.J.) assuaged their previous concerns about the bill. The White House has been pressing Republicans to broker a compromise.
“While the revised version still does not fully repeal Obamacare, we are prepared to support it to keep our promise to the American people to lower healthcare costs,” the statement said. “We look forward to working with our Senate colleagues to improve the bill.”
Asked whether his proposal would get the bill across the finish line, MacArthur said the primary goal had to be ensuring the bill’s previous supporters remained in the fold.
“I think we now need to make sure we hold the people that were ‘yes’ before,” he said. “And if we do, I’m cautiously optimistic we can get this done.”
Though he is a Tuesday Group co-chairman, MacArthur said he didn’t consider that role to be the driver behind his effort. “I don’t think about one caucus or another,” he said.
The new health care language allows states to opt out of central Obamacare protections for consumers — as long as the states offer an alternative proposal that lowers premiums, increases the ranks of insured people or stokes greater competition among health insurance companies. States would also be required to set up “risk pools” that help provide coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.
The plan would prohibit insurers from charging women higher premiums than men and retains Obamacare’s guarantee of “access” to coverage for people with pre-existing conditions. But it would also allow states to waive Obamacare’s prohibition on charging sick people higher premiums if they have a gap in coverage. States could also pull back from Obamacare’s set of minimum insurance benefits.
Centrists are wary of supporting any measure that could be construed as stepping away from a pledge to protect constituents with pre-existing conditions. Dent said he was surprised that an amendment negotiated by MacArthur — a Tuesday Group leader — would include the kind of policy changes that ultimately won the support of the Freedom Caucus. He described it as “face-saving and blame-shifting” by conservatives who were blamed for the failure of earlier versions of the AHCA.
As top conservative groups and lawmakers declared their support for the revised measure, however, a new problem arose that could slow progress. A provision in the proposal appeared to exempt members of Congress and their aides from weakened regulations that states would be allowed to adopt.
Democrats seized on the language, arguing that Republicans were trying to shield themselves from their own legislation. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee even planned a rapid-fire digital ad campaign highlighting the provision as Republicans were grappling with the details.
“It should be no surprise that TrumpCare has gotten so terrible that Republicans have resorted to exempting themselves and their families from the pain it inflicts,” said Drew Hammill, spokesman for House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi. “Speaker Ryan and congressional Republicans promised that Americans with pre-existing conditions would be protected, but it turns out they were only talking about themselves.”
Multiple GOP lawmakers and staff members acknowledged that the language could create an appearance problem. But they all expressed confidence that the matter would be resolved, either through another bill or by changing the text.
Still, several Freedom Caucus members who suggested they might support the bill after the White House gave conservatives additional concessions said they want to see the issue fixed first.
“There is a thing that’s missing, which is the congressional component, which makes sure that Congress isn’t exempt,” said Freedom Caucus member Scott Perry (R-Pa.), when asked whether he plans to back the bill.
Another caucus member, Rep. Warren Davidson (R-Ohio), said the caucus discussed the problem at a meeting Wednesday morning. While he supports the new repeal framework, Davidson said, “I want to make sure Congress doesn’t get special treatment.”
The proposal unveiled late Tuesday by Meadows and MacArthur — cheered on by the Trump administration and, especially, Vice President Mike Pence — has been billed as the compromise that could corral skittish Republicans reluctant to support earlier versions of the proposal. And on Wednesday, before the Freedom Caucus took an official position, several conservatives who had withheld their support from earlier proposals indicated they were ready to sign on.
“If the amendment goes in, I’m for it,” said Rep. Jim Jordan, vice chair of the Freedom Caucus, who noted that the bill is not a “full repeal of Obamacare.”
Conservative advocacy groups that once knocked the GOP health care plan as an insufficient repeal of Obamacare began lining up behind the new plan.
“While we’re still short of full repeal, this latest agreement would give states the chance to opt out of some of Obamacare’s costliest regulations, opening the way to greater choice and lower insurance premiums,” Club for Growth President David McIntire said in a statement. FreedomWorks, another conservative group, also endorsed the revised proposal.
The revised plan was unveiled as the House was also juggling an imminent government shutdown deadline and the outline of a tax plan that Trump released Wednesday afternoon.
As moderates and conservatives huddled to figure out who would vote for the deal, GOP leaders set to work figuring out how to fix the member exemption matter.
Several GOP sources indicated that the inclusion of exempting language was a technical requirement because of the Senate’s rules. Any change to Congress’ health care would fall outside the jurisdiction of the Senate’s health committee. That technicality would require a different set of procedures in the Senate and prevent the legislation from passing with a bare 51-vote majority, instead subjecting it to a 60-vote requirement that would be insurmountable without Democratic support.
Katie Jennings contributed to this report.
If the White House manages to resuscitate its flat-lining effort to replace Obamacare, President Donald Trump may owe it to a moderate New Jersey Republican and multimillionaire who only reluctantly backed his candidacy for president.
Rep. Tom MacArthur has singlehandedly kept the embers of the failed repeal-and-replace effort burning, huddling with the hard-line conservative Freedom Caucus to try to forge a deal. The negotiations have allowed the White House and GOP congressional leaders to insist that despite their embarrassing failure to pass health care legislation last month, they're still making progress.
Story Continued Below
But the MacArthur-as-Republican health care savior narrative has bothered some GOP moderates, who say the New Jersey lawmaker is flying solo in negotiations with the Freedom Caucus. Though he's one of three co-chairs of the Tuesday Group — a 50-member bloc of House Republican moderates — MacArthur has negotiated without the group's blessing in his quest to keep the health care talks alive, other Tuesday Group members say.
And many others say they’ve seen no details about the compromises the second-term lawmaker is offering or whether he’s getting enough concessions from conservatives.
Some in the group “are pretty hot about this thing right now,” said a Tuesday Group member. “MacArthur is kind of on his own.”
MacArthur acknowledged as much in an interview with The Hill, suggesting his effort to find compromise was not on behalf of the Tuesday Group.
As a result, it's not clear that any deal MacArthur strikes can actually deliver the votes of moderates that President Donald Trump and House Speaker Paul Ryan need to get their legislation, dubbed the American Health Care Act, across the finish line. That's a dangerous dynamic that could sink the revived health care discussion just as Freedom Caucus members are warming to the bill.
So far, House moderates have remained quiet about reports of progress between MacArthur and the Freedom Caucus, chaired by North Carolina Rep. Mark Meadows. The two were seen huddling daily in the back of the House chamber before lawmakers departed for their two-week Easter recess. But other Tuesday Group members have been wary of working with the Freedom Caucus, which came under fire from Trump and mainstream Republicans last month for rejecting the first iteration of the GOP health care plan.
At the time, Rep. Chris Collins, a Tuesday Group member and Trump ally, accused the Freedom Caucus of proposing negotiations simply to deflect blame for scuttling the first bill.
“The Tuesday Group will never meet with the Freedom Caucus. Capital N-E-V-E-R,” Collins said in late March.
As reports of a deal surfaced during the recess, moderates remained silent. Even MacArthur's Tuesday Group co-chairs — Reps. Charlie Dent and Elise Stefanik of New York — said they weren’t yet sold on the negotiations.
Dent suggested the talks seemed aimed mostly at securing a win for Trump, or at least showing progress, ahead of his 100th day in office.
Stefanik told constituents she had yet to see legislative language and would reserve judgment until she could read the details. "I believe my constituents deserve a representative who knows what that final bill is," Stefanik told a hometown crowd on Monday, according to the Albany Times Union.
Indeed, it's unclear whether MacArthur's efforts have moved any moderates closer to "yes" on the stalled health care bill. POLITICO reached out to the offices of more than two dozen moderate Republicans who had either signaled their opposition to the AHCA or hadn’t yet taken a position. Though many declined to respond, none said they had been swayed by the negotiations.
"The amendment doesn't address the things that I had concerns about — the things I think are detrimental to the people I represent," said Rep. Dan Donovan, a centrist, who added that he learned about the proposal when details leaked to the press Friday.
Other New Jersey Republicans, including moderates like Leonard Lance and Frank LoBiondo, say they don't have much insight into changes to the health care legislation that MacArthur is negotiating.
“I ran in support of a plan that lowers premiums, increases access and lowers health care costs across the board,” Lance said in a statement to POLITICO on Tuesday. “Until I see a Congressional Budget Office score that says the revised bill achieves those goals I remain a 'no' vote.”
LoBiondo tweeted Friday that he hadn’t seen the draft text of the amendment, but was "still a NO" because it didn’t address his “serious concerns.”
The highest ranking Republican in the New Jersey delegation, Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen, who serves as chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, hasn’t signaled his views of the amendment yet. But the MacArthur-negotiated changes leave intact the AHCA’s rollback of Medicaid expansion, which Frelinghuysen said he would oppose.
At the heart of the negotiations is a trade-off. Conservatives are seeking a proposal that would let states opt out of Obamacare's regulatory framework, including provisions intended to keep costs down for people with pre-existing conditions. In exchange, MacArthur negotiated to reinstate Obamacare's minimum coverage requirements and to require that any state choosing to opt out of the Obamacare regulations must set up a high-risk pool intended to help cover sick patients whose premiums might surge.
Freedom Caucus sources indicated these changes could win over at least some of their holdouts, putting the AHCA tantalizingly close to passage. House leaders are hopeful they can nudge just enough moderates to back the bill to send it to the Senate. With no Democrats expected to support the bill, Republicans must secure support from 216 members of the 238-member caucus to pass it.
Since talks collapsed last month, House leaders and President Donald Trump have indicated they were heartened by continued negotiations among lawmakers. Vice President Mike Pence and White House Budget Director Mick Mulvaney continued shuttling to and from Capitol Hill in search of votes. Then, as Trump's 100-day mark in office approached, the White House began indicated it expected a vote on an amended health care package as soon as this week.
The Meadows-MacArthur talks were at the heart of it.
For MacArthur, the impromptu talks aren't just risky for the Republican agenda, they could imperil his own political future. He represents one of a few dozen swing districts. Though his district narrowly voted for Trump in November, it backed Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012. MacArthur's role in salvaging a health care plan that energized protesters on the left and drew poor marks across the political spectrum has only enhanced the target on his back for Democrats.
MacArthur's efforts have also put him on the president’s radar. Trump personally thanked MacArthur, a former insurance executive, the day before leaders pulled the legislation for lack of support.
But during the presidential campaign, MacArthur, 56, kept his distance from Trump, endorsing the GOP standard-bearer after his primary rivals quit the race. MacArthur survived his reelection campaign despite relentless efforts by Democrats to tie him to Trump.
In recent weeks, conservative and liberal activists squeezed MacArthur with attack ads in his district for his role in AHCA talks. But the conservative Club for Growth may help provide him some cover.
"We applaud the fact that Rep. MacArthur has negotiated with Rep. Meadows," said the group's spokesman, Doug Sachtleben.
MacArthur himself shrugs off the politics of his role.
“I am not thinking about this in political terms,” MacArthur said when asked whether his position made him vulnerable to a primary or general election challenge at a news conference earlier this month. “I am simply not going to evaluate the right thing to do based on whether people want to run ads against me.”
Adam Cancryn contributed to this report.
The White House, top House conservatives and a key moderate Republican have finalized a new Obamacare repeal and replace plan they hope will break a month-long logjam on a key priority for President Donald Trump.
But it is far from clear that the fragile agreement will provide Speaker Paul Ryan the 216 votes needed for the House to pass the stalled legislation.Optimism is growing among Republican officials on the Hill and in the White House. Leadership will likely need at least 15 to 20 new House Freedom Caucus votes to have any shot at passing the bill.
Story Continued Below
The million-dollar question: Can Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows, who helped author the changes, deliver the votes needed to get the bill over the finish line? The North Carolina Republican is said to support the amendment, sources say, but it's still unclear how many of his group will flip from "no" to "yes."
There are positive signs, even though the Freedom Caucus appears to have made a conscious decision to say little until discussing the matter at a Wednesday evening meeting.
Reps. Dave Brat (R-Va.) and Scott DesJarlais (R-Tenn.), both of whom opposed prior versions, indicated they will back the legislation once the new provisions are added to allow states to opt out of some Affordable Care Act consumer protections. While DesJarlais is a huge Trump supporter and was visibly torn about opposing the bill last time around, Brat's change of tone is more notable given his reputation as a care-free leadership antagonist who has zero problem opposing GOP leadership or Trump.
The changes come after more than two weeks of behind-the-scene work between Vice President Mike Pence, Meadows and Tuesday Group co-chairman Tom MacArthur (R-N.J.), a moderate who was already supportive of the bill.
Most of the Freedom Caucus opposed the Obamacare repeal bill that Ryan pulled from the House floor last month because it did not repeal Obamacare regulations, calling the proposal “Obamacare lite.” Afterward, Trump and numerous House Republicans blamed the group for stalling a major GOP priority; Trump even threatened to primary some of the group members and turned his Twitter followers on their leaders.
Privately, however, the White House started courting them and the deep-pocketed outside groups that also opposed the legislation and are close with the Freedom Caucus. Those organizations, including Heritage Action, Club for Growth and several run by the Koch brothers, signaled to the White House they wanted a deal.
The new agreement gives the Freedom Caucus some additional concessions, including waivers that allow states to opt out of major Obamacare regulations touching on essential health benefits and when insurance companies can charge higher premiums.
It is unclear if the entire Freedom Caucus will take an official position, which would require support from 80 percent of its members. Some Freedom Caucus members, including Reps. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.) and Justin Amash (R-Mich.) told reporters they’re considering the changes. Freedom Caucus Vice Chairman Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) declined to tell reporters Tuesday evening whether he supports the bill, running away from reporters and shouting over his shoulder: "We’ve got a meeting tomorrow!"
Brat is likely to support the bill if the legislative language matches the policy that’s been discussed. “The Pence compromise [is] very promising, a lot of people like it,” he said.
Should 20 additional Freedom Caucus members sign onto the agreement, GOP leaders — who have stayed back in the latest negotiations — will then turn to moderates to try to lock in the needed votes.
While MacArthur helped negotiate the plan, many centrist Republicans are wary of the agreement and not happy that the White House pushed the plan further right. They are concerned that it will leave people with pre-existing conditions out to dry, as states could opt out of a regulation baring insurance companies from charging sick people higher premiums.
Supporters of the plan, which is also expected to include House GOP leadership, argue that the deal requires any states that opt-out of such regulations to create risk pools that will pay much of the higher premiums sicker people may face. Some worry, however, they won’t be funded enough to cover everyone who needs help.
The centrist Tuesday Group is scheduled to meet Wednesday to discuss the changes, though already several prominent group members, including co-chair Charlie Dent (R-Pa.), have panned the changes.
Officials at the White House and on Capitol Hill are unsure how many moderates, many of whom have already declared themselves as "no,” will back the legislation, but they have begun making calls. So far, no moderate “no” votes have publicly changed their position to “yes."
White House officials are striking an optimistic tone about the legislation, even suggesting the House could vote on the measure as soon as this week — perhaps crossing their fingers for a last-minute victory to mark Trump's 100-day in office on Saturday. House GOP leaders have downplayed the possibility.
The GOP’s new proposal would allow states to opt out of many of Obamacare’s requirements, allowing health plans to charge people more based on their age and health status. States could also opt out of enforcing a 30 percent surcharge imposed on people who don’t maintain insurance coverage, which was part of the original GOP proposal, according to a brief update sent to Energy and Commerce members. That’s the policy that the Republicans would use to replace the Obamacare individual mandate.
In exchange, states would have to set up a high-risk pool where older, sicker people could buy coverage, likely at much higher prices.
The waivers would strongly encourage people to maintain continuous coverage — even more than prior versions of the Republican repeal bill. In states that get a waiver, people who don’t stay insured could be charged more for insurance policies based on their health status.
In order to obtain the waiver, states would have to show that they would reduce premiums, increase health insurance enrollment in the state, stabilize the market for health insurance coverage, stabilize premiums for individuals with pre-existing conditions or increase the choice of plans in the state.
The amendment also includes what it calls “default approval” for waivers — a key ask from some conservatives. That means states’ waiver applications would automatically be approved, and the onus would be on the Health and Human Services secretary to reject their applications in 60 days if the administration doesn’t believe the state has fulfilled its obligations.
Moderate Republicans were hoping the hurdle to secure a waiver would be high.
The changes includes language specifically barring insurance companies from discriminating against people with pre-existing conditions. “Nothing in this act shall be construed as permitting health insurance issuers to limit access to health coverage for individuals with preexisting conditions,” it reads.
But centrists worry that will effectively happen if insurance companies can charge sicker individuals more.
Kyle Cheney contributed to this report.
Donald Trump is set to steamroll Paul Ryan on tax reform, the issue the speaker has devoted his political career to achieving.
But don’t expect Ryan to relinquish his pet cause easily.
Story Continued Below
The White House on Wednesday will drop the outlines of a tax plan that insiders expect will contradict the blueprint Ryan has been working on for more than a year. It won’t include the House speaker’s controversial new tax on imports, which was expected to bring in $1 trillion to finance lower tax rates. And top Trump officials are insisting their tax plan need not be paid for, rejecting Ryan’s stance that any package should not add to the deficit.
The administration’s sudden change of course came as a surprise to the speaker’s office, which didn’t get a heads-up before Trump announced on the fly last week that he would drop a tax plan Wednesday. Ryan had been working with the administration on a tax proposal “hand in glove,” as he put it, and the administration seemed content to let him take the lead.
But after Ryan failed to get his Obamacare replacement bill over the finish line last month, the White House changed its mind. Trump decided the administration needed to take a more hands-on role in tax reform rather than leaving the details to the speaker, three administration sources told Politico. Indeed, Ryan’s team has been kept largely in the dark on some key details of the plan, congressional and White House sources say.
“We made a mistake last time” in having Ryan take the lead on health care, one senior administration official told Politico. “We learned our lesson.”
Still, the White House strategy could backfire, namely because it’s far from certain that it can pass.
If the administration were to pursue a tax cut that’s not paid for — sticking instead with the supply-side theory that tax cuts pay for themselves — it would take at least eight Democrats to get it through the Senate. That’s a tall order, because Democrats generally are loath to pass tax cuts for corporations, especially without corresponding cuts for individuals.
Trump’s plan would drastically lower the corporate rate from 35 percent to 15 percent — at an eye-popping price tag of $2 trillion.
“The best chance to have tax reform is through reconciliation,” said a senior House Republican, referring to GOP leadership’s plan to use a fast-track tool to pass the bill on simple-majority votes.
Ryan’s office stressed that talks are ongoing and nothing is decided.
“We all agree on the benefits of tax reform and the place we want to land, and the question is how you reach that place,” Ryan’s spokeswoman, AshLee Strong, said in a statement. “We continue to have productive discussions with the administration about all ideas on the table.”
To be sure, only the House — not the White House — has the power to write a tax bill. In that regard, Trump can’t force the hands of Ryan or Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), who’s been writing the tax plan with the speaker.
It’s unlikely that Ryan and House leaders would completely step aside for the White House. Ryan’s expertise on tax reform carries significant weight with members, and even Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has said he, like Ryan, believes a tax overhaul should be done through reconciliation, not on a bipartisan basis.
But should Ryan forge ahead with his own proposal, without White House blessing, he would almost certainly find himself lacking votes to pass his tax bill. It would also likely further undermine his relationship with Trump, who badly wants a legislative win after the troubles with health care reform.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn were expected to huddle Tuesday evening with Ryan, Brady, McConnell and Senate Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) to talk about tax reform. But even before the meeting, reports circulated suggesting Trump told staff he is serious about wanting to lower corporate rates to 15 percent, a promise he made on the campaign trail. (Ryan’s plan would reduce the rate to 20 percent because that’s the lowest level he could realistically pay for.)
Other top White House advisers have also hinted in TV interviews in recent days that tax cuts need not be paid for, an idea the White House has discussed since January.
Administration sources also confirmed to Politico that Ryan’s controversial so-called “border adjustment” idea is unlikely to be included in the White House plan. Under that idea, companies that import products would have to pay income tax on the value of those products, which they don’t have to do now. And companies that export would no longer have to pay income tax on their earnings from those exports.
Senate Republicans and several White House advisers have panned the idea, and several members of Ways and Means have expressed skepticism about the proposal. But few have offered alternatives to generate the estimated $1 trillion it would produce. A senior administration official said the White House is looking at “three or four” possible revenue replacements.
It’s unclear whether Ryan and Brady will continue to push the border adjustment idea. Also unknown is whether they’ll move forward with their strategy to use reconciliation to pass a tax overhaul plan along party lines.
Under the Senate’s complex reconciliation rules, legislation that’s fast-tracked must not add to the deficit in the long term, which is defined as anything beyond a 10-year window. That’s why Ryan and his team are so focused on making sure any proposal is paid for.
The White House, however, is not yet sold. It is considering courting Democrats and trying to clear the 60-vote threshold to invoke cloture. One administration official said it would be wise to seek bipartisan buy-in after “what happened in the health care fight” — watching a GOP-only bill fall victim to party infighting.
There’s another possibility being tossed around: a temporary tax cut that is not paid for but could still be approved under reconciliation rules because it would not add to the deficit in the long term. President George W. Bush sidestepped reconciliation rules using that loophole, passing major tax cuts that expired after a decade.
Lawmakers later voted to extend most of those tax cuts.
But GOP leaders say going that route would not constitute true comprehensive tax reform because the tax cut would end after 10 years unless Congress intervened. They argue that it would not provide the kind of lasting assurance to the business community needed to produce long-term investments and economic growth.
Leaders are also not certain a temporary tax cut would be scored as deficit neutral, even if it were to sunset in 10 years. A letter Tuesday to Ryan from the Joint Committee on Taxation, obtained by Politico, suggests the cost of a mere three-year corporate tax cut to 20 percent — from 2018 through 2020 — would spill over into the second decade window, thus barring the bill from being fast-tracked.
“We project a non-negligible revenue loss in the tax years immediately following the budget window,” the letter states.
A disagreement between House Democratic leaders over Obamacare subsidies spilled into the open Tuesday, threatening to undermine their negotiating position as they hash out a deal with Republicans to fund the government.
Democratic negotiators, led by House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), are demanding the final funding bill include language to provide permanent Obamacare subsidies to help cover costs for low-income enrollees and keep insurance markets afloat.
Story Continued Below
But House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.), No. 2 behind Pelosi, publicly dismissed that idea Tuesday, saying the fix would be nice to have in the funding bill but should not be a requirement for supporting the legislation and should not be used as a political bargaining chip.
“From my perspective, this is not a part of our negotiations… I’m not urging my side to have this as part of the negotiations,” Hoyer told reporters. “The president has the authority to go ahead and do it and he ought to do it.”
In a statement later Tuesday, he emphasized that “millions of Americans will be adversely impacted” if the subsidies are cut off, and that they should not be "a quid pro quo that Republicans are giving to us to get funding for a border wall or other partisan priorities.”
Lawmakers are trying to hash out a funding deal before government spending lapses Friday at midnight.
President Donald Trump’s administration can continue funding the Obamacare subsidies without congressional action. But Trump had threatened to yank the subsidies in recent weeks — potentially sending the insurance market into chaos — as a way to bring Democrats to the negotiating table on health care.
In response, Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) demanded the funding bill include a permanent fix for the subsidies, a move that if successful would defuse Trump’s threat and offer insurers long-term assurance that they’ll continue to be paid.
Schumer did not say that the subsidies need to be included in the funding bill when asked directly about it on Tuesday afternoon. But a senior Democratic aide insisted Pelosi, Schumer and other Democratic negotiators are still in lock-step on this push.
While Hoyer is a member of Democratic leadership, he is not directly part of the funding bill negotiations.
But he’s not alone in his stance on the issue. A handful of other Democratic lawmakers and staffers privately said they are irked by Pelosi and Schumer’s public insistence on including a fix they say lawmakers shouldn’t be negotiating at all.
Republicans, they argue, also have an incentive to keep the subsidies flowing to avert a crisis. By making it a Democratic priority in the funding bill, Democrats may have to give concessions on an issue that Republicans probably would have addressed either way, critics of the strategy say.
And if the fix isn’t permanent but something more temporary, Democrats may have to give concessions in future negotiations to ensure the subsidies remain, they argue.
Republicans sued the Obama administration last year over the subsidy payments, arguing they were unconstitutional. The GOP won an initial ruling in the courts, but the decision was put on hold pending an Obama administration appeal, ensuring the subsidies kept flowing. The Trump administration must decide next month what to do with the lawsuit.
Hoyer’s comments put on display a Democratic dispute that has been simmering behind the scenes during the funding talks.
Democrats, including Hoyer, are in agreement that a permanent funding for the subsidies would be an ideal addition to the funding bill. But how far to take the fight, and at what cost, is the issue.
“Cost-sharing subsidies are the law. I do not recommend to my members that we make this part of any deal with the administration,” Hoyer said, his voice rising. “We’re not dealing on this. This is the law.”
Burgess Everett contributed to this report.
Sen. Mark Warner has a simple message for critics who say his Russia probe is in shambles: It just isn’t so.
The top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee said in an interview Tuesday that he always wants to move faster in investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election. But real progress is taking place, he said, including scrutiny of ties between Moscow and President Donald Trump’s aides.
Story Continued Below
“People who think we’re not looking at that now have not received an update,” Warner told Politico.
The Virginia Democrat rejected criticism over the fact that the panel has yet to issue subpoenas or interview high-profile witnesses like former Trump advisers Roger Stone, Carter Page and Michael Flynn. It would be “very irresponsible,” he said, to bring in those witnesses “before you have all your information.”
Warner added that the panel has conducted 27 interviews with intelligence analysts involved in the U.S. determination that Russia sought to tilt the presidential election toward Trump. The committee is also hiring two more staffers for the investigation, bringing the total to nine.
Warner’s remarks come as Democratic senators on the Intelligence Committee grow increasingly dissatisfied with the pace of the investigation, which is being led by Chairman Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Warner.
“The last few weeks, things have moved very, very slowly under Chairman Burr’s leadership. And I’m a little troubled about it,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) told reporters Tuesday. “I give Sen. Warner some time and credence to try and work those things out. But things have moved too slowly for my taste and a lot of the members of the committee’s taste.”
The dissatisfaction among committee Democrats was first reported last month by POLITICO and returned to the forefront this week with new revelations in The Daily Beast and Yahoo, which said that the probe had made "little progress” and is “increasingly stymied by partisan divisions.”
Burr rejected the notion that the investigation is in trouble, telling reporters Tuesday that narrative was being pushed by “one person” who is “unhappy.” He noted that his panel’s investigation into the 2012 Benghazi attacks had just three staffers and completed its work in a year.
“We’re accomplishing exactly what we intended to do. You need to go talk to other members other than the one that’s hawking that story,” Burr said, without naming his critic.
But more than one Democratic senator is unhappy with the pace of the probe, though several said they felt reports about it being in turmoil are overblown.
“I’d like to see it go faster, but I always would like to see things go faster,” said Sen. Angus King, a Maine independent who caucuses with Democrats. “I do think it would be helpful to have someone with prosecutorial experience and investigative experience.”
The seven intelligence staffers handling the investigation, King said, “are professional staff people who have worked on other kinds of projects, but I don’t think we have anyone who specifically has a background in prosecution and investigation.”
Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) said he is “concerned that it’s not moving along fast enough.”
“I think it is making progress, but I think there need to be more resources, more staffing to be able to get someplace in a reasonable time frame,” Heinrich told reporters.
The Democrat who’s been most vocal about his concerns is Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon, who said Tuesday he’s “been clear for some time with the bipartisan leadership of the committee that we’ve got to pick up the pace.”
“We’ve got to pick up the pace because people are getting most of their information now from leaks and false tweets and from the story of the day,” Wyden said. “I’ve made it clear we’ve got to use open hearings, we’ve got to use our subpoena power.”
A congressional aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said it was the usual practice of the Intelligence Committee to first try to get witnesses to testify willingly, before issuing subpoenas.
Burr echoed that sentiment on Tuesday.
“In many cases in investigations like this you get one shot at people — usually their story doesn’t change after that,” he said. “Until this point, anybody who has at least been associated in some way, shape or form through news articles has either walked in the door and volunteered to testify or has publicly said they’d love to testify, so I don’t see the need for any type of subpoena process.”
Burr reiterated that the panel would eventually like to interview Flynn, Trump’s former national security adviser who has come under scrutiny for his lobbying on behalf of Turkey and a paid speech he gave in Moscow. Burr said the committee would not provide him criminal immunity for his testimony.
Part of the problem for Democrats is the nature of the Intelligence Committee itself. The secretive panel is set up to perform oversight of U.S. intelligence agencies, not to conduct wide-ranging investigations into alleged criminal acts.
A number of Democrats and a few Republicans have called for a more independent investigation run by a select committee or outside commission.
The FBI is also investigating the issue.
Warner has pushed back on creating an independent probe, saying it would take months just to get such a panel staffed up with investigators with the needed security clearances.
He also noted that he and Burr had negotiated a deal with the intelligence agencies to get access to the types of raw intelligence that congressional intelligence committees have not been able to view in the past.
“We’re making progress,” Warner said.
Rod Rosenstein was confirmed as the second-ranking official at the Justice Department on Tuesday, giving him the reins of the federal investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election after Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ recusal last month.
The Senate backed the veteran federal prosecutor as the nation’s deputy attorney general with a 94-6 vote. The chief complaint among the small group of Democrats who opposed Rosenstein was his reluctance to promise to appoint an independent prosecutor to lead the Russia probe.
Story Continued Below
“He is, in some senses, what we value in the Department of Justice: someone committed to the rule of law,” said Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), the most vocal critic of Rosenstein’s nomination. “That’s why I have been surprised and disappointed that he has failed to heed my request.”
Though the duties of the deputy attorney general are broad, Rosenstein was catapulted into the spotlight after Sessions — a top ally of President Donald Trump — stepped aside from any federal probe of Trump’s campaign. Sessions had not disclosed previous communications with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak despite testifying that he “did not have communications with the Russians” during his confirmation hearing in January.
The Russia controversy engulfed Rosenstein’s confirmation hearing in March. The deputy attorney general nominee testified that he knew of no reason that would ethically force him to step aside from leading the federal investigation into Russian meddling last year.
“I’m not aware of any requirement for me to recuse at this time,” Rosenstein told the committee.
Most Senate Democrats appeared satisfied with Rosenstein’s comments during the hearing, as well as his private assurances to senators, that he would appoint a special prosecutor if it’s warranted. In a floor speech earlier this week, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) stressed that Rosenstein had made that commitment to him personally.
“He had developed a reputation for integrity,” Schumer said. “He has promised to give this issue careful consideration. I believe if he studies the department regulations, he will come to the same conclusion many of us have: that a special counsel is merited.”
Last month, FBI director James Comey publicly confirmed the existence of a federal probe into Russian intervention in the presidential election, as well as potential communications between members of Trump’s campaign team and Russian officials.
The chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee called on top Trump administration officials Tuesday to “revive law enforcement efforts unwisely abandoned by the Obama administration” targeting Iran’s nuclear, ballistic missile and weapons programs, in response to a POLITICO investigation about how U.S. counterproliferation efforts may have been undermined in the effort to secure a nuclear deal and prisoner swap with Tehran.
Rep. Edward R. Royce made the request in a letter to Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, citing POLITICO’s findings that the Obama-led State and Justice departments delayed and at times derailed key investigations and prosecutions into global Iranian trafficking networks during those prolonged negotiations.
Story Continued Below
Royce said he was particularly concerned about details in the POLITICO report about how Obama administration “Justice and State Department officials denied or delayed requests from prosecutors and agents to lure some key Iranian fugitives to friendly countries so that they could be arrested.”
“Needless to say, the Obama Administration appears to have done serious damage to our national security,” wrote Royce (R-Calif.) and Rep. Brian Mast (R-Fla.), who co-signed the letter. “To better understand the impact of the prior Administration’s interference in law enforcement investigations, and to ascertain whether there was excessive denial or non-processing of extradition requests and lure memos, we respectfully request that your agencies brief the Committee on law enforcement investigations delayed by the previous Administration.”
“Iran’s continued belligerence toward the U.S. and our allies is a vital national security threat that demands constant vigilance,” the two wrote, urging Sessions and Tillerson to make the request a top priority within the Trump administration’s broader review of the Iran Deal and U.S. policy toward Tehran that was announced last week.
Officials at the Justice Department had no immediate comment, but the State Department did offer a response.
“We have received the letter, and will respond to Chairman Royce and Ranking Member [Eliot] Engel. Generally speaking, we remain committed to prosecuting, regardless of citizenship, those who violate our export control laws and the U.S. trade embargo on Iran,” a State Department official said.
Obama announced the two agreements with Iran in a Sunday morning address to the nation from the White House, on Jan. 17, 2016, saying he was granting clemency to seven Iranian-born prisoners or criminal defendants who “were not charged with terrorism or any violent offenses.”
In fact, the Obama administration dropped charges and international arrests for another 14 Iranian fugitives, too, sparking outrage among federal law enforcement investigators and prosecutors who believed the men posed a far greater threat to national security than the White House was publicly acknowledging.
Some of those agents, from the FBI and departments of Homeland Security and Commerce, had spent years, if not decades, working to penetrate the global proliferation networks that allowed Iranian arms traders both to obtain crucial materials for Tehran’s illicit nuclear and ballistic missile programs and, in some cases, to provide dangerous materials to other countries.
Justice Department prosecutors did, too, as part of a National Counterproliferation Initiative launched in 2007, but most if not all of the officials working on the matters were not informed that their cases were being used as bargaining chips in the prisoner swap and broader nuclear negotiations with Iran, POLITICO reported.
A senior committee staffer told POLITICO that Royce and other committee members had heard rumors about counterproliferation efforts being undermined in the long run-up to the implementation of the Iran Deal and prisoner swap, and for months afterward. But he said they were unable to substantiate them, even after holding a hearing in February to review how the Iran Deal was working.
“We were trying to get to the bottom of it and were not able to, until we saw the [POLITICO] story,” the senior staffer said. “It’s fair to say that we didn’t know the full extent of what happened until we saw the report.”
The House committee became aware of some elements of the POLITICO story in the form of written testimony from physicist and former weapons inspector David Albright, founder of the Institute for Science and International Security, which he provided in advance of the February hearing.
A frequent Justice Department witness on Iranian trafficking cases, Albright wrote that “out of a misplaced fear of negatively affecting the deal, the Obama administration … interfered in U.S. law enforcement efforts.”
“During the negotiations and for some time afterwards, the administration blocked or did not process several extradition requests and lure memos aimed at arresting and convicting Iranians and their agents engaged in breaking U.S. export and sanctions laws,” Albright told the committee. “These actions, largely concentrated in the State Department, reportedly interfered with investigations and served to discourage new or on-going federal investigations of commodity trafficking involving Iran. “
Albright's testimony tracked similar statements he made to POLITICO that were included in its report.
In their letter, Royce and Mast also asked the Trump administration’s top law enforcement and diplomacy officials to “evaluate the feasibility of re-opening any cases that were wrongly hindered.”
“This, along with an administration-wide policy directive to encourage investigations of Iranian commodity trafficking efforts that includes a determined extradition process, should be an important part of a reinvigorated U.S. policy to address Iranian threats,” they wrote. “We stand ready to support the Administration’s efforts to more aggressively investigate, indict, and extradite those involved in supplying Iran’s nuclear, missile, or conventional weapons programs in defiance of U.S. law.”
Georgia Democrat Jon Ossoff, a 30-year-old political novice, fell just short of a shocking victory in a House race that captured the attention of the political world as a referendum on President Donald Trump.
The results left Democrats hoping for an upset deflated at the ballot box once again, but Ossoff will get another crack at the district in a June runoff, when relieved Republicans are looking forward to a one-on-one race between Republican Karen Handel and the upstart Democrat.
Story Continued Below
Ossoff had 48 percent of the vote when The Associated Press declared that he would miss the 50 percent threshold for victory and instead qualify for a one-on-one runoff in June. The AP also declared that Handel, Georgia’s former secretary of state, qualified for the runoff with a second-place finish. Handel took 20 percent of the vote in the race for Georgia’s 6th Congressional District, left open by Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, who had held the seat since 2004 without a serious challenge. Handel received nearly twice as many votes as the next-highest candidate, fellow Republican Bob Gray.
The finish will disappoint Democrats, who hoped Ossoff would capture the district Tuesday behind a wave of party enthusiasm for the opportunity to send a message to Trump in the special election. They have to settle for another shot in two months. This time, though, district voters will face a binary choice between Ossoff and a Republican opponent instead of an 18-candidate primary, which allowed Ossoff — one of the best-funded House candidates ever, raising over $8.3 million thanks to hundreds of thousands of small donations from Democrats around the country — to rise far above a splintered field.
“We will be ready to fight on and win in June if it is necessary,” Ossoff told his supporters Tuesday night before the race was called. “And there is no amount of dark money, super PAC, negative advertising that can overcome real grass-roots energy like this. So bring it on.”
Handel called for Republican unity as she claimed victory.
"Tomorrow we start the campaign anew,” she said, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. “Beating Ossoff and holding this seat is something that rises above any one person."
And both parties quickly sought to spin the inconclusive results as a major win for their side — as well as a statement on Trump’s popularity and the national political mood. Ossoff hailed the night as a “victory for the ages,” while Trump weighed in on Twitter to call the result a “big ‘R’ win.”
Republicans believe that once their party base coalesces behind a single candidate, they will be able to beat Ossoff. Gray, one of Handel’s toughest GOP opponents, was quick to line up behind her Tuesday night.
“We are going to rally behind Karen Handel,” tweeted Gray, who was backed by the Club For Growth, which aired TV ads attacking Handel. “We wish her Godspeed.”
“In a one-on-one race over a nine-week period," Ossoff will "have to answer questions he didn’t have to answer in the primary, like any issue on policy, on Syria, on tax reform. That becomes a lot harder for him,” said Chip Lake, a Republican consultant in the state. “When there’s 18 people in a race, it’s a bar brawl, and no one knows what to look at. But when it’s one-on-one, it’s easier for voters to understand and easier to define it.”
Already, Ossoff has faced millions of dollars in attacks from Republican outside groups, which sounded the alarm that he was a threat to win the district last month after he began advertising heavily on TV. Three weeks ago, the National Republican Congressional Committee started spending $2.2 million on ads, casting Ossoff as “too liberal” for the district and a “rubber-stamp” for House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi.
Congressional Leadership Fund, the major GOP super PAC focused on House races, also switched its message from early ads mocking Ossoff for dressing up as Han Solo in college. The later ads attacked Ossoff on his résumé, saying he inflated his credentials as a national security staffer for Rep. Hank Johnson.
The attacks held Ossoff back in a district Trump carried by less than 2 percentage points in the 2016 presidential race. Trump's margin, a sharp departure from Republicans’ usual double-digit wins, signaled an opening to Democrats looking for silver linings after Hillary Clinton’s devastating loss. Ossoff became a vessel for Democratic backlash against the president, raising millions from donors around the country who saw the special election as an opportunity to hurt Trump politically.
A nationalized race could continue to benefit Ossoff, said former GOP Rep. David Jolly, who said he saw parallels between the current situation in Georgia and the special election he won in Florida in 2014.
“For my race, it was Obamacare. It was a clearly nationalized race about Obamacare. For Ossoff, it will be the first 100 days of Donald Trump,” Jolly said. “The Republican in the runoff will have to struggle to figure out, is it my job to defend Trump, who has a historic unpopularity right now, or is it not? But Ossoff gets to talk nonstop about how the last 100 days are bad.”
It could also spell trouble for Republicans in 2018, as Trump continues to struggle with well-educated, suburban voters, a “trend line” the GOP should “be very worried” about, said Ian Russell, former deputy executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
“While folks would’ve loved to win this, it’s absurd that it’s even talked about as a possibility and it shows how far Republicans have fallen that they’re panicking that a 30-year-old staffer didn’t win it outright,” Russell said. “This is not about one House seat; this is a trend. The kind of voters Republicans have alienated because of Trump’s behavior and the Republican Congress — that is a huge problem for them in suburban districts.”
Trump took a personal interest in the special election, tweeting attacks about Ossoff several times in the closing days of the race, saying he would be “weak on crime” and “raise taxes.” In an effort to boost GOP turnout, Trump also recorded a robocall urging voters to prevent Democrats from “[taking] your Republican congressional seat away from you.”
“Don’t let them do it,” he added.
As the final results trickled in early Wednesday morning, Trump took to Twitter once more.
“Despite major outside money, FAKE media support & eleven Republican candidates, BIG ‘R’ win with runoff in Georgia. Glad to be of help!” Trump tweeted.
Though no one denies Senate Democrats are in for a rough 2018 midterm election, a host of their vulnerable incumbents just posted some eye-popping fundraising numbers — a sign the party won’t easily cede more ground to Republicans next year.
Of the 10 Senate Democrats up for reelection in states Donald Trump won last fall, six brought in at least $2 million in the first quarter of 2017. Most Democrats far outpaced fundraising compared with the two Senate Republicans being targeted by Democrats next year: Dean Heller of Nevada and Jeff Flake of Arizona, both of whom raised $1.4 million during the first three months of the year.
Story Continued Below
And on average, Senate Democrats in competitive races outraised GOP incumbents at the same point in the 2016 election cycle.
Democrats are heavy underdogs to win back the Senate because they have to defend 25 seats versus just nine that Republicans are trying to keep in their column. But the Democratic senators’ blockbuster first-quarter numbers — buoyed by liberal grass-roots opposition to Trump — are giving them an early shot of momentum heading into the midterms. Strategists also hope the numbers will scare off potential GOP challengers at a time when Republicans are struggling to recruit candidates.
Republicans say it’s too soon to sweat the Democratic incumbents’ fundraising. Though the first midterm election of a new presidency is typically a referendum on the commander in chief and favors the party out of power in the White House, no one knows how Trump will be perceived 18 months from now. It’s also noteworthy that the Republican Senate campaign arm outraised its Democratic counterpart.
Still, Democrats are cautiously optimistic that they can, at least, stanch additional hemorrhaging in the Senate — after a 2016 election in which the party was widely expected to win control of the chamber.
“I think we’re seeing a lot of evidence for a check-and-balance electorate,” said J.B. Poersch of Senate Majority PAC, the main super PAC for Senate Democrats. “These senators have worked hard to be well-defined and well-liked in their states. Despite a challenging map, these incumbents have a strong chance at reelection in 2018.”
Here are POLITICO’s five takeaways from first-quarter Senate fundraising figures:
Senate Democrats’ boffo quarter
With a $2.8 million haul, Sen. Claire McCaskill shattered fundraising records in Missouri, raising more than any other senator or Senate hopeful in her state during the first quarter of an off year. So did Sen. Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, whose $1.6 million sum was the best first-quarter figure for a Senate candidate in that state in a nonelection year.
Two other Senate Democrats in ruby-red states also had strong quarters: Jon Tester in Montana raised more than $2 million and Joe Donnelly brought in $1.3 million in Indiana.
Some Democratic strategists credit a revved-up liberal base — motivated to fight Trump at every turn and pressuring senators to do the same — for the spike, though others downplayed Trump’s influence on fundraising.
“I don’t think it has a whole lot to do with Trump,” said Justin Barasky, campaign manager for Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown’s reelection bid. “I think it has to do with the depth of support that Sherrod has throughout the state. People in Ohio and elsewhere know what Sherrod is up against.”
In other states where Democrats are defending Senate seats, Brown raised $2.4 million; Bill Nelson of Florida $2.2 million; Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin $2.2 million; Bob Casey of Pennsylvania $2.7 million; and Debbie Stabenow of Michigan nearly $1.3 million.
The one exception to the Democrats’ massive fundraising haul this quarter was Sen. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), who raised just under $553,000. Still, Manchin, whose state Trump won by more than 40 points, has nearly $2.2 million in the bank.
GOP challengers? Not so much
Potential Republican challengers collected middling amounts by comparison. Indiana Rep. Luke Messer, who is considering a challenge to Donnelly, raised just over $700,000. Rep. Todd Rokita, another potential Donnelly opponent, raised a mere $320,000. By comparison, Sen. Todd Young raised $1 million in the quarter following GOP Sen. Dan Coats’ retirement announcement in March 2015.
Missouri Rep. Ann Wagner, who has a reputation as a prolific fundraiser dating back to her days as a Republican National Committee co-chair and state party chair, raised $800,000 for a potential bid against McCaskill. (Wagner was also working in a finance position for the National Republican Congressional Committee, which set fundraising records with a $36 million haul over the first three months of the year.) North Dakota Rep. Kevin Cramer, talked about as a potential Heitkamp challenger, raised $322,000.
Still, the National Republican Senatorial Committee’s $16 million first-quarter haul should relieve worried Republicans. The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, which consistently outraised the NRSC last cycle, raised just under $14 million.
And in Ohio, two Republicans posted impressive totals. State treasurer and 2012 candidate Josh Mandel raised $1.2 million, while Rep. Pat Tiberi, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, banked almost $1.4 million. But some of that cash is almost certainly destined for a contested primary.
Senate Republicans at this point in 2015
Two years ago, the Senate map was essentially a mirror image of the 2018 cycle: A host of GOP senators were up in blue and purple states, while Democrats had few seats to defend.
While six Democratic senators raised more than $2 million in the first quarter of 2017, just three GOP senators had banked at least that amount at this point two years ago: Rob Portman of Ohio, Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania and John McCain of Arizona, all prolific fundraisers. No other Republican incumbents in key 2016 races had raised more than $1.4 million during the first quarter of 2015.
But two years ago, a handful of Republicans had war chests that far outpaced the cash-on-hand totals of Democrats this year. For instance, Portman already had $8 million at this point in 2015, while Toomey had reported nearly $7.3 million cash on hand. This year, in those two states, Brown has a $5 million war chest, while Casey is reporting $3.8 million cash on hand.
McCaskill’s $2.8 million haul is nearly triple that of Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), who raised just under $1.1 million during the first quarter of 2015. But both reported similar cash on hand totals after the first three months of the cycle: $3 million.
Boost in small-dollar donations
In Ohio, Brown’s average contribution was $38. About 85 percent of Tester’s donations were $100 or less. And McCaskill’s campaign boasted that it had more than 5,500 new Missouri donors, while the average donation was $59.
Democrats are particularly ebullient about the smaller contributions, since that means donors are far from being maxed out and can keep donating as the midterms get closer. And they believe the controversies coming out of the Trump White House will give them no shortage of fundraising opportunities.
“Our base is motivated and the small-dollar donations are the latest sign that they are engaged early headed into 2018,” DSCC communications director Lauren Passalacqua said.
The uptick in online donations isn’t unique to Democrats; the NRSC has also gotten a boost in online fundraising. But Democrats have a built-in advantage with ActBlue, the online fundraising portal for Democratic candidates, that gives donors one clearinghouse for online contributions. There’s no ActBlue equivalent for Republicans.
“They know how to fund us, but we don’t have the same system where there’s just one website,” one GOP official said. “We just don’t have it.”
Big 2018 numbers for potential 2020-ers
Two Democratic senators in seemingly safe blue seats — Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Chris Murphy of Connecticut — posted massive numbers in the first quarter, with Warren pulling in $5.2 million and Murphy banking $3 million. Warren and Murphy are considered potential 2020 presidential contenders but first need to win reelection.
Warren and Murphy may not need their cash to keep their seats, but both could build chits by spreading the wealth. Senators can give an unlimited amount to the DSCC, and Murphy has already said he will use some campaign funds to build up anti-Trump groups in his home state.
Former Democratic vice presidential nominee and Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine raised $2.9 million. Kaine represents a blue-trending swing state that’s further down the NRSC’s target list.
Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar, who is occasionally mentioned as a presidential nominee, raised $1.5 million. Another potential 2020 candidate up for reelection in 2018, New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, raised $4.4 million in the first three months of 2017.
Alabama’s new governor, Kay Ivey, on Tuesday announced dates later this year for a special election for the Senate seat formerly held by Attorney General Jeff Sessions and now occupied by Republican Luther Strange.
Ivey's proclamation sets the primary for Aug. 15 and a runoff for Sept. 26. The general election will be on Dec. 12, almost a year ahead of the 2018 midterm elections. Sessions' term expires in 2020. Former Gov. Robert Bentley, who resigned on April 10, appointed Strange, then the state attorney general, to the seat on Feb. 9.
Story Continued Below
“This is not a hastily-made decision. I consulted legal counsel, the finance director, Speaker [Mac] McCutcheon, Senate President Del Marsh, and both budget chairmen since the cost to the General Fund could be great," Ivey said in a statement. "However, following the law trumps the expense of a special election."
Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren slammed President Donald Trump on Tuesday for refusing to release his tax returns, but she declined to say whether she is considering running against him in 2020.
In an appearance on NBC’s “Today” show to promote her book “This Fight Is Our Fight,” Warren dodged questions from hosts Savannah Guthrie and Matt Lauer about whether she is weighing a presidential run as pockets of support around the country for her possible candidacy continue to emerge.
Story Continued Below
“Senator, a lot of people are saying what this book is about is launching the presidential campaign of Elizabeth Warren,” Guthrie asked. “Now, it's tradition to be coy about that in Washington. But where is your mind about that? Are you 50/50? 80/20? Where do you stand? Are you likely to run?"
“No. This is not what I'm doing,” Warren said. “This is my 11th book. My life's work is about what's happening to working families across this country."
When Warren was pushed on whether she meant she is not likely to run for president, the senator answered, “I am running — in 2018, for senator from Massachusetts.”
“I am deeply blessed that the people of the commonwealth of Massachusetts sent me to Washington to fight for them, and that's what I'll keep on doing,” Warren added, smiling but silent as Lauer and Guthrie pushed a little more.
Anticipation of Warren’s possible 2020 presidential bid is again swirling after Senate Republicans invoked an obscure rule to silence the Massachusetts Democrat while she opposed the confirmation of now-Attorney General Jeff Sessions on the Senate floor. Warren supporters have repurposed Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s explanation for invoking the rule — “She was warned. She was given an explanation. Nevertheless, she persisted” — as a slogan.
Warren on Tuesday said Trump had tapped into the anger and frustration that people feel in the country, but she said he would only make life worse for most Americans by putting “a bunch of billionaires and bankers in charge.” She criticized him for not releasing his tax returns but said she does not know whether he will release them.
“The issue is not over. He promised during the campaign that he would release his taxes,” Warren said. “People are going to keep demanding [the returns], and they’re going to keep demanding it and making their voices heard on this.”
But she said she would consider working with Trump on issues like breaking up big banks and protecting consumers.
“This isn’t about Donald Trump,” Warren said. “This is about the people of America. I’m ready to fight for them.”
TOLEDO, Ohio — Sherrod Brown sat down to talk trade at a union hall this week, in the city that makes the Jeep he drives, wearing a suit stitched 10 miles from his Cleveland house, and looked right at home.
But one reminder of the pressure he faces stood right outside the door: a tracker from the conservative PAC America Rising, who follows the Ohio Democrat “every place I go” as he runs for a third Senate term in what may be one of the most competitive 2018 contests. Another reminder of his challenge came in remarks by the union official introducing him to a dozen or so United Auto Workers members.
Story Continued Below
“When I think of the name Sherrod Brown, I think about fair trade. … And it’s nice to finally have a president who’s saying the same thing,” Bruce Baumhower said, in a nod to the pitch that won Donald Trump Ohio by 8 percentage points en route to the White House.
“Whether he does the same thing," Baumhower added, "we’ll find out."
Brown is also waiting to see if Trump will make good on campaign promises to toughen up trade enforcement and renegotiate NAFTA. Ohio’s only statewide elected Democrat who boasts his own penchant for populism, Brown will have to capture some Trump voters if he wants to win reelection. His easiest path to victory may be working with the president on trade as well as infrastructure, two issues where — at least rhetorically — they align.
To that end, Brown is building relationships with a Trump administration that most fellow Democrats have turned on, and with the kind of steps a restive liberal base might view as treachery by another member of their party.
Just eight days after Hillary Clinton’s loss sent Democrats into a tailspin, Brown wrote to Trump offering to partner on trade and got one of the president’s famous hand-written replies scrawled at the top.
During a two-month stretch when Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) had no personal contact with Trump, Brown talked to the president in a bid to stop the closure of a 3M plant that put 150 Ohio jobs at risk.
Brown also talked infrastructure with top White House economic adviser Gary Cohn this month and joined Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) in introducing Trump nominee Robert Lighthizer at his confirmation hearing to become U.S. trade representative. Brown calls Lighthizer, who shares the same Ohio hometown as Brown’s wife, “maybe the best pick in the whole administration.”
That doesn’t mean Brown is turning into a Trump cheerleader. The 64-year-old liberal stalwart also reminded the autoworkers that many other Trump nominees want to overturn Obama-era policies designed to protect their lives and livelihoods.
“The people he’s appointing to the Cabinet and sub-Cabinet are people whose life’s goal is what they call a ‘deregulatory, pro-growth agenda’,” Brown told the union members. “But it really is a rollback of protections for workers.”
It’s a fine line to walk, staying open to dealing with Trump on some fronts while sharply opposing the White House agenda on most others. But Brown sees his task simply: keep pushing for the same beliefs he’s had since his first election to the House in 1992.
“I’ll work with him when he’s right for Ohio, and I’ll oppose him when he’s wrong for Ohio,” Brown told POLITICO after his union meeting. “It’s pretty clear what I think on these issues.”
Brown's alignment with a few of Trump’s goals marks a stark contrast from the last time he faced voters with an unpopular Republican president in office. Brown strenuously opposed President George W. Bush’s agenda on his way to toppling then-Sen. Mike DeWine (R-Ohio) in 2006, the year that Schumer helped take back the Senate as the Democrats’ campaign chief.
The Bush years remain a source of encouragement for Brown. Asked how he can stay motivated given the yawning gap between his goals and the White House’s, Brown recalled Democrats' victory in halting Bush's bid to privatize Social Security as well as the escalating public opposition to the Iraq War.
Meanwhile, his resolute liberalism in a swing state, epitomized by the canary lapel pin he wears to represent government support for coal miners and other workers, has helped Brown reach across the aisle while staying a darling of the left.
For example, while Sen. Elizabeth Warren took so much flak from progressives for backing Ben Carson's bid for secretary of housing and urban development that she switched her vote, Brown stayed in the yes camp for Carson. He's supported nine other top Trump nominees this year — more than double the number of yes votes cast by other Senate Democratic stars such as Bernie Sanders and Cory Booker.
Brown said he hasn’t faced significant blowback from the left for diverging from party orthodoxy at times.
“I got some people mad at me because I voted for Carson,” Brown said. “But I voted for Carson because Carson knows one thing about housing — and that is, there’s too much lead in too many homes and it affects kids’ brain development.”
Brown is expected to face Ohio state Treasurer Josh Mandel next year, a rematch of their 2012 contest that Brown won by 6 percentage points. As Mandel racks up support from conservative groups, making a competitive primary less likely, the 39-year-old Republican's campaign is already hitting Brown hard for being too liberal for a state where Trump won 80 of 88 counties in November.
“It took Sherrod Brown all of 11 minutes to come out against [Supreme Court Justice] Neil Gorsuch and he votes in lockstep with Elizabeth Warren 97% of the time,” Axiom Strategies vice president Ethan Zorfas, whose firm is advising Mandel’s campaign, wrote in an email.
"Brown led the charge to elect Hillary Clinton in Ohio and called Trump’s movement ‘a counterfeit campaign’," added Zorfas, who also works under former Ted Cruz’s presidential strategist Jeff Roe. "As Senator Brown moves into desperation mode, he will go back into the old Washington playbook of saying anything to get reelected."
Trump won an estimated one-third of the votes of UAW members, at least partly on the strength of his vow to reopen NAFTA and negotiate a better deal for manufacturers in the industrial Midwest that have hemorrhaged jobs in recent years. Winning a third term will require Brown to remind those same working-class voters — many of whom shunned Clinton — about all he's done for them. His warm welcome at the union hall this week suggests he has a real opening.
"I’m not arguing that Trump didn’t get a lot of working-class voters that I’m going to get in '18, or got in '12, or maybe a few Obama got," Brown said. "But I think it’s overstated, particularly from industrial unions, how Trump did."
Brown, whose campaign recently announced a $2.4 million first quarter fundraising haul, is likely to get significant help from the labor movement he's championed throughout his career. (Mandel's campaign has yet to release its fundraising figures.)
“Sherrod Brown has always put the economic well-being of Ohio first,” Tim Burga, president of the state's AFL-CIO chapter, said through a spokesman. “He has worked on these issues for decades, no matter which party was in control of the White House, because he puts what is right for Ohio jobs ahead of party politics.”
Winning next year also may require Brown to play up his ability to work with Trump and Senate Republicans, providing an incentive for him to keep the door open to bipartisan cooperation on trade and infrastructure.
But as he prepared to shift from the union hall to a meeting with anti-hunger advocates, Brown may have unintentionally revealed how hard it will be to find common ground with Trump.
"I hold hope that on some things, like infrastructure, maybe he’ll do it right," Brown said, before admitting that so far, "There’s no sign of doing it right on infrastructure."
Trump's campaign-trail plan for infrastructure was crafted by two of the administration officials Brown has praised: Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and White House trade adviser Peter Navarro. But Democrats, including Brown, have uniformly panned the plan because it aims to spur investment through tax credits, as opposed to providing direct spending.
"They’re talking about Wall Street kinds of financing," Brown told reporters. "Is it just giving incentives for things like pipelines or the electric grid that private-sector companies are going to build anyway?"
Sen. Joe Manchin, one of a cadre of Senate Democrats up for reelection in conservative states next fall, raked in roughly $552,600 in the first three months of 2017, according to figures provided by his campaign to POLITICO.
The West Virginia Democrat will report $2.17 million cash on hand, according to the senator’s campaign. His first-quarter total falls short of that of other Democratic senators up for reelection next year, who have posted blockbuster fundraising sums for the first three months of 2017.
Story Continued Below
Still, Manchin will be helped by the fact that he is far from an unknown entity in West Virginia, a relatively inexpensive state in which to campaign that Donald Trump won by more than 40 points last November. Manchin, a former governor, is vying for his second full term in the Senate.
Rep. Evan Jenkins, one of Manchin's possible Republican opponents, raised $367,000 in the first quarter and has $1.035 million cash on hand. West Virginia Attorney General Patrick Morrisey, who is also considering running in the GOP primary against Manchin, has not released numbers on his war chest.
Other red-state Senate Democrats on the ballot next year have posted formidable fundraising numbers for the first three months of 2017. Sen. Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota raised $1.6 million during the first quarter and has $2 million cash on hand. Sen. Jon Tester of Montana brought in $2 million in the first three months and will report $3.16 million cash on hand.
In Missouri, Sen. Claire McCaskill raised $2.8 million and has more than $3 million cash on hand while Indiana Sen. Joe Donnelly raised $1.3 million in the first quarter of this year and has $2.5 million cash on hand.
Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations who is often described as one of the Republican Party’s younger stars, this week denied having presidential ambitions.
“Everyone thinks that I'm ambitious, and everybody thinks I'm trying to run for something, and everybody thinks I want more,” Haley told CNN in an interview published Thursday night. “I can’t imagine running for the White House.”
Story Continued Below
Haley, the former governor of South Carolina, also denied being interested in becoming secretary of state or a senator. Her name is often raised in Republican circles as a potential future contender for the White House or other high-profile roles in government.
In her first weeks as U.N. ambassador, Haley has been outspoken in criticizing American adversaries such as Russia and condemning the recent chemical attack in Syria. President Donald Trump’s secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, has been notably less visible.
Haley attributed this dynamic to differences in their “personalities.”
"He's very much an executive. He's thoughtful in his approach and how he moves forward,” she said, describing Tillerson. “I'm one that's not afraid to say anything. You know, I'm not easily intimidated and so I can go out and say things. So I think we actually complement each other very well.”
Haley said Trump has given her a “lot of leeway to just say what I think and interpret what he thinks” but said she “would never go rogue” against the president’s wishes.
Montana Democratic Sen. Jon Tester raised $2 million in the first three months of 2017 — the first quarter of a campaign in which he is a top target of national Republicans — according to figures provided by his campaign to POLITICO.
The second-term senator entered the second quarter with $3.2 million on hand, continuing the trend of Senate Democratic incumbents piling up large cash hauls to start the President Donald Trump era.
Story Continued Below
Much of that money has come in small increments as grass-roots Democrats contribute in far larger-than-usual numbers: 85 percent of Tester’s contributions were of $100 or less.
Tester’s 2018 race is widely expected to be one of the most competitive in the country because Trump won Montana by 21 points in November, forcing the senator to walk a tightrope in courting voters. He is one of five Senate Democrats facing reelection next year in states that Trump won by double digits last year.
It is not yet clear which Republican will face Tester in the general election, though state Sen. Albert Olszewski recently said he would run, and state Attorney General Tim Fox has been courted for a bid, as well.
Ryan Zinke had been considered a strong potential candidate, but the former congressman instead took a role as Trump's secretary of the interior earlier this year.
Still, Montana does have a recent history of electing Democrats: in addition to Tester, Democratic Gov. Steve Bullock is in his second term.
SANDY SPRINGS, Ga. — Republicans are white-knuckling their way through their party’s first major political tests under the Trump administration.
After the surprising close call in Kansas on Tuesday night, Republicans are now obsessing over a House special election in a slice of suburban Atlanta that has never been competitive before, where the GOP has spent millions to keep Democrats from capturing the district in an upset next week.
Story Continued Below
It’s no sure bet for Republicans. An angry, energized Democratic base looking to send a message to Donald Trump has turned Jon Ossoff, a previously unknown former congressional aide, into one of the best-funded House candidates ever ahead of an all-party primary next Tuesday.
The money — more than $8.3 million in the first three months of 2017 — has allowed Ossoff to blanket the airwaves with TV ads and carpet the streets of the district with door-knockers turning out friendly voters, trying to win the district outright with a majority in the special primary. Meanwhile, a bevy of Republican candidates have fought among themselves.
To add to those jangling nerves, Georgia Republicans watched their colleagues in Kansas survive a 20-point swing toward Democrats in another special election Tuesday night. Kansas state Treasurer Ron Estes won his 4th Congressional District race by less than 7 percentage points in a district Trump carried by 27 points in November.
Republicans don’t have that kind of room in Georgia: While past presidential nominees and state candidates have typically won Georgia’s 6th District by wide margins, Trump carried it by less than 2 points against Hillary Clinton.
“I’d be an idiot if those results in Kansas didn’t cause me and Republicans concern” in Georgia, said Justin Tomczak, a Republican political adviser and activist in the state. “It’s a wake-up call.”
But unlike their counterparts in Kansas, Republicans in Georgia sounded the alarm several weeks ago, prompting $2 million in spending from the National Republican Congressional Committee to help boost Republican turnout and counter Democrats’ energy. The Congressional Leadership Fund, the super PAC aligned with House leadership, also dumped in more than $2 million of its own money and dispatched on-the-ground staffers to the district.
Looming over everything is Trump. While the Washington-based outside groups are trying to stop Ossoff, local Republican campaigns are wondering how pro-Trump they need to be to win GOP voters at the moment. And Democrats are testing just how far backlash to the president can carry them. “Does it give a candidate superpowers?” asked Todd Rehm, a Republican consultant in the state.
Trump is central to Ossoff’s chances — but the Democrat doesn’t actually invoke him often. His focus, Ossoff said, is on local economic development and running a positive campaign.
“The contrast with what’s happening in Washington is clear, it’s not necessary to invoke it at every campaign stop,” Ossoff said.
That’s because the Trump factor already looms large, especially among approximately 3,500 volunteers working for Ossoff to turn out like-minded voters.
“I think there are a lot of people who are disappointed with the president,” said Elaine Bradley, a 65-year-old woman who rallied with other volunteers outside Dunwoody Library during early voting this week. “Trump’s the reason I’m here.”
Georgia’s special election rules are unusual: All candidates run in the same primary regardless of party. If no one reaches a majority, the top two finishers will meet head-to-head in a June runoff. But Ossoff is aiming to win outright on April 18 by getting at least 50 percent. To do so, he’ll need to dramatically boost turnout among Democrats, young people and women in this affluent, well-educated suburb. He’ll also need to cut into Independents.
And in an off-year, mid-spring special election, turnout is a wild card. Ossoff’s campaign, anchored by four field offices, said it has knocked on over 100,000 doors and made more than 100,000 phone calls. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee also sent down nine staffers to aid field efforts.
The top four Republican candidates — former Secretary of State Karen Handel, former state Sen. Dan Moody, Johns Creek City Councilman Bob Gray and state Sen. Judson Hill — have collectively knocked on a combined 80,000 doors and counting, according to totals shared with POLITICO.
Still, some Republicans believe the natural conservative lean of the district will show through by Tuesday.
“By Democrats pumping in money here, they’ve awakened the sleeping giant that is the Republican base in the district,” said Jason Shepherd, chairman of the Cobb County Republican Party. “There are not enough Democrats here to win, unless the Republican base doesn’t turn out, but now the base knows that they need to turn out.”
Others remain concerned.
“If [Ossoff] is spending half of that $8 million on turnout, then that might be the ballgame. It’s going to be close, but jeez, if we lose that ...” said one Republican operative who’s worked on the race. “You can’t just have an air war and have TV ads, you have to have a ground war and that will swing the race. If you can swing 3 points in a nonspecial general with ground game, you can swing it 15 points in a special election.”
Republican candidates, meanwhile, are battling among themselves with help from outside groups that were big spenders in GOP primary wars of past years.
The anti-tax Club for Growth, which endorsed Gray, has spent nearly $500,000 targeting Handel — a well-known former statewide officeholder — and Moody, a big-spending self-funder who has gained traction in recent weeks.
Meanwhile, Ending Spending, a group founded by the megadonor Ricketts family, is answering the Club’s attacks in a $1.3 million ad campaign boosting Handel. And Hill, who has trailed in some public polling but whose constituents make up a good chunk of the congressional district, put out his own ad this week that attacked all three of his top opponents.
“The more and more that this thing goes negative, the more it depresses Republican turnout,” said Jim Kingston, a Republican operative and son of former Rep. Jack Kingston. “And this is going to come down to who turns out their voters.”
Republicans on the ground, including the candidates, insist that Democrats are “living in fantasy land” if they think they’re going to flip a district that once put former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and current Sen. Johnny Isakson on the national stage, said Moody.
But that hasn’t slowed the enthusiasm of Ossoff’s army of canvassers, who are busily seeking out potential supporters like Adrienne LoRay, an African-American woman who lives in Chamblee, a dogwood-lined suburb north of Atlanta.
“Oh, good! You’re finally here,” LoRay shouted as she met Ossoff canvassers at her door on Saturday afternoon.
“I’ve never put a sign out before,” LoRay said, adding that she doesn’t affiliate with either party and likes to vote for candidates from both sides. “But I’ve been trying to get a yard sign for two weeks.”
LoRay took two signs for her corner yard and sent a picture to her family, reminding them to vote.
Orrin Hatch is raising money like he’s running for reelection.
The Republican senator from Utah, who just turned 83 and is the GOP's most senior senator, raised about $1.5 million in the first three months of the year, according to fundraising figures provided to POLITICO. That leaves Hatch with roughly $3.5 million on hand about a year-and-a-half before the 2018 election, a significant amount for a safe GOP seat.
Story Continued Below
Hatch's haul is a show of force, and comes as other ambitious Utah politicians eye his seat, which he has now held for seven terms. Capitol Hill Republicans believe both former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney and former Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman are interested in running if Hatch retires, and Hatch has said if he leaves he'd like to bequeath the seat to Romney.
But over the past week Hatch, who is now chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, has been increasingly vocal about sticking around for another six years. He told the Deseret News that he doubts Romney will run and that he’s “just trying to make sure this state is taken care of no matter what happens.”
"I've said that I'm going to run again," Hatch told the newspaper on Monday. "It's two years away. Who knows what could happen in two years.”
On Monday, Hatch told Salt Lake City’s CBS affiliate that he might decide not to run “if my wife gets sick, or I get sick, or something like that.”
The spring of a nonelection year is often when lawmakers decide whether to retire or run again. In Hatch's case, even if he were to retire, it would make no sense to do so now and become a lame duck. Congress is gearing up to take a run at tax reform, which will run through his committee.
The seat is a prize for Republicans given how red Utah is. Romney has spoken to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) about the seat, but McConnell said last week that he will support Hatch if he runs again. Utah's other Senate seat is held by Mike Lee, who defeated longtime GOP Sen. Bob Bennett in 2010.
Elena Schneider contributed to this report.
Money is flooding into Democrat Jon Ossoff’s campaign. The national party has started running focus groups on his behalf. Thousands of volunteers have flocked to his team to help him win his April special election for a vacant Atlanta-area congressional seat.
The race for Georgia’s 6th District has suddenly become a focal point, viewed as a chance to send Donald Trump a message by channeling the party’s grass-roots rage, energy and frustration into a single contest. But party leaders are growing increasingly frustrated by the nationalization of this race and another in Montana — and worried about unrealistic expectations in Republican-friendly seats where the Democrats are at a decided disadvantage.
Story Continued Below
Just a few high-profile losses in races framed as referendums on the Trump agenda, Democrats fear, and the currently heightened level of engagement and hope might fall off the cliff.
“I would caution heavily against resting the entire future of a party on the outcome of a special election,” warned Rebecca DeHart, the Georgia Democratic Party’s executive director.
“You can make two mistakes with special elections. One is to over-read and assume that because you won or lost, that is a predictor of the midterms. The flip side is that you can under-read,” said strategist Jesse Ferguson, a former top official at the House Democrats’ campaign wing.
The polarizing nature of the presidential election and the early months of the Trump administration are already amplifying the noise surrounding not just the Georgia special election but a handful of congressional special elections slated in coming months. The national press, and activists and officials in both parties, are looking for clues to understand Trump’s newly refashioned political landscape — in places like Montana, where there’s a contest to replace Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke; in South Carolina, where Budget Director Mick Mulvaney’s former seat is vacant; in Kansas, where CIA Director Mike Pompeo’s seat is open; and in California, where there’s a crowded contest to succeed Xavier Becerra, now the state’s attorney general.
Nowhere is grass-roots Democratic optimism more acute than in Georgia, where Ossoff, a 30-year-old documentary filmmaker, is vying to capture the suburban Atlanta seat left vacant by Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price. The state is trending toward battleground status, and Trump won the district in question by a single percentage point.
Ossoff has raised millions of dollars online from angry activists, and he spent Thursday night at a fundraiser hosted for him by party bigwigs like Reps. Nancy Pelosi, Steny Hoyer, James Clyburn and John Lewis at Democratic National Committee headquarters.
A Pelosi-signed fundraising email for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee claimed on Thursday that the energy surrounding the race has Republicans “terrified.”
But local and national Democrats alike see risk in raising expectations too high. Trump may have underperformed there in November, but Price typically won the seat by landslide margins. At best, Ossoff is a long shot — and local party officials fear even a narrow Ossoff loss could create the impression that Georgia is still too red to warrant attention from the national party.
“Special elections are indicators, not prognosticators. They are testing grounds, but not conclusive proof-points, [so] it can be a mistake to read into a special election as giving the party a perfect road map for where to invest in the future. But at the same time, ignoring the consequences of these testing grounds comes at your peril," said Ferguson.
The Georgia race will feature an April primary with candidates of all parties, and assuming none reaches 50 percent, there will be a June runoff that’s widely expected to pit Ossoff against a Republican who will likely be the favorite.
“If Jon Ossoff is the future of the Democratic Party, the future is very bright for Republicans. Jon Ossoff has a better chance of being cast as Han Solo in the next 'Star Wars' movie than becoming a member of Congress,” said Corry Bliss, executive director of the American Action Network and Congressional Leadership Fund, groups tied to GOP House leadership — which has run anti-Ossoff ads. He was alluding to clips that have circulated of Ossoff dressed as that character in college.
Not all of the special elections are viewed as Trump-era barometers. The South Carolina and Kansas seats are expected to remain in GOP hands, while the Los Angeles-area seat is almost certain to remain in Democratic control. But along with the Georgia contest, the May special election for Montana’s at-large House seat is being watched closely, and some Democrats see it as a promising — if slightly more difficult — pick-up opportunity.
In its endorsement of Rob Quist, the Democratic nominee, the popular liberal website Daily Kos described the race as "the perfect test, then, of a populist outsider versus an out-of-touch one-percenter.”
But the conventional wisdom in Montana is that in order to win statewide, a Democrat needs exceedingly high name recognition. That doesn’t describe Quist, a musician who is running against Greg Gianforte, a businessman who waged an unsuccessful challenge against Democratic Gov. Steve Bullock in 2016.
“There are some people on the national level who are saying this is the referendum of what’ll happen with Trump, because our state went for Trump. But the reality is it’s local. Our state is unique: We elected Steve Bullock and Trump by a wide margin,” said Jim Larson, chairman of the state Democratic Party.
Bullock himself warned against attempts to nationalize the race.
“We haven’t really seen what this election is going to look like,” he said. “It’s hard to say it’s going to be one thing or another until it starts to be a little more defined.”
Montana GOP chairman Jeff Essmann, a local legislator and former state Senate president, said he’s skeptical about Democratic chances in a state where Trump won easily.
“If they want a laboratory for that, they need to do it in a state where Trump didn’t win by 20 percent, like Montana,” said Essmann. “He’s very popular, his policies are, and I think this race is going to simply come down to a race between one experienced candidate who will support the Trump agenda and one who will oppose it."
Even local Democrats are hesitant to use their race as a potential piece of evidence regarding Trump’s standing among voters.
“For Democrats and Republicans to [look at the results and] say, ‘Oh, America hates Trump,’ or ‘America loves Trump’? Well, both of that is true,” said Larson. “Can there be lessons learned on elections that we win? Well, what worked in Delaware isn’t necessarily going to work in Montana."
Donald Trump suffered an astonishing rebuke Monday from his own FBI director, James Comey, during a marathon five-hour hearing before the House Intelligence Committee.
Comey knocked down Trump’s wiretapping allegations. He confirmed the existence of an investigation into the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia. He even debunked a tweet that the White House sent out mid-hearing.
Story Continued Below
The FBI director’s testimony left the White House reeling, with Democrats demanding an apology from Trump and Republicans seeking to change the subject — to leaks rather than the substance of those leaks.
Here are POLITICO’s takeaways from an explosive hearing:
Comey is no Trump lackey
The FBI director brought an enormous amount of baggage into the hearing. Many Democrats are still seething over his decision to speak out publicly during the presidential campaign on the FBI’s investigation into Hillary Clinton’s emails.
But Comey, who has a reputation for fierce independence, made clear on Monday he is also more than willing to buck Trump. He shot down Trump’s claim this month that former President Barack Obama ordered a wiretap of Trump Tower, saying he has “no information that supports those tweets.” Comey added that there’s “no individual” who can unilaterally order a wiretap — not even a president.
The FBI director also revealed that the bureau launched an investigation in July into Russia’s efforts to interfere in the election, including possible collusion with Trump aides.
His testimony was devastating for Trump and the White House, which was left to try and find a silver lining. “The NSA and FBI tell Congress that Russia did not influence electoral process,” the White House said, mid-hearing, from the president’s official Twitter feed.
But Comey debunked that, too. Asked about the president’s mid-hearing tweet, Comey said that while the FBI saw no efforts by Russia to change actual votes, it was not “our intention” to suggest Russia’s actions had no influence at all. “We've offered no opinion, have no view, have no information on potential impact because that's not something we've looked at,” Comey said.
As president, Trump’s words matter
During his political ascendancy, Trump made a habit of slinging insults at his rivals, often without evidence and sometimes based on conspiracy theories.
Being president hasn't stopped Trump from making evidence-free claims. The difference now, of course, is that his words carry extraordinary weight — and for the first time he’s being held accountable for them.
Since Trump made his wiretapping claim, the White House has wobbled from doubling down to seeking to recast the claim as a broad reference to all possible surveillance of Trump aides, not specifically an Obama-ordered wiretap of Trump’s office phones.
The rest of the federal government isn’t waiting for the White House to get its story straight. Comey did not mince words as he made clear the FBI and the Justice Department could not back up the president. And that’s not for lack of trying.
“We have looked carefully inside the FBI” in an attempt to find evidence, Comey added, and there wasn’t any.
Trump also took heat Monday over the White House’s claim that British intelligence spied on the Trump campaign at the behest of Obama.
“I have seen nothing on the NSA side that we engaged in any such activity nor that anyone ever asked us to engage in such activity,” said NSA Director Mike Rogers, who testified alongside Comey.
Rogers said the U.S-U.K relationship is “strong enough” to withstand the White House’s charge, but it “clearly frustrates a key ally of ours.”
Republicans are more interested in leaks than what’s being leaked
Nearly all of the Republicans on the committee appeared to be more interested in discussing leaks of classified information to reporters than potential ties between Trump's team and the Kremlin.
"Whether Russia attempted to influence our democratic process is incredibly important," said Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) while questioning Comey. "Some of that may rise to the level of a crime. Some of it does not rise to the level of a crime. One thing you and I agree on is the felonious dissemination of classified material most definitely is a crime."
Comey had several tense exchanges with GOP members over recent press reports that cite anonymous intelligence community officials. They pointed in particular to former national security adviser Michael Flynn, whose pre-inauguration contacts with Russia were leaked to the news media, leading to his resignation when it was revealed he had misled colleagues about the conversations. Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) has said getting to the bottom of that leak is a focus of his committee’s larger Russia investigation.
At one point Gowdy pointedly asked Comey to confirm that sharing classified information was illegal.
“It's a serious crime,” Comey replied. “I'm not going to comment on those particular articles because I don't want to in any circumstance compound a criminal act by confirming that it was classified information. But in general, yes, it's a serious crime, and it should be for the reasons you said.”
Democrats smell blood
Democrats on the Intelligence panel clearly believe they have the beginnings of scandal that could hobble, if not take down, the Trump presidency. And they used Monday’s rare public intelligence hearing to air an array of arguments meant to raise suspicion about Trump’s ties to Moscow.
It began with Rep. Adam Schiff’s unusual 15-minute opening statement, in which he walked through the contacts that Trump campaign figures and associates had with Moscow businesses and officials. Other Democrats highlighted changes to the GOP’s 2016 platform they said benefited Russia and Flynn’s undisclosed communications with a top Russian diplomat. And they suggested that the president’s past financial dealings indicate the commander-in-chief has something to hide.
Some of them leaned heavily on the 35-page “dossier” published in January that includes salacious — but unsubstantiated — allegations of collusion against Trump and his campaign aides.
“If the Trump campaign, or anybody associated with it, aided or abetted the Russians, it would not only be a serious crime, it would also represent one of the most shocking betrayals of our democracy in history,” Schiff said.
After the hearing, the California Democrat demanded that Trump apologize both to Obama for his wiretapping allegation and to the American people, “for leading us down this wild goose chase.”
The investigation could take a while
Lawmakers and the public are clamoring for answers to some of the biggest questions to ever hang over a U.S. president: To what extent was Russia involved in helping elect him, and were he or his aides in the know?
Several members of the House Intelligence Committee, including Nunes, implored Comey to carry out the FBI’s investigation as quickly as possible.
“There is a big gray cloud that you've now put over people who have very important work to do to lead the country,” Nunes said. “The faster you can get to the bottom of this, it's going to be better for all Americans.”
Comey said he understood Nunes’ concerns, but also made clear that counterintelligence investigations aren't typically quick turnarounds.
“I don't know how much longer it will take,” Comey told the committee. “But we've been doing this — this investigation began in late July. So for a counterintelligence investigation, that's a fairly short period of time.”
Wednesday was a whirlwind day for lawmakers investigating Russia’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election.
FBI Director James Comey briefed leaders of the Senate Judiciary Committee. The heads of the House Intelligence Committee announced that Comey had agreed to testify publicly before their panel. And Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) held a hearing in which he pleaded with the FBI to stop stonewalling Congress.
Story Continued Below
Here are five things we learned:
Lawmakers are zeroing in on two questions
Congress is determined to get answers from the Justice Department on two major questions — and they’re making clear they’re willing to play hardball if they don’t hear something soon.
First, lawmakers in both chambers are demanding that the FBI clear up President Donald Trump’s claim that former President Barack Obama wiretapped Trump Tower in the run-up to the election. Both the House Intelligence Committee and Graham’s Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism have asked the Justice Department to turn over any evidence for Trump’s allegations, including warrant applications or court orders.
And both panels are using their leverage to ensure they get what they want, raising the prospect of issuing subpoenas.
The House panel has given the Justice Department until Monday to answer its questions “and may resort to a compulsory process if our questions continue to go unanswered,” according to spokesman Jack Langer. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), meanwhile, has said his committee will not hold a vote on Trump’s nominee for deputy attorney general until he gets more information from the FBI.
The other big question for lawmakers is whether the FBI is conducting any criminal investigations into Trump campaign aides for potential collusion with Russia.
Graham said at the top of his subcommittee hearing Wednesday that the FBI still had not responded to his questions on this issue, and that he thinks the public deserves unclassified answers.
“We gave the director until today to answer the question,” Graham said. “I still don’t have answers to those questions.”
Comey can’t keep dodging forever
The FBI director has so far avoided publicly commenting on the possibility of criminal investigations into Trump associates or on Trump’s wiretapping claims, despite reports that he wanted the Justice Department to issue a disavowal of Trump’s jaw-dropping tweets.
But Comey’s moment is coming.
House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) and ranking member Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) announced at their news conference that Comey would appear before their panel at a public hearing next Monday.
This will make for great TV, as Comey is almost certain to be goaded by Democrats into denouncing Trump’s claim. One way or another, he is almost certain to anger either the president or key members of Congress.
Trump doesn’t appear to have the goods on wiretapping
Key Republicans on Capitol Hill are signaling that the evidence just isn’t there to back up Trump’s wiretapping claims.
Nunes, a staunch Trump ally during the presidential campaign, told reporters Wednesday, “I don’t think there was an actual tap of Trump Tower.”
“Are you going to take the tweets literally?” added Nunes, who was briefed by Comey behind closed doors last week. “If you are, then clearly the president was wrong.”
Even the White House has backed off a bit, with press secretary Sean Spicer saying earlier this week that Trump “doesn’t really think” that Obama “tapped his phone personally.”
With both the House and the Senate demanding information on Trump’s claims, it appears the president might soon have to face the possibility of his own executive branch providing documents to Congress that prove him wrong.
Incidental collection is key
While Nunes cast doubt on Trump’s wiretapping claim, he made clear he is concerned that Trump aides could have been under inadvertent surveillance.
This is called incidental collection, and it can occur when people in the United States communicate with a foreign target of U.S. surveillance — or even when they chat about an overseas suspect. The identities of Americans whose communications are inadvertently collected are normally kept secret, though they can be “unmasked” under certain circumstances for foreign intelligence purposes.
Nunes said Wednesday he is worried this unmasking process has been abused, citing news media reports that former national security adviser Michael Flynn had pre-inauguration phone conversations with Russia’s ambassador.
“I am quite confident that it is illegal to leak [Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act] collected names of Americans,” Nunes said, calling this one of the only crimes about which he has evidence so far. “It’s also illegal to leak any additional classified information.”
He and Schiff sent a letter Wednesday to the intelligence community asking that it turn over any details about possible incidental collection on anyone associated with the Trump or Hillary Clinton campaigns.
Access is still an issue
Nunes signaled last week his committee had reached an agreement with the intelligence community over which types of information would be turned over to Congress and which types of information lawmakers could view only if they trekked out to secure facilities at the agencies.
But the congressman indicated Wednesday his access issues are not over, singling out the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
“We are a little uncomfortable with the ODNI and whether or not they’re going to let us have the proper computer technology that we need to go through the evidence that exists out at the CIA, out at Langley,” he said. “We are trying to work through that, but I can tell you that it has become a bit of a stumbling block for our investigators to actually be able to compile and cull through the information.”
Democrats on the Senate Intelligence Committee have also complained about access to information from the intelligence agencies as part of their investigation.
Cory Bennett and Martin Matishak contributed to this report.
For most of 2016, the New York Daily News was America’s paper of opposition to Donald Trump. But in the months since the election, just as Trump’s war with the press started going nuclear, the Manhattan-based tabloid has largely pulled back on its famous anti-Trump covers in favor of a decidedly more measured tone.
The change followed a shakeup in editorial leadership just weeks before Nov. 8. The previous editor, Jim Rich, had been resisting pressure from management to soften the Trump covers, people familiar with the matter said. He was told they were diminishing an already much diminished print subscriber base, these people said, particularly among blue-collar readers in certain corners of New York’s outer boroughs, where Trump’s nationalistic populism apparently resonates in a way that is anathema to the city’s cosmopolitan districts and immigrant enclaves.
Story Continued Below
After Rich stepped down on Oct. 18, his successor, the Pulitzer Prize-winning, longtime News fixture Arthur Browne, made clear in a meeting with editors that he believed the paper’s front-page Trump coverage needed to take a different direction, sources familiar with the remarks told POLITICO. At times, he has described the earlier anti-Trumpism as an “adventure,” according to someone who heard the remark, suggesting that the adventure is over.
Now, many News staffers and alumni feel like the air has been sucked out of the room, and they are perhaps coming to terms with the notion that Trump is more popular with segments of their readership than they thought, even in deep blue New York.
“The dissent is probably close to unanimous,” one insider told POLITICO.
Throughout almost all of last year, the News fired off dozens of withering front pages opposing Trump’s candidacy — collected here in an online photo gallery — that were tailor-made to grab the attention of the national media and go viral online. It was a classic tabloid campaign, and it made people take notice of “the Newly Relevant Daily News,” as The New York Times described the century-old publication in a favorable profile last year.
That was then, this is now: The past four months have produced more ammunition than the entirety of Trump’s campaign. Yet even as many mainstream outlets have come under siege from the new administration, reaping the benefits of a “Trump bump” in the process, the News seems less inclined to bring out the cannons.
Out? Page 1 battle cries to “STOP THE DON CON” or “BURY TRUMP IN A LANDSLIDE” or “DELETE YOUR CAMPAIGN!” Takedowns like “OFF HIS MEDS!” or “HAD EYES FOR A 10-YEAR-OLD” or “LOCK HIM UP!”
In? Treatments that are generally more even-handed, sometimes delivered with an uppercut, but nonetheless a far cry from the swashbuckling crusade that put the News on the map during election season.
At a glance, this past Sunday's front page about the president’s unsubstantiated claim that his predecessor wiretapped Trump Tower — “NUTS!” — might seem like a scathing attack. The difference, some insiders would argue, is that under the previous regime, the News would have called Trump out directly, and aggressively, for being deceitful. (Hypothetical headlines: "YOU'RE THE TRAITOR!"; "BIGGEST LIE YET!")
The anti-Trump “adventure” began when Rich was named editor in chief in September 2015 after rising through the ranks over the course of his 11 years at the News. On the heels of a similarly high-profile gun-control campaign kicked off by Rich’s predecessor, British tabloid veteran Colin Myler, Rich “doubled down on Myler’s emphasis … of publishing to the new digital beat: faster, more national, and increasingly fueled by a certain populist partisan glee,” as Sridhar Pappu put it in a New York magazine feature last January.
“The latest and most visible manifestation of that new strategic direction,” Pappu wrote, “is a reinvention of the paper’s ‘wood’ — newsman-speak for page one — for an era of hyperpartisan social sharing. Just as tabloid covers used to amuse, inform, and outrage passersby on the sidewalk, enticing them to pick them up and read all about it, the Daily News has arguably been the most aggressive and successful newspaper brand at turning the old-school institution of a front page into an irresistibly ‘like’-able image on Facebook ”
Covers like this one of Trump beheading the Statue of Liberty, from the Dec. 19, 2015 edition, were the talk of TV news and digital media, and the bosses seemed thrilled. During a rare newsroom appearance last January, according to people who were there, owner Mort Zuckerman, the 79-year-old real estate mogul and long-time Democratic donor, gushed about what the News was doing and all the buzz it was getting. At one point, according to two of the sources present, he turned to Rich and quipped, “Where have you been all my life?” (It’s no secret in New York media circles that Zuckerman’s health is in decline, which is why he has now fully stepped away from running the paper, entrusting that responsibility to his nephew, Eric Gertler.)
Starting in the summer, however, Rich began hearing complaints from management, according to sources familiar with the matter. They said he was asked to dial down the Trump fronts because they were costing the News subscriptions in places like Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island. After Rich stepped down amid a disagreement putatively having to do with cost-cutting, it quickly became clear that things were about to change. (Rich would not comment for this story.)
Browne did one more front page in the previous mold — “HOUSE OF HORRORS,” with an upside down American flag on the White House lawn — the day after the election. But it was “the last of that breed,” a News journalist said, adding that the change “was jarring and confusing, and it felt like the rug had been pulled out from under us.”
In an interview, Browne disputed that the shift was a business calculation. Rather, he said, it had to do with covering Trump the candidate versus Trump the president.
“It’s one thing when you are taking a stand against a candidate both on personality and on policy grounds, and you want to depict him as a clown,” Browne said. “Once an election is over, I think it would be counterproductive and ineffective to continue to depict someone as a clown. How many times can you do that? ... The difference here, and I think this is really significant, is that we’re not attacking or commenting on the man. We are reporting on the policies and the actions as this administration plays out.”
Nevertheless, there’s a palpable sense of demoralization within the newsroom. Even if not everyone was on board with Rich’s approach, which people who worked for him agreed was “polarizing,” the place had begun to feel like it was alive again, and on a mission.
Unlike broadsheet newspapers, such as The New York Times and The Washington Post, which keep their opinions in the opinion section even when their news coverage veers into adversarial territory, tabloids have a long tradition of adopting strong positions on divisive issues, and of editorializing or advocating on the front page. That’s how the News was able to get a piece of the Trump story despite the atrophy of its national political-reporting muscles.
“Even if we weren’t in a position where could really be breaking Trump news because we don’t have a big staff or resources, we were still able to be a leading voice in the conversation because we were channeling the outrage around his rhetoric,” a News journalist told POLITICO, summarizing frustration within the newsroom thus: “Now that much of the country and the rest of the world is galvanizing, we’re taking a step back. … The energy has left the room. It just really feels like a missed opportunity. That’s what’s killing me.”
Brown pushed back on the suggestion that the way the News has handled Trump under his editorship has been soft or cautious. During a phone call, he rattled off a list of recent front pages that he said didn’t pull any punches, including: “RUSSIAN FOR THE EXIT”; “CLOSING THE GOLDEN DOOR”; “BANANAS!”; “POOR BABY!” and “WAR ON TRUTH.”
“I will leave you to make the judgment about those front pages and the consistency of the coverage,” he said.
But various current and former News journalists pointed to specific examples they said were “galling,” as one put it. For instance, the day after Trump unloaded on the media during an hour-and-a-half news conference, a spectacle that dominated the news cycle into the weekend, Trump wasn’t even the lead story on the wood — he was eclipsed by Jets cornerback Darrelle Revis’ assault and robbery charges. (The New York Post that morning went big with Trump done up in circus garb: “WILDEST SHOW ON EARTH - Ringmaster Don whips media in epic rant.”)
The cover that raised the most eyebrows among News insiders and tabloid-ologists was the paper’s inauguration edition, “DON OF A NEW DAY.” It was shocking, some of them said, not just because of its reverential tone, but because it was the exact same headline used by the Post, a red-blooded rival owned by Trump-supporting mogul Rupert Murdoch. (And a reliable proponent of right-wing causes over the years, whereas the News has traditionally been more progressive.)
“I saw that, and my jaw hit the f--king floor,” said someone who worked at the News for a long time but would only comment anonymously, like most of the current and former News-ers who spoke with POLITICO for this article. “To align so perfectly on this, that was to me where the News reached rock bottom.”
“The ‘Don of a New Day’ cover was a disgrace, and it was so disheartening for those of us who took pride in what the Daily News had done with Trump and the election,” said Andy Martino, a reporter at the News before opting to take one of the buyout packages offered to staff at the end of last year. “After nearly two years of calling Trump what he is — a clown and a dangerous racist, among other things — the paper normalized him at the worst possible time. That told you all you need to know about the shift away from an essential place in the conversation.”
Browne, who was head of the editorial board when it published an 8,000 word piece laying out why Trump shouldn’t be elected, isn’t fazed by the critics.
“They can be galled all they like,” he said. “If somebody is an anti-Trump partisan, and believes the Daily News should carry out their own anti-Trump partisanship, then that’s too bad.”
In any case, as America goes farther down the rabbit hole of Trump’s chaotic, confounding, anything-goes presidency, and as his war with the news media (presumably) intensifies, there will be no shortage of opportunities to ignite some real tabloid fire in New York, a media and political capital where Trump’s history with the tabloids is the stuff of legend.
“I think the potential is still there for them,” said George Rush, the former longtime Daily News gossip columnist. “Their best way of staying in the story is to take the role of the gadfly, and to do it with satire, because that’s what resonates. If they don’t continue to roast him, I think it would be a missed opportunity.”
President Donald Trump's former national security adviser Michael Flynn wrote an op-ed on Election Day calling for the U.S. to kick out an anti-government Turkish cleric without disclosing he was being paid by a firm linked to the Turkish government, according to documents newly filed with the Justice Department.
POLITICO reported in November that Flynn's consulting firm, Flynn Intel Group, was lobbying for a Dutch consulting firm with ties to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The new documents confirm that Flynn lobbied for the Turkish-linked firm, Inovo BV, before and immediately after the election. They also reveal that Flynn’s firm secretly met with the Turkish foreign and energy ministers in New York less than two months before the election. According to Inovo’s founder, Kamil Ekim Alptekin, the meeting was with Flynn himself.
Story Continued Below
The documents reveal that Inovo BV paid Flynn's firm $535,000 between Sept. 9 and Nov. 14. The firm's assignment focused on Fethullah Gülen, a Turkish cleric living in exile in Pennsylvania whom the Turkish government accuses of masterminding a failed coup against Erdogan last summer.
Flynn's firm disclosed it was lobbying for Inovo in September but did not register with the Justice Department as a foreign agent. Robert Kelner, a lawyer for Flynn's firm, wrote in a letter to the Justice Department on Tuesday that the firm believed at the time that the congressional disclosure was sufficient but is now registered retroactively as a foreign agent.
"Nevertheless, because of the subject matter of Flynn Intel Group's work for Inovo, which focused on Mr. Fethullah Gulen, whose extradition is sought by the Government of Turkey, the engagement could be construed to have principally benefited the Republic of Turkey," Kelner wrote. "To eliminate any potential doubt, the Flynn Intel Group therefore is electing to file a registration under FARA, in lieu of its prior LDA registration."
Flynn resigned from the Trump administration in February over calls he made to the Russian ambassador to the U.S. during the transition. Price Floyd, a spokesman for Flynn, said that Flynn had decided to retroactively register with the Justice Department “out of an abundance of caution.”
Of Flynn’s work, Price would say only that “he was hired by Inovo BV to help repair the perception of the business climate in Turkey with key audiences in the U.S. following the attempted coup.”
Flynn's op-ed, published in The Hill, argued the U.S. shouldn't provide "safe haven" to Gülen, whom Flynn compared to Iran's Ayatollah Khomeini. "We need to see the world from Turkey’s perspective," Flynn wrote. "What would we have done if right after 9/11 we heard the news that Osama bin Laden lives in a nice villa at a Turkish resort while running 160 charter schools funded by the Turkish taxpayers?"
The op-ed never disclosed that Flynn was being paid to work against Gülen, describing Flynn only as a "former director of Defense Intelligence Agency and the author of New York Times bestseller 'The Field of Fight.'" Floyd declined to comment on why Flynn didn’t make the disclosure.
Flynn’s firm continues to maintain his op-ed wasn’t tied to his firm’s work for Inovo. “The op-ed was not written or published at the request of, or under the direction or control of, Inovo, the Republic of Turkey, or any other party,” Flynn’s firm reported in the filing. “No compensation was received for the publication of the op-ed.”
Alptekin, who is also the chairman of the Turkish-American Business Council, an arm of Turkey's Foreign Economic Relations Board, told POLITICO in a phone interview from Turkey late Wednesday evening that Flynn has written the op-ed of his own accord and that he had misunderstood some of the finer points of Turkish politics. Flynn tried to tarnish Gülen’s supporters by comparing them to “one of the best friends of the Turkish government, the Muslim Brotherhood,” Alptekin said, which he would have advised against.
“I really think that he’s not very politically savvy,” Alptekin said. “He acts on his motivational impulse.”
But Flynn’s firm’s statements repeatedly undermine its assertion that the op-ed wasn’t tied to its work for Inovo. Flynn’s firm acknowledged in a filing that Bijan Rafiekian, another member of Flynn’s firm who also registered as an agent of Inovo, “and an editor, Hank Cox, participated in the drafting” of the op-ed. Cox was paid $300 by Flynn’s firm several weeks later. (Rafiekian was later named to Trump's transition team working at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. He did not respond to a request for comment.)
Flynn’s firm also admitted that “the op-ed addresses subject matter related to the research that Flynn Intel Group conducted for Inovo, and a draft of the op-ed was shared with Inovo in advance of publication. No changes, other than technical edits, were made to the op-ed based on feedback from Inovo. To the best of our knowledge, Inovo did not communicate with the Republic of Turkey regarding the op-ed or provide the draft op-ed to the government.” SGR LLC, a Washington firm that Flynn’s firm hired to do public affairs work on the Inovo project, also helped to place the op-ed in The Hill, according to the filing.
Alptekin never spoke with the Turkish government or anyone else about the op-ed, he said.
“If this was a Turkish government attempt and we were trying to hide it — imagine how dumb we all are,” Alptekin said.
Flynn’s firm also disclosed a meeting between “Flynn Intel Group” and the Turkish foreign and energy ministers in New York on Sept. 19. Alptekin confirmed that the meeting had taken place and that Flynn himself had attended it. But he said he’d set up the meeting in his capacity as chairman of the Turkish-American Business Counsel, not as the head of Inovo, and that Flynn had attended a Trump adviser, not as a contractor for Inovo.
Alptekin had to push hard to convince the Turkish foreign minister to take the meeting because he expected a Hillary Clinton victory, Alptekin said.
“In all honesty, the Turkish ministers didn’t realize that Flynn would be an important person,” he said. “Nobody expected Trump would even win.”
Flynn's firm did more than write op-eds, according to the filings. "Flynn Intel Group was tasked to perform investigative research for a specified scope of work using its laboratory team of senior defense, diplomacy, development, and intelligence professionals over a three-month period," the firm disclosed. "Flynn Intel Group was to retain an experienced filming and production crew in order to develop a short film piece on the results of its investigation, and a public affairs firm to utilize for public affairs as needed. Flynn Intel group held weekly calls with the client to report engagement progress."
Flynn's firm reported spending nearly $250,000 on the project. Flynn himself received $12,000 for "Administrative Support" — including a $4,000 check on Nov. 22, four days after Trump tapped Flynn as national security adviser. The firm spent $40,000 with SGR LLC, a Washington consulting firm, but it doesn't appear the firm ever produced a video.
SGR "was engaged but the video was not completed or disseminated, to the best of our understanding," Flynn's firm reported. "Because this is a retroactive registration prepared after Flynn Intel Group had already begun to close operations, this registration is based on documentation currently available to Flynn Intel Group," the report continues. "If additional relevant information is later identified, Flynn Intel Group will amend its registration.” SGR never produced a video, according to the firm.
Among other Inovo-related expenses, Flynn's firm also reported paying $1,200 for an "interview" to Rudi Bakhtiar, a former Fox News reporter who said she was fired after rejecting a colleague's advances. It was not immediately clear what the payment was for. Bakhtiar didn’t respond to a request for comment.
The top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee on Thursday accused FBI Director James Comey of withholding crucial information about its probe into Russian interference in the election and raised the prospect of subpoenaing the agency.
“I would say at this point we know less than a fraction of what the FBI knows,” Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) told reporters after a briefing with Comey.
Story Continued Below
“I appreciate we had a long briefing and testimony from the director today, but in order for us to do our investigation in a thorough and credible way, we’re gonna need the FBI to fully cooperate, to be willing to tell us the length and breadth of any counterintelligence investigations they are conducting,” Schiff said. “At this point, the director was not willing to do that.”
The briefing came as Attorney General Jeff Sessions is facing calls to recuse himself from an investigation into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia after The Washington Post reported that Sessions met twice with the Russian ambassador last year and didn’t tell senators about it during his confirmation hearing.
Schiff described the House panel’s investigation as “among the most serious that we’ve ever done” but argued that the committee can’t thoroughly do its job if the Justice Department or FBI “is unwilling to tell us what indeed they looked at, what leads they have followed, where they have found substance and where they have not.”
“I’m disappointed we didn’t have that briefing today,” he said.
During the briefing, Schiff said, Comey faced “repeated questions about the scope of any investigation they were doing” and “individuals that may be the subject of any counterterrorism investigation.”
“The director declined to answer those questions,” Schiff said.
Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), who chairs the committee, maintained that there is no evidence of contacts between Trump associates and Russian officials, aside from former national security adviser Michael Flynn’s call to the Russian ambassador before Trump was sworn in.
“But, as I’ve said, I read about this in the newspaper, and I see some of you talking about it,” Nunes said. “If you have those names, of those people, if you wanna come forward as a whistleblower and bring those to us, we would greatly appreciate it because we would like to have those names, bring those people in, but we need some credible evidence in order to do that.”
Schiff raised the prospect that it could have been Sessions' Justice Department that advised Comey to be less than forthcoming. “It was unclear whether that decision was a decision he was making on his own or a decision that he is making in consultation with the Department of Justice,” he said.
An FBI spokeswoman declined to comment on Schiff’s allegations.
Nunes, however, argued that “it’s not a matter of them not being forthcoming” but rather “a matter of them providing us timely information when they can get it to us.”
“It’s not always easy to get” that information, he said, noting that sometimes “it’s complicated.”
He then advised reporters to "be careful" because congressional investigators could get interested in their contacts with Russian officials.
“I’m sure some of you are in contact with the Russian embassy, so be careful what you ask for here because if we start getting transcripts of any of you or other Americans talking to the press, then we can — do you want us to conduct an investigation on you or other Americans because you were talking to the Russian embassy?” he asked. “I just think we need to be careful.”
Schiff added that lawmakers have yet to be fully briefed on counterintelligence by the FBI. “That can’t persist,” he said. “If we’re gonna do our job, the FBI is going to have to fully cooperate with us, and that means they can't say, ‘We’ll tell you about this, but we won't tell you about that.’”
The House intel ranking member also indicated that Comey and the Justice Department should be more cooperative and forthcoming at their next meeting “because we’re gonna need that information.”
“And we’re better off getting that through the voluntary cooperation of the FBI than having to contemplate whether we need to subpoena the FBI,” he warned.
The embattled attorney general has faced a growing number of calls from fellow Republicans urging him to recuse himself from any investigation into Trump’s ties to Russia, while Democratic leaders have insisted that Sessions resign from his post as the nation’s chief law enforcement official.
“Up until now, I wasn’t sure whether there should be a special prosecutor because that is a function of a couple of things. It’s a function of whether the attorney general can be independent or whether there’s a conflict of interest or an appearance of impropriety — and whether there’s something concrete and specific enough to be investigated,” he said. “I am now convinced that both of those criteria are met and that an independent prosecutor should be appointed. Certainly, the attorney general is in no position to oversee any investigation or prosecution involving any of the counterintelligence issues concerning Russia. So I am now convinced that an independent prosecutor is necessary.”
As for Nunes, he said, “I have no idea” if Sessions should recuse himself “because we have no idea what he did or didn’t do.”
Having reserved judgment earlier on whether Sessions should resign, Schiff later Thursday called on Sessions to resign.
Josh Gerstein contributed to this report.
Sen. Lindsey Graham said Wednesday he wants all presidential candidates to be required by law to release their tax returns, starting in 2020.
The South Carolina Republican said his proposal would include Donald Trump if the president seeks reelection.
Story Continued Below
“I think that prospectively what I'll do is, any candidate running in 2020 needs to release their tax returns,” Graham told reporters. Asked how he would enforce this, he responded: “You just make it a law.” He then explained that the law would apply to Trump, “if he’s a candidate for president” in 2020.
Graham is one of Trump’s fiercest GOP critics, calling for a select committee to investigate Russia’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election and speaking out against some of Trump’s most incendiary claims, including his insistence that massive voter fraud is what caused him to lose the popular vote to Hillary Clinton.
Congressional Democrats have been looking for ways to force Trump to release his tax returns, which he refused to do on the campaign trail despite decades of precedence. So far, Republicans have thwarted these efforts.
Republican Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), though, signaled in a recent interview she was open to issuing a subpoena for the returns as part of the Senate Intelligence Committee’s larger investigation into Russia’s interference in the presidential election.
President Donald Trump addressed Congress for the first time on Tuesday, delivering a markedly more unifying and optimistic message than his past major speeches. Here’s how it broke down, by the numbers:
Length of speech: 60 minutes, 14 seconds
Story Continued Below
Trump’s first address to the nation lasted slightly longer than each of the last five president’s first address to Congress. It was seconds longer than Bill Clinton’s first address to Congress and almost 10 minutes longer than Barack Obama’s first address to Congress, according to C-SPAN.
Applause lines: 84
The president received consistent applause throughout the night from congressional Republicans and, at times, Democrats. The longest applause of the night occurred for Carryn Owens, the widow of Ryan Owens, the Navy SEAL killed in a Yemen raid. Trump even mentioned this applause, saying it “just broke a record.”
Mentions of Obamacare: 5
Trump spoke about the “collapsing,” “imploding,” “disaster” of the Affordable Care Act, as congressional Republicans struggle to design a suitable replacement for the law they have vowed to repeal.
Times Democrats audibly reacted negatively in response to a Trump statement: 4
The Democrats audibly grumbled multiple times during the speech, including when Trump said he was working to “drain the swamp,” when he talked about repealing Obamacare, when he talked about undocumented immigrants killing American citizens, and when he said that “trivial fights are behind us.”
Mentions of the wall: 1
Trump mentioned his long-discussed border wall, saying construction will begin “soon” and “will be started ahead of schedule and, when finished, it will be a very effective weapon against drugs and crime.”
Mentions of anti-Semitism: 1
Although he didn’t use the word, “anti-Semitism,” Trump began his speech by addressing the recent wave of anti-Semitic bomb threats and cemetery vandalisms across the country. He also mentioned the shooting near Kansas City the FBI is investigating as a hate crime against two Indian men.
“We are a country that stands united in condemning hate and evil in all its forms,” Trump said.
Mentions of the media: 1
Trump has made his hostility towards the media well-known during his campaign and the first month of his presidency, often calling stories he doesn’t like “fake news.” However, during this speech, he moved away from his fight with the media as he only criticized the media once, saying the media has "ignored" those impacted by crime by undocumented immigrants.
Mentions of his electoral victory: 1
Near the start of his speech, Trump talked about the “rebellion” of voters who vaulted him into office. He said his supporters were united by the demand that “America must put its own citizens first.”
Uses of the term "radical Islamic terrorism": 1
Although national security adviser Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster urged Trump to drop the term “radical Islamic terrorism” from his vocabulary, Trump used it once during his speech.
Mentions of voter fraud or Hillary Clinton: 0
Trump took a step away from his campaign rhetoric that he has continued into his transition and first month of his presidency by not mentioning his claims of voter fraud or Hillary Clinton.